Do you see what happens to the pipes? They got all clogged up. But she's still there. We can hear her echo. We can hear her echo. This is fantastic. Being born again. Does anybody else want to be born again? Maybe some of you have. Have you been born again? Do you want to be born again? Perhaps you want to be unborn.
Yes. Let go, he says, of what you have. And then you'll receive. You thought that was Jesus with the whole, with the whole money corruption thing. No, you're not to pass on these for any price, any price in the very first lines.
In the first lines, he says, I have not passed this on for profit. Yes. For those of you who have every, every single sale, every purchase is coming for you right now. It's coming for you right now. Welcome to prison.
Yeah. This is cell block Satan. Yeah. Don't you think the Satan is able to punish, right? It's his realm, baby. His realm. One thing he doesn't like. Greed. Greed stains your soul. He's got guardians who stand at the gates of his kingdom. And you know what they say? One of them is the Osforos, that light bringer and three of them are furies.
And you know what they say constantly? Your, this is just from the dead poets that tell us this. Your soul is stained with the stench of ruin because of your greed. Greed stains your soul with the stench of ruin.
Look inside yourself as you're convicted of that inner sin. Look inside yourself and say, what would that handsome devil want? Yeah, he didn't want that stuff. He didn't want that stuff. The money, the mortals, the watchers are watching, right? We love it. Okay. Let's keep going because there's some brilliance here. There's some brilliance here. And I mean, not coming from me. I'm in the light. It's in the text.
Draw in the breath from the rays. These are instructions. Draw in the breath from the rays. Remember, she's taking her drugs. So, okay, this is a very, a very well handled trip. This mystery is fantastic. Draw in breath from the rays, drawing up three times as much as you can. You will see yourself being lifted up ascending to the height. You'll hear nothing, either of man or of any other living thing.
In Greek, this is what I would call a form of sibling prophecy, this expression. Yes, you're hearing neither mortal, excuse me, neither human nor animal. I am an estate where I am hearing neither human nor animal.
You have cut yourself off. Part of the operation is producing a bubble of silence. Okay. For those of you with ears to hear, get back on the throne. Do whatever you have to do. But get back on the throne and hear this. I'm about to throw five pointed stars at you. Yes, this is fantastic. This is fantastic.
No, in that hour where you see anything of mortal affairs on earth, but rather you will see all immortal things. Ha Panta. Yeah, all things that says immortal. Notice how we're transitioning into that.
This is that nectar. Why do you think pull that down for a minute? Why do you think the ancient gods are always drinking nectar? Yes, nectar and ambrosia. They're flapping that stuff up. That's what gives them immortality.
You mean gods are made gods? Yes. Those of you who love the Bible so know that you'll eat of that tree and your eyes will be open. Just like gods. Yes, look what we're doing. We're doing bronze age.
Ha thing. This is gorgeous. This is gorgeous. Oh, we love it. We love it for in that day and hour you will see the divine order of the skies, the presiding gods rising into heaven and other setting.
Now the course of the visible gods will appear through the disk of God, etc, etc. And it goes on to describe the vision that she will be put through the whole time, guiding her on what to do.
And it turns out she's supposed to have certain verbal commands. See gay. See gay. See gay. Silence. Silence. Silence. This is Takita. Some people were asking about the worship of Takita, Dea Takita.
Right. She no longer has that power of speech. What is her echo? If you can capture the echo of Takita, you can speak dragon tongue.
Okay, I'm gonna say that one more time. If you can capture the understanding of Takita, if you can take that metis,
Pranaya will guide you. Don't worry. The virgin will guide you. There's a reason that she is here. Right. For those of you who are in the audience, they just want to remind you.
I just want to remind you. Thank you for your time. And I know that most of you know this. Maybe one or two of you don't. But democracy was created under the tutelage of a virgin goddess.
Yeah. Yeah. Fantastic. If you have strayed from the virgin goddess and you have people walking around in bags who don't have the same ability to be educated,
don't have the same freedoms that you do. If you don't have that statue on the hill of the virgin anymore. Oh goodness. How can you expect to shield democracy?
How can you expect you can't look at this right? And what is doing to the person who is going to be entering this place where they see everything functioning?
Can you see the unseen? See the thing is when you see the unseen. Yeah. When you hear the unheard. When you are there and able to chemically open up this space.
When you are able to, thanks to the Renaissance, to be able to do so, you enter that space that Petrarch narrates in his secret.
Yes. The reason that Petrarch could open a book at random and have a conversation with his beloved.
The entire secret is about their conversation. Yeah.
Guiding you through. No different from Mithras. And why do they call him Mithras? You remember. They call the granddaughter of the son.
Mithra. Yeah. We know that Kalki and Queen. We know she is the Mithra.
Who have we got here that we're initiating? This is fantastic. I want to read you a couple more lines. We're going to stop because I don't want to keep you for long.
And I want to give you, because you're giving me your time and I appreciate it. You don't have time for anything but goods.
And I don't want to sell you anything. So I'm trying to bring you the best. I'm trying to bring you the best.
