Yeah. I mean, you can only make it tornado so many times before somebody gets wise, you know.
Symbol of the living incorruptible God. Guard me silence. Then make a long hissing sound. Next make a popping sound.
And say, then you will see the gods looking graciously upon you and no longer rushing you but rather going about in their own order of affairs.
So when you see that the world above is clear, remember the phrase that we have with the Bhakai? Yes.
Yes. When she is coming to what is how, how does that maddened woman who just tore off the head of another human being that she thought was a lion but ended up being her son?
How did she come out of it? She came out of it by looking up.
And when the sky cleared, she came back to her senses and she saw what she had done and she knew that Bhakus was just.
Yeah. Why? Because she had called his mother a liar. She had called his mother a liar. She said the child was a child of God.
And they laughed at her. They laughed at her. We want to burn off the mortality in the lightning.
We are burning off the mortality. We are bringing you Athanasia. Athanasia. We are bringing you that antidote.
Yes. Gorgeous. Gorgeous. We're going to continue and we're going to show you where she goes.
Right. And what she becomes. And we're going to show you how she moves through the initiation. Yes.
In order to show you the workings of the gods that you can't see. Yes. It's absolutely fantastic. You can't come back from this.
You can't come back from this without an appreciation for that virgin who stands on that hill and brings us victory.
Right. Brings us freedom. Yes. Yes. When you change the paradigm, when you take the mystery and you alter the physics
so as to reduce the virgin and to exalt the jackass. And I say that straight up donkey, the donkey who carries that right.
Let those of you who have ears to hear hear. Yes. On the back of that donkey is that mystery. The priests know it and they wrote about it.
He showed you in the candor. Right. So I want to just pull back. I want to pull back and I want to say thank you for attending.
You should be able to walk within this framework very comfortably. This is the profanation of the mystery.
You will find out that in the temple of Jerusalem, in the temple of Jerusalem is the goat and the antidote.
You will find that they were performing the rites to take them into the wilderness.
And you will find that Judaism, Christianity are built upon a practice that was created in the Bronze Age.
And that this practice will come to you in living flesh, that you will see it as we raise those dead from their graves.
Have a good night. I'll see you Friday.
.
