Genesis, first genesis of my Genesis. Here is the Alpha and the Omega. Look at it.
Look at that Alpha, Epsilon, Eta, Yoda, Omicron, Upsilon, Omega. You know what those are? Those are the vowels.
Those are all the vowels in Greek. Those are the seven spheres. You are tuning the seven spheres when you reach from Alpha to Omega.
In that paragraph that we just read, that just opening paragraph, this is something they will not give you. The clowns get out of their cars.
Nice production, meaningless. What is that tuning? It's the movement from Alpha to Omega.
There are three words in that opening paragraph that are directly pulled from biblical mystery, directly.
Now, did they get it? Who got it from who? No, the biblical mystery got it from these guys.
Because this book that we're reading, this is the one Paul doesn't want you to read.
This is the one where that dude comes into town. He's yelling at the Pythia. We're all like, what?
And he's saying, you got to take those magic books and you got to throw them out. You got to throw them out.
And I got to redo the baptism of John. And everybody's like, that's a good idea.
Book burning is always the way to start. No, they didn't do that. They didn't say that.
They just did it because they didn't have enough brains to say, what are we doing by destroying one thing?
We're supposed to generate another. What kind of world is this that we live in?
No, no, shame on them all for throwing away their books. Thankfully, somebody found the trash heap.
And that's where we get the thing that the scholars call the Mithraic Liturgy.
The Mithraic Liturgy. Fantastic. You can find the vocabulary that Paul is using in the PGM, in the Papyrus Greikai Magikai.
You can find the language Paul is using. You can hone down so that when Jesus says, I am the Alpha and the Omega,
that it is not a surprise. It's not a surprise to you.
We are practicing rights that have been established since the Bronze Age.
That's why they have the drugs in their hair. That's why they have the drugs in their hair.
We're coming up on this again. We're resurrecting this world, bringing it back.
Okay. I want to read you a little bit. I'm going to allow Chewie to hypnotize you with some images.
As I read to you, our performance, and I want you to again set yourself in the place of the girl who's being initiated
and perhaps of those who were around her who are participating in the Liturgy.
I'm going to read it to you. First origin of my origin, first beginning of my beginning, spirit of spirit,
the first of the spirit in me, fire given by God to my mixture of the mixtures in me,
the fire in me, water of water, the first of the water in me, earthy material,
the first of the earthy material in me, my complete body.
I, inter name here. Yes, right. Inter name here. I, whose mother is blank.
Blank, whose mother is blank. That's interesting. They're talking about matrilineal. That's kind of nice.
