Sometimes it's a scream
What?
He's out there doing what he's...
The dude is running around
Crazy, naked, screaming
And what else?
Cutting himself
Cutting himself, go to the next one
Why is he cutting himself?
How do you think they're getting their high of sky unless?
How do you think that they're getting that henbane?
It's dermal applications
You combine that with the purple, right?
Oh my God, you've got a recipe for causing yourself
to have burning mouth with inflamed lips, right?
And a psychosis
And if you add the scepterian to that
Your guy in the cemetery who's nuts
Now also has an erection
A psychotic person with an erection
Don't worry though, this is a healing process, right?
This is how you heal someone
Yeah, you shove every ounce of garbage out of them
You're putting them through this
Just, you know, trust it
Not centuries and centuries of Bacchic worship
That resulted in Judaism and Christianity
For no reason, right?
It's a strong, predominant, yeah, yeah
Bring it up, yeah, yeah, oh yeah
I forgot to mention the lupae
Look, you know, these are our wolves
You've got to remember that when we get to Rome
With all of this information
We're sitting there, you know
And these poor Romans, all they do is they build huts
You know what I mean? Come on
You know, they're not that sophisticated
But they do have a tribe of priestesses
A group of priestesses
And these priestesses are trained
Wolves, right?
They are the ones who are suckled
Wait, what?
Yeah, they're suckled
Who suckles them?
Romulus and Remus, baby
Right, right
Romulus and Remus
They go through the process
They receive that milk
They know that place
Yeah, yeah
Do you see her now?
And how important she is?
They called the lupa
They called her a prostitute
She was the one who was serving
Who was overcome by Mars
Do you understand those of you with ears to hear?
Do you understand?
Yeah, you know why it is that she wins all the time
All the time, yeah
Call it big brain if you want
Call it understanding the universe
But that's the very same reason that Jesus gets stuck
In a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked kid
Screaming, I'm not a sex trafficker
Yeah, oh God, love it
Let's go to the last, this is the last
I'm coming right now, yeah, go ahead
Oh, and I had a verse to show he was naked
Because he gets back dressed
He gets dressed up, long and short of the story
He gets dressed up again
And people from the city come out
And they're finally like, huh?
Look at him, he's not crazy anymore
He's sitting there totally within a place of sanity
There's a reason that this naked man
High on drugs ran up to Jesus the Christ
Yeah, for his resolution
For his healing
Yeah, oh God, that's gorgeous
That's gorgeous
And finally, the last one
Yep, there, yep, I want to go
Just go and hit this last one
For some reason I'm putting it there
Yeah, okay, people, look at this
Just in case you were uncomfortable
Here's the Greek from the Septuagint
Talking about coitus and, well
Spermatos
Ooh, do not
Do not defile yourself with it
Did you know you could be defiled by it?
Yes, yes, you can have acatharsia
That which is not purged
That which is the corruption
Ooh, there it is that life bubbles
Oh God, let's bring it down
I want to bring on gnostic informant
And I want to say before Neil jumps in
Go ahead and put him up
I hope he's there, did he?
Thank you for staying with us, Neil
I appreciate it, thank you very much
I was a dog
And I'm sure people can't wait to hear from you
I want to ask you right off the top here
You worked on a video that is spectacular
And in the beginning of that video
You showed a little clip of somebody
Dan McClellan, right?
And he is asked a question by one of his many followers
He's asked a question, hey
What is this about Dionysus and Jesus?
What are the parallels between them?
And he, of course, mockingly and very arrogant
Dan, cut the arrogance dude
It doesn't, it doesn't suit you
And I know your Greek socks bra
And I'll literally break you in half
Through the Greek, right?
Intellectually Dan, I'm going to take your pants down
And I'm going to do things to you
Yeah, but here's the problem
I think Neil has basically already done that
And I just want Neil, is it true?
Do you think Dan?
I'm just going to ask you this
Because I don't want to get you in trouble
And I don't want other people to be
I can say, I can talk about it
I can say something, here, do you want me to say this?
So I was disappointed in his video
Because when the person asked him a question
About something that he probably doesn't know about
Or wasn't immersed in or never heard of
Instead of just saying, I don't have any idea
To that question, there's probably other
Classists who can answer that question
I'm a Bible scholar
That would have been a good answer
Or does not make the video
But what he did was, he did this weird thing
And this isn't in my video
This isn't in his video
I didn't want to waste all the time
I'm not trying to waste time on his video
It was only a quick intro
But what he did was, he did this weird thing
Where he pulled up an article from like 40, 50 years ago
That no one talks about
Or it was a, I'm sorry, it wasn't an article
It was a translation of the Bacchai
It was a bad translation
A lot of people have already acknowledged
Now, classes have already shut this thing down
And said, this is trash
Nobody, this is not, nobody takes this thing seriously
I've never even heard of it
So he brings up this translation that's bad
And goes, this guy in his really bad translation
Tries to say, Semil is a virgin
He says, Semil, you're wrong
And I'm just saying to myself
Why does he, okay
In my video, I cited like 10 scholars
Who have written about this
Donald, Kyle Ruck, Crystal Ball
I can't remember her and her name
You know, I literally, it's all in my video
I go through and say, this person wrote about
The Gospel of Luke and the Bacchai
This person wrote about the Gospel of John and the Bacchai
Known as did this
These other Christian authors did this
The Nazi in Peter said this
This scholar from this place said this
This scholar, I'm like going through all the material
And for some reason, none of that gets brought up in the video
But instead, you brought up this random translation of the Bacchai
And said, see, this is not good stuff
Don't look into this stuff
It's all just bunch of people looking and squinting and trying to figure out
But that was a really, to me, that was like
And I was going to say this about people like Bart Ehrman
And Dan McClellan
Who are great Bible scholars
But when they start talking about stuff outside of the Bible
They don't look that great
I'm just saying, Bart Ehrman has been, I've seen
I've seen him write articles where he confuses Demetrius with Diogenes
It's like, dude, you're out of your element
It's fine, nobody's an expert in everything
You don't have to be the all-religion guru of the world
Just stay with what you know
Don't try to like get all, and I think there's like this
I think it's in the SBL circles
Where there's this like sort of a dogma
And making Christianity this like
Like, because here's what I think is going on
These are critical scholars who are very good at being critical of
A lot of stuff in the Bible that fundamentalists are pushing
Dan McClellan's all over that shit
It's always credit, I love it
So is Bart Ehrman
But they have this other side where it's like, I don't know if it's like
They're trying to balance themselves out
When any chance they get to credit
It's almost like if it's so obvious
The side goes to the critical side
They'll attack and say this is wrong
But if there's any doubt that Christianity can have something right
They just credit that, they just say this is correct
Or the dating of the text or something
I don't know if this makes sense to you
But do you understand what I'm saying about that?
There's this like mentality where in the SBL circles
Where Christianity is special, unique
And needs to be in its own box
Separate from all the other classics
And that to me is where I think they screw up
Their entire system of epistemology
Christianity is in this special world
With a force field around it
And there's no influence
It's a Greek text, it's in Greek
That's why Neo-classicists laugh
And I'm really underneath, I'm blustery
I'm really laughing at Dan McClellan
I'm laughing at him because he has a show going
I've watched some of his stuff
And he leads you on as if he has this knowledge
And you can tell he really doesn't
It was the same thing with Kip Davis
You can tell when he made a statement about Greek
He had no idea what he was talking about
Intellectually, intellectually
These guys need to be driven to a place of shame
Where because of what they're doing
Our viewers out there, they don't know
They don't know whether or not
He's really that good in Greek or not
They don't know if his arguments are sound
And pastors all over the world do that
And it's like a little device that it's like
You see someone taking advantage of a kid
Dan McClellan is taking advantage of that innocence
That somebody is going to give you the benefit of the doubt
And that kind of Kip Davis stuff, Dan McClellan
That stuff is disreputable
Boys, you got to stand up for the wrong that you're doing
You love it, love it
That's what I would encourage you
In the spirit of healing and cleansing
I would encourage you to step up guys
And to say, look, we were just kind of using authority over you
We really don't do this work
And you get into these texts, you see the total opposite
So tell me, how do you think Dan took your video?
Do you think he saw it?
I have no idea, I have no idea to be honest
And I don't want to share because the video wasn't really about just him
It was just kind of like an intro to show
Look, this is a topic that is not well researched in my opinion
And I think, here's what I think is going on
The classicists are letting the Bible scholars keep the Bible
And let them deal with it
And then the Bible scholars are saying
Well, the classicists aren't saying anything about Dionysus and Jesus
So it must not be there
Which is not true technically
Because a lot of classes have said stuff about this
And then they get responses like
Well, the Bible scholars aren't saying this
So how are you right?
And there's like these two bubbles happening
And if you just train New Testament scholars and classics
Then this whole thing might open up
And Kip Davis is my friend
I'm not going to talk crap about him
But I asked him
You're going to laugh when you hear this
And this is not me talking shit
This is just Kip being honest and he told me this
How much Greek, because he has a Ph.D.
Not in Ted Z Scrolls
I didn't know this
He has a Ph.D. in theology and religion
And I go, what?
So how much Greek did you have to learn?
Theology is a Greek word
It comes from Plato
It comes from Orpheus the theologian
It comes from the Greeks
It's a Greek thing
Theology is a Greek thing
And I'm thinking to myself
How much Greek did you were you required
To get this, how much Plato did you have to read?
He laughed and said none
I'm like, why don't they just give you a degree
And say Ted Z Scrolls
Because he's a whiz of the Ted Z Scrolls
He's a whiz
He knows everything about the Ted Z Scrolls
He can tell you what manuscript numbers and what verses
He knows all that shit
He's trained in that
But I'm like, why do they give you that title then?
It's just weird
It's just a weird thing
Because these people
They kind of present themselves as scholars of religion
But it's like
