Boy, are you wrong?
Yeah, he predates your guys by thousands, baby.
Love it. Okay, here's what I'm going to do.
I set you up with Lady Liberty.
I wanted you to see who she is.
I wanted you to see that triune combination of Hecate,
Minerva and Artemis.
I wanted you to see that bronze age goddess,
that primordial divinity that rocks everyone.
I wanted you to see her because she is Lady Liberty.
Now, we're going to have Neil join us.
Go ahead and bring in Neil.
Let's bring in Neil. Here we go.
I'm sorry, Neil, that it took me so long to get through that.
Yeah, okay, now you have some powerful stuff.
I'm going to ask some questions when you're done,
but I'm going to let you talk now
because you were giving me sources.
Neil was feeding me sources.
I'm like, God, that guy is out of control with the sources.
He's just knocking it down.
So go ahead and knock it down. I'm going to give you the stage.
Yeah, by the way, I was watching and this is why I love Ammo
because he does not care what the...
He's not going to let the audience capture him.
You were up at 900 something people watching
and then you threw that Trump thing on this thing
and then you started going off on Trump
and then I watched as 100 to 200 maybe people dropped off.
I can no longer support Ammo anymore for this.
Trump is my king.
Well, too bad.
That's Ammo for you.
It is what it is. Take it or leave it.
That's why I love Ammo.
So this is about liberty.
There's a God who's called Liber.
That is Dionysus.
This is his day.
This is the holy day for Dionysus.
No other God can be associated with freedom and liberty
other than Liber himself.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to share my screen
on the bottom left with the Minerva statue there.
All right.
So let me make this bigger so you can not...
Yeah.
This is Minerva.
She stands at the top of Washington, D.C.
on top of the Capitol building.
There's no cross on top of the Capitol building.
There's no Jesus on the crucifix standing on the...
This ain't St. Peter's Square.
This is the United States of liberty.
That's Minerva.
That's the God.
Look, she holds the sword and the shield.
And she's wearing the toga.
That is the symbol of society, of civilization.
That's Athena.
That's the Athenian God, right?
That's what democracy and the republic stems from.
I'm going to demonstrate that.
That was the intent purpose of this project.
That wasn't perfect in the beginning,
but it started something that has the potential
to be the greatest country in the world, in my opinion.
So there's Minerva.
There's no statue of Christ.
There's no Ten Commandments.
There's no cross.
It's Minerva.
So what do the Founding Fathers think?
What do they say?
Well, let's go through some of their quotes that we have
from various letters, from various...
Whether it be, you know, different Senate hearings,
we have these transcripts that have survived to us,
and we can read them.
Thomas Jefferson says,
Though God who gave us life gave us liberty at the same time.
Remember, Bacchus is called Zoe,
and he's called Liber, right?
Let's see this.
The hand of force may destroy, but cannot destroy them.
What God is he talking about?
Well, he says this in another quote.
The Christian God is a being of terrific character,
cruel, vindictive, capricious, and unjust.
That doesn't sound like the God who gave us liberty in life.
He says Christianity is the most perverted system
that ever shone on man.
Christianity neither is nor ever was a part of the common law.
He also says that the Christian God can easily be pictured
as virtually the same God as the many ancient gods
of past civilizations.
The Christian God is a three-headed monster,
cruel, vengeful, and capricious.
If one wishes to know more of this raging,
three-headed beast like God, one only needs to look
at the caliber of people who say they serve him.
And I'm going to show you some examples of that.
There are always of two classes, fools and hypocrites.
And he talks about John Calvin.
He says, I can never join John Calvin in addressing his God.
Notice how it's not his God.
It's his God.
He was indeed an atheist, which I can never be.
Or rather, his religion was daemonism.
If ever man worshiped a false God, he did.
Talking about the God of Christianity,
John Calvin's God is the Protestant God.
He says, I am an Epicurean.
I consider the genuine, not the imputed doctrines of Epicurus
as containing everything rational and moral philosophy,
which Greek and Roman leave us.
Thomas Payne says, the Christian religion is derogatory
to the Creator in all its articles.
It puts the Creator in the inferior point of view
and places the Christian devil above him.
He calls the Christian devil.
It is he who, according to the absurd story in Genesis,
that outwits the Creator in the Garden Eden
and steals from him his favorite creature, man,
and at last obliges him to beget a son
and put that son to death to get man back again.
And this, the priests of the Christian religion
called redemption?
By the way, you have to read Thomas Payne's Age of Reason.
It's a must read for anyone in Lady Babylon.
If you haven't read that yet, you've got to get it on your list.
Oh, I skipped one.
Thomas Payne says, the Christian religion and masonry
have one in the same common origin.
Both are derived from the worship of the Son.
The difference between their origin
is that the Christian religion is a parody
on the worship of the Son in which they put a man
whom they call Christ in the place of the Son
and pay him the same adoration
which was originally paid to the Son.
As you can see, Thomas Payne was a mythicist.
He says, Christianity is the strangest religion
ever set up for committed a murder upon Jesus
in order to redeem mankind from the sin of eating an apple.
Love it.
So here's some, I'm putting this together.
And we already saw that Thomas Jefferson says, Christianity
neither is nor ever was a part of the common law.
And you can actually read this letter that he wrote.
I think it's like the early 19th century, 1804 or something like that
where he wrote this letter to one of his constituents
and he's basically saying the Ten Commandments
has nothing to do with common law.
It's just purely nonsense.
He says, I think I'm going to get to that quote.
I think I had that quote here somewhere.
John Adams says, the government of the United States
is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion.
Thomas Payne saying something similar,
saying that all national institutions of churches
where the Jewish Christian appeared,
no other than human inventions,
set up to terrify and enslave mankind.
And then James Madison says, religion and government
will both exist in greater purity
the less they are mixed together.
In the Treaty of Tripoli,
signed into law by President John Adams in 1797,
says, as the government of the United States of America
is not in any sense founded on the Christian religion
as it has in itself no character of enmity against laws,
religion or tranquility of Muslim men, Muslims.
And as said in the States,
never ended in any war or act
in any hostility against any Mohammedan nation.
It is declared by the parties that no pretext
arising from religious opinion
shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony
existing between these two countries.
We are not a fundamentalist religious
10 commandments based country.
Thomas Jefferson wrote in his autobiography,
by the way, if there are people online who tried to deny
that this actually exists, but it does.
And in fact, there are scholars of Thomas Jefferson
who say this actually existed in another letter
that got deleted.
We lost the original, but we have like a copy of that.
But it's also in Thomas Jefferson's autobiography.
So we still have it regardless of who lost it,
where he says that the preamble declares,
where the preamble declares that coercion
is a departure from the plan of the Holy Author of our religion.
An amendment was proposed.
So, you know, the Christians that are around
in the early days of finding this republic,
you know, they're trying to get their God in there
and trying to get, we should put Jesus in the Constitution.
This is what he's talking about.
He says that an amendment was proposed
by inserting the word Jesus Christ
so that it should read a departure from the plan of Jesus Christ,
the Holy Author of our religion.
This is where he comes in and says,
this insertion was rejected by a great majority.
That tells you a lot.
A great majority rejected that outright
and proved that they meant to comprehend
within the mantle of its protection,
the Jew and the Gentile, the Christian and the Mahabbanan
and the Hindu and infidel of every denomination.
So they rejected that they should put Jesus Christ
in any of the documents of the Constitution
or the Declaration or any of that stuff.
Get him out of there, he said.
Benjamin Franklin says,
I wish Christianity were more productive of good works.
I mean, real good works, not holy daykeeping,
sermon hearing, making long prayers
filled with flatteries and compliments
despised by wise men
and much less capable of pleasing the deity.
They're just trashing this thing.
