Liberty is Bucket.
From intoxication, purple cushion the air, heroin painkiller, take it to the river, bring the thriller,
Goldworn dildos moilla, Medea the mother of invention, creator of the processed flowers, Athena sings her songs,
Fuck death of a bomb, high purple strong, go long.
Poisonous arrows, the poor rough, royal purple makes a noble shroud, a motley cruma dia venus,
All my love for you, all my love led Zeppelin, stay where the heaven, paradise is close,
Doing it right, Superman, Flynn, Crystal Castle, Hollywood Ghost, shimmy by the treeline,
You didn't have to love me like you did, but you did, and I thank you.
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon. This is Initiating Apocalypse again, and it's nice to have you.
Let me tell you what we've got tonight. Let me tell you what we've got.
We have me, I'll be standing here, bringing you something that's gorgeous.
I know we've been in the sewage. We're walking in the sewage. Last time we were together, Jesus Christ was self-pleasuring himself.
Oh my God, and eating it, that we had the text for that. Oh God, what is it?
Okay, this time we're going to step into the waters and bathe off those images.
Oh, I don't know about you, but that stuff sat on me like a funk. Praise Jesus, sat on me like a funk.
I wanted to take a shower after the last one. I don't know why, just felt like it. It would be appropriate that I did.
Oh God, so here we're going. We're going to have to take a trip.
Tonight's trip through Amun is the place that we go to purge, to clean up. It's nice.
I'm going to take you to a nice little, it's not a vacation, it's a field trip. Consider it a field trip.
And after 20, 25 minutes, we're going to have Gnostic Informant come on.
And Gnostic will tie together everything by bringing you what is America.
And I want to start tonight with just one comment.
Let it be known that we are at the place in the States where we have anointed a king.
We have a king again. And how do you get kings?
When you excuse Lady Justice, what you didn't realize is that when you excuse Lady Justice and you make immortal higher than the gods,
you bring yourself the loss of liberty. Tonight we're going to look at it.
We're going to look at it. That Bible belongs to us people. Get used to it. You're going to learn it.
You're going to learn it in the schools. Let's start out. Gnostic will be in the back wings.
He's waiting. I made sure he was awake this time. Definitely, definitely.
Go ahead and hit me. Hit me with the first passage.
And I'm going to stand here and I'm going to tell you what kind of purification do we need?
We've had a lot of stuff. You've had a lot of just really heavy, heavy material.
It has to do with a lot of sexual things that Jesus Christ and Mary Magdalene,
that the young apostles were all involved in.
We've been to these places. It's dark. We can all take off our radiation suits tonight
and we can bathe in some good, good classical purity.
I'm going to bring you tonight, Lady Liberty.
I'm going to bring you her. I'm going to show you who she is
that was the origin of these United States.
Yeah. Who is this that we've got here? Who's hanging out? Who's hanging out?
This is Chalemicus. We're also going to tie this in exactly to the Septuagint.
This is Chalemicus who is writing at the same time that the thing that we all thought was the Bible
was being written. It's being written in the third when Chalemicus is really forging ahead as a librarian.
Do you know how many copies this nerd was in charge of?
This nerd was in charge of 500,000 of these things. He was categorizing according to genre and stuff like that.
Oh my God, 500,000. How many of those? How many of those Hebrew works do we have in the back room, Bill?
None, boss. Oh my God. You mean once again it's Greek with all of this material.
In Hebrew there is none. People, the reality that I want you to really understand is what you have thought was the Bible was an invention.
The Bible is a Greek work that was later, 200 years after it was written, started to be translated into Hebrew,
an already dead language that nobody was speaking. Listen to me very carefully.
Oh my God, Jehovah, you will find him not through the Hebrew. You'll find him in the Greek.
Right? He's all over the place, dude. He's the one we go to in order to have gay love affairs.
Right? Right? If you want. Right? It's the way you do it. Come on, man. Don't get all upset.
It's the real Jehovah we're talking about. Okay. Are you ready? Here is the text we're dealing with.
Perjus, Perjus Calimicus. This is one of Calimicus's hymns and it's the hymn to Artemis.
It's the hymn to Artemis. And what does your name mean?
You know, I'm very rarely in agreement with Plato, but in this case I'm going to be.
And Plato says it's, you know, it's from the root that is, uh, means safety and salvation.
Right? If you, Artemis, what do you do? You enter yourself into a place of safety.
You bring salvation. Who is it? Eons before the Moses is ever a figment of the third century's imagination
or Jesus Christ is ever born. Long time before that, the savior is Lady Liberty.
The rights that you enjoy. R-I-T-E-S. The rights that you boast. R-I-G-H-D-S.
Do you know where they come from? It's Bacchic.
It's been encoded in the literature of antiquity and the people who made this country.
All you, all you Freemasons, tonight you need to shut up and sit down because you are not doing your jobs.
Listen, and a couple of these people, Satanic congregation, a couple of these big wigs, you know,
have gotten in touch with me and want to hoo-ha. You know what you idiots need? You drop the ball.
Count them. Count them. That's your pentagonal prison. You morons. Get your...
I'm sorry. I shouldn't let that out.
Hmm. Who is Lady Liberty?
Well, we had the hats.
Oh my God. Makes you so frustrated.
Okay. Satanic congregation. That's why the congregation has to be Satanic.
Get the job done.
Bring up that, bring up that him one more time. There's a few things.
Now, it's lengthy here and there's a whole bunch of beauty that I'm going to bring out,
I want to highlight a couple of points. This is all about Artemis when she was a little girl
and she crawled up onto her daddy's knee and she said,
Daddy, promise me this. She wants some things. Who is this baby girl?
Who is she? Who is she? You mean the savior was a she before it was ever a dude or the son of a dude?
That's right. Give it to me. What does she want?
Next one. Give it to me. What does she want?
Oh God, give to me an Ionic virginity.
Oh, apa.
What does she want? She wants to guard it.
She wants to be the guardian, it says.
She wants to be the guardian of Ionic virginity.
Do you know what that is now? You'll sit there and you'll be like, huh?
What? It's not what you think.
It's not what you think. Give me the next one.
There's something that we need to, we need to tamp down people.
Who is the father that she's talking to at Zeus? Right?
But here's the problem. This word, apas, this is, what?
This is not just daddy, oh, look at it.
It's the apas, the one who serves Dionysus.
The trophheus. The trophheus is the nurturer.
That is the servant of God. Do you understand?
Wow. It, he, who is this dude? Who is God?
God, listen to this. This is what Mother Great is telling you.
God is the nourisher of his daughter.
God is the nourisher of his daughter. If you know God out there anywhere
and that God is not the nourisher of his daughter,
you have picked up some modest virus.
You must be treated immediately. Please.
The Ludovico Clinic is ready. Here we go. Here we go.
Why is it so many? It's Tony. Just look up Tony Burgess, by the way.
While we're going, Joey hit him with a couple of brain, brain blasters.
While we're going on this trek, I have, I have something that I need to ask you,
Satanic congregation, to do. I need you to do something for me.
I need you all to pick up internet copy for free
of Lord Byron's cane of mystery. And I want you to read it
because I want you to get taken off this marble by the devil.
I want you to talk to that devil directly. And I want you to do so
as servants of Liberta's servants of Liberty.
Are we or are we not keepers of Liberty? I don't know about you.
I don't have a party. I never was interested in the whole party thing.
I don't know. I don't know. The official groups and the churches and the.
No, what I am is someone who loves that Liberty that we were so gifted with
in this place. Yeah, I'm talking to the folks of America.
I know you brits on the other side. Just wait. We got to have our independence.
Let's do this. Give me the next one. What else is under?
What else does she want? What else is she asking for?
She's asking to be polo ono me, right? What is the, what is this?
It's just the mini-named, right? Well, that's not, it's not just the just.
That's a big one because we all know that she of the mini-names is the ultimate enemy of the monists.
And what else? Remember what treats? Remember what the psychologist, the union, told me?
Trace is John Price is John Price. Remember what treats Nazis?
It's that whole mothering thing. It's that whole mothering thing.
She's that one mother that has all of those names.
That's what Artemis wants when she climbs on her daddy's knee.
Love it. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
What else? Give to me the use.
Give me the bows and arrows with their poisons.
Give me the bows and arrows with their poisons. What is one of the name?
Now, she asked to be called mini-name.
And I will tell you, you can look up, I don't know what has it, Wikipedia or something.
Maybe it's Theoi. Look it up at all of the names of Artemis.
And you're going to find mini-names. It doesn't stop. The list is huge.
What is the one? This is a silent and a secret one.
She who pours the poison. She who pours the Eos.
We are square in Bronze Age.
Some of the material that we're talking about tonight is early Bronze Age.
This is stuff that there is no monism. It doesn't exist yet.
There is no Jehovah. There is no Jesus Christ. We haven't gotten that far forward.
What do we have? This is that time anthropologically when the sons of God were like,
and next thing you know, they're teaching drugs.
Yeah, it's gorgeous, man. It's gorgeous. You're going to see the science of it.
Give me the next one. What else does she want?
She wants to be able to do as well as Phoebus.
She tells Daddy, make me to do as well as Phoebus.
What is Phoebus? Who is Phoebus? Phoebus is that one who shines.
Are you getting ready for the dawn? Who are we looking for with coming of the dawn?
Who are we looking for? We're looking for that one that is radiant.
That one that is shining. He's talking about Lucifer.
I am. But before Lucifer was Lucifer, she was Lucifera.
That is Artemis. What does she ask Daddy for? Give me the next one.
She asked Daddy to be called the dawn bringer.
What do we have here? She says, look, Daddy, you don't have to get me the bow, right?
Because you know who's going to make my junk? It's the cyclopes.
They're going to make my junk.
And for those of you who don't understand what giants are, it's because you skip that generation.
Those giant people said, nephilim, nephilim.
Perpetuate your insanity. All that you want.
Those of us who want science, those of us who make love to lady science and reason.
You look silly. You look silly. You look Dan silly.
Did he say dam in? No. He said, what was the duck tails?
I suddenly feel like watching duck tails. I'm sorry. Hey, give me some room, people.
Give me some room to be silly. Give me the next one. Go ahead.
What was the last one that we had? I had to fully translate that. Boom.
The cyclopes are going to give me, says Artemis.
They're going to give me my equipment, like my arrows. Give me the next one.
And you're going to call me Feisforien.
Feisforien. Who is that? That is the exact translation.
Root of Lucifer. Because Lucifer is later, right?
And you say Lucifer and you were referring to the morning star.
Do you know who that is? That is originally Artemis.
There is a lot that you're going to find in the worship of Artemis,
that Jesus, when he was Christing himself, stuff that he was on to.
Yeah. Yeah. You're going to be surprised. I'm telling you.
Bacchic religion is liberty. Give me the next one up.
And you know, he's working with slaves, right? They're all kiddie slaves.
You'll be free someday. Come here and let me Christ you.
Right down your throat. Here we go. Are you ready?
What else does she want? Now, remember, this is the goddess.
This is where you're getting freedom. Are you ready? What does she want?
She says, give to me 60 young chorus singers and make them all nine years old.
Make them Amitrus children. Make them unmitred children.
Make them ungirdled children. What is 60? Wait a minute.
This is Artemis, right? People, I want you to take a step back for a minute.
What is Artemis asking for? 69 year old girls.
What for a hunting cult? You know what these girls do?
They use their poisons to hunt. And do you know who's better than them?
No one. When the king, when the king, what's his name and what's wherever,
wherever the hell it was says, oh my God, this lion is killing everybody.
So the person who can kill this lion, I'll give my kingdom.
Do you know who walks out? One of these girls.
One of these girls, you mean I can put my daughter, I can sacrifice my daughter to Artemis.
And she will, at nine years old, turn her into a hunter of lions.
Okay. Okay.
I'm beginning to see, isn't that fresh? Do you know where Liberty comes from?
It comes from a nine year old lion killer.
Whose name means salvation. Yeah.
We're doomed. We are absolutely doomed.
This avenue is blocked. You have anointed yourself a king.
Where is he? Bring up his awful picture. You have anointed yourself a king.
And for those of you who don't like me using this, yes, boom.
For those of you don't like me referring to anything that has to do with the governance of the United States.
I say, behold, the man that you gave power over justice.
Behold your tyrant. Shame on you for more than 200 years.
This country has not once put a human being in the position of a king.
And now you have because you love him so much.
And the price was justice. Unfortunately, with justice goes Liberty.
Justice Thomas Jefferson said what happened.
I don't see his blood. I don't see his blood enriching the tree of Liberty.
I don't see it. What has to happen? What has to happen?
Goodbye. Goodbye, Lady Liberty. Goodbye. Everybody grab your Bibles.
I'm ready. I'm ready. We're going into the schools now.
We're going to teach them everywhere. I'm a volunteer.
Let me teach you about Jesus Christ. Let me teach you about a naked boy that he was with when he was arrested in Mark 1451 and 52.
Let me tell you, okay, give me the next one.
Just bring up the evidence.
What you look for as she wants all of this chorus, right?
Now watch out. You may look down on this chorus, but you better not look down for long because they will kill you.
In antiquity, they will kill you.
