What happens to him? It kills him. Remember what medea does she poisons that peplos
That that woman wears and hers bursts into flame. Isn't that cool?
And it's the the more water you throw on it the just it just
It just eats the water
Oh
It's like some kind of napalm
naughty people
Oh god, and um, so do we have the impregnation of the of the different
Strips and bandages and all that kind of stuff sure all of that is there and all of that is within the definition of christing
Right, right. No, so you can take your biblical heber scholar
And you can set him back and he can say something that's absurd, but you cannot tell the difference
That's what this class is for for you to be able to tell
The difference so that you don't get taken out now. I want I want to say something. I'm I'm gonna go ahead and say this
Put down your put down your stylus for a minute
If we're in Rome, we'd be riding with a stylus and a wax tablet
Put down your stylus
And if and this one christian guy he got murdered by all the students because he was doing nasty stuff, but anyway, um, I want to tell you
Today they stabbed him with their stylus. Isn't that would that be a terrible way to die?
um, any who um, you know things get out of hand
Um, what's going on somebody? There was a guest. I'm not even gonna say the dude's name because it's shameful
This is a PSA. This is a public service announcement
Okay, um, there are people out there
Who will intellectually lure you into a back alley and they will
They will do things to your brain that you know
Maybe you didn't realize at the time that it was going on you can go see a counselor, but they could talk it out
You know what I mean, but they did things to your brain. I saw this happen. Oh god. It was terrible
It was terrible. It was dark and it was on Joe Rogan just yesterday day before
Um, I think it was yesterday is when I saw it. Um, and somebody came on
started talking
smack
about cuneiform
Now
And it was apparent right away even to a classicist a classical philologist. We don't do cuneiform
But as a classical philologist, you have to have a certain exposure. So I took an entire semester
with norman yawfi who is uh, one of the world's premier
experts on cuneiform
And um, it's amazing to see an artist at work who actually does the job. It's amazing. It's humbling
I sat there the whole class and I was just humbled by the work
Then to see a guy go on Joe Rogan
And to give some kind of
Oh god it always
It always goes back to some kind of profiteering
Yeah, some kind of profiteering
It's a it's amazing and it makes me feel bad because to see people led down that pathway. Oh my god
Shame shame on people
Shame on people
for not executing
the skill
But claiming
claiming the honor
Shame on you people
on anarchy
On anarchy you ought to you ought to be embarrassed
You ought to be embarrassed
I'll tell him I'll tell him what anarchy are. I'll tell him
Tell him that the greek show him shame on you people
You know what they were they were people who it says had a great knowledge of the drugs, right?
We just did this and they taught the drugs on how to use it the medicine. Isn't that glorious?
That's glorious. They were they had it going on people
How is it they had so much going on? I don't know give me the next one
Here I want to I want to just give you a variation
Um of all the different forms of now you can take your oistress now remember
Um, I said oistramania
Right the mania the madness that comes from the gad flies sting
Right from the sting
Um here a whole bunch of different words. I just want you to see them and they're all based
In the oistress. This is not a a tiny concept in antiquity. This thing is all over the place
before during the new testament and after
flooding the culture
So for dan mclellan not to know this it's only because dan mclellan does not read ancient greek
Give me the next one
The that's always the weakness every biblical scholar, you know take them back to the source
You can take what i'm giving you everybody here tonight. You can take this skill
And you can you can do things to the preachers and the teachers
That will um, they'll end up holding their hands up like uh
All right. Oh god, it's gorgeous. Look at some of these you can be mad and passionate
Look, oh i'm mad driven by the gadfly mad passion sting the madness. Oh it's sting. Oh it hurts
Give me the next one
Bring it
I just want you to see his chorus. Look at the bottom very bottom line. This is a genuine chorus
Right, it's about bachas's mother
and
Why am I bringing in bachas because you can't have
Oystress without bachas. You cannot have a christ without bachas. Look at the last line
Dionusoi
Oystre theis
Dionusoi
Stung to madness
By Dionysus
Next one. I wanted you to see it. I wanted you to see it. I've got it written out
Maybe you don't need to see it so much anymore, but I wanted you to see it. Go ahead
There it is. Remember this phrase people. Look at this phrase
Omicron iota sigma tau rho eta theta epsilon iota sigma oystre theis
Yeah
Stung and there's Dionusoi. There's Dionysus
Okay, um, it's built into the culture so that when I say it and I'm giving you that honest information a guy like Dan
Dan McClellan from a back alley. He can come in
And he can say hey
I'm gonna get touchy feely
I'm gonna put my hands into your brain
And I'm gonna touch and feel some theology on you
Yeah, it is I agree
It's dishonest at its at its best. It's dishonest and it's worse
It's
Something that decide would do or write about at least
Mm. It's despicable. How does this stuff get by? I don't know. Where are the watchers? I hope they're not watching
Give me the next one
Oystresis mad passion. I just want you to see the word next this
Frenon
Frenon and people are gonna say oh my god corpus hermeticum
Right when people get all excited and they talk and be able to talk to me about the hermetic corpus
You know, they want I want to talk about it, right? If you haven't read that thing in greek
You you haven't gone there. Please people. Please understand. This is our chance at a renaissance mad passion
Look at the frenon. That's a medical one the frenon
Yeah, okay, you're engaging your friend
Give me the next one
Boom
Boom, look at this one. This is what look at oystrema to smart at the gadfly sting
Right that kentron that that next word there that that's the sting. That's what paul says
That's his thorn
It the sting
