What are they writing? They're writing Gospels of Eve
They were on galeon a was
Isn't that gorgeous?
Gospels of Eve
Really, I told you I told you
Another way to date the Septuagint people right fantastic. Give me the next one
Now Dan
duck tails
Dan he
Said I couldn't believe it when he said that I was like ouch. I mean that even hurt me a little bit. I was like, oh
right
It's not this word is not found right anytime as a scholar
You can't argue or you can't say all the time and you can't say the majority because you don't know
Unless you have some kind of breakdown statistically you're working with
programs
Right, which they're getting to that point right and they have been there for a while
but
Dan said this word is not gonna use anytime you hear a scar say no, you're not gonna find this word used anywhere by
So-and-so and so-and-so that's you know, they're nope
I know for a fact that you don't know what you're talking about right here
What did Dan tuck tails Dan say? He said look what happens is
The oysters it doesn't exist in the Christian text at all right old boy found one right away
Here's another one and happens to be in the very
section that we're reading
The very work
Talks about and it's a Christian
Dan said you will not find this word in Christian texts
You know when somebody makes a blanket statement like that. That's you can't trust what they're saying
It's bad scholarship brought bad form
Nothing against you personally duck tails damn, but that's bad form bad form here. It is here. It is in
Epiphanious
What are we doing people in the cult we are going into the estrus?
We're going into the mania
Right
Maniac Jesus are you ready? Let's see maniac Jesus. What's he doing now?
If anybody gets pictures of Jesus here as
I describe him to you those will become immediately illegal
Are you ready for this so draw the picture in your mind? Yeah, let's blow it up
After they mixed together in their sexual passion
These he's describing these Christians, what do they do after they mixed together in their sexual passion they stretch out
They burst forward with all of these blasphemies
up to the heavens
Yeah, and they receive the female part and the man the female
Emission and the man
Right, he receives their standing there and he receives the seed from his own hand
And he holds it up
Right looking up into heaven
Having it in his hand, what does he have in his hand says everything's he's got that a catharsian
Remember in the apocalypse
Revelation what what we're talking about. We're talking about the a catharsia. He's holding it in his hand
And he says no really he is Nathan. So I'm serious brah
Give me the next one and what's he do? Oh god, I don't know if we can see Jesus like this
This is right. He's talking about Christians right now. Let's we're gonna watch Jesus. And what does he do?
Look at the second line at the end the epicae at us the air contest. He has the
as he has that
Bodily fluid that came from him that he ejaculated he holds it up to the heavens and he prays
That's what these Gnostics are doing and
What does he say what do they say when they do this they say we bring to you this gift
It's talking about he's talking about his ejaculate, which is in his hands
We're bringing to you this gift with the body of
The Christ
Do you know what the body of Christ is the body of Christ the body of Christ when you are sitting in church next time
I want you to feel something
And I want you to thank
When they say body, I'm gonna thank
A catharsia
I'm gonna thank that foulness
They came out of that
Christians
Private parts
That's the body that's why they say it the body of Christ
When you go to your church and he offers you the body of Christ, I want you to see
the
Pilth the
Polition I want you to see it eyes open eyes open. This is the Ludovico way
right
Right, right, right?
My droogs
Welcome give me the next one hit it and what happens here? What happens here? Oh, did I finish the other one?
You better go back make sure I finished that other one. Oh
No, no, no, oh, chewy. It's a good thing. We came back look at so he's got it in his hand and
Holding it in his hand right and saying oh, this is the gift right the gift of the Christ
What happens then they take it and
They eat it
That's what it says they take it and they eat it and when they eat it
They say tuto estito soma to Christu. This is the body of Christ. This is the pascal offering
This is how we get into the passion of Christ, that's how it ends
Okay, you eat it
To this to this point in the history of my
many many many
eons, I have never
ever
Witness such a
Gut-turning
cult as
the Christians
Never
Remember he said these are Jewish people
