Sex baby. Just sex for sex sake
boom
temple of aphrodite baby
Right
Oh god
God sex is bad right yahoo hates sex. Jesus hates sex. Who does Jesus end up with?
He ends up with those that he can dominate. He ends up with little kids in a public park
Yeah
What's going on? What's the psychology? Who knows? It's not up to me. I don't care anyway, right?
I do care ultimately, but it's not up to me to decide what was going on and jesus christ said when he was
Rested in a public park with a naked kid. Look at the next verse here from jude
Oh god, what are they doing in the end? Just look at the last word. What do these people end up doing?
They end up blaspheming
They end up blaspheming and look at this first word on the second line
Everybody spell that out mew yoda alpha yoda new omicron oops long sigma yoda new
me I knew sin
Accent over the yoda
Now the yoda in the alpha or a diphthong. We're about to look at those me. I knew see
You like that? What does it mean to me? I know it means to stain
It means to stain yourself. Do you know what?
Now hang on before you start thinking like a
Victorian or start thinking like a somebody who's you know telling some kind of
Theological line
It literally means to stain
And so in the greek
Word itself is that concept whether whether or not you put a religious
You know twist on it or not
The idea of staining is there and who stains
Not only these people who are practicing this cult, but you know this this form of christianity, but um also
those who were
Um
Giving us the knowledge you remember the sons of god that came into the daughters of men and enic
Yes, uh on son. Uh, no monday. Do you remember those? Um, this is who he's talking about
Right, they stained themselves
Yeah, I stained themselves
And what do they end up entering into they end up entering into blasphemy
blasphemy
Okay, when jesus christ was arrested
Was that a kid?
There was an element of blasphemy thrown into his trial
Yeah, if you can call it a trial
Yeah, because you know lace days are lace days people keep asking me about lace days. Remember don't forget
Julius Caesar was taken captive. He was uh kidnapped by lace days by lace die. Excuse me the plural
and what did he do as soon as he got away he came back and
Crucified them
why
Because you crucify
traffickers
you crucify them
You crucify them when I'm saying traffickers. I'm talking about people who exchange children. I'm not talking about the slave trade
the legitimate
Mediterranean slave trade is not
Trafficking I'm talking about people who show up and abduct your young kids to sell them
as sexual objects
That is a lace days. That is what jesus is defending himself as not being when he is arrested with that kid
Everybody knows
lace die get crucified
They deserve to die that way
They deserve it. You mean people were saying jesus deserved now. You understand what the crowd was doing
You understand it was there for a ride
Right. Oh god. I'm sorry. Let's keep going. Let's keep going
We all know this ride. No, we don't um, here's the word I found for you perfect timing. Look at this
This is for everybody who just wants something delicious. Are you ready?
In up any astria
In up any astria. What is that?
she who dreams
And it's the title of a book. Look the person who did this
The person who did this made up this word to talk about to be
You know
What her what her story was
Who's this about it's about she who dreams
I love that
I love that. Look, we've got the english a little phrase she who dreams
You don't need that and great. You make up one concept
One concept. Oh god the power is amazing. Give me give me the next one
Give me the next one finally. I don't want to um for the text wise
I don't I don't want to belabor anything. We've got to jump
But I just want you to notice that second and last line. We got dimonia
We got dimonia if you start at verse 16. I'm just gonna I'm gonna translate this for you
The one who this is jesus right at the end of mark
The one who believes and is baptized will be saved
The one who doesn't believe will be judged
and um
The for those who believe there will be signs that they do
In my name, they will cast out demons
They'll speak in new languages
And what else do they do they'll
Take up serpents and when I say take up, I just mean lift
I mean to take up as a practice to take up as a way of life. They'll take up serpentry
And they'll drink when whenever it says whenever whenever they drink the death inducers
It won't hurt them
That is a true christian from the mouth of jesus the christ himself
Dan mclellan
You do not recognize the christ as a drug term because you don't read greek
Dan mclellan. You don't recognize the christ
As the one who drinks the thana semen who takes the christing and who is resurrected because you have never done that then
You are uninitiated not only are you uninitiated in the mystery
You are uninitiated in ancient greek
Shame on you for taking glory. That's not yours
Go to the next one
Boom, okay, we're gonna jump here's the lifting up serpents. Yeah, we got it. We got it. We got it already go to the next one
Here we go, pay
Um, oh, you know what? I'm gonna go ahead. I'm gonna jump right to the end jump
Jump right to our
Right to this. Let's see
Oh, I had so much prepared for you people, but I don't want to take up an inordinate amount of time
um, let us go
For people who are asking me about the book again, please ask around
I know if your conditions don't allow you. I know there's ways to get it
Right
The cheapest way is possible. Yes, fantastic. I don't want anybody to be held back because they cannot get a book
Right and thank you for crashing the thank you for crashing the people at the
publisher to
Go give me give me that one. Okay. Look, there are a couple of very important little
paragraphs
Little charts that I need you to know as you are reading unit one
And I tell people get your alphabet down. That's what you need if you've gotten your alphabet down
And if you're able to begin looking at great words
Um and pronouncing them you're in a good spot
But what I want you to do is I want you to read unit one
And I want you to try to do those first five exercises in unit one
