Those with eyes to see
A kiss of Athena
Dream of satan
Uranus venus dress
Roots grow from the stars overhead
Orchid comes to the moon
Oracle ritual
With a kiss and a whip
Lady Babylon is with you
Thank you, teddy bass
Let's get to a couple of slides of what you absolutely must know from unit two
From unit two. This is what I want you to be memorizing and working on
When you start the exercises remember the exercises are at the end of every unit
Those are the course that you will run if you can translate those exercises
You can go on
Here we go bring up the first chart
I want you to look at a verb people. I want you to look at this verb and I want you to memorize this verb
This is one verb. It is six parts. We call those parts principle
The principal parts of the verb there are six of them
You should be able to say that in your sleep. Are you ready?
This is the one you're going to memorize and you will never memorize another
You will learn others, but this one you will memorize
luo
luso
elusa
leluca
leluma
eluthane
Those are the six principal parts from the first comes the present and the imperfect from the second comes the future
From the third comes the heiress
From the fourth comes the perfect from the fifth comes the perfect passive and from the sixth the heirest
passive
I want you to concentrate because in this chapter. We're going to use
The first two principal parts
luo and luso. What does luo mean? It means I release or I dissolve or I free
Can also mean I destroy and you can take this one root and combine it with
umpteen
prefixes and have vocabulary that's bigger than any oscan umbrain or Hebrew vocabulary from antiquity
Just from this word
Fantastic. Give me the next one those are the principal parts of the verb now to the to those principal parts
You can add these endings
You can add these endings. This is what you must memorize. See this chart
There are three on the left and three on the right
The three on the left are singular the three on the right are plural
We've got in the first line the first person second second third third
So what do we have here? We have the first person singular I
We have the second person singular you
third person singular he she or it
And then we start off on the in the other column
What's the first person plural we second person plural you all you all
Third person plural they I want you to remember that I you he she it we you they
Because you're gonna have to run through that list in your head if you want to say I do something
You're gonna have to know which one is I
If you want to say you do some you're gonna have to know which one is you and this is how you tell
It's by the end of the word. Isn't that clever?
What are the endings that you must know? You're gonna memorize them just like this. Oh
a
Omen ete usi
Oh a
Omen ete usi
Oase a omen ete usi
Now look at the third person plural. You notice it says or us in
You can put a new
Moveable the new is the letter correct and you can add that to the end
Why are you going to see this lot in the third person both singular and plural? You can add a new to the end of it
Why would you want to?
Why would you want to because if that word comes right before a word that starts with a vowel?
There's gonna be an uncomfortable pause and this is music
Language is music
I thought I didn't know language was music. No, you didn't and that's why you're here
Music
And it sounds better when you've got a consonant between those two vowels it flows
We want this to flow
You saw the flow tonight. I hear with jesus. This is the flow of the language
This you must eat
Give me the next one
It's better than what he was serving
So all we do is we add that little letter to the ending
We add the oase a omen ete usi to the ending and look at the verb here. We take the verb paide wo
It means to educate
Paide wo I educate paide ways you educate paide way. He sheer it educates paide omen
We educate paide wo te you educate paide wo sin
They educate it's that simple. It's that simple. That's all you need to be able to do
You need to be able to look at the greek word and say paide ways. That's a second
person singular you
You singular do something. That's all you have to know. It's really that easy. Give me the next one
It's all logic people
Now i'm going to give you a set of endings. I just gave you the present
I do something in the present if you want to say I did something
Then you have to use these imperfect endings. I did or I was doing
Here are your endings on os a omen ete on
On os a omen ete on on os a omen ete on you should be able to say that in your sleep when I tutor students privately
I forced them to go through these and some
to you know
Some don't want to do it. Some don't want to if you do it
It'll stick it's imprinting it in your brain and that's part of the intensive method
If you don't sit there and repeat to yourself so that your spouse is upset with you
What are you saying in the shower? I'm saying my endings darling shut up
