They're christians who are practicing in a way that he doesn't like and he calls them. Look at that second line
planetai
Planetai now
You don't see the mental side of this unless you read ancient greek texts
And you know there is an association between the madness or ecstasy of prophecy
and the wandering of the mind
These are stars
Osteris look at that word osteris take take off to kill the vowels
Kill the alpha kill the epsilon kill the second epsilon and it's sigma. Well, what do you get?
Sigma tau row
On a monkey
What what did you think? Yeah, they're they're friggin aliens
Seriously, what what have we done with the science for the last 200 friggin years?
Oh
People it's like walking into the museum and taking a dump on the on the history section. What are you doing, dude?
scientific inquiry
scientific inquiry shame on
Shame on you sellers you sellouts. Good. Go go in the back alleys. That's what you're all about
Disgusting go to the next one. We get an eye on there, but I want to continue on
Um, what are the seventh from adam this guy named enic? Well, I'm translating what this is what jude says
What are the seventh from adam say now? I want you to notice. He's quoting
Right. He's quoting right
Hmm. Okay. I want you to realize
dealing with sources
You're going to be reading greek and you're going to be reading quotes of other people
When epiphanious talks about jesus christ who was arrested in public park with a naked boy screaming
I'm not a trafficker when he talks about him
Um performing a sexual act on mary
and a mountain as a part of salvation as a part of
Drink my hyma baby and eat my flesh
You know as a part of that
It's coming from sources
Right, you can track all this stuff. This is not guesswork. It is crime scene investigation
And we have evidence give me the next one
boom
I'm going to get to the
Lesson just give me a second right and what's happening?
What's happening? Oh my god these people these people who are inserting themselves. It says they're inserting themselves
Right and they're following ancient custom
Right because they're written about a while ago. It says they're going to be a sebes
What is that? That's not having saba
Not having that proper reverence for the gods
Right and what did they do? They took the the harita
They took the harita to you that grace of god and they transformed it into what?
Aselgea give me the next slide. What is what is the aselgea?
This is going on people. What is it? What do you do when you're a selgic? Licentious or wanton violence?
Licentiousness
Yeah, okay
You can do what you want. I got a whole
Okay, it's going to be six to us and two of them
You can do whatever you want to the two of them
Okay, we will help and we will assist and we will
facilitate
Yeah, and what happens in vegas stays in vegas
Right, okay. All right. Hit me with the next one
Hit me with the next one oyster planks because I suddenly am stung by the gadfly and driven wild and I am a
Bakant christ
I am a bakant christ
The bit of anything take it down for a minute
Of anything that I've told you
This will make the biggest splash
Because um, this will drive a wedge
Into between the false history that's been built up for you full of this christian theology
Judeo christian monist theology
This will destroy it
The name the word christ's not a name. It's a title the word christ
Is a drug term
Jesus was a drug guy. We just looked at putting drugs
Onto cloth. Do you remember the woman who had the issue of blood?
What did she do all she had to do was touch him
All she had to do is touch him. You know why because that christ was christed and he was walking around high
And full of drugs they put them on their clothing
Now some of you say how stupid is that well some of the sophisticated ones you could light that stuff on fire
Make a little make a little you know
Impression on people some of that stuff would be immediately toxic
Oh
Fantastic, you know what I do if I'm a priestess and I'm eight years old
I'm getting up every morning. I'm training to be the one of the medusae
You know what I do I cut I make lateral cuts in my arms
And then I take a linen bandage and I impregnate it with drugs
That I then put over and those drugs are the ones that we're all taking from the snakes because that's what they're teaching us to do
Now is to handle those snakes because if you're a good christian and you follow Jesus's precise words
You will take up snakes and you'll start drinking death drugs and they won't hurt you
Do you see
It's the real jesus
It's the real jesus hit the next one and you can get there through the words
Oysterades, that's that's fine for aging or frantic. Give me the next one. No problem. It's we're hitting it
Here's the word for star
Aster and I wanted you to see it same route again people
Same route fantastic. Give me the next one
Fantastic boom
Boom, here's jude. Who do who do I not want you to be? I don't want you to be like these people
Why because from they've been practicing this mystery for a long time and it always ends up in Sodom and Gomorrah
You know, they're using the same methods
Right and what are they doing? They're going after that heterosarks, right that
That other flesh the other meat
Yeah, and what are they doing? They're providing an example
They're providing an example of that ionic fire
Right that ionic fire. They're gonna be subject to decay
Because they are harnessing the ionic fire now. This is the part I told you and there's no christian who knows what this means
None
None. Well, I don't know maybe there is maybe there is somewhere who got his greek in gear or hers
And really pushed I would say hers, but you know realistically
Bible studies doesn't really encourage. I mean they do have you know, it's I don't know. I don't know
Yeah, the first thing I noticed about classics was it was majority women in my department
Yeah, and I thought how how nice look at this the women are encouraged
to study this
Right because it doesn't say women submit. It doesn't say that
It's got all sorts of stuff. Look at it. Look at this thing. I found I've got this word. I found for you guys tonight
It's gorgeous. I hadn't seen it before
Um, keep going keep going. We'll run up to it. We're running up to it. Um, this is the word just export now
I've seen this one a lot to commit fornication people. What are the people doing? I want you to notice dan
I want dan mclown here right now dan get over here. Get over here dan
That's because you claimed it and didn't grade it
Now let's see at porno Dan. It means to commit fornication
But it's also idolatry Dan. Look and they're pulling your septuagent there
They're pulling your septuagent Dan. There's a source
Oh my god
Oh my god, you didn't realize the mystery was sexual. Did you?
The very same word the what does fornication mean? That's a what a victorian says to mean sex
Just sex
