Right. So he took the one
Right. Well, here's he starts out by saying look it says in the questions of mary that are called the greater questions of mary
And he says there are others that are called the the minor questions
Anyway, he says from this greater questions of mary. They have it inserted in there
What what's the he reveals it to her jesus reveals this mystery to mary the mystery
Do you know how many times is an eighth grader what I have gone around revealing the mystery
If if I could have done that like jesus what kind of act does this guy? Oh jesus, what were you thinking? It's such a bad line
I'm gonna show you the mysteries
I'm gonna show you the mysteries. What are the mysteries involved jesus? What are they involved?
they uh
There we are um, well, uh, let me tell you this uh, mary. I gotta take you up into the hills
She should have known she should
Why can't we do it here in the courtyard?
I gotta take you up in the hills right and so he took her up in the hills
And then the greek is very interesting. It's here. It says he took from his side
the woman
He took from this from his side
the woman
Do you notice that it's using the very same cold expression that's used in the book of genesis for eve
For eve. Okay, fantastic. Remember they're writing gospels of eve and what happens it says he took her
right and um, then it says that he began to do what he began to incat amignus thigh
with her
And most people will well, I'll say most people I'll say um, everybody is gonna want to translate this is have intercourse with
The only problem is it's not
It's not to have intercourse with as a matter of fact. It's used
as a way of mixing drugs
As a way a method of mixing drugs right in other words the communion
The communion itself he began mixing the communion with her and he says i'm not kidding
Right, he took the stuff that came out of him
And what what happened?
It's nest he says it's necessary to do this in order that we may live
Right
They entered into the act of collecting his fluid. He was doing it right in front of her just wait. She's gonna get confused
He's just started
Jesus just starts masturbating
In front of mary
Okay, and he says we got to do this if we want to live
Remember last time
Remember last time when his family came and picked him up remember that and they're like he is cray cray
Right, he's out of his mind. Well now
He's with the woman up in the hills
masturbating
Saying if they don't do what he's about to show her
They're gonna die
You remember the lie and the garden of Eden that god said if you eat it you'll die
Right
Like father like son
Let's let's go the next one. Yeah
Let's see what how he's standing there, right? We've got to we've caught him in the middle of masturbation. We can't tell
Yeah, producing woman from the side beginning to have sex with her, right? That's the christian reed of that. Okay
Give me the next one. Um, here's the mixing, right? Look at the second line down
Father macon potoy. What are they doing? You can mix a drug into a potion. They're getting the communion ready
They're not having sex
He is simply masturbating in front of her to produce the the flesh
Yeah
bread of life
Give me the next one. Hmm. I'm gonna translate this quickly people. Don't leave don't leave now because
What happens?
Right. Okay. So
Mary she tarak
Tarak they says she becomes Tarasso is a verb that means to become
Mentally it's almost it's not really frightened. It's confused
and like
What is this that's going on? It's in it's like you're trying to grasp your questioning. Is this really happening?
Right, so it says Mary was in that and she fell backwards
She moved backwards from and fell to the ground
Right now if you thought it's kind of weird if they're having intercourse
That now all of a sudden they're standing. It's like we missed a cutscene or something
Right, that's why they're not having intercourse. He starts masturbating and Mary backs off
Falls over stumbles over
What happens he walks over
Picks her up off the ground and he says to her
Oh you of little faith
Well, I don't know I don't know man. You had it in your hand. What do you know?
And and what happens and they say then that this is the
Uh, this is that which is spoken of in the gospel when the gospel writer says
How is it?
Right if I say to you
Things that have to do with the earth and you don't believe it
What are you going to do when I tell you about those heavenly things? How are you going to believe it then?
Right because it's a big deal to pull out your private parts and start
you know
Bringing yourself to climax in front of a person
It's difficult
How are you going to take anything if you you can't even take the plain stuff?
I give you how are you going to take this mystery?
That's why he's single single singled out mary
To participate in the mystery. Okay. Let's see what else he says and whenever they says
Whenever they say um, you see the son of man. Oh, behold look at look at the son of man rising up
Right who was that who was alive before who who was the previous?
Existence what you know, it's a verse from the you're gonna find it in the bible right in the new testament
What does he say? He says they're saying this because
That is the thing when you talk about the rising up they're talking about
The producing the aporia and taking it manually from its source
right
The rising up of the christ
Yeah, that's why you say that
Oh my god, and what is what he says? Um, also remember they say if you don't eat it
