In the mind that works at the university in the mind that works at the seminary
There is a division and space and time between pagans and non pagans
monists
monists live in their own universe
Right, we all know that's not true and that's why studying the bible is part of studying classics
Right, okay, isn't it? It's terrible misrepresentation of the actual science
My god, man
Hit me the next one that second sense revolutionary insurrectionist
That's the kind of sense that would could merit crucifixion. Oh, that's not even here
You said yeah, where'd you find the revolution? So I'm looking in what what scholars affectionately know as b dag
Which is a greek english lexicon of the new testament another early christian literature
So it isolates the usage of these words within early christian literature to show how they're being used in those contexts
Yeah, but wouldn't that kind of be a biased translation if they if they if jesus is saying he's not a laystace
They wouldn't want jesus to be saying he's not a
a predator
Look at danny jones, right? He got it. He saw him right through it. What's the source that you're using?
dan
mclellan
You're using a source that was created by a specific group with specific
types of agendas
And those words you're going to be defined with their agendas in mind
You claim to be a translator dan. You should know that
Yeah
So
What do you do?
What do you do?
You don't listen to those ideas
You go to the text you go to the sources and you look at them. You say what do they say?
Now the reason I want wanted to harp on this is I wanted everybody to see
This is typical medieval dark age crappery
classical studies
Is the antidote
To that death
Of the dark ages to that stuff that oozes oozes all over your equipment knocks it out your sight
Slows down
stops progressing starts thinking things that are wild
Wild
We don't go around the sun
God created this place
right
Okay, the antidote is that classical
wisdom
And all it is is beautiful beautiful reason expressed by a language that just i'm sorry. I'm sorry ladies
I'm sorry latin
I'm sorry. She's the most beautiful by far
by far
Now people are wondering how many total words this greek app right?
um last time they checked in the tlg the
Giant corpus has 1.77 million
They used to say 20 years ago. They used to say oh, it's probably around 500 000
Right now. They're saying well with the tlg. It looks like it's much much higher. That doesn't surprise anyone
If you've done anything with this gorgeous gorgeous
Padgett winner. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I hate to say that right. I really hate to say that
but um
She wins
hands down
Hands down. Let's just all recognize that. It's why you have grammar
Yes, it's why you even ask questions about your language
Yes, you know, you do that in greek, right? You just don't realize it because you've stolen greek
Right, you speak this bastardized anglo-saxon
garbledy goop
Listen to that like listen to my inability to find an anglo-saxon word that can reach
that
Distant star and pull her down. Okay. It's gonna get gross now. Put your splash bags on wait. We've got one more dan
He me last one is dan. Are you familiar with luchin?
Not not very familiar now. It's been a while. So he wrote as he wrote. Um
luchin was another example of a writer. I think this was like
150 I could be wrong here. Steve you have to fact check me on this. I think it was like 150 bc luchin was a
A poet and he wrote a story about a guy named alexander the false prophet
Who was a laystace?
um
and he's using the
He's using the context to how alexander
The context that luchin uses to describe this guy alexander the false prophet as this terrible tyrannical laystace who's trafficking people
And and and uses using them as like prost putting them into like prostitution rings and all kinds of stuff
I think he's using that for the main historical context for that passage in mark where jesus says i'm not a laystace
Yeah, that's
So that wouldn't be relevant to what was going on on the ground and in that part of the world because it's it's we're talking
200 years later 200 plus years later and a different part of the world and and a different
type of literature altogether
Um, can you google luchin so we can actually get the real story about what his deal was?
so
So this is saying he was 125 to 180 ad
Right, okay
So roughly about a hundred and some hundred years in change after
well
Less than uh less than that for the actual composition of the gospels
So their gospels are are 75 70 c e to maybe 125 c e. Oh really? Okay. Yeah, so that's so around the same time
Yeah, it's it's much similar, but um
So
It turns out
Look, you know, there are certain advantages of being able to open portals
um
We're looking at how it worked out
originally
The thought was first of all, he didn't know who luchin was
Right, that's pretty, you know, okay. He was only a minor
In classical greek. So eh, he probably didn't have that he probably had like one semester
And it was like a survey and they probably didn't do luchin, right?
Right, this isn't a dude who's been reading greek for the last 35 years
Right, or however long he's been out of training. I don't know. I don't know
Um, yeah, but do you hear it people of am and you?
Do you hear the grade?
Of professional behavior. Do you hear the level?
Of where it is either rising to or falling to
Yeah, do you hear that?
Okay
Luchin you don't know him. Okay. Well, you think here's the question that tell me why the lace stays in luchin is so different from the lace stays
in jesus's mouth
In matthew and luke
tell me
When we talk about the lace stays
Those two that hung with him uh the lace die that are hanging next to him
In mark that one's in mark
Tell me
What's the difference? Well, it dan says look that's 200 years difference because he's thanks because he doesn't know
watch how quickly
someone in a trench coat
Is willing to embrace a fabrication, right? He doesn't know
He's not from the second century. He's from uh bc's from the second century ad
Right and early and that for that matter
Yeah
What's gonna happen then?
Well dan's gonna discover he's good. He's gonna discover that he's gonna have to
Scoop up that pile of poop that he just defecated in front of you
Yeah, okay
Do you want
to get your science
From someone who is willing to engage
Fiction
I don't
I don't want somebody like that testifying in court either
This is the classical standard and classical philologists will hold you to this
Don't bs me. I don't want to hear your stupid ideas
What's your text?
