I'm gonna walk you through those now if you've done them
Great if you're going to do them great, but I want you to notice
I'm going to give you only the stuff that you need
This is the stuff that it's going to get us through this specialized training. Are you ready?
Look at these diphthongs on the left. What is a diphthong diphthong is when you take two vowels
And you put them together. What vowels are we talking about? Alpha epsilon
Ada iota
Omicron
Upsilon omega
I'll say that one more time alpha epsilon Ada iota omicron
Upsilon omega
Seven vowels those are the seven spheres
of the cosmos
Wait, what?
Those are the seven spheres
Of the cosmos what is cosmos it is the organization
of the universe
It's the organization
Are you ready the organization has those seven vowels alpha
Epsilon Ada iota omicron
Upsilon omega
Okay, when you combine those together like the first one that we have is alpha iota
Alpha iota and when you take two vowels and they combine into one they make one noise
right
You go from alpha iota is ah
II
Combine them together and you get I
I
Makes a different sound
Absalon iota you have a in the epsilon e in the iota when you combine them together a
Okay, and that's what I want. I want you to follow this pronunciation for oi
Look at oops. Okay. Wait a minute. Look at Upsilon iota
And you're going to think that's oo and e right so we
We something like that
Notice that you get a w sound that starts coming out. Why because there is a diagram of hiding in that Upsilon
You mean the constant is in there being close with that vowel. Yeah, I think it happens
Right. Oh love it
We
We hear the w Upsilon iota is we
We
Weos is the word for son Upsilon iota on the crown segment
Weos good. You're gonna get vocabulary. Don't worry. So people focus on this chart get all of your diphthongs down
So you can pronounce words you can pronounce words like the words they give you in the example
Look, you've got the the first word there. I there
I there see the diphthong i on the front of it. Good practice that
Get it down. Go to the next one. Go to the next one. Hmm
Word roots. I tell you give me a blow up
Look at this chart at the bottom this box summary of greek cases
I want you to look at these five cases
What are cases?
Cases are a part of noun
adjectives
Participals have cases
Yeah, now what do you do with a case?
Just think about a noun for a minute and
This is where everybody learns us. So don't be embarrassed. Um a verb is your action
It's the word that's the doing the jumping the running the being being is doing to
Yeah
What is a noun? It's you know, we call it the person place your thing
What I want you to know is the nouns are the things that can be doing or can have things done to them
They are the dressing for the verb
Oh, okay. Okay. I get it. Watch this there each of them has cases
What does that mean? It means the end of the word will change changing its case
And what cases do we have do you need to think through this? No
Stop trying to if you get confused whenever you get confused in ancient greek stop thinking
I tell my students this all the time nobody ever trusts me until they get to a point where they understand what it means
Stop
thinking
What do you need to know
You need to know these five cases every now is going to have
five cases
The first case is called the nominative. Yeah, that's all I need you to say spit that out. How many cases?
five
Okay, thank you very much. What's the first one?
nominative
What is the first case nominative nominative nominative?
What is the second genitive third dative fourth accusative?
What is that fifth type of case that they've evocative?
Evocative now
What we're going to do is we're going to use those first four cases all the time and every once in a while
We're going to use that fifth case
And when we do
I'll make it obvious for you because all we're going to memorize are those first four
I don't want you memorizing vocabularies. I want you memorizing
nominative genitive dative accusative and always in that order
Nominative now, I'm going to tell you this once what each of those is the nominative case is the subject
That's all I want. I don't want you to think about it
I want you to be able to say when I yell at you in your face
What is the nominative case and you will say it is the subject
What is the genitive case? It is the case of
Possession what is the dative case?
It's the indirect object
I don't even know what an indirect object is you say I don't care
I need you to know that the dative case is an indirect object. Just stop there. What's the accusative?
A direct object
Isn't that nice nominative subject genitive possession dative
Indirect object accusative direct object. That's all I need you to do
The vocative is the case of address
And it's barely used
Okay, so we're not gonna
We're going to worry about the top four next one given the next one. What else do I need you to focus on in chapter one?
These are first declension nouns now. What does that mean? What is the declension? Think of a declension as a family
or a group
Of nouns we're going to have three
In greek we're going to have three
This is the first
And most of these are feminine
They are feminine. What you mean nouns can have gender. Yes
Yes, what are the genders that we have in greek? We have masculine feminine neuter
masculine feminine neuter masculine feminine and neuter
That's all I want you to know
Fm
Are you ready? Here's some feminine ones for you. And what happens? What are these?
What is going on in this chart? It's a little dash
With a letter or a couple of letters after it and that little dash is telling you you can take this
And put it on the end of the base of a noun
In order to make it that case
For example, the word for soul is psuche
psuche
You hear the a on the end of it. That's the nominative
psuche, it's the subject the soul
