Back when we did this live stream, I had no idea what you were talking about. I just didn't know.
I just had no clue. You're not wrong. The word in its context in these ancient Greek sources
does mean what you're saying it means. It's just that they're seeing it in the Judeo-Christian
context, where in the book of Acts, admittedly, and I say this in the video, in the book of Acts,
they use that word, God-fear, for the Gentiles that are worshipping God-fear, that are worshipping
Jewish God. It does become that word. It can be defined that way, but it did not originally
mean that. That's what you were saying, too. That's why I made this video. I'm trying to show people
this. Anyways, let's continue. Right. Of the lustful water that I invoke, the sacred chant.
The word sacred is used as theosabase. So you don't need God-fearing. You don't need Yahweh. You
don't need Judaism. The word right here is. But all reverently, there's the word reverence,
responded with a loud voice. The notion that this Hebrew didn't pre-exist that title,
that this is a translation from, that title is nonsensical. Damn. He just tried to make it seem
like that this word does not pre-date the Hebrew. That's wrong, as I just showed. That's objectively
wrong. That's not even like, what you just said is not even a matter of opinion. It's just wrong,
what you just said. So, okay. That's one word in Greek, right? And then, so if I say...
It's a compound word, though, because it's theos and the verb for fear. So it's two of them being
put together in one word. Because it's theos and the verb for fear. Sabase is an adjective,
like eosabase. Does it even... So this right here made me realize he's not familiar with this word.
He's not reading Greek sources. This is... As I just demonstrated, I just gave you five different
sources where this word is used. If he even ran into this one time, he would never... He would not
have said that's a verb for fear. It's not a verb for fear. It's being translated as God fear,
because that's what we call it today. But that... If you wanted to break it down etymologically,
it's not a verb for fear. But I break it down right here. He... What he just said demonstrates
that he has zero knowledge of the classics. Because this is a very... As Armand pointed out a year ago,
this is a very important technical religious term, theosabase. It's everywhere in the ancient
classic sources. I just gave you a whole plethora of examples. This is a very common and very important
word for studying ancient religion. For to not know this is like calling yourself an expert in
Marvel comics and not knowing like... Not knowing like who Jane... Peter Parker dates Jane, whatever
her name is. Like it's like basic shit that everyone knows. And you're just like, huh? Oh, it's the verb
for fear. I think God fearing. Oh, it must be the verb for fear then. No, you didn't check. And you
don't know the sources. Sorry, but you're wrong. And this is objectively wrong. Anyways, I explain
it right here. Empires. And Phobos is a noun, which is fear. So theosabase can become God fearing
by definition, but it doesn't break down in the way he just said. God and sabase... Theos being
God and sabase being the verb for fear. That's like saying Augustus, which in Latin or in Greek
means sabastase. That's like saying Augustus is the feared one or the fearful one. It's not what
it means. Like that's not the verb for fear. It's not even a verb anyway. It's an adjective.
That is not correct. You would not pass an exam if you wrote that down for the definition.
That is not correct. Sebumenos is a worshiper and a phobomenos is a fear. Those are middle
passive particibles. Phobomai is to be scared and afraid. Because it means life or death for a
lot of people around the world. And when you're holding up the two... Okay, this is the last
part that I'm going to show you. Because the rest of the video is about this topic right here.
Pillars of Christianity is special and unique and has no influence from any Greek mythology or
philosophical pagan stuff. And the Old Testament is this ancient Bronze Age text that goes back
all the way to Sumerians. When you tell people that stuff, you make them think that this book is
magic. So the majority of the two and a half hour video is about the idea. So first of all,
I've actually... The reason why it's just taken so long. Because I had the interview with Yonatan
Adler. So I'm going to feature him in the video a little bit on some parts about dating the Old
Testament, dating the Torah, when is the Torah being observed, all that stuff. We touch on that.
I also had a discussion with an anthropologist who is a current professor over in Italy
about dying and rising gods in James Frazier. Everything that Dan McClellan says about dying
and rising gods in James Frazier, she says the exact opposite. So we have one who's a current
professor who wrote her dissertation on James Frazier and dying and rising gods,
current professor, anthropology, classic studies. So it's her field. She's dominating.
She's the authority, not him. And then on the other side, you have a guy who doesn't know classics,
who's not a current professor, who only studies Judeo-Christianity, and he's a Christian. And
he's got a dog to fight in this thing. So I should just say, I never let my bias get in the way.
Oh, that's odd that you're not a trinity. You don't believe in the trinity and Mormons are
Unitarians and what else? You think Moses was around in the 700s BC because you've got the book
of Nehi and Lehi and they write about Moses. It just happens to be certain things that line up with
it. I'm just putting it out there. All I'm saying is this, one expert who studies dying and rising
gods, who's written dissertations on Nana, dying for three days and resurrecting, which was celebrated
at the Spring Equinox during the Akitu Festival. Then you have Baal, who she says when Baal rises,
they use a verb to stand. In Greek, the resurrection is the verb to stand. It's the same thing.
It's just a different language, but using the same verb to stand. She points that out very,
very, very slickly. And then Dionysus, who she says is the most obvious example,
the most obvious example of a god who dies and resurrects, and not only is he dying and resurrect,
but his worship, his devotion, the thing that makes Dionysus special is the fact that he is a,
he's the god of resurrection. For example, at Delphi, it's the temple of Apollo,
where the Muses are. But on the bottom of the mountain, you have a tomb, and the tomb is for
Dionysus. Dionysus is dead because Dionysus is the resurrection. That's what he was known for.
For Jesus to come along and be a god of resurrection, you are directly in competition with the cult of
Dionysus, 100%. And so the whole chunk of this video is telling, when Dan gets, when they talk
about Hilaria, the look on Dan's face, it's like he's never heard of it. This is the first time
he's ever heard of the Hilaria. How do you not know about the Hilaria, and you call yourself a
scholar of religion? Every main textbook about Roman religion, whether it be Mary Beard, whether it be,
what else do I got here? Ancient Greek religion. Let's see.
All the source books. All the good source books. Here we go. Greek religion. That's in here.
The ancient mysteries. Ancient mysteries. What else do I got? I wish I had more. I wish I
was more prepared to show. Anyways, here's a big one. Mary Beard's Roman religion.
Basically, any source book that you can think of,
any Roman religion source book that you can think of is going to have at least a chapter,
if not multiple chapters on the Hilaria, and how important it was during the March equinox
for the Romans. And it's initiated in the early first century during the reign of Claudius.
So, after the reign of Claudius, you have a resurrection festival in Rome during the same
week that Jesus resurrects. Now, look, notice how I didn't make any arguments. I didn't say
one's copying the other. All I'm doing is giving you a fact. There's a fact. Hilaria was celebrated
by the Romans during the week of the spring equinox, March 22nd to 25th. That's a fact.
Notice how I don't even say it. All I have to do is say that, and you start getting pushback.
No, that's psych ice. No, that's mythicism. I didn't even say anything. I didn't even say
Christians copied it. But that's their knee-jerk reaction, because it's like they have to defend
it for some reason. There's an emotional response to this topic. And the reason why you know he
has this emotional response to this topic is how often he talks about this subject. Once a week,
at least. He's doing a new video about zeitgeist, about some random Ralph Ellis or whoever. I don't
even know these people half the time. He's rebutting videos from like 10 years ago about
people who compare Krishna and Jesus that nobody even pays attention to. So it's like the main
thing that he studies and is focused on is this random topic that I think is totally meaningless.
Any thoughts on that? I have one more thing that I want to show. Any thoughts on that?
I'm getting so full of yummy, yummy, Dan. This is the best barbecue of any human soul I've ever
had, because look at how in your face with the reasoning you're... I love that $79,900. What was
it? $45,000? Breaking off that BS is you can't do anything. That's Herculean, man. Beautiful job.
Beautiful job. Let's finish you the clips. All right. So the last thing that I wanted to
show you was... I think I have it here. Pretty sure I have. Here it is. Okay. So I'm going to...
This is the last thing. All right. Let me just pull this image up and I'll tell you when I'm going
to share my screen. Okay. And this is going to be in the video too. I just didn't bring the clip,
but it's in the video. He posted this recently, and we were all talking about how this happened.
Okay. We all enjoyed this. It was a great... I thought it was awesome. Shout out to the Olympics,
because they did a great job with this opening ceremony. That's very Dionysian. It's very Greek.
It's very Olympic. They did a great job. I give them an A+. I enjoyed it, and it had nothing to do
with the... It had nothing to do with Jesus in the Last Supper, because the Last Supper was using
the same imagery that the Renaissance painters used for the symposium of Dionysus and Apollo.
So anyways, it's funny how Christians will mix this up. So somebody made this post.
Now, I'm just going to say off the bat that I don't agree with all this. I think this person's
pushing the limit, especially when they use the word plagiarize. Don't use that word.
Plagiarize is a specific thing when you actually take words and copy and paste them.
Inspired by. Just use the word inspired by or competing with or polemicizing. Sometimes they
flip things. Sometimes things are the opposite, but that's still inspired by. Right? So you don't
use the word plagiarize. Whoever made this, I'm trying to help you out. All right. He says,
Dionysus had a divine father and mother with sacrifice that died and resurrected.
That's true. That's true. So far we're good. Wine symbolizes his blood. That's also true.
And I show the sources for this. By the way, everything in here, everything in here, I'm
going to show every primary source for it. All of it predating Christianity. Was it traveling
teacher who performed miracles? So is everyone else. I don't think anyone really cares about
that part. Turned water into wine at a wedding. That is also true. That's from a third century
BC source. It's also from Pliny the Younger. It's also in Pausanias, which is contemporary with
the Gospels. So he doesn't know the Gospels. So anyways, anyways, we have sources for that.
Was associated with a purple cloak. That's true. He wore a purple, he wears a purple cloak
in the in the in the Homeric camp to Dionysus. The first thing it says is Dionysus appeared
at the shore. Beautiful was his hair locks. He's wearing an ivy diadem and a purple cloak.
So the person says he has a crown of thorns. That's not true. Because the crown of thorns
represents death. Dionysus represents life. Jesus is the God of death. He wears the crown
of thorns. He's going to his grave. He's going to the cross. Dionysus wears a crown of ivy
that's full of swelling fruits and berries and a pine cone. So that there you have a polemic
going on there. Dionysus. So there might be something going on with them putting on a
crown of thorns on Jesus's head as his own image because Apollo wears a crown. Aphrodite wears
a crown. Dionysus, all the sons and daughters of gods have their own specific crown. So Jesus
wearing a crown of thorns could be his own specific thing that they're doing because he's a God
that's about to die. That's that's as far as that would go. But I would never say that Dionysus and
Jesus had the same crown. Don't do that. Was said to be twice born or born again. That's true.
Was a born of a virgin on December 25th and was called the holy child. This is actually
kind of true. But the sources for this are after the gospels. But I do talk about how it's not as
black and there's there's some nuances here. This is mentioned in Microbius's Saturnalia
that that Bacchus and Apollo are born on the winter solstice. And Epiphanius does say that
Ion or Ndusharas were born of the quarry. That's Persephone at December 25th called the holy child.
So there is some sort of nuance going on there. But he's the way he argued is incorrect. God of
the vine. Jesus is the God of the vine. That's also true. Had 12 disciples. Why? Why? Who cares
about 12 disciples? He has satyrs and main ads, but it doesn't say 12. Okay. Now did he ride
triumphant on a procession of donkey? Yes, he does in the story of the frogs by Aristophanes.
He rides into Athens on a donkey and then he goes down into Hades, performs the catabasis,
raises astralis from the dead and comes back from Hades triumphantly and does the anabasis.
So he it's a dying and it's a it's a descent in return story. And you have a donkey riding into
the city scene. And there's dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens of pottery showing the scene of
Dionysus riding on a donkey. This pottery would have been in circulation in Judea during the time
of Zechariah. Zechariah might have saw this and used this. I'm just saying I'm not saying that's
when you could prove that, but I think it's plausible. Now what does Dan say about this?
Dan, the expert, right? He's the expert on this stuff. He's going to be the judge, right? He's
going to be the he says, I'm the referee here. I'm going to be calling balls and strikes. He says,
as far as I know, now, I'm glad he starts to say this now, because he used to not say this. He used
to say, there is no sources as if he read every single text in the world and knew this. But I've
been calling it out on this lately. And I think I'm part of the reason why he says as far as I know,
because now you can say, well, I only said as far as I know, but let's see what he says. I'm glad,
by the way, that's what you're supposed to say. As far as I know is what you're supposed to say,
because nobody knows everything. You can always be proven wrong, right? He says, the only things on
this list that are true are that Dionysus had a divine father and mortal mother that has performed
miracles and that he was the god of vine, god of the vine. What? Are you kidding me? So he damn
doesn't even know that Dionysus has a resurrection story. That's mind blowing. And he's going around
talking about dying and rising gods don't exist. Not even knowing that Dionysus is the prime example
of a god who dies and resurrects has no idea. Just never, never read that text. He's got,
took him 15 years to get his PhD, as he says, never, never once across the text of Dionysus
and being torn apart by the, by the Titans and then coming back triumphantly.
By the way, can I just say anybody who knows anything about the cult of the mystery knows
that Dionysus provides for us that prototypic journey into Hades and retrieval again.
And funny thing was in the ceremony that they talk about with Dionysus,
it's always related that over the grave of the person who showed him the entryway to hell,
he plants a dildo and he uses the dildo on himself. Yeah, it's when people talk about
Osiris don't be surprised, you know what I mean? But this is the mystery cult. So the fact that
Dan can't recognize this is just, it's for the reason that, you know, he hasn't stepped outside
his own theologians. He's not, you know, it's like you said, he's not well versed. I mean,
yummy. This is yummy, isn't it? But he's not well versed, man. So let's, so let's go over what he
doesn't know and what, what we can prove right now that Dan McClellan doesn't know about, right?
So let's, let me pull up this, let me pull up that list again.
I'm going to get to this in a second. But first let me go back to this list. So he says,
the only thing that's true here is that he's a divine father and mortal mother,
and that he performed miracles, and that he's a god of the vine, divine father, mortal mother.
So he doesn't even say anything about his wine being, the blood of Gwakus being symbolized by
wine and the Elysianian mysteries. That's all over the sources. Even, even Clement of Alexander
specifically talks about that. He doesn't, he doesn't know about him being sacrificed as the bull,
dying and resurrected. He's the bull that's, and there's, there's actually texts about being washed
in the blood of the bull. And the bull is marked as sebaceous. That's that word, sabah again. It
all comes full circle, right? That's, so I show that too. He doesn't know that he had a triumphant
procession. He doesn't know that he wore purple, which is very, so he doesn't even, so he doesn't
even know the basics. The basics for, to know Dionysus, you have to at least know the, the him
to Dionysus, the Homeric hymn Dionysus, where it introduces him wearing an ivy crown and having
a purple cloak. That's what it does. But here's the big one that I want to point out. He, he
mentions, oh, if anyone could find anything else, make sure you find the story and it has to predate
the, it has to predate the whole story of Jesus' mystery, ministry. What? All right. This is from,
so these are these Orphic tablets that are floating around all over the Mediterranean.
They date between some of the oldest ones go back to like 500, 600 BC, maybe 500 BC, and then they
start, and then all the way up to the 400s BC. They're everywhere. They look like this. They're
golden tablets, and they're Greek. They find, these have, these even exist in Israel.
These, they even found these in Israel. That's how far, that's, they're all over the Mediterranean,
and they're called the Orphic tablets. They usually have, they're usually buried with the dead,
and it's messages into Hades on how to get through Hades and how to get reincarnated the right way.
One of them, so one of them reads this, this is a translation from Reedwig in 1998,
and it says, on the one side, it says, but in front of you, well, the cold water flowing
