Do you want to know
What happened at the birth of that?
They wrote hymns
to the winds
Yeah
Medea's famous for it
Her hymns to the winds
Now if you're into the magic you get it if you don't you don't
I mastered the whole of astronomy
Right, and then we get into but all this did me no good with a virgin named justina. Oh god
Now he's gonna get into it with her he gets obsessed
Right, so what are you gonna do when you're obsessed with a virgin? You bewitch her
You drug her
Isn't that nice think of a world
Think of a world
We're dating involves not the giving of candy
but
The bill Cosby s giving of drugs
Yes, did you know you can give somebody a drug
That will cause them
To become attracted to you
Wow
That's fantastic. Let's give me the next one. Give me the next one. You mean god is gay very much so
Very much so right look. He's the one that you go to right if you pray to him for war
He's mars right if you pray to him for fruit
He's priapas if you pray to him for homosexual activity
He's jahoba
Let it sink in
Let it sink in. What's the stuff they told us it doesn't seem
Correct that well, that's what happens when you allow monist to control your education
You get a fairy tale world you get disney land
Oh my god
What's gonna happen?
Um, he's gonna lead them look he says I can't brag but you know
I got a lot to say about these visions
And these apocalypses that i'm being given by
God the lord
Wait paul is having visions. Yes. I want to just want you to look at that second line
That in greek obtasias
What is that that is a word that is the closest word to hallucination as you and I understand it
In the greek mind, it was a vision or an appearance of someone that was not actually there
It's only seen by the from the perspective of the of the one who's describing it
It's the closest thing we've got to hallucination and then revelations those apocalypses
That paul is going through that is a prophetic
marking of time
Right, that's an oracular gift
So he's getting these hallucinations and these comprehensions of time
Give me the next one
And what else is happening? Look these these are paul paul's words. I want everybody
To envision for one moment paul the apostle
By the way, if you did not realize yet
I'll throw this in there as a curveball
Because I don't think many people have realized this. I don't spend a ton of time with paul
Besides reading him frequently and he is
Obsessed with children
He likes to go with the youngins
They like to take them on their missionary journeys
Well
There's nothing I can assure you
That is not regular
That he is involved with
Yeah, okay, let's see the let's see the next one boom give it to me
You know what's funny is the
An evangelical can't argue around any of this because it's just what the text is saying. Here's what paul says. He says I knew
I knew
I recognized a dude
This dude he was this kind of dude
And what did he do? He says I don't know if it was outside of my body
All right, I don't know if it was in my body. The only one who knows is god
But I knew this dude
Give me the next one
What do you mean you knew him?
What do you mean? Were you familiar with him?
Well, let me explain says paul let me explain
I was
grabbed up
And jammed into paradise
And I heard things that are unspoken. I heard those
I heard those things that you shall not speak
Yeah
Yeah
Give me the next one. What what's going on paul?
listen
I'm gonna tell you I'm the man
And my hottest
Is your antidote
My hottest is your cure
The power
Is in your weakness
The power is in your catatonia. The power is in your total release
And you know what
I'm gonna go ahead as paul. I'm gonna go ahead and I am going
to take pride
In my state of weakness
Yeah, because
The power of christing
Is making me crazy
Oh
It what is it doing it's apiscano say it's what it's infiltrating my brain the christ is infiltrating my mind
The power of the purple
And remember I paul get bitten
By poisonous vipers and have no reaction just like jesus said
He said
It's not gonna hurt you his drugs aren't gonna get to you
I wouldn't suggest licking any part of these people. Do you understand?
Contact is enough to spread this stuff
Right doesn't take much stuff. You know what I mean
Give me the next one
Boom, what's this hottest you say? Um, look
paul's man long story short paul's man is god
He ends up being god, right and his hottest is enough for paul now every christian says
Don't be dirty. It's not dirty. It's just the word grace
Here it is
Outward grace favor or beauty. Oh, it must just be what just my beauty
Maybe he's just saying my hotness is good enough for you, baby
Right. No, take a look if you've been reading this stuff
with your life
Watch what your sweat produces. Give me the next one
You know, there's a medical connotation
And what is it surprise surprise? It's an illusion. Nice the love charm, baby
Do you know what your hottest is? It's that thing that makes you aroused
Do you know why aphrodite is always accompanied by hottest?
Yeah, I don't either but
I want to be there
Why
Because you and I have been messing with love drugs
You and I know what that thorn in the flesh does
A lot of you, you know, you see the hippies
And you see the hippies getting involved with the drugs and you see the hippies getting involved with the sex
And you thank yourself those dirty hippies
It looks like
The hippies are drawing on some kind of quantum reality
That joins the action of whatever the drugs are doing to your brain with the sex
Huh interesting. Is that why when you enter the right and they put you into the death state with an
Within a state of arousal that they will force you
