we're getting betrayed, right, keep going, keep going, he was thinking there, yeah we caught up,
we caught up, so at that time Jesus, this is when Jesus says to the crowd of people that showed up,
notice that it says Matthew uses the word ochlos, right, a crowd, it's not just a crowd like
Taylor Swift fans, right, it's a mob, a pissed off mob, and most of them are armed, even the ones
that aren't SWAT are armed, do you realize that when Jesus Christ was arrested, he was arrested
in a raid, and guess who they were rounding up, they were rounding up traffickers,
they were giving rewards for traffickers, uh-huh, Julius Caesar had just done his thing,
he'd just done his thing, trying to clean up the Mediterranean from the frigging traffickers,
they kidnapped him, sons of, okay, okay, what does Jesus say to the mob, he says, look,
you think I'm a lace daze, you think I'm a trafficker,
it's not me making it up, it's coming right out of the text itself, these are your text
Christians and I'm not going to give them back, and so yeah, they crucified him, what does this say,
they crucified him, and with him there were duo lace dye, there were duo lace dye, and how are
they crucified, they put one on one side and one on the other, they lined these guys up, they lined
these traffickers of the human soul up, these abusers of humanity, and they were so pissed
that they prefer that Jesus get crucified to a dude who had killed someone,
yeah, to a dude who had killed someone, there was great hatred for Jesus Christ for a reason,
you were supposed to see the crucifixion for what it was, instead you preferred your greed,
you wanted that life, you didn't want to die and go to hell did you, you didn't want to die and go
to hell, to my friend out there who said enjoy hell idiot, you don't want to die and go to hell,
all right, the dude who was there was a creep, give me the next one, we're almost done,
we're almost done Neil, and yeah here's another one in those, they're here those crucified,
there are those crucified lace dye, but what I just want you to know, notice what they're doing,
they derided Jesus, what he had done was so bad, they derided him,
they derided him, because there's different, when you're involved in trafficking, you can
always just sell the person off to somebody who's gonna, she's gonna fetch a high price for a bride
somewhere and you just take her to the bride market, right, you don't have to do Posca,
you don't have to do Posca, and I think that the derision of those other traffickers around him,
I think that says a lot about that angry mob, I think it says a lot, even the Roman soldiers
were given it too, right, you know, give me the next one, give me the next one, what does it say,
what does it say, oh the temple, so Jesus, he gives up, right, he gives up the ghost,
right, he yields his life, and what does this say, the temple curtain was ripped in half,
right, and what happened, there was an earthquake, the earth shook,
I'm ready, now you want the zombies, just wait, the earth shook and the stones were broken,
right, we've got tombs that are made of stone, and when Jesus is up there, he cries out, ah,
he says, the holy God, he's crying out, amen, he's crying out to that divinity in whose mystery he is,
and remember, he's saying crazy stuff, he wouldn't answer any questions at one point, right,
and what happens, he's screaming, and all of a sudden the earth shakes, and the tombs crack open,
and what happens, give me the next one, what happens, here they are, the tombs opened up,
yeah, yeah, and they were full of people who woke up and walked away, walked away, did you notice
every time Jesus goes around a tomb, there's somebody dead in it who gets up and walks away,
did you understand the process of the death and resurrection and the cult,
do you understand why they're doing that in the cemeteries, Jesus is not the only one
on Pascha who is under the influence of the death inducer,
yeah, they took him down from that cross and took him away, any position could have
patched him up, any position, he could have been given drugs to revive them, and you say,
oh, don't worry, you have orifices, baby, yeah, he could have been given drugs to revive him,
and what would he do then, he would walk away just like he said he would, he'd go up to Galilee,
he'd made him up there, when he was done, do you know what Jesus was doing, he was doing the mystery,
and the entire fairy tale that you have heard is false, it's a figment of your imagination,
the actual history is way better, dude was caught up in a cult that was doing things,
you know, and got him crossed with the Romans, right, oh, next thing you know, he's getting
crucified, just like you thought he would, give me the next one, give me the next one, oh, people
love it, people love it, last, I think that's it, yep, they come out, yep, we get up next one,
boom, and what happens, they come out of those tomes, right, this is the aegersis,
this is the aegersis, remember Jesus already said when Mary showed up with the sex drug
dildo dispenser, medicinal dispenser, when he showed up with that, he was already entering,
he told you, this is the entaphyasmon, right, these rites, they have processes that you go through,
steps in the initiations, right, prophets do these steps, they perform these steps, and now what
is this step, this is the step of the revelation, right, the aegersis, the aegersis, what is that
aegersis, it's just from a ghetto, to wake up, that's what these mystery rites are all about,
and as soon as the person who's physically, remember I showed you the drug and it said,
it looks like the person is completely dead, that's what these people are doing in the tomes,
well guess what, he's got a whole bunch of people around him that are doing the rites,
don't you remember, there are people who follow Jesus, and what are they doing,
they're entering the aegersis, it's a stage of the rite, that little kid that was in the tomb now,
you thought he was there holy, he slipped through some holy, you know, slide and popped up and
he said, look, Jesus is out of here, that kid is going through the process, just like all of those
other mystery initiates, that's why he's dressed like one, give me, okay, one more, one more,
let me go, yeah, go to that one, yeah, here it is, just for those of you who don't ever believe me,
and for the people, this is not for satanic congregation, this is for the people who sit
there and are like, oh, I think he's making it up, this is your awakening, this is your awakening
from death, look at how it's being used, it's your recovery, you're raising your erection,
your erection, zombies in the erection of Jesus Christ, that would be the name of a band, thank
you for coming tonight, I think I'm going, no, don't leave, thank you for coming to this part,
now we're going to have Neil and I'm going to disappear into vapor, just for a little bit,
I'll be back and Neil is going to hit you with some cult stuff, Neil, thanks for waiting so
long tonight, I appreciate, I appreciate the time, I want you to freely just offer us whatever you
want to offer us, I'm going to shut up and give you that opportunity, yeah man, I want to touch
on some of the things you were touching about, about the beloved disciple and what that means,
what that meant for the Greek audience of the time period, I also want to promote
some of my work that I got coming out in the next week, a lot of things going on, a lot of projects
that I'm working on right now, so with that being said, I noticed you were rebuttling,
refuting some of these Christian online apologists who are afraid to look at their own,
their own texts in a certain light, they're afraid, they're afraid of this stuff, this is
terrifying, because what is a beloved disciple, right, what's going on, for example, what's going
on in John's Gospel, where you got this clear depiction of this young, the youngest of all of
them and he's always depicted as this young boy, hanging up on Jesus's lap, you know, it's the
beloved disciple, right, you know, there he is again, the youngest, he's always got a cup in his
hand, he's always drinking, underage drinking going on, what's that about, you know, some of these
Renaissance painters have some weird cultic shit going on with the beloved disciple, where he's
holding a cup, he's doing the Sabaezi and hand signals, he's got snakes coming out of his cups,
he's got venoms, anti-venoms, Christ, anti-Christ, so that's their beloved disciple, right,
you know, standard stuff, but what is a beloved disciple, right, what is a beloved disciple,
that's what I want to figure out, so the first thing I want to do is we're going to go to,
well, the one, the most famous beloved couple of all time, was Socrates and Alcobaites,
by the way, if you read Diogenes Laertius, Diogenes Laertius tells us that Socrates,
when he was young, when he was the age of Alcobaites, he was the beloved of Archelaus,
and then it's like, then you read the life of Archelaus, Archelaus was the beloved of
some other guy when he was younger, and there's this like beloved lover relationship going on
in the ancient Greek world, being passed down, this is the way it was back then, so, you know,
I'm not saying I approve or anything, but I'm just saying this is what the, this is the way
things were, as far as Christians being the ones to get rid of this stuff, that is completely
nonsense, because within the second and third and fourth century, the Romans, the Roman aristocracy,
the Ciceroes, the middle Platonist thinkers, the Neopathagorean thinkers, they were the ones that
were really pushing against Paterasty, whereas the Christian authors, you might find some of those,
some of those Augustine, some of those other early Christian authors, you know, acting like they're
so disgusted about the Paterasty stuff, but it's like, why is the church always the one that's
getting in the news for doing Paterasty? So, I don't know, you guys figured that out on your own,
I'm just throwing that out there, so I'm going to share this little screen real quick. You got
Socrates talking to his beloved, and he says to him, I dare say you that you may be surprised to
find, oh, son of Clinius, that I, who am your first lover, not have spoken to you for many years
when the rest of the world were wearing you with their attentions, and the last of your lovers who
will speak to you. So this is, this is his beloved, Socrates' beloved is young Alcobaites,
you know, he's one of the students of Socrates, he's sitting around, he's the young guy of the crew,
it's Plato, it's Diogenes, Cretius is there, Timaeus is there, there's a few other people there,
and there's young Alcobaites who's being trained to be the next general of the
Athenian army to fight the Persians, to fight the Spartans, and he's learning philosophy,
because that's what the Greeks do, everybody learns philosophy, especially if you got money.
Now, I want to show something else real quick, and we're going to fly through this because I got
some stuff that I want to show, but Socrates says to him, he says, the reason was that I loved you
for your own sake, whereas other men love what belongs to you, and your beauty, which is not you,
is fading away, just as your true self is beginning to bloom, and I will never desert you if you are
not spoiled and deformed by Athenian people for the danger which I most fear is that you will
become a lover of the people and will be spoiled by them. Many a noble Athenian has been ruined in
this way for the demists of the great hearted Erectheus is of fair countenance, but you should
see him naked, wherefore observe the caution which I give you. Which caution? Practice yourself,
sweet friend, in learning where you ought to know before you enter on politics, and then you will
have an antidote, which will keep you out of harm's way. And so they go, they have this little
flirty conversation, it's kind of known, this is kind of known as you read the Platonic Dialogues,
so it's kind of what Socrates does, he's kind of a flirty dude with all these other younger
boys, that's just, hey man, I'm just calling it how I see it. All right, nothing, it's just the way
it was back then. So another thing I want to show too is in Diogenes Laertius, this is the most,
this shows up so common, so often, where you will find these beloveds showing up in the text.
Um, for example, let's see where she went.
Uh, I think it's this one. Yes, so they're talking about the life of Lycan,
and it says, he says here, Diogenes Laertius is talking about the life of Lycan, and he was
exceedingly beloved by a humanist and adolescent who made him great presence, and Antigonus also
tried to seduce him to his court, but was also disappointed, and he was so great an enemy
to Hieronymus, the parapetetic, that he was the only person who would not go to see him on the
anniversary festival, which he used to celebrate, in which we mentioned in our life of Arcusalis.
And so, as you can see, the more you read these ancient texts, the more you read those lives of
these ancient philosophers, you'll see that term beloved is very specific when it's thrown out
there. It means something very specific. It's the favored disciple, and it's often a sexual
relationship. I'm not, I'm not, check, fact check me on this. When you see that word beloved
in the Greek text, it's often used for a sexual relationship for these, for that's just the way
it was. So Jesus was got this boy on his lap, and he calls him his beloved disciple.
Just, I'm just telling you the, I'm just giving you the evidence, you decide what you want to do
with it, all right? But yeah, so that's that. The other thing I wanted to discuss is the projects
I got coming out. So I got some clips that I want to play. I have a video that's about 95% done.
Now, I was going to rush it out before I went to, I'm going to Florida tomorrow.
When I go to Florida, I'm doing Matt Beal's podcast. I'm doing another round of Danny Jones.
So that's coming out soon. We're going to talk about the founding fathers. We're going to talk
about democracy. We're going to talk about the Dark Ages. We're going to talk about the Statue of
Liberty. We're going to talk about the Inaugurion society, the Star-Spangled Banner. We're going to
talk about the, the, the roots of liberalism in the West is the Christian, is doing, should we
credit Judeo Christianity for Western values? Is that really a thing? Or, or did what happen with
Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Paine and, and George Washington and all these great thinkers and the
French Liberals, you know, the French Revolution that happened almost parallel to the American
Revolution and even English liberalism on the rise. Even Germany, even Germany was, was fighting
against the status quo at the time, which was the Holy Roman Empire, which is the dead,
old bloated carcass that everyone wanted to get rid of. There was a movement and what was that
movement? What was going on? What was behind? What was the core values of that movement? And it's
ancient Greek ideals, ancient Greco-Roman. That's a good term to use because it's also Roman,
Roman Republic to be specific, not Roman Empire, Roman Republic, which is based off Greek,
Democratic, Athenian ideals. So what do we get from those? We get democracy, we get constitutional
republics, we get the rule of the people, we get art, we get tragedy, we get dramas, we get comedy,
we get festivals every month, we get the expression of the self, we get philosophy, we get science,
we get flourishing, thinking, debate, we get civilization itself, we get the images back,
painting, sculptures, all that stuff that we had. People think this was like something that happened
in the Renaissance that's never been seen before, as if Christianity was developing and
when it got to its high point in the Renaissance that gave the world all these great things.
No, read history. What happened is those things were already a part of the world. They were already
a part of the world for hundreds and hundreds of years. Going back to the Iron Age, going all the
way to antiquity, those things were already present. You already had Platonic academies,
you already had great architecture with Corinthian, beautiful Corinthian columns. You already had
temples and you already had great musicians playing different songs in Phrygian mode and
Dithy-Rambo mode and Paiyan modes and we already had festivals and you already had artistic expression
and theaters happening and people expressing themselves and living life to the fullest and
loving life and loving the world. Whereas all of a sudden the world was something to be
against and evil and the body is evil and expressing yourself the way you desire is evil.
You should express yourself in the image of Christ and so you had this fake dark world
that I call the Dark Ages. So my project is coming up. I'm going to talk to Danny Jones
about this very topic specifically about the Founding Fathers. We're going to read a bunch of
letters from the Founding Fathers like Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Payne, all that stuff. We're
getting into all that stuff and then I have a debate coming up. So that's the first project.
The second project is I have a debate coming up and that's kind of why I haven't been putting out
content. I'm trying to prep for this debate. It was supposed to happen weeks ago but I got pushed
back to the 22nd. So I'll do that when I get back. That's a debate with what if Alt-Hist?
What if Alt-Hist is a right wing? He calls himself right wing. I'm not describing him that way. I'm
not. This is not like me like talking crap. He calls himself right wing. He's a right wing
political historian. I'm using that in quotes because I don't know if I'd call him a historian.
He tries to do history. That's for sure. And we're debating. He's got 500,000 subscribers.
He's way bigger than me. He's got 500,000. We're going to debate about the Dark Ages.
Is the Dark Ages dark? And I say yes, they were. This idea that that's politically incorrect to
say Dark Ages. We're going to offend Christians. Sorry, but it was. It was the Dark Ages. So that's
the other project I got going on. Another project I got going on is Matt Beals podcast. That's three.
I'm also visiting Derek down there. We're going to do some collaborations down there,
mid-vision. And then the fifth project, which is going to come out within a day or two when I get
back. And the reason why I'm holding off on it is because I have a few more edits that I have to
do. There's a few more changes that I have to make. I want to make this video perfect. And it's
a polemic video against Dan McClellan. Right now, it's about two and a half hours long.
That's how much content, that's how much I have on refuting the stuff that Dan says.
I might trim down a lot of the fat and get it down to two hours. So I have some edits I want to do.
