All right, your mother
your mother
Give it to me
Get it to me
All that stuff is coming on our state, right? But my good friend
They are not in corporeal the demon tribe have a body and are conversant with corporeal beings
Which one may learn even from the holy fathers of our religion
If one only addict himself notice it's just himself
Hardly to magical practices
All right, where are you is a christian if you want to know
if you want to know
The control of those demons and I know there are christians today who talk about controlling demons
And what they say is absolute evidence of their complete and total ignorance
It's funny
How bad they are
Do you know what they deserve? They deserve a magical spanking. They deserve a magical spanking. Everybody concentrate
Concentrate love it. Love it
It's always, you know how you can get there first one who gets there is the incubus
The incubus always gets there the fastest, you know, you can infiltrate the mind of a person
Yeah
You can um, you just have to have the right demons to do it
It's just the physics of the universe physics of the cosmos. I'm not I'm not
Giving you anything, but what they gave us and said to us. I'm not creating a
System here. This is their system. They're operating physically with drugs sex
They're doing these rites. They're christing each other if I see one more christing. Where was that christing?
We need to see somebody spit. Give me the next one. Is there a christing? Look. Oh, no
Look the demons they have they have seed to they have seed to and you know, thank worms
Okay, just it's thank worms
Thank worms in your sleep. Do you see the worms? You'll know
Somebody has left their seed
Okay, try to
try to okay
Yeah
But some dude look uh laboring under a laconic necessity
Somebody confessed the truth for he said that he had come to the knowledge of demonical practices
Through a certain vagabond african who bringing him by night to a mountain. Isn't it fine?
They always have the same setup
Jesus is with mary and the kids. He's like, well, let's go out to a private place, right?
So here he goes up to his mouth and what does he do?
He causes him to partake of a certain herb, right?
Then he spits into his mouth and anoints his eyes with a certain ongoing look how many drugs are involved
Enabled him to see a host of demons. You know what happens when this dude does this to you you can see him
You can see him from among which he perceived a sort of raven fly towards him and down his throat into his stomach
And all the shaman in south america central and south america are like, yeah
That's how it works, right? It's nothing new. It's not new technology people. She and her confinement now
we're going to switch really quick to
Somebody who is in that space of of consuming their child. She and her confinement was very ill and raved
Okay, she's been through it, right? She's been through it. The purple has been involved. She's been through it
Um, and she's what is she doing? She's tearing her bedroom bed gown. She's muttering a sort of barbarous tongue
And so what they always do, right? Jesus on the cross is all
Well, sabak thon he starts yelling out magical gods
They're always doing that in a low murmuring torn town nor could the bystanders comprehend what she said
But we're in a state of perplexity not knowing what to do
She's in there. She's in that zone. And what happens give me the next one
Oh god
Boom
And he said some dude says I apprised the present company the fact
Okay, um, she's just one of ours. Yeah, she's just one of ours
and I want you to know
that
What's coming is somebody will be sent against us by whom the mysteries
Of our worship will be persecuted and the mysteries of our service
abolished
right
so
People keep it secret
For you to access the reality that's around you
For you to have your eyes opened
People keep that a secret because other people are always trying to shut it down
And Jesus knows this
It's why he's saying, you know, he's got 12 boys, right? It's why he's saying
Uh, they're gonna catch me they're gonna catch me and they're gonna crucify me
right
Why did he say they're gonna crucify him because that's what they do to people like him
Right. He was crucified between two other people just like him
This is how it works
And what's gonna happen here? Somebody's gonna come and they're they're gonna drive us out of town
Right, they're gonna catch us. They're gonna
Scandalize us. I don't know how many times Jesus Christ said
Don't talk about this. You're gonna scandalize me and nobody turned around and looked like
What's up with the son of god, dude? He's like hiding something
Right, of course he is because he's a son of god and those guys use drugs on children
remember
Didn't you see the last supper
Isn't it funny? You thought the last supper was this great event
This great event historically jesus and ha we have the painters who are bringing us the renaissance paintings
It's what you didn't realize it was a creepy cult right involving drugging children and sexually abusing them
You didn't realize that that is your holy feast
Right, that's why moses only so yahu's anus
Give me the next one
Give me the next one people don't like it. They don't like it. Um, look at this people just for
Proof to throw in your face. Look at this word troctase. It's from trogo
Right, and what does it mean somebody who knows?
Right somebody who knows choose
Right and you get the idea of greedy from it
Yeah, you've got to chew you got to eat you got to consume. It's like consumer
What what does that say on the first line finnish and traffickers?
finnish and traffickers
What do you think those finnishians are trafficking in besides the purple?
That's why we call them purple people
What do you think they're trafficking in kids for what?
food
Food for your desire
Now
Welcome to christing
You didn't know jesus christ was a drugged out creep. Did you now you do now you do and your eyes can't be shut
Your eyes can't be shut
Um, I want to bring you a couple last references. This one is to a work by
luchin
And luchin is right right wrote something called the dialogues of the prostitutes
And this is one of those dialogues. It's a dialogue between two prostitutes and they're talking about clients
right and
Glukera whose name means sweetie
Right, sweetie says hey
Um, you know the woman you're talking the girl you're talking about her mother
Is one of these golden mistresses who understand the the salient
songs
All right the song from thessaly
Remember this is where all the witches come from this is where all the drug knowledge comes from
This is where the plascha and roots are these are the people who originally settled down
From a horse culture to a culture that's producing
Incredible
pharmacological advances
They're all coming from here. She says don't you know this girl's mother is one of those people and she knows those songs
She knows how to draw down salini
Have you ever seen salini drawn down?
When your eyes are opened
You'll understand
The process of drawing down salini. You mean I can see things that you can't see around you
Yes, you mean I can cause things to be around you that you can't see yes
Okay
Okay, do you see why we have to be quiet about this we have to be quiet because if everybody knew about this
We'd never be able to operate
Right
Mmm. Love it. Oh, what is it? What is there anything else that I don't know? What else can she do?
All right. Now you explain this to me by night during night
In the darkness. She is able to fly
She's able to fly and what else?
This woman
Causes people to go crazy
Causes them to want to drink her drugs
These are the people who are part of the mystery that must be revealed for the antichrist to be present
If you want to understand
The antichrist you have to understand the mystery
The mystery has to be revealed and you're sitting there saying but wait a minute
Omen this has nothing to do with modern Christianity. No, it doesn't
Right. What you have left is a faith
a doctrine
Right. Same thing as Judaism same thing as Islam. You have a doctrine
You have a list to follow
Right. Notice polytheist societies don't produce faiths
For people to follow
They're inherently flexible so that your opinion you can follow different gods all you want
Right. What do you follow? Uh, big justice in here. What is it? Love that one? That one's a big
Devotee of love. You know how I'm talking about right those people
Right. Okay. Cool. Give me that one. Um, and what else? Remember Achilles?
Remember Achilles, who does Achilles end up with in the underworld? He ends up with the Medwa
There's a reason for that. What does it say here? Here? He was placed
With the virgin girls. What kind of virgin girls was he placed with you see that word?
They're the
What kind of workers? What kind of workers?
They are the purple diars
They are the purple diars
Do you know what those priestesses did? They protected and shielded Achilles
Do you know why Achilles went to Troy?
Because he was drawn by the face of Medea
Home he called Helen
Isn't that something
It's gorgeous. Okay. So, um, did we get to eat our children tonight?
Did we get to find the reason to eat our children tonight?
Are we going to follow the first oracle?
Which is earth
Which is called earth
Are we going to find?
She who writes existence
She who brings the new and strange work
Are we going to follow her?
Only if our eyes are open
Fantastic, it's been a lovely group of people tonight that we've had to deal with
and put together into a picture for you of
The mystery but like always that's our job is to bring it to you
Is to bring it to you now
I guarantee you can take that stuff to the scholars never worked with the dude from
The dude who's who's writing about the woman eating her child. I guarantee it. It's not a popular stuff
You know the Byzantine the classicists don't mess with the Byzantine stuff. Why I think it's I don't know. I don't know
It's a real weakness in classical philology. They don't extend all the way up to
guys like michael cellis
Who are bringing us the girls with the purple
Isn't that gorgeous
Isn't that gorgeous? What a right remember that thration we ran into that turned that kid into a golden new creation
By putting him to sleep and cutting off his testicles
You know why he did that that was for the kingdom of heaven and that's what they made
With each other and you know how they got there praying
to
Sabbath praying to yahoo Sabbath
That's how you get there
My god, we didn't even know our own history. It's exciting right it makes the history of actual
Judy as it makes it interesting
Right to see what the what the origins of everything were it's absolutely gorgeous and of course
This world cannot bear it and many people have been emailing me and say look
This is going to get I even had somebody off for private security
Right because this knowledge
Will crack open
Reality around you this mystery operation will blow
Completely blow up the past that you thought was there that isn't
And it'll it'll show us something more beautiful. It always does hit the actual history is way more beautiful
Okay, I'm going to call the drill sergeant out now for uh,
for almond use
Greek
