I want to watch it a couple of times. And after I watch it a couple of times, I want to decide
what needs to get cut and what should stay. So I'm not rushing it out there. It is pretty much
done. With that being said, I want to give you guys a little bit of an appetite, a little appetite
on this. So I want to play some of the clips. I'll pause it as we're going and discuss some of it.
And I want to get Amon's thoughts too. So without further ado, let's pull up, let me pull up the
video. Here it is. 1.5 million unique words. And the ancient Hebrew only has 8,000 unique words.
And he was explaining to us, he was showing us the differences. And there was like, for one word
in Greek, when you translate it to Hebrew, there's like three or four words,
just to equal that one word in Greek. So there's, so a couple of things there. One,
there's nowhere near that many Greek words. There are ancient Greek, you've got, I think,
275,000 is the estimate, more or less, of how many ancient Greek words there are. If you look at
all Greek, ancient, medieval, and modern, you've got four to 500,000. And what's that lexicon website
where we can actually look? Okay, so what's about to happen here? He just cited, oh, actually, let
me continue to play. I'll pause it a second. Thesaurus lingua greica. Yeah, okay. He just cited
this website right here. So I was like, okay, let's see what his website says. This website that Dan
himself sites, give us this 1.9 million words. Now, if we, if we had to be charitable, is he
talking about the lamata? Let me see what he's talking about. Let's go back lexicon website,
where we can actually look it up. Ancient Greek, you've got, I think, 275,000 is the estimate,
more or less, of how many ancient Greek words there are. If you look at all Greek, ancient,
medieval, and modern, you've got 400 to 500,000. And what's that lexicon website where we can
actually look it up? Thesaurus lingua. All right. So if he was, if the word, if the number he was
looking for was the lamata, then, then he's not correct because, first of all, he's off a little
bit. But even if that's what he was going for, that's not what Amon said. Amon's entire argument
was hinging on the expressiveness of Greek. So if Amon is talking about the expressiveness of
Greek, you, he's talking about unique word forms, which means Dan is being either slick here or
purse or purposely dishonest by trying to cite the lamata, which is not, it's not, if, well,
basically what happens is you have lamata, which is one word, luo, luomen, luo, luostai. That's all
one lamata. It's not three different words. But Amon's saying the way you express luo can be
expressed in 20 different ways. Those are 20 different words. That's what he was saying. He's
talking about unique word forms, which means that Dan is being dishonest. He's comparing apples to
oranges, not apples to apples. So his own source that he cited is, is, is agreeing with Amon real
quick. Let me just, I'm going to share a different screen real quick. And Amon, do you have anything
you want to say about that? Before I, yeah, talk about the 8,000, because that was the muse, the
muse came up and gave it to him on this one. She brought it out of his mouth.
She brought it out of his mouth. He was talking about himself. It was pure bachic initiation.
I love it. I'll be quiet. Go.
Another thing, if you notice, I'm going to go back to that clip and you're going to hear him say it.
He says modern, ancient, and classical, all of it. That was the number he gave. The website he
cites doesn't do that. The website that he cites is only modern. Now, this, the reason why I had
this lady on the screen right now is because she is a very famous scholar, philanthropist,
philologist. She's won a bunch of awards. Look, she's got the Greece's Order of the Phoenix Award,
Italy's Golden Askelos Award, San Diego's Women's Hall of Fame. She's a straight up like, like,
OG philologist, right? You see San Diego. The reason why I'm showing her, because she says,
this is going to be in the video too. I'll show you this when I get there. She says that there's
five to six million total Greek unique word forms, ancient, modern, classical, all together.
So where did Dan get that number from? I have no idea. I tried to find it. He's using the, he's
being kind of dishonest by citing the lemata and, but not a Greek. Amon was talking about the word
forms the entire time. That's dishonest, or he just doesn't know, which I don't think he does. I
think he has to know this stuff. He's supposedly a linguist. All right. So I'm going to go back
to that clip. We're going to continue with what, with what we're saying and you're going to hear
this. It gets even worse. It gets a lot worse. Let's see. Where did I put that video? Okay.
There it is. Here it is. Greg. Yeah. Okay. Okay. TLG. Can you find the TLG? And is there a way
you can just search for unique words in a certain language and it'll tell you?
You have to have an account. Notice how even Danny said unique words, unique words. We're talking
about a specific thing here. Okay. And I think to do the most robust kind of search with that.
But I think you should be able to do some pretty basic stuff. Okay. Let's see what you can find,
Stephen. Okay. Anyways, you can keep going. And then there are, there are 79,900 and like 45 words
in Hebrew in the Hebrew Bible alone. So 79,000. 79,000. Yeah. So I think he may have heard 80,000
somewhere. He said eight. Yeah. I think he may have mistook 84 eight because they're the Hebrew
Bible itself, which is not all of ancient Hebrew. Like there's, there was a lot of Hebrew writing
and speaking outside the Hebrew Bible. Now, as you all know, Dan was absolutely the opposite in
this, in this, on this, uh, who's correct here? Is it Dan or is it Amon? Are they both half right?
Nope. It's the opposite of what Dan just said. Amon was 100% correct here. Dan was 100% wrong
here. It was the exact opposite of what Dan made the claim. It turned out that it was 8,000.
But let's, but his mistake is worse than you think. Let me explain. I'll play the video.
The Hebrew Bible itself has 80,000 different words in it.
He gave an exact number, 79,945 words. It's funny that the next day after this interview went down,
Dan McClellan posted the following post on X. He said, yesterday I recorded a podcast
interview, whichever. Now you're going to notice that in this clip that I have right here, I'm
speeding through it because I don't want to read the whole thing, but you understand,
he makes the claim that he meant to say 80,000. He, he says what he says in this, he meant to say
something was telling me I was 80,000, but for some reason it came out the wrong way. I said 8,000.
That's not what he said. He gave, he didn't say, there was no decimal move. He gave an exact number.
Okay. That's, let's, let's listen.
Responding to the claims related to ancient Greek and Hebrew made by Dr. Amon Hillman on a previous
epistemic, ancient Greek lexicon Greek from antiquity to today. In the previous interview though,
Dr. Hillman actually in a later live stream on the claim did not come from the previous podcast
interview. It's on the claim that the ancient Hebrew had 8,000 words that I made an embarrassing
mistake. Somehow I got it in my head that the Hebrew Bible had 80,000 distinct words in it,
but that's wildly inaccurate. He never says 80,000. He gives an exact amount.
By the way, he knew, I'll talk about this in the video, this won't be in this clip,
but I'm going to tell you right now, he knew this question was coming for weeks.
Why he didn't prepare or check? I don't know, but the thing that's worse to me is not that he made
a mistake. I don't care about people making mistakes and then correcting themselves. That's
a plausible, that's plot. I applaud that kind of behavior. Hey, I was wrong. Amon was right.
So why am I even pushing this and putting this in his face? I'm not putting this in his face that
he's wrong. I'm actually discrediting him as being dishonest here because he gave an exact number
and then tried to make it seem like it was a decimal error and I knew the right thing,
but I just, for some reason, it came out wrong. I'm calling him a liar. Let's be blunt here.
I think he's lying about this. Why do I think he's lying? Because he did this to me before.
We had a back and forth on X one time and I called him out for not understanding
middle Platonism and not understanding monism or Platonism at all and not understanding the
Creator Gods and Demiurges of the time period of Paul that was the popular thing of the time
period to have one God who's in control of the cosmos, whether there's creation,
ex nihilo, does not matter. There was one God who was in control, who was the mind of the
universe, the noose. That's an idea that goes back to Plato. That's an idea that's developed
by the Stoics and the middle Platonist. By the time Paul comes around, that's status quo.
He tried to tell me that I don't know my sources. He threw five books in my face
and this is what he does here. He'll cite sources like he knows what he's doing.
Then I checked those sources and it turned out that they agreed with what I was saying,
that he's the one who didn't actually know the sources. Then what does he do? Did he
actually come along and say, hey, you know what, Neil, you're right. I'm going to change my ideas
now. I'm going to go, you know, this was a good back and forth exchange. You're correct. I'm wrong.
Sorry. Nope. He's pretending it doesn't even happen. He just acts like it never even happened.
So this is why when this came along, when I noticed this happened and he tried to make it
seem like he said 80,000 or he said 8,000 but met 80,000. No. You said 79,000. You gave an
exact number to the decimal. That's a lie. You cannot get out of this. Anyways, let's continue.
That's full of shit, my man. You did not say 80,000. You said 79,945.
And then there are 79,900 on it, like 45 words in the Hebrew Bible alone.
79,000?
Think about this for a second. Let's think about this. Use your head for a second.
Simple IQ here. He gave a number of 79,945, which means he purposely gave five decimals
with 79. He didn't say there's 80,000 and then go, oh, whoa, I met 8,000. I was off by a decimal,
which is what he claims in his ex-post. That's not what happened. That is pure dishonesty on his
part. 100%. If you can't see that, I don't know what to tell you.
Yeah. So I think he may have heard 80,000 somewhere and he said 8. Yeah. I think he may have mistook
84. Actually, you're the one that mistook 8 for 80.
He's looking into the mirror, right? He mistook. No, I knew what it was. You're the one
who's undergoing the initiation. Oh, I love it. It's gorgeous.
Watch how I zoom into his face when he says that.
9,000? 79,000. Yeah. So I think he may have heard 80,000 somewhere.
And he said 8. Yeah. I think he may have mistook 80,48 because they're...
Look at that smug look. You're the one that mistook it. And it's not even... I'm not even giving you
the benefit of the doubt of mistaking it now because you could have just came on X and said,
you know what? I'm wrong. I didn't even realize how much more... I'm almost correct here.
The Greek is a lot more expressive. There's a lot more words. There's a lot more word forms.
Hebrew actually has a lot less words than I thought. I thought it was 80,000.
I thought it was 79,000. It turned out to be 8,000. But instead, he had to pretend that he still has
control, that he still knows what he's doing. He had to create an illusion that I was correct
and I knew it the whole time, but I just made a little error. That, to me, is dishonesty.
That's worse than being wrong. Being wrong is not a big deal. I don't care. I'm wrong about
shit all the time. It's about, oh, hey, shit. I was proven wrong. Cool. I learned something today.
But no, you couldn't even... You couldn't even humble yourself. You're that proud in your PhD
that you couldn't be wrong. You had to be correct still. You couldn't just admit that you were wrong.
Anyways, that pissed me off. That's why I'm showing this today. There's more, though. And this is going
to be a two and a half hour video. I'm going to trim it down. Right now, I'm at two and a half hours.
This is the whole video is like this. You gave an exact number. This is not getting a decimal
wrong. This is claiming something, finding out that you're wrong, and then trying to backpedal
and say, no, I knew it the whole time. 45 words in Hebrew in the Hebrew Bible alone.
But you made a claim and your honesty is on the line now. This is this. You see Greek in the
synagogues. No. Go ahead. So Phaosabaya is what this guy Job has. And I want you to see that this
is that Saba, internal concept of Phaosabaya or Saba. Synagogue inscriptions were somebody, and God
Fear was a title that was used in the Hellenistic Jewish world to refer to somebody who was a Greek
or a Roman, was not Jewish, but supported the Jewish community. So it was like, he's a friend of the
Jews. He's a God Fear. That's not the only time that word is used. That word is used way before
the Septuagint or Hebrew Bible even existed for pretty much anyone who's religious in any way.
That was used in the Hellenistic Jewish world to refer to somebody who was a Greek or a Roman,
was not Jewish, but supported the Jewish community. And maybe some New Testament who has never came
up with that. And this is that. And it only means that. And sorry about that. I was trying to skip
ahead. That it's not important. You'll see these parts when I jump the video. And by the way,
this is blurry because I did a screen recording just so I could have it easily for this video.
Certain context. Even here, I will admit, that's what it means. But I'm just wanting people to
realize he's making a claim, a broad claim about the definition of a word with a very narrow scope
on where the word comes from. Here's Herodotus in the mid fifth century BCE, using that exact word.
Or perhaps he heard that Groesis was pious and put him at the top of the fire to find out.
And so you have, like, funerary inscriptions where on somebody's headstone, it says,
this is Dave, Godfair. So that just meant he was a friend of the Jewish people.
Now, the big thing that I'm going to drill home here, and which I do, and I have some
more edits that I have to do here. He's talking about the passage. Amon made a claim that this
word has a meaning in Greek. It has an etymology, this word, Theos and Sebes.
Dan tried to say that Amon was wrong about this etymology, and he wasn't. Amon is actually correct,
that this word, when you look up the history of the word, it's, it usually just means pious,
devotion, religious. That word Saba is where you get the word Augustus from in Latin. The Greek
version of Augustus is Sabastos. So the August, the August one, the revered one, that's what
this word means. Now, watch what Dan tries to say about this word. He only looks at it through his
Judeo-Christian scope, because he only knows the Hebrew Bible and nothing else. He has no training
in classics at all. You can just tell. Watch. Actually, no. If you found, if you find a random
tombstone of a guy named Dave who was religious, let me just repeat what he says right here. This
is important to find out. And so you have, like, funerary inscriptions where on somebody's headstone,
it says, this is Dave, God-fearer. So that was, that just meant he was a friend of the Jewish
people. Theosubase. Actually, no. If you found, if you find a random tombstone of a guy named Dave
who was a God-fearer, you can't just conclude that he's a friend of the Jews. He could have been a
God-fear of another God. You have to find out, is this in a Jewish cemetery? Is this a Christian
cemetery? You have to find out the con... This synagogue was built thanks to the help of so-and-so
Theosubase, the God-fearer. So that's with Jews or Christians. By the way, I found an example of a
synagogue in Greece built by God-fearers who worship Theos... Theos-hypsistos, God Most High.
For a long time, they thought it was this Jewish synagogue, a Hellenistic Jewish synagogue. It
turns out that recently, scholars and archaeologists have said, we don't, we, this might not even be
Jewish. It might just be a Hypsisterian Greek monist synagogue, because there are synagogues
in the Greek world that doesn't necessarily have to be Jewish. And so the idea that you would find
a tombstone in somewhere laying anywhere, Greece, whatever, and it's a tombstone of a God-fear,
worshiping God Most High, it does not necessarily mean he's a friend of the Jews. I have examples
of that that I'm going to show in the video. There's that word, Theosubase, in the female
genitive form. And it means, if they say that Athens is most vowed towards the gods, once again,
devotion to the gods, having nothing to do with Jews or Christians, or friendly to the Jews,
once again. And Plato's credulous, he uses the same word. Agathu haithaeosubus asabis genitai,
through the mouth of Socrates, which is, a person who is good and pious becomes impious,
false. The sacred Jews, here's another example from Aristophanes' birds,
Theosubase, Ucyon, Epiboon. It is imperative that I sing another sacred chant for the
... By the way, there's that word Ucyon again, too. So it's Dionysian to the core.
This word has Dionysian roots. It's about devotion to the gods and being inspired by the
gods. It's Saba, it's Saba Zeus, baby. And it is Bacchus. You don't understand? This is ...
It's got Bacchic roots to it. You're absolutely right.
Mainline Bacchic. This is Saba Zeus. This is the reason why I mind about this video,
because he's so in a different world than you, that what you're saying went right over his head,
is if I've never heard that before, so it must be wrong. They just assume you're wrong because
they've never heard that before. Because in Bible scholarship land, they don't look at Theosubase
in its original context that you find in Plato, Aristophanes. What else did I cite here?
Yeah, Sophocles, Aristophanes, Plato, Herodotus. I keep going, too. I give a whole bunch of examples.
It's the frenzy worship of a god. It's being inspired by God through this mania. That's the
context that is used in that word, Ocean, right next to it, the holy ones, the Saba. Saba Zeus.
That's what the word comes from. You get Sostes. You get Saba Zeus from there. It's all there,
so let's continue. Can I just ask before you continue, which is lovely. I love this. Did you
doubt me along the way when I was saying this? It may have sounded crazy. I did it first, absolutely.
