That he's giving him a notice that he says it's the sting in my flesh
in my flash
You can't stand it. Can you come here timothy?
Come here timothy
Lydia give me some boys says paul
Nasty paul the apostle nasty bad guy hit the next one boom
What is this oyster boleo? Oh, look you can strike something with the sting. What is it used of of the darts?
of love
Oyster boleo now think about this. How difficult would it be in english?
To come up with one word
That was a striking stinging dart fired from the god of love
You're not gonna you're not gonna get that you're not gonna get that in english
No, you're not anglo-saxons. Don't think like that
Yeah
Right marching through the bogs, baby
Go back to your bogs
Hey, by the way, um
I wanted to just throw out there really quick. There is a really great
project that's being done
By a guy who goes by the name alt boy
A u l d b o y
And he went to see the purple that they just found in england, right and everybody's
Right, here's purple. There's more coming right. There's more prophecy coming. Um, and
He's making excellent videos that are historically grounded and
The reason I mentioned this at almond u is because he has gone through the intensive greek course
Yes
Yeah, now he's at the intermediate level and he's reading
Yeah, he's reading and he will tell you oh god greek. It's so mammoth. It's so huge
Right the more you the more you talk to somebody who said more and more greek the more respect they have for the language
It is it is endless like this. We're talking about we're dealing with one route tonight. Can you believe that?
Oh god hit us with the next one chewie
Hit us with the next one. Oystradenetic
Driven round and round by the gadfly. Do you feel do you feel people like sometimes you got oyster your oyster genetic?
When I think about that word
How we're gonna do that in english?
my brain is
It's out of the influence. You see it does it all matters as you're being
Grown as a child it all matters. What language you're speaking it matters
Yeah, look what they got to with mother greek. Look what they got to all of your science
God
Driven round and round by the gadfly. Give me the next one. I want to keep hitting this. Look
Now people do you see what's happening?
Now we're taking multiple routes and we're putting them together here
You see the sigmatal row route because you're killing
You're killing all the vowels and then you see the fero root
And what is that? That's the bearing route the verb to bear or to carry is fero
So what is it when you carry the oysters? You are maddening
You know what lover?
You carry the oysters. Who is it? Does it say here at the bottom? Look at this name right under here people
People are just learning greek sound this out. This is p alpha fi yoda eta
pa
Pafie notice the accents on the yoda pa fie
Now who is pa fie?
That's pa fie and aphrodite
Wait a minute. The maddening goddess is
Aphrodite
What?
What do you think we've been doing here? It's bokeh. Can we're I'm leading you to aphrodite?
That is exactly what the bokeh cult does. They even had an expression for it ace aphrodite
Straight up to aphrodite
Love it
Oh, you see it's uranian. You didn't realize all of this coat was uranian. Did you?
Did you they had a contest on thera? Who was more beautiful?
Medea or
um, killie's mother
And those idiots said it was killie's mother and that's how we know that all cretins are liars
Right because everybody knew that was not the answer
Yeah, yeah, you had to be there right and then thera blew up
I don't know what happened
Let's go to the next one
ice
What is this oyster guinettor?
What is that? It is a creator
Of frenzy and who is this remember all of this is coming from that bite of the christ
That gadfly
We are in that situation of christing. We have that sting
We have that sting the doctors say you put it right in your eyes
And who is bringing it? It's eros, baby. It's eros. Of course it is. Who's the god of the mysteries?
right eros
You didn't realize that ero
Oh
Remember he's got wings
Have you ever seen the devil fly?
Have you ever seen the devil fly?
He flies on golden wings
Oh
Isn't that amazing you didn't realize that eros and
Oh, man, you see now if we had that sect that epiphanious
Calls the satanists and if you don't believe me go read epiphanious
If we had that sect of satanists around you'd see
The exact overlap between eros
and lucifer
Who is that most handsome?
You know who that is. It's the guy who scrapes his armpits and gives it to the eowa
To the eve zoe life, baby
Scrapes his armpits. Yeah, I don't know. It's got something
It's got something in it. He draws they called it. Love it. Let's go to the next one
Quickly here oistramania. Here finally here it is. Dan McClellan. That's for you. Look it up figure it out go
Go to the next one oistramania. Now watch this people. I'm gonna I'm I'm just by using the words
Right. I'm the bases what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna explain to you. I'm gonna open up a passage of the bible
That has never been opened before
Dan McClellan can look at this
and
Be humbled
Be humbled watch this people. This is the power of classical philology, baby
Oistramania, what is the plan route the p lambda new route?
um
That is the wandering route
We get planetase
We get wandering planets. You know what the planets are. They're wanderers. They didn't call them planets
You and I call them planets when you see
Venus you thank to yourself
Planet you don't thank wanderer and I need you to go deep now go back to the original wandering oistras
Wandering mania causing the wanderings of
Madness
Are you ready?
Are you ready to see how it's in the bible hit it hit it? I know we're gonna get to the book and just tag it
Agria
What's happening? What is this saying?
It says there are some dudes
Right, and this is the problem jude's been talking about some dudes that are infiltrating
