It wasn't actually happening because the New Testament authors themselves say it was
happening.
Have you ever sat on the throne of Satan?
You know, there's a mystery of iniquity and it's already at work.
That's what they said.
That's what they said.
You want to see the mystery of iniquity?
You want to see the Christ?
Let me show you.
Give it to me.
Give it to me.
Give it to me.
Give it to me.
The next one.
What's one of the things?
Okay.
We're getting ready.
Jesus is getting ready to go into his death cult and he's going to be put into death.
What's one of the tools they got around them?
Look at that third word, the alabastron.
Right, the alabastron.
And what is that?
It's a very well known tool.
It's in antiquity.
It's a dildo that carries the mooron or the combination of the oils and botanicals that
are used in sex rights.
And by rights, I don't just mean at your local church or your synagogue or your temple.
I don't mean those kind of sex rights.
I mean the ones that you do in the bedroom.
The Greeks have been using this for a long time.
As you know, you get oiled up with the aphrodisiac first and it's conveniently shaped so that
it can be applied and they rub it.
Why do they rub it?
They remove the oil and they rub it, which the Christians always translate as break.
Right?
Like you got the perfume.
Bam!
I got to get into the perfume.
Well, what do you mean?
I got to break it open to get into it.
That's how they picture it.
That's how they translate it.
Like Jesus sitting there, Mary Magdalene's got this vial that she can't open.
So he's like, bam!
And then what the hell?
The ointment's all over the place.
You idiot!
Go to Aristophanes.
You can see how it's used.
It's amazing.
So Jesus has already had his alabastron.
And why did Mary give him the alabastron?
It's drugs, people.
Look at the next one.
Look at the next one.
And by the way, it pissed people off and they said, Jesus said, what's this?
You got some kind of grief.
You got some kind of beef with the lady.
He's talking to his students.
You got, because they're like, ah!
You got some kind of beef with her?
Give it to me.
Why'd she do this?
People.
Now I'm going to read the Bible for you for the first time.
You evangelicals, here it comes.
I'm going to read it to you for the first time.
She took that myrrh, right?
And what happened?
He says, she put it all over my body for the sake of what?
For the sake of intathiasis.
In order to put me in to the death state, he's already started the mystery ritual of
Pascha, okay?
He's got the drugs on board.
At this point, he is being Christed.
Are you the Christ?
You notice that?
It's in the Gospels.
They don't ask, are you the Messiah?
Because that is fake, they ask in the Greek.
Are you the Christ?
Yeah.
The whole Messiah narrative is later and it's fake.
It is a rabbinical bastardization and de-legitimization of the Greek texts that are the Torah.
Yes, and it's all in the language, it's all in the language, people.
We had it the whole time.
What the hell?
What the hell?
It's because things happen.
If you ever talk to the Oracle, you'll find out that things happen chronologically and
that they can be engineered, some things to be covered up and some things to be revealed.
What are we doing now?
We are revealing that beast.
We are bringing that right back to you, which is exactly what our Byzantine monk said.
We're bringing the Antichrist.
The antidote.
The antidote for Jesus, isn't that weird?
The antidote for Jesus is seeing what's actually going on.
Okay, it feels good, doesn't it?
With the anthropology, every time you get one of these sources and you're like, oh God,
you're in rhythm and you're like, oh, you're right there, just keep going.
Just keep going.
You know, you speed up a little bit.
Just keep going.
When you're reading these sources and it's feeding you, it's feeding you, oh, God, you
can taste these scrolls, that's it, that's it, give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
What can we glean out of this one?
You know, it's a late at night, remember, when Jesus is reclining with his 12 students.
Now I taught for many years, for many years out in wood and stone, and I never once reclined
with my friggin' students late at night washing feet naked.
Not once, but you know, that's what the cult stuff does, baby, and you understand why the
Romans are trying to put this stuff out.
Now the guy in the clip said, it was the Christians, look, he said, can you believe, listen to
his fake world that he wanted you to buy?
Just for a minute, oh, those Athenians, everybody knows about those Athenians.
You know what I mean?
He doesn't even realize that that was what the Athenians said about the Spartans, right?
Because this guy is not, he's a phony, he's a pseudo-profit, and he is a phony, and he's
getting burned, he's getting burned.
Just like other people are getting burned that Neil is going to bring you tonight, special
burning.
Oh, I love it, I love it, hell Satan, give me the next one, give me the next one, what's
going on, we're eating, right, what, oh God, what does he say to him, hey, look, he says
amen.
Yeah, speak my word, just put my name on your tongue, put my name on your tongue, you crucified
moron.
You know what that is, people, that amen at the end of the first line, you say, oh, I
know, it's amen, brother.
No, it's a magic phrase, it invokes power, Jesus, master of the fucking demons, oh, excuse
me, yeah, excuse me, get that one, okay, Blair, it's gone, Jesus, YouTube, shh, I think, I've
heard other people say it once or twice, that's all we'll say it, look at the, amen.
What am I saying to you, someone's gonna, now remember, you got 12 kids from like, 10
to 12 age, up to like 16, 70, 18 age, you got them there with you, and you've been giving
them drugs, oh wait, I'm gonna show you where he gives them the drugs, and he says, what's
he saying, amen, amen, he's performing magic, brother, and what's he gonna say, he's telling
them the future, this is what stoned magic I do, now this one is doing it with the boys,
okay, finally, did we catch up, I felt it, just click, did you just feel it click right
there, just feel it click, I know some of you are like, oh, I already had it click, right,
just be happy, you gotta click another time, you can get clicks all over the place, that's
what life's all about, get clicked, love it, you know that's why they want it, they want
it chewy, they want it, I know you do, give it to me, give it to me, what happens, right
away when he says this, the kids all get upset, right, and they all start saying, look it's
not me, it's not me, right, it's not me, why, he's told him, somebody's gonna betray me,
right, it's not me, so watch what he does masterfully as they're under, coming under the influence,
he says it's the one who's going to baptize his hand with me in the bull,
that's a literal translation, and when I say baptize, I mean die,
that bull contains psychotropic die, and he forces Judas to enter the right with that little bit
of poison, that little bit of poison, do you know what the magic I do, and why we're so afraid of
them, they're able to control your mind, they're able to control your mind, do you know those voices,
you know those voices, yeah, do you know they're a dimonase, they're a dimonase that can whisper
in your ears, yeah, they're a dimonase, the magus is the one who controls this manipulation,
that's the magus, it's why it's unnatural, ultimately they consider it unnatural, right,
but that's how the Christ must be, right, what did the devil say, he said he's coming,
you know what all Betty's going to do, I bet this god, this tyrant god is so bad,
I bet he kills his only son, yeah, look at the devil, pure prophecy, do you understand why the
devil is in the void, are we still up, Joey, we got, oh sorry, bang on the walls, maybe it'll come
back up, okay good, the devil, do you understand now, do you understand that place that we have to
go to, yeah, we have to look into the mirror, we have to look into the mirror, and Jesus is with
his boys and they're all going to go through this, he's taking them, you realize he's with these 12
boys that he just took his clothes off and every one of them saw his hoo-ha, every one of them,
because he was washing their feet and he used his underwear to wipe off their feet, now don't
think that's too strange for a magus, because they do stuff like that, they're all like,
on your sweat and stuff, yeah no seriously, seriously guys, seriously, you're looking sweat,
yeah, I don't know Jesus, I don't know, boy sweat, I don't think I'm gonna go there, I think that's
where I'm drawing the friggin line, at least we can be here and watch him do his thing,
give me the next one, give me the next one, so what happens, oh god, are you ready,
room, 12 children, Jesus is always very, as already very inappropriately undressed himself in front of
the kids, tied a little rag around his waist and washed their feedy-weedies
and then dried them with a towel, he's already done that, now what's happening,
he takes a cup, uh-oh, stop, stop, what happens, he blesses the cup and he gives it to them,
saying everybody drinks,
yeah, okay, now just for the record, just for the record, the 12 that he takes there,
three of them couldn't even stay awake,
couldn't even stay awake, says their eyes were heavy, do you know why their eyes were so
friggin heavy, I mean I don't know about you, but if I'm standing in a public park at 4 a.m,
there's no way I'm just gonna fall asleep, okay, no way I'm gonna fall asleep, by the way you know
they weren't the only ones in the park, right, we're gonna see the zombies that are doing the same
thing, oh god, you're gonna love it, it's the real, okay, tonight I have to be honest with everybody,
the real novelty tonight, the real novelty is the zombie, oh god, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry,
okay, but it's gotta come out this way, it's gotta come out, give me the next one please,
please, and what happened, oh okay, now look, now he gives them instructions, by the way,
he just gave them the cup with the drug that's gonna narcotize them, right, and he gets them
up, he gathers them up, right, and he says to them as he's taking them to the garden, right,
he's taking them to the garden of Gethsemane where he gets arrested, right, and what does he,
what does he tell, he says look after I come back, right, I'll go before you do to back to Galilee,
so that they could know where to come up, you mean Jesus Christ is telling people
he's going to enter into death and he's gonna come back, and when he comes back he says I'll
meet you in Galilee, okay,
what does your fairy tale say about this, it says Jesus is talking about his resurrection,
do you know how many resurrections there are, they're all over the place, and tonight I'm
gonna resurrect the zombies for you, they're all over the place, coming out of the tombs,
coming out of the tombs, people all groggy and bandaged, come on, oh god, it's okay, it's okay,
it's another one, right, oh that one's Odead says, says the dude about the young girl,
she's Odead, yeah, get her Jesus, Galbra, right, so Jesus says after I come out of it,
meet me in Galilee, give me the next one, and what happens, so Jesus gathers them all up,
and this is what this says, they're going out to the garden, right, they're going out to that
little mount, it's not a big mount, it's a hill, right, it's a little bit, you know, it's okay,
but it's not like, you know, Everest, they go out to that little hill and it's the place of
olives, and what do they do while they're on their way, they're hemming, they're hemming,
who hems at the time, the mystery religions, you don't you hear those people at sunrise,
they do it all the time, you can hear them at 2 a.m. if you get close to them, yeah,
what are they doing out there, Jesus is taking his boys out to that secluded place,
and they're singing religious hymns, what do you think they're singing, marching out there,
