Historiography the very idea now, that's a pretty good word for the SATs, you know, I mean, that's a pretty good one
That's not one that everybody uses today and a lot of these Greek words that you're going to come across
That the Anglo-Saxon tongue has managed to to hijack
Um
Those concepts you're gonna notice they're kind of it a you know, it's a kind of it an elevated level technically
Right, what is historiography? Hmm?
Yes
Yes, I love it love it and what else do we have what else do we have here at the bottom?
Yeah, he's story on what is a historian. That's a fact, baby
That's a fact. It's an incident. It's reality and occurrence
Really? Oh
That's what we remind going now. Give me give me some of the English
I'm sorry. Give me the next one. Here's the verb people that we're looking for and I want you to say it since you're learning the Greek
Spell it out for me Yoda Sigma Tau Omicron
Epsilon Omega
He stole that oh and you realize by the way, you realize it 730 people. This is the biggest friggin Greek class on the planet
It's the biggest ancient Greek class on the planet and for those of you because there's been so many orders for the Greek
Put off for a long time. You can't get these things for a long time. There are avenues. I
Want you to mingle with the community the satanic congregation and I want you to find out
How it's possible for you to for you to be able to learn this ancient Greek with without
Without the privilege of money
Yeah, I want you to find it. I know there are those of you who are looking
Keep looking
Right good fantastic. He stole reo. How do we say it? He stole reo
And funny thing is the joke's on all of us because you're never going to see this form because that those last two vowels are going to get
subsumed into one they're going to get that omega is going to suck that epsilon in
Greek vowels ancient Greek vowels are tuners
They're tuners and some of them have different powers
And that omega is the ultimate black hole. It will suck in whatever
Whatever whatever value you want to put in there
Lovely, here's the verb that it comes from right. Give me the next one
Now what happens you say well, this looks like a totally different word
Nope, it's not
What is this oystras?
Excuse me oystras
Where did he say estrus? Yes, I did
This is where we get estrus from
But I want you to notice
Kill the vowels and that terminal sigma
That terminal sigma is just dressing. It's part of the it's part of the
declension
Right, it's the part of the it's just telling you what case it is. This is syntax. We're dealing with baby
We're going to get into syntax and I'll tell you what it is
But it's just dressing for the what it's doing in the sentence. It's just telling you hey
I'm going to be the subjects in the sentence, right?
Um, so it's not part of the root. What happens when you kill the vowels you get sigma tau row
Wait a minute. You mean if I modify that front vowel that I can change the word
You're starting to get it. You're starting to get it. You see how they play
You see how they play this is music. This is freaking music
Oxford just did a great bit on
Reclaiming the owls
That musical instrument read instrument. Um, they did a fantastic job with
Notation of music. Oh god those nerds. They're classicists, right? This is the kind of stuff that
Advances the study that advances our understanding of history
Theology doesn't do that theology is not meant to do that
There is no inquiry in theology. You are not meant to ask a question
Right hints. Hail Satan
Fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Boom. Oy straw. Oh, look here's another one now. You can slightly tune it
slightly tune it with from the alpha to the epsilon
And what's going to happen? It's gonna slightly change its meaning
Yeah, now people in different regions. We use different vowels
Have a propensity of different vowels
Okay, fine. Um, you've got to find the register. You've got to find the place
Where that word is anchored
And that place is that root
Sigma tau row keep thinking sigma tau row another word
This is just you don't have to memorize any of this. I just want you to follow
Everybody should be following the greek when it's individual words. I'm going to give you a giant definition here now
Are you ready? I want you to see this
Oy straw. Oh the former and plural. Okay, fine. You don't have to give us all the look and they give us the beautiful ones in theochritus
Oh god, look at the oy streisa
What does it mean?
Properly of the gad flight the oysters
It's to sting
To sting look at definition number two roman numeral number two to go mad
And to rage it's used of io raging. That's where we get our concept of estrus
frenzy
Frenzy is this a sexual frenzy? Yes, it is
Yes, it is
Okay, hit me with the next one
Keep them in the zone. Watch this people
Um, this is the argument
Okay, so let me let me step back having just seen what we're doing
What we're working with word bases and we're following words through time
We're following definitions though, right? I've got some ancient definitions for those that i'm going to bring up
Um, look what happens here. What have I got here? I've got the
Verb now that the word christ is based in
This is the base of christ and christing. What does it do?
Rio now i told you it's to be stung
By that gadfly and everybody says oh the the biblical scholar dan mclellan steps up
And what is his refutation of that his refutation is oh look he picks the bottom
He picks the bottom definition, you know what he didn't read
Dan you didn't read anything between the top and the bottom and that is not an academic
You see that's not scientific because you picked the bottom one. What are you talking about?
Do you know how to read these definitions dan?
You don't
They are marked with the greek interior to the definition so that you can follow the word as it develops
Something victorian classical philologists gave us that biblical scholars do not learn
Are you ready put your greek where your mouth is
Put it up there
Blow it up. I want you to look look at number
um at the end of the first paragraph
To touch the surface of the body
It's this really a thing about
contact
It's about application. Look at definition roman numeral number one to rob anoint with
Scented anguents is oil
Oh
Okay, so you're getting the idea
application some kind of
Anguents or our anguents drugs. Yes in antiquity. Anguents or pharmaca
Okay, anything to affect your balance is going to affect the physiological balance according to the doctors
It's going to be a drug and look at the third line under roman numeral number one
To at the end of it to rub or in fact with poison
And they're talking about a peplos there
They're talking about a a piece of fabric, right? They're talking about a
address
But um some kind of clothing into which you have impregnated you have rio'd
Something do we have examples of all of these taking of poisons and putting them into clothing?
Yes, a very good example is heracles
Remember he's the one who puts on the shirt. It's full of the poison
