Yeah, it becomes annoying after a while, but if you want to be an investigator, you have a certain professional standard to uphold
Right, okay fantastic fantastic. Let's go to the uh, the first of our
Venture tonight. I just wanted you guys to see this one more time
Just so we can put this baby to rest seven thousand words
Look the head of the language academy at heber university who sets the standards for modern heber
Says ancient heber's only got seven thousand words. Okay
fine
So the disparity between seven thousand and one million seven hundred and seventy thousand
That's what we need to remember and focus on as we're learning
Go give me the next one. Here's the passage. We're gonna begin with tonight people. It's that passage from revelation
I'm just gonna translate it up and I counsel you
To go to the marketplace and pick yourself up gold
It's been purified in the fire so you may be rich and while you're there pick up a white gown
Throw it upon your nakedness
And what else you ought to buy a chalyrian
And in christ your eyes in order that you may see
That's the text
That's the medicine
It's not separate
The medicine and the religion
are the same
salvation
Is a medical term
Now now let's go to that party. I promise you we would go to give me the next one. Give me the next one. Let's go to the party
Here's the in christing. Here's the in christing everybody since it's on and you focus
Look at the third fourth and fifth letters. That's from rio the verb rio
It's the root rio
For that stinging the stuff you're putting in your eyes. We're at the right
And you know the first thing they're doing to you they made you drink something and to be honest
It's calming you down, but now they're putting stuff in your eyes and it burns like hell
Give me the next one. It burns like hell
And it's purple watch this people watch this
We've seen the anointing
As in the application of the drug. Look at the term that's under number two. You still get in the rio
You still get the element of the stinging
The stinging what kind of stinging do you want us to have almond?
Look at the end of that first line after pass. It says
It says yos ingrease
Yos ingrease
What are you doing?
You're christing yourself with poison and that word for poison yos that also is the word for arrow
Because they're putting the poison
on their arrow and
It's also the word
for snake venom
Snake venom fantastic
Fantastic. Oh, don't you love it now. Look at the very bottom word in the middle of that. It says kentron
That's the thorn baby and when paul paul is doing his thing. Where's paul? Let's get high with paul bring him in bring him in
Yep, there we are. Oh god. I forgot. I forgot god
I forgot god these couple of verses people
I want you to understand because it sounds like i'm crazy when I say something like
The bible was originally written all in greek
The the septuagen is the oldest form of the text that any hebra copies that came later like starting the first
Those copies are copies. Those are not originals
Those are copies from the greek a failed and terrible and pathetic attempts translate
A language that had become a monstrous beauty
A language that had become a monstrous beauty
Oh god
And what did this language say when it was
being used
To compose the book of ezekiel
It said look
I'm god
And i'm not going to send you to any group of people who has that complicated
Multivocabulary language that you don't understand
Israel
Okay
God himself
Has a thing
about his own
child's
language
Everybody knows god is witnessing
Hebrew
Is not
The technically savvy language the greek is
Straight up
Okay, god's language
huh
Yeah, apollo's language
Do you want to see galen's public demonstrations? That's what we're doing if people are like hey
What are you doing getting into?
Getting into the arena with people like dan mcclellan
And what's his name kip?
Get and with kip over on the dead sea scroll side. What are you doing getting into it? Listen galen
Was an educated physician who went to
Pergamum to get his education and he traveled traveled all over the place ended up in rome
And you know what he did he challenged the greatest minds
In medicine of his day
And he challenged them to public debates
And he wiped the floor with them
And in wiping the floor with these orthodox idiots
He brought the new science
And he changed medicine in a way that it would stay changed
for centuries
Oh
God and where did he get there he got there because he challenged knuckleheads
Who pretended to know something and galen's always like those friggin charlatans
those people
You and your sect
You ought to read hypocrite sometimes you morons
That's what galen was. He's doing all over the place. Anyway, he became the head physician and gave marcus aurelius
His compound theriac right that same thing that jesus was taken when he was arrested in a public park
With a naked kid
At 4 a.m mark 1451 and 52
Let's let's make sure we get to paul because it's gonna get dirty
Wow, yes
Absorb that image
Oh, love it love it. Thank you chewie for the images by the way. So quite let's know this one
Boom boom
Okay, people, what do I want to bring you? What do I want to bring you? I want to bring you one more christing
And this is a christing that is taking place
In our one of our oldest recorded
Oracles
Yeah, one of our oldest this is medea working and what does it say?
It says she is
drugging them
with that
pain
reducing
Antidote
And she's giving it to them to christ themselves with do you see the second word in the second line?
yes, thy
Okay
Okay
All right. Give me the next one. I want to show you a couple of things boom. Why is that important?
Watch this people listen to this verb. This is far macaw
Right and what does it mean to suffer the effects of drugs or charms?
Suffer the effects of drugs or charms
Usually the sex drugs are the ones they're talking about when the victorians translated as charms
Charms make things
excitable
Are you charmed look at number two require a remedy
So wait a minute you mean it means the action of suffering the effects of a drug
also means
