forth from the lake of memory, guardians pass above, they will surely ask you with their crowded
thoughts, for what reason do you seek darkness of dank Hades? And you say, I am the child of
earth and starry Aranos, Gaia and Urnos. And when you say that, it tells them that you're part of
moustai, the mystery, you're part, you're an initiate and you're a bakoi. Okay, so in order to be
resurrected, in order to take part in the resurrection, you have to drink the kaikion,
it says it right there, they'll give you the drink of lake of memory. When you drink, you will
travel a road, the sacred road, which other famous initiates, moustai, same root of the word mystery,
mystery of Christ, all that, and you're a bakoi. So to take part in an eternal life, you have to
know this, check this out. The other side says this, it's dedicated to Dionysus the releaser,
and it's cut in the shape of ivy leaves, Dionysus Lucius, and it says, now you died and now you
were born, thrice blessed one on this day, that's about Dionysus, he's the thrice blessed one,
Telferesphona, the bakik one himself has released you, a bowl, there's the sacrifice,
so right here, we just knocked off two of Dan's that he didn't know, that he's a sacrifice,
and that he has a resurrection, the bowl, as a bowl, you leaped into milk, that's the image of
the sacrifice, suddenly you leaped into the milk, a ram, you fell into the milk, you shall have wine
as your blessed honor, there is the wine as representing bakis, and ritual celebrations
await you under the earth, and all other blessed ones too. Now this is clear, any classes will
know this, that Dionysus is all about resurrection, Diodorus of Sicily tells us stories about the
resurrection of Dionysus as a child being torn apart, this is predates Christianity by decades,
but being torn apart as a child, and then coming back to life as immortal, as a son of immortal,
Semile, Semile is his second birth, Persephone is his first birth, he has two mothers, that's a
resurrection, so you can, there's no way around that, you just, he just does not know what he's
doing, and I think if you, if you want, if he was smart, he would stick to the Hebrew Bible,
stick to what you're good at, and leave classics the hell alone, because you're just embarrassing
yourself, and I'm not, this is just a, this is just one percent of what's happening now, this is just
a touch coming up. Oh God, oh God, that was so satisfying, I don't know if it was your intention
to take me to that climax, but that was absolutely fantastic, I don't know about
satanic congregation, but okay, this type of feeding is something that you vampires have
got to have, right, you've just got to have this, look at it, oh God, it's, it's so elegant, right,
and it's just, I got something to say about that, if you, if you, when you hear a so-called academic
say something about a topic that you're, that you're deeply interested in, something that you
study on your own, I don't know, maybe you're a fan of Plutarch, let's say you're, you love Plutarch's
lives, and you've read the life of Antony, you've read the life of Demetrius, you've read the life
of Lycurgus and Solon, and you love these lies that Plutarch writes, and then some, some fresh
PhD comes out, they just got their PhD a couple years ago, right, and then you hear him speaking
on this subject, and you go, oh cool, an expert about talking about the subject that I love,
let's hear what they say, if something they say doesn't piss you off, then you don't have gnosis,
it should, you should be able to, you should be able to hear something that someone else is saying,
and it should piss you off if you disagree with it. It's a, it's a code of honor,
it's a code of honor, and Heracles had it, and classical philologists have it, and they can hear
when something is off, and you are not representing those sources faithfully, so yeah, I love that,
I absolutely love it, what a meal, what a delicious meal, what I would like to know
is, if you're gonna say anything about Dionysus, and you don't understand that it was the Athana
that preserved that heart of Dionysus when he was sacrificed, if you don't understand that,
brah, you got no ears to hear, that was going on way, way long time ago, and that visit to the
underworld, the very fact, I mean, we have a, the Greeks had a name, right, they had a name for the
process of you getting high, and going to the underworld, and coming back, and Odysseus who
was looking for the poison arrow, the arrow poison in the beginning, he is the one who takes the
trip, and it's that woman, Cersei, who scares us all, who turns, she puts drugs and food,
she puts drugs and food, and she causes men to turn into pigs, she's the one who shows Odysseus,
and people don't know it, but she goes back, she finds Odysseus after he goes home,
and she tries to sleep with his son, so what happens, she kills Odysseus, and brings him back
to life, right, she goes through the very same process, they call it the necromantic oracle,
it's when you can project to the other side and be brought back, right, because some people will
try to distinguish between dying and resurrected, and then a hero descending into Hades and returning,
to me that's a very minor detail to worry about, what matters more is the descent and the return,
which is what Christ was doing in his three days in Hades, he was performing this catabasis
and the anabasis, now, Hilaria is one of the big topics of this video that's got to come out,
because Dan has no idea about the Hilaria, he's like he's never heard of it, he makes this weird
face when Danny shows him the Hilaria, he goes this was the Hilaria, they celebrated in Rome
from March 22nd, and on the March 25th they had a day of rejoicing, no I'm sorry, March 25th was the
day of blood and the day of burial, and they buried the pine tree, and on the 28th, and the
27th, I think it was, on the third day is the day of rejoicing, and Dan goes, he makes his face,
he goes, that can't be right, and by the way, and I notice, and I played it back, and I go,
I'm watching this, and I'm playing it back, when did Danny even make an argument that Christianity
was borrowing from the, he never did, it never got brought up, Dan McClellan assumed, because Danny
was bringing up this festival, the, and it's fascinating, the first thing you thought about
was Easter, Easter, Easter, he doesn't even say Easter, he never even brought up Easter,
all he, all Danny, this is so fascinating, it's so perfect actually, it's a perfect case study
on Bible scholars, that Easter, Danny that doesn't even say anything about Easter, all he did was go,
here's the Hilaria, this is what they did on this festival, and Danny goes, I've never heard that
before, that's, that's, that's complete mythicist nonsense, the idea was all, and Danny never even
said anything about mythicism, he never even brought it up, what does that tell you, yeah,
tells you two things, number one, he's never heard of Hilaria before, number two, it, it, it, it,
it bothered him to know that there was a festival that has another resurrection, and it predates
Christianity, yeah, and so last thing I want to say too, guess what the name of the Greek version
of the Hilaria was, in Phrygia, when they, they imported this rights from Phrygia in 204 BCE,
we don't know what, what happened between 204 BCE, and I make this clear in my video,
by the time they get it in 204 BCE, we don't know what, what was going on, we think it was the,
we think it was in early April, and not in late March, and the, the reign of, and the reign of,
not Caligula, and the reign of, I just said it too, who's after, and the reign of Claudius,
in the 40s, 40s AD, and the reign of Claudius, they shift it, and they turn it into the Hilaria,
so that's when you get, and this is before the Gospels, this is during, Paul was alive during
this time period, it's, it's weird, it's right after Jesus dies, weird, it's very eerie, that they
had this festival imported in Rome, and they end up shifting it to dates, at first it was in the
first week of April, because Ovid, Ovid mentions the festival of Chiavelli, but it's the first week
of April, and he doesn't mention any resurrection of Addis, the first time you start getting sources
about the resurrection of Addis, is the Claudius, and Claudius's family was called the Attides,
so they had this big deep devotion to Addis, and that's why they did this, now the question I
wanted to ask you, guess what the name of the Greek version of the Hilaria was called, when it was,
when it was over in Phrygia, between 204 and, in the Hellenistic period, let's say, do you want to know?
Okay, okay, no, that wasn't what I was going to say, but
the Cotabacea, it's literally called the Descent Festival, so that's how it literally proves
that this was about a descent in a return, so people who say, oh, we don't even know if there
was a resurrection involved that early on, that might have been a first-century thing,
second-century thing, well, why is it called the Cotabacea then? Why would you name it that?
Yeah. I think the name alone tells us a lot, that name speaks volumes.
Does it makes? No, it's an absolutely perfect point, straight on, and it's right in the language,
you can't deny it, because you've got the language reflecting it, so it's not like you can say,
like Dan usually does, and say, well, that's different. There's two different worlds that
we can treat here, Pagan and Christian, no, no, no. Look at what the language is showing us,
right? It's naming that right. Gorgeous. Now, do you understand why Julian was saying you cannot
let Christians teach classics? You can't let them do that. He associated the teaching of classics,
and it's corruption by Christianity, and he considered that the reason for the fall, right?
That was, he was trying to fight the very thing that you're doing with Dan, Ducktail Dan,
that's amazing. That's amazing. Glorious job, brother, nice job.
Dan doesn't have any clue about, because he's made claims in the past that Mithras,
Solendictus are two different, two different cults, they're not the same cult that,
they're actually the same, it's actually the same cult, spoiler alert, Mithras, and by the way,
there are depictions of a Mithras and Solendictus as two different characters on the same mosaic,
but that's actually more rare than it is to find one character of a both slaying God where it
literally says Mithras, Solendictus as one name. That's the more common, so it's more common than
not, I would say nine to one, not seven to three, not six to four, nine to one, you find Mithras,
Solendictus as one God, and then a very, on a rare few occasions, you'll see an image of Mithras,
and it looks like a twin, Solendictus, and they're both standing there, so it's like,
but it's still the same cult, it's still the Roman imperial cult, so you can't separate those two.
Anyways, that's another part of the video. I noticed, let me ask you a question.
He has no knowledge of Roman religion. Let me ask you a question, I noticed you used the Orphic
plates, and those are, you know, they're really thin, but they, like you say, they put them with
the dead bodies, and they're very good. Instructions, the instructions are the cult secret, right?
The cult secret. It's like Christ, where you're crying out to Christ for help, for resurrection,
they're crying out to Dionysus for resurrection. Dionysus is the resurrection, it doesn't say Zeus,
it doesn't say Addis, it doesn't say Kybele, it doesn't say Cern or Orinus, it's a Dionysus,
I'm dead, help me. Think about how important that is.
Yeah, you're going. The thing that I found so beautiful the first time I read that was the
fact that you're going, you don't stop at Lethe, like everybody else does. Everybody else stops
at Lethe and drinks, and you know what happens? Lethe is forgetfulness, right?
That's why you don't remember your last life.
You keep going, and there is a phrase. They say you'll come to these guardians,
and there is a phrase that you have to utter, right? Those magical phrases that Jesus and the
Magi are so well known for are coming from this death and resurrection mystery that the Orphics
are performing. And I don't want to say Orphics because it focuses on just Orpheus. Orpheus was
just a friggin musician poet who works with Medea. She's the one who starts the right.
He's the one who takes up the poetry from it. So yeah, okay, but I do want to say,
I do want to say when you get into that level where you're in the right and they're performing
the right and you get technical terminology, just like the catabasis that you just brought up,
you have to realize this is the terminology that's being used by the cult, right? So when you come across...
It's like sabah, sabah, sabah. And by the way, Demosthenes in the 5th century or 4th century BC,
what does he say in one of his speeches? He talks about the cult of Dionysus, and what does he say?
They chant, iwa sabah, iwa sabah. That's a Dionysian word. It's talking about sabah that's right there.
It means it's like venerate, venerate, venerate. You know what I mean? Yeah, and that's essentially
what that verb means. I've seen that verb a lot. And essentially, it means to reverence. It means
to put yourself into that position of reverential awe. It's like divine mania. Yeah, your august,
rise. Oh, there's that power. It's the Holy Spirit, Christianity. It's the same thing.
It's happening in the Holy Spirit, and that's what they're doing. And that's why I made this,
I made the point where it's like, is Christianity a mystery religion? Well, if we want to classify it
that way, fine. The reason why I'm saying it, and I say fine, because I think it's an arbitrary thing
to even have that category, because all religions are sort of ministry religions in a way. They all
have some form of initiation. They all have some form of drink, some form of ritual immersion in
some water, some sort of baptism, some sort of holy secrets, some sort of like text, right? They
all have those those factors. So mystery religion, secret religion, they're all they're all that way.
You forgot the dildos they've got, and you forgot the penis shaped cups, the juvenile talks about
all the Baptists carry around. You forgot the drugs. You forgot the Christings. You forgot all of that.
That's the inner mystery. Yeah.
That's for those who have ears to hear. That's where you get the Borborei. The Borborei to the
Ophites, those are the inner mysteries. Yeah. The outer mysteries is Catholicism and Orthodoxy.
That's the outer mystery. That's just go twice a year to church and get your community home,
because you don't have ears to hear. You don't have it. I've got a question for you.
I've got a question for you. If you're Jesus, and like Paul, you've picked out your 12 boys,
and you're doing your Christing thing, and you're pushing the thorn and the flesh,
you're getting to that place where you're entering into the mystery with those boys.
Do you do what he reportedly did with Mary when he so, when he pleasureed himself
and then offered to her his semen and said, eat this or die? Do you think the same thing,
if he's feeding, here's my question now, if Jesus will feed Mary his semen, would he have fed
his young students his semen too? Oh, I thought if we, if we were to go back in time and join a
Borborei Ecclesia and see what they're doing down in those catacombs down deep in the cavern
somewhere where the sun don't shine. Oh, hell yeah, they're doing that shit. This is, this is that,
and we're talking what's so crazy. People say that's a late fourth century source.
Yeah, but did you read it? He's talking about, he's talking about a group from the first century.
That's what he says. That's what he says. And the greater questions of Mary was a
first century document, according to like, you know, according to what they're talking about.
So it's like, even though the source is late, we don't have, that's all we have to go through
those stories. And it's like what you mentioned before about Julian saying that we should not,
the Christians teach the classics. Why? Because they're full of shit. Justin Marder,
Justin Marder is trying to make the claim that the myth, the mysteries of Mithras is copying
Christianity with their Eucharist, and that Mercury is called the Logos because he's copying Jesus.
When we know objectively, we can find Greek sources from the classical period about Mercury,
about Hermes being called the Logos. And about, we can find sources from the Hellenistic era
about Mithras giving, or Zoroaster giving his Eucharist in honor of Mithras. That's in Plutarch,
by the way. You also have Eusebius, but this is before Julian. So this is probably what Julian
was talking about. Eusebius in the early, around 325 AD, somewhere like somewhere around this time,
he writes a book called The Preparation of the Gospel. And what does he say in this book? Well,
in this book, he does a lot of classic teaching. He says Plato was inspired by Moses. He says that
Orpheus was the son of Moses. He says all this wild shit that has no basis on it. And so Julian
comes along two or three decades later, and this is the world that he's in. He's seeing people like
Eusebius interpolating Josephus, forging documents, making up stories about Plato being inspired by
Moses. What is going on? And so, I don't blame Julian. They were doing some straight up shit that
would get you fired from a university, if it would happen today. There's no way Eusebius would be a
professor today. He'd be fired first aid for doing all the forgery shit. And the problem is they
didn't, and this will feed right into your diet, is they didn't just mess up classical civilization
with respect to its cult. They messed up the science, right? It's not just that you don't want
them telling history, because anybody who's a member of a cult, let me just explain. Anybody
who's a member of a cult is not going to give you a straight story. They're going to give you a bent
story, right? The people who go into the Bacchic worship come out of it saying, I'm born again.
Why? Because they saw things, right? That is the bent of the initiate. Anybody who's been into
Christianity has a bent. And Julian recognizes, said it's an anti-classical bent. It's going to take
our stuff and it's going to destroy it. And sure enough, it did. It did. And you get dark ages of
crap art and crap literature. It's not even literature. It disappears. The stage disappears.
People say, oh, there's this type of play. Yeah, when you got some dorks that walk along a path and
do some clownery, that's not the same thing. They had all these different sources. There's
all these different modes of music, all these different ways to play the harp and the drums,
and they explain it. There's the Phrygian mode. There's the Dorian mode. There's the Dithy Rambos.
There's the pion. There's all these different triumph tunes that you can play. They have all
these different great music. Music is blowing up, right? You have all these famous poets. You have
