Oh, you're you're always so vague
What is that especially it equals
master body
Master barry, do you know any master bar? I don't know master bar. Who's master barry?
I think what that is. Oh, of course Chewie. It's Latin. It's Latin Chewie. Yes, that's exactly
Exactly what it is. It is to
masturbate
The mystery involves the sacred
masturbation
Now I am speaking to you as an anthropologist people. I'm speaking to you as an anthropologist
I just want you to appreciate the historicity of what we're doing
We're talking about the early Christians
Who are Jews?
Engaging in the master barry
Okay
They have a mystery
Involved you want to see Jesus do it who wants to see Jesus look what I
Why what have you done?
Satanic congregation. What have you done to deserve a date like this? What have you done? I
Am gonna bring to you. No, this is for me
That's for being so good. I am gonna bring to you
The image right out of antiquity of Jesus Christ the son of God
masturbating
Yeah, it took Mary off to she was like, huh?
Yeah, right Mary Magdalene, right she's like, uh
I
Let's see him do it. We got you tonight Jesus. We got you tonight. This is for Jesus everybody
Everybody help me concentrate
Concentrate the energy. Well, yeah, I don't know how that stuff works really
But help me can you just thank for me for one minute? Just think about Jesus and think about spanking Jesus
Yeah, let's spank Jesus. Come on. Come here Jesus Christ. He touched me
Oh, he touched me
Are you ready for this we don't deserve it. Let's go for it. Let's go for it. Yes, Jesus Christ
Jesus Christ
Jesus Christ hit me with the next one chewy. We need to get them the full inoculations
What are we talking about people? I say we're talking about
that which flows out of
The reproductive parts
We're talking about the cotton may neon
Okay, thank administration
Here's what we're doing. Are you ready? We're gonna bring it with we're gonna bring the drugs with administration with
Jesus and the
Masterbation are you ready believe it or not all of that
That's the ingredients for a very successful
Christian cult
Whose practices are Jewish
Okay
Fantastic
Fantastic, this is the earliest one people. I'm telling you nobody wants to show you this stuff
But we're gonna see it because pretty soon the only thing we're gonna be able to read the Bible
So here you go. Give me the next one
Who do we not epiphanious? Who do we not want to be involved? Hold the obolus?
The devil why he's always using this stuff and he's bringing blasphemy
He's bringing blasphemy
Well, at least they're right about some things. Give me the next one
Shoo
This is good. Are you ready? What are we talking about? We're talking about that which runs out of both men and women
I just want you to see that. This is a complete communion
This is not just one side
Right, you need both you need balance if you're gonna have a really good cult
Okay, are you ready? Give me the next one
Who is it epiphanious that you really really hate being the bishop of Cyprus
Or a bishop on Cyprus. What?
What do you really hate? You hate the erotic
Poetry rinds you hate that erotic living that comes from Cypress and when I say Cypress
I mean Aphrodite. Who is it that the bishop hates most?
Aphrodite why why bishop do you hate her so much?
Because she is the one who brought these rights
Yeah
fantastic, right take the creator and
Turn her into a
Masculine form
Yeah
That's what we have to do. That's how you make the cult work and that's what
Just a handful of people did and swayed
World history by doing so
Epiphanious was one of these dudes who went out and like he went very famously to some church in Palestine
Yeah, and he was there and
And somebody had embroidered the some kind of I don't know it was a tapestry of some sort rug or something
curtain maybe and it had a picture of a dude and he was like we don't want any
pictures and
made him destroy it and
Sent him a new one or something. I don't know
He ultimately going back, but this is the kind of person that we're dealing with and it took just a handful of
This kind of persuasion just to take over and pilot
Western history right into the garbage dump. It was fantastic a lot of years of darkness called the dark ages
Not necessarily because of the sunlight
Yeah, it's all that library burning there doing
Did you learn all ten yet? Do you have your commandments down? You know in the future they look back to
2024 and they wonder
Why what were those people thanking?
It's gorgeous. I love it. You got to remember this is the kingdom. This is the kingdom of the devil, baby
It's the kingdom of the devil
Everybody forgets that
Give me the next one. Boom. What are we looking at? We're looking at do we skip any maybe we skip some?
Yep, no, that's fine go
We're looking at these people and what what are these people doing by the way who are involved in the mysteries like Jesus
mixing the body fluids
