And I can work with nouns a little bit. I can work with nouns. Good. We did nouns
fantastic
What is coming up?
Over the next two weeks what you will be expected to do is to read unit two
You will read it not just once read it a couple of times
Read through it and then go to the vocabulary list. What do you do? Just read it
All you're doing is exposing your brain to the greek
Right now don't sit there and try
Don't sit there and try let it come natural
Let mother greek come to you
Let her embrace you
Right, that's how it works
Go to it and look at the beauty
Look at the beauty of the words
Look at the sexiness of that vocabulary list and everything that it tells you about your terrible terrible language
Anglosaxon if that's what you're speaking
Yeah
Okay, so here's what I need for you to do unit two
is the first
of a
two unit section
on verbs
What are verbs?
What are verbs? This is all you need to know
There we go, we're back verbs are words of action
or being
And by the way, those of you look it's the internet. Okay
It's it kind of makes it quirky. You love it. I know you do if you'd love the fact that
It looks like I'm using a camera that's a hundred years old
Um, please say that right, um, but it's the it's the way it is
So look, what do you have to do?
You have to be able to recognize what a verb is and what is a verb a verb is an action
Or a state of being that's all I want you to think an action
Or a state of being and this chapter chapter two
We're going to learn
The basic components of the verb
How do we describe verbs?
Verbs can be described
by words like person
number
tense
mood and voice
person number tense mood and voice
Now do you have to be thinking about this? No, and I don't want you to be thinking
But if I thought about this stuff, I would have never made it through greek first semester never
Okay, do I want you to be thinking about it? Absolutely not. I want you to be able to tell me
You can describe verbs by their person number tense mood and voice
What is their person first second or third?
Shut up. That's all you need to know. What is their number singular or plural?
What are their tenses?
We're about to teach you tenses and you're going to say past present and future shut up
What are the tenses that you need to know?
present
imperfect future
heiress perfect
in blue perfect
There were six of those that you will know by the end of unit three
present imperfect future
heiress
perfect
blue perfect
What are those?
The present I do the imperfect I was doing the future I will do
The perfect I have done the blue perfect
I had
done
The heiress I did
Fantastic
Okay, that's all you need to know for tenses those all you need to recognize are those six names
And how to translate them in the book will tell you how to translate each one of those
So that's tense. What is mood right now?
You only need to know one mood and that's called the indicative
All verbs have an indicative mood and it's the majority of the ways that the verb is used
You're just indicating something. Okay. That's all you need to know for now indicative
All right, what about um
voice
There are three voices. We're only going to know one for now. It's called the active voice
But we also learn the future of the middle and the passive. There is no true middle voice
in english
Why is that?
Because english unlike ancient greek
does not focus on the perspective of the speaker the greeks are
overly obsessed with the speaker the one who is performing the action or having the action performed on it
That individual they're obsessed with it's like they can't you can't stop put put yourselves in the place of the speaker
Right. I wonder is that a mark of intelligent language?
I think it is. Did you know there are some intelligent languages and there's some dummy languages?
Right people are gonna be like, oh, no, you can't say that. Yeah, you're saying that because you speak one of those dummy languages
Fantastic, right? Know who you are
Right. Know who you are hit uh wait. Oh, um, so those are what you need to know from the verb
Person number tense mood and voice and you're gonna get all of the examples first person singular i second person singular you
third person singular he she it
First person plural we second person plural you third person plural they
That's all in the book and it'll all it lay that out for you. Why?
Because what we're going to do and here's where you need to focus
What we're going to do when we learn verbs
Is we're going to understand is a group that a verb
is a machine
and it can do
Many different things and all you got to do is you got to change its ending
Maybe put something on the beginning
Okay, think about that. We're going to take an action like kicking
And we're going to say, oh, I don't want to say i'm kicking now. I want to say I kicked yesterday
You changed the ending a little bit
Slap something on the beginning and you got I kicked instead of I am kicking
All right, what if I want to put in the future you change the ending and you make it a future ending
So that people can see oh, this is kicking in the future
All right, what if I want him to kick
What if I want
Our entire group to kick why can't we kick? Oh, it's easy change the ending
Everything with the verb is dialed in from the ending
Yeah, so what you're going to do
That's called conjugation
We take that ending and you put it together with that root. Oh god. What do you have?
You conjugate
Let's conjugate don't you love to conjugate?
We're going to be doing that with our verbs
And our verbs the last thing I want to get across to you tonight because I know you're just going to be starting to read unit two
The last thing I want to get across to you is
There is a savvy
way
That the verbs have of acting they can slide in and out of tenses very easily
All right, there's a there's a lot of wiggle room
And the reason the greek is that way is because when you hear that entire word
And you hear it with its beginning and its root and its ending you're forming a mental picture in your mind
And you can wiggle that you can you can paint you can
Change the tone of your colors. Oh god. Let's make this one in more intense
Right take it from the indicative mood to the subjunctive
And what do we do when we switch from the indicative to the subjunctive?
We go from a world of just plain old narration to a world of possibilities
Yeah
In english, we just use little models for that
It's almost like we tapped our brains somewhere and now we're going to just march in peat
Yeah, where's the peat?
Past the peat. It's on your feet
It's not so sweet. Give me the next one. Um, I want to go to oh, you should you're saying we're where we're going here
