Class intensive Greek via almond you and so what I want you to do is I want you to watch the exit
And then um, we'll go through a few things textbook wise. Look at some exercises. Maybe roll around
Maybe, you know, take off some clothing and roll around in some greek. That's what we'll do a big
A big pit of feathery lovely greek. I love it. We're gonna go there. Um, chewy hit the I'll be back. Don't run away. Go ahead
But you are all the flames
Make these bitches jump
Dr. Do
You
Okay, we were halfway through unit three last time.
We had taken the dive and the units two and three, which is all about verbs.
And from there, we're going to get to the unit, the unit one through three exam.
And people will be able to take that exam.
It's in your book.
And by the way, if you haven't gotten the book yet, they are still on back order.
There is a copy that you can use a digital copy until you get your hard copy at the
discord that is posted for us or will be posted for us.
And by the way, people are going to the discord to supplement what they're getting on almond
you.
And that is smart.
That is a good move.
Keep it up.
The TAs there will take great care of you and will help you along in this process.
They've all been through it.
Same thing.
It's the same course.
So their understanding of your pain and your suffering and your ecstasy, all of those together.
Love it.
Okay.
By the way, I need students who still want to enter.
I've got two classes for Americans and Canadians, North Americans, essentially.
And one class for Brits and any other Europeans that we pick up, we still need two or three.
If you're out there and you're European and you're thinking, I got a little taste for
the Greek, we need you in that class.
Now's your opportunity.
And finally, we've got a class for Aussies that will cater to the proper time so everybody
can go to work and do their classwork after their work is done.
And they're sitting at home doing nothing.
So that class hasn't formed yet.
I need Aussies who are interested.
I've only got a couple of names and I know I got way more in the applications.
If you're interested in, you are an Aussie, please send me an email that's to almondhillman
at gmail.com.
And please put in the title, Aussie class.
This is, you're going to be Epsilon.
You'll be class Epsilon.
So we've got an Alphabet, Gamma, Delta and our Delta reading group is going to be a hell
of a lot of fun.
It's going to, because we're going to breach into the ass and pull out as much as we can.
That's Lucien's ass that we're going to be, that we're going to don't, that's Lucien's
ass that we're going to be, just, we're just going to expose it, just completely expose
it for every, every little bit of goodie that's in there.
You know what I mean?
And it's got a lot of goodie.
Lucien's ass is, is, is chocked full of goodie.
Fantastic.
Let's go.
I want to take you to another, do we, I hope these are, yeah, here's some exercises.
Here's some exercises.
I know I told you any order is fine.
But here's what I really want to show you first.
I want to show you the Optative and the Subjunctive Moods.
The Optative and Subjunctive Moods are used in specific types of constructions, like conditional
sentences, if, then, types of sentences, or purpose clauses.
In order that, we went to the grocery store in order to buy food.
That in order is what you call a, part of a dependent clause.
The main verb is I go to the store.
The, the dependent verb is to, in order to buy food, right, in order to buy that food.
So, this is what you use.
This is, this is why you use Optatives and Subjunctives, is because you're not in the
world of simple declarations, simple, either somebody's doing something or being.
That's the indicative.
What we have now for verbs is you can attach a different ending to that stem, and you can
come up with a Subjunctive or an Optative.
Let's start with the Optative.
This is a Present Optative, and the endings are oimi, ois, oi, oimen, oite, oien.
Pretty straightforward.
If you get oi, you're in the Optative, in the Present Optative, oi.
Notice this is the same, similar endings.
It's just vowels are changing here.
Well, what about the Arist Optative?
You've got two tenses of the Optative and the Subjunctive that I want you to learn.
You're going to learn the Present, which is, here's the Present Optative, and then you're
going to learn the Arist Optative, and why is that?
Because when you're using the Optative and Subjunctive, you need to pay attention to
aspect.
Aspect is everything.
Remember, the verb has an aspect to it.
It's got a tense, and it's got an aspect.
It's got a time that it reflects, whether it's the Present, the Future, or the Past.
It's also got an aspect.
How do you do?
What is the aspect of the verb, just by way of reminding you?
That is whether an action is being done continuously, whether it's a simple action, or whether
it's an action that's already completed, that's the perfect aspect.
I have gone to the Store.
Right now in the Present, I'm in a state of having gone to the Store.
It's already completed.
I already went there.
It's over.
Aspect is important, and with the Optative and the Subjunctive, you reflect aspect through
the Present and the Arist, and that Arist is that single action, that simple event they
call it, whereas the Present is a continuous, progressive event, right?
Love it.
It can be something that's habitual, something you always do, or you always do that.
I know, because it works.
Okay, now what about the Arist?
Did I put the Arist Optative in there?
Let me show you the Arist Optative.
It's an oi.
Yeah, give me that one.
It's maybe that one.
Here's the Arist Optative.
It's an oi in the Present.
What is it in the Arist?
It's an oi.
Look at how the vowel changes.
Remember I told you, the vowels are just tuning the words, right?
Here it's happening again.
We're going into the Arist, and Arist is heavy on the Alpha.
We saw that with our regular third principle part, that Arist.
We saw it's ending, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
Heavy on the Alpha.
Well, it's the same thing with the Optative.
Oi, we've got to include the yoda, too.
So the oi becomes I, I-me, I-se, I, I-man, I-ta, I-an.
And those are the standard endings.
And there's three.
Look at the second person, singular, third person, singular, and third person.
Plurals, see the aeos, an aeon.
Those are alternate, you know, those are endings that you may also see that happen to be.
It's just a different ending.
Look what happened.
We're playing with the vowels.
Look how it's, ice becomes aeos, aeos.
What are we doing?
We're really playing with the vowels, right?
I becomes aean, okay, fine, fine, fine, fine, fine.
I-an becomes aean, all right, all right.
That's the Arist Optative.
Now there was one more.
I want to give you the subjunctives.
And the subjunctives are on one chart.
It's probably there, probably there.
The subjunctives, you're going to have a present subjunctive again and an aris subjunctive.
That present subjunctive is going to be based on the first principal part.
That aris subjunctive is going to be based on the third principal part.
And what are their endings?
O, A, C, A, O, M, A to O, C. Now you're lucky.
What is this going on in front of you?
It's just the same endings.
Remember the present indicative endings, O, A, C, A, O, M, A, T, O, C. These are the same
endings only the vowels have been lengthened.
So we get omega for the first person singular, lengthened vowel.
It's the second person singular, A, C, A to Yoda, Sigma, A to Yoda, Sigma.
Make sure you see the Yoda subscript, A to Yoda, Sigma.
Instead of Epsilon, Yoda, Sigma, it's A to Yoda, Sigma.
So I tell all my students, the real mark of the subjunctive is that lengthened vowel that
you're going to see in the ending, O, A, C, A, O, M, A to O, C. Look at how Omen with
an omicron changes to Omen with an omega in the subjunctive.
Lengthening of the vowel, for some reason, in their minds, with that shorter form of
the vowel, you're doing things concretely.
With a lengthened vowel, you're getting into a imaginary world because none of this stuff
in the subjunctive is real, right?
It's not a simple declaration.
It's a possibility.
It's a potentiality.
Let's go to the store is not we go to the store, right?
Let's go to the store, right?
Now you're outside of the indicative mood.
So that's what's going on.
You lengthen those vowels, and all of a sudden you're in La La Land.
You're in the world of possibilities, conditionals.
Oh, if we had done something, we would have been happy, right?
Some kind of conditional.
It's a fake world.
Perfect.
Okay.
Give me now these sentences.
I want to run over some sentences.
But that is the grammar, all the grammar from first, second, and third units.
And I want to give you the first couple of exercises, and I just want to go through them
like I would go through them with you if I were tutoring you personally.
I would first, I would have you read it in Greek.
I would have you read it just like that.
So be practicing so that you can read out the Greek.
And then I would say, okay, give me a translation.
Give me a translation.
The people will sacrifice to the gods on the roads in order that they may stop the war.
Okay.
Now, what's going on with that sentence?
The first verb, the verb of the main clause is theuse.
It's a third person singular future active indicative.
It's future.
Future.
All right.
Where's the subject?
The people.
The people.
The people will sacrifice.
Then you get this date of Tois Theos.
Who are they going to sacrifice to?
To the gods.
And where are they going to sacrifice?
You get a prepositional phrase.
Entais Hodois on the roads.
On the roads.
Right.
They've got little shrines.
Little shrines to Mercury, and he's got a phallus sitting there telling you where
