which direction to go.
Right.
Let's make an offering here.
I say we burn some down.
Definitely.
And what happens?
You get a result clause at the end of this.
Hina.
Hina as you read, right?
Because you're reading these units.
Hina is with, indicates a purpose clause.
Purpose clause.
In order that, in order that what?
In order that they may stop, pausosin.
The war.
That's a subjunctive.
Look at that pausosin.
That's a subjunctive.
What kind of subjunctive is that?
If you know the principle parts, the first principle part is pow-wo.
So the root is pow.
Does that what we have here?
No, we have paus plus the ending osin, the subjunctive ending osin, third person plural.
So what is the paus?
Oh, that's the third principle part of pow-wo, pow-wo, pow-so, ed-pow-so.
That is an hei-ist, right?
It's an hei-ist root.
It doesn't have an augment on it.
None of the subjunctives in the hei-ist will have the augments, right?
Why?
Because they're subjunctive, bro.
That's the way it is.
Okay.
Pausosin.
Pausosin.
You only give augments to indicative modes.
Come on, man.
Pausosin.
Right?
Pausosin.
In order that, they may stop.
Now let's get a little bit nerdy and say, what kind of verb is your main verb, thuse?
We said it's a present, present tense, right?
Third person singular, present, active, indicative.
What kind of verb is it?
Because it's the present tense, it's a primary verb.
Your present, your future, and your perfect are all primary verbs.
Your imperfect, your hei-ist, and your plu-perfect are all secondary verbs.
You'll notice the secondary verbs all have epsilon augments.
Now why am I telling you that?
Because these are two families, primary and secondary.
And when you have a verb in your main clause that is primary tense, your purpose clause
following it must have a subjunctive.
When you have a verb in the main clause that is a secondary verb, an imperfect, an hei-ist,
or a plu-perfect, your verb in your dependent purpose clause must be opt-ative.
It has to be in the opt-ative mood.
So you use subjunctives with present, future, or perfect, and you use opt-ative following
imperfect, hei-ist, and plu-perfect.
Primary and secondary verbs.
They call that establishing primary sequence and secondary sequence.
Why?
Because classical philologists are nerds, right, and they have to have some kind of official
language that pushes their science along.
Okay, so that is the first sentence.
If you're going to analyze that sentence, I want you to see you've got a main clause
and you've got a purpose clause that is a dependent clause following it.
It depends upon what came before it.
It hangs on what came before it, right?
Okay, good, fantastic.
Look at number two.
We've put our purpose clause up front, ho-st-on, pol-am-on, pa-o-sin, right?
You see that ho-st, ho-sin, henna, work the same way in a purpose clause.
They just both mean in order, in order to, or in order that, right?
So we've put our purpose clause up front.
In order that, where's our, where's our main clause, ho-demos, thais-the-ois, thue?
What's our main verb?
Thue, it's a present active indicative third person, singular.
He, she, or it, sacrifices.
Where's our subject, ho-demos, that's in the nominative, it's got to be the subject.
The people sacrifice thais-the-ois to the gods who have vaginas.
Because you're feminine, divinities.
See the article, thais, remember I told you, theos is a word that can be masculine or feminine.
The concept of God, I know that when you say God, you think, dude, right?
The oldest uses of theos are feminine.
They, you said God to them and they thought, this is the lady that gives you birth.
Isn't that glorious?
Imagine if you worshiped a God that was your mother, seriously, right?
And not only that, but just like Oedipus found out, she is sexy, yeah, she is sexy mama.
Who, what are you going to do?
What are you going to do?
It's going to change the way you look at people.
It's going to change the respect that you have for people and people that you don't
respect.
It's going to give you more respect for those people.
Stop being a dumb misogynist.
It's only because your religion is modest that you're a misogynist.
Oh God, it takes so long.
The people sacrificed to the gods, in order that Paul was sinned, they might stop ton
polym on the war.
Excuse me, did I say it might?
I meant may.
And why did I mean may?
Because I should be using the right sequence.
What is my main verb, thue, it's a present.
I'm in primary sequence.
I've got to have, what do I have to have?
I have to have a subjunctive following primary sequence.
And I'm going to translate that subjunctive as may, in order that they may stop the war.
Good.
Give me the next set.
I'm going to go through these quick and I want you to do this so you can play it back
to yourself.
And you know, if you haven't done these yet, or if you have, you can correct them this
way too, this way too.
But look at number three.
It's reading Greek.
Angelus epimpsan exagoras hoixenoi hopos lucienten erenen.
Where's our main clause here?
Let's look for verbs.
Do you see any verbs?
I see epimpsan right up front.
Okay.
That's a nice indicative looking verb.
That looks like an heiress third person plural, indicative, active to me.
It does.
It does.
Okay.
I'm just going to translate my verb then, my main verb epimpsan.
They sent.
They sent.
Now, okay.
Let me keep reading.
Is there any, are there any subjects here for the they?
Yeah.
There are.
Hoixenoi.
The strangers.
That is in the nominative case.
It's got to be the sub, the they of the verb.
The strangers sent Angelus messengers where they send them exagoras out of the agorah.
Now we get our purpose clause, hopos, because guess what, henahos and hopos all mean in
a purpose clause in order that.
So what are the, why the strangers send these messengers out of the agorah in order that
they, lucient, what is that?
That is an heirest, optative, heirest, optative.
Why is it optative?
Because in a purpose clause, if the main verb is in the secondary, is the secondary verb
or in secondary sequence, and is this one, yeah, because what is it?
What is it?
Epimpsan.
It's an heirest.
That's secondary.
So we're going to have to have the optative and we're going to translate it as in order
that they might, not that they may, but in order that they might.
As soon as you start talking about something in the past, you're going to have to switch
from may to might.
Good.
That's, isn't that nice teaching, teaching ourselves proper English too.
That's nice.
Okay.
So they sent those messengers out of the marketplace, right?
The strangers did in order that they might dissolve the peace, in order that they might
break the peace.
Good.
Look at number four.
Now, this is essentially the same, look what we've got up front.
We've got the same direct object on Gelus, those messengers, and then Epimpsan.
What is that?
That's an imperfect.
That's an imperfect.
And we know it's first person singular or third person plural.
So we can try both, right?
Let's try third person plural.
They sent messengers, petty, tame, nascent around the island, hopos, in order that may
loita, in order that they, excuse me, oita, oimen oita, oimi oiseoi, oimen oita oien.
Which one is that?
That's second person plural, in order that you might not destroy the peace, in order
that you plural, you all might not destroy the peace.
Good.
Do you see how that's working?
Their sentence is talking to itself.
And when you have dependent clauses, they're going to be talking to the main clause and
saying, oh wait, the main clause is all the way in the past.
So I'm going to shift to that same region and I'm going to turn myself into an optative.
And I'm going to say in order that you might not that you may.
Good.
Look at number five.
Again, we can put the purpose clause right up front, henna luselman, right?
In order that we may destroy, we, here, release, let's try release here.
In order that we may release Homer, pimpam facin, oh, what is that?
It's a third person plural, perfect.
They have sent gifts, right?
They have sent gifts in order that we may release Homer and you say, wait a minute,
they have sent, that sounds like it's in the past, it's not.
They have sent is in the present.
Right now, at this point in time, they are in a state of having sent.
They already sent it.
What we're talking about the present, right?
The perfect tense is actually referring to present time.
So is the future.
You're going to be surprised.
So is the future.
The future is just a possibility.
It's that which has not yet come to pass, but possibly will, right?
It's kind of a weird way.
It's that which is about to be, you see, they look at the future.
They call the future in Greek, the, that which is mellow or melissin, that which is about
to happen, right?
Constantly you are, if you're referring to the future, you are in a state of referring
