To the strangers who dwell in the countryside
Right love it love it so in this little sentence here
You have this extreme contrast between the friends and strange
How do you treat the friends you treat them this way?
How do you treat the strangers you treat them that way and that way the Greek without just saying the data like English would
Why English would be the gods first order Homer to do this to the friends the gods then order Homer to do this to the
What you've done is you set up a contrast right off the bat with the men and the death and you say wait a minute
The men doesn't come until half way through the top the first part of the sentence and the dead doesn't come until the second
That's because the Greek sentence is not
formed
linear
There's no linear formation
It's words you can throw them up into the air and as long as you see bing bing there's a
Con there's a contrast there. Oh
Okay, between what and then your mind starts to form the image
That's how the Greek is forcing you to think remember some languages are not
Are not up to this and ours isn't one of them at least mine isn't we've got some people from Thailand too
I want to say shout out shout out to the people in Thailand. Give me the next one
Hmm. What does this one say? Oh god? I just want you to look at the second word a killer with now
That's the same verb there right Kaleo, but you notice
It's from the first principle part if you knock the ending off s and you take the augment off on the front of it
Yeah, you get Kaleo and that is the root of the first principle part Kaleo
So you know this thing is from the first principle part and it's got an augment on it
So therefore I know it is imperfect and what is the imperfect? It's that past action
Right. I was doing something. You're looking. How are they using the imperfect? They're looking you're looking at the person
Actually performing the action. That's where your state of mind is you're sitting there with them watching it happen
That's the imperfect in the past and what do you say you ordered Homer to send Pimp sigh
There's your heiress infinitive now
Why they use and why they use an heiress infinitive there Pimp sigh instead of a present infinitive those the two we've learned
Right. Why did they do that?
Because of the aspect he's only going to be doing the sending once wait what yes
I can order you to send something to me every day
Right. I could order you to do that or I can order you to send me something once they are
Distinguishing that whereas we need a phrase to express that they do it naturally in their verb
It's in part of the nature of the verb the contrast is there
Right. The perspective is there Greek verbs give you perspectives
Perspectives fantastic
For why did he order him to do this for what?
um
Now, what is that that's that second person singular imperfect on s a woman at on
right for
You were teaching those men on the island. Yeah, right. It's nice gorgeous. Okay. Give me the next one
What are we going to get into in unit three?
We're just going to do the same thing
But we're going to go to the fourth principle part with the verb now
We're going to deal with perfects and pluper
Perfects
This is what you need to memorize for your perfect tense. What is your perfect tense?
I have ordered
Present I order
Imperfect. I was ordering future. I will order heiress. I ordered
Perfect
I have ordered
And these are the endings that you put on the fourth principle part
ah
Amon at a assi
You say wait a minute that sounds just like
The heiress it does except for the third person plural. It's exactly the same
Right, the third person plural is a little different assi instead of on but that's okay
It you don't really don't have to learn much new and of course in the third singular and plural
Third person singular plural you can have the new movable fantastic. Give me the next one. That's the perfect
I have done something and I just want you to see then using the the verb paide
Right. It's fourth principle part is pet paide al ca
Pet paide al ca I have
Educated and all you do is you add those endings pet paide al ca you have educated pet paide al ca
He she or it is educated pet paide al come in
Look how the accent shifts there, right? Nice. We have educated pet paide al ca te you have educated and pet paide al ca si
They have educated no problem. Now. I'm going to do the same thing
Only I'm going to make it extra perfect or plural perfect
Not I have educated but I had
Educated so it's already passed in the past
Yes, fantastic fantastic. It's really the secondary tense
of the perfect
Which is a
Primary tense when you say I have done something you're talking about right now in the present
I am in a state of having done something you didn't realize that did you that the perfect is actually a present tense
It is
primary
So how do you make that past? How do you shift that in the past?
You turn it into a plural perfect
You take an epsilon augment and tap it on the front of that
Fourth principle part and then you add a different set of endings and what are the endings that indicate the plural perfect a
a
Right a ace a
M and et a son. I'm sorry for the fogginess. Check your book
Right in the net a son. That was my own
It was my own doing okay. That is your plural perfect
and
Finally, I just want you to look
I want you to look
At the vocabulary that we're going to get in unit three
I want you to look at some of these beautiful words like athlon. We get athlete from that, right? It means a prize
It's like saying meddler
Somebody who gets a medal right?
Love it. Arte. What is arte? Oh god virtue, baby
virtue
Love it. Love it boole. Oh, right. That's that's what you got going on up here, man
You got a counsel
Right, and that's your boole. Look at the verb graffo
Graffo graffo a graffa get graffa get graffa a graffin to write
As you progress
Note the principal parts in the end of your textbook
There will be an appendix and somewhere in that appendix is a chart
Of all the verbs in this book
In their six principal parts some of them don't have all six but in their six principal parts
Good fantastic. And finally, I want you to see the vocabulary that we're getting this really good. Look at demos
Right, that's the people and underneath demos. What is that?
Demo cratia you remember I told you that kratos is the strength
Right the strength of something
and becomes an idea of rulership
Right, what is the democratia?
It's the rulership of the
Deem of the people or of the neighborhood the hoods rulership
Love it. Okay. Um, get me off of uh, get me. I've got one more little thing here. I guess
The boss wanted to show. Oh the boss wanted to put this in it. Look at this people de tira intoxication
remember
This is what happens
To the people who are under the influence of surcy's drugs. Are you ready?
typically produces delirium
hallucination
Oh, that sounds interesting hyperthermia hyperthermia. Excuse me hyperthermia
You're taking off your clothes like a piggy pig. You're gonna sweat
Right tachycardia. Well, you know, it's a tropane alkaloid. What's what's another tropane alkaloid cocaine?
Cocaine's a tropane alkaloid yet tachycardia. Now look at what they put after that bizarre behavior
Is that how you describe piggy piggies?
Yeah, yeah severe medriasis
painful photophobia
Why don't you think after a while they like being in those stalls? You know what I mean?
pronounced amnesia
She told us it would do that. She told us you're gonna have you're gonna forget where you're from
Right, that's her way of saying i'm gonna make you take this amnestic and i'm gonna abuse you
Now it's not funny. It's not funny. Shame on us for laughing. I'm sorry on the inside
But you know, I don't know you could make a great movie out of this, you know what I mean?
um
Yeah pronounced amnesia not just regular amnesia right pronounced
Oh god, what happened to you when the uh when you were on the island? I don't remember
I don't remember. I just want to go home the onset of symptoms generally occurs around 30 to 60 minutes after ingesting the herb
Which is perfect because she sits there and waits for the the drugs to start working before she gets up and starts having fun
Yeah
Yeah, love that love that the uh
30 to 60 minutes
The symptoms generally last from 24 to 48 hours
So off of one communion party you can give 48 hours of piggy pig pigs
Oh
These symptoms gently have been reported in some cases to last as long as two weeks. Oh god
Oh god, so remember all of those leopards
remember the wolves and the lions
Remember those
Bacchic writing of the leopards
Right, we can get a lot out of just a little. It's very efficient man
48 hours
Think about that 48
hour long
pigdom
What can you do? This is really my question
tonight
What can you do?
with somebody
Under the influence
You and I don't even that doesn't even register unless you're some kind of trafficker yourself
Right
In which case you're like hit bra. We do that
Right. I'm not your bra bra
You're a late stays
Just like jesus christ
Free greek lessons from a charismatic phd on awesome topics live
On youtube for anyone. What a time to be alive indeed and I told you people and here's a spanking for everybody
I told you we would fulfill this I told you we would dig up the amazonian women
I told you the
Oistress would come right out of it somewhere when I mentioned oistress
Somewhere duck tails
Ducktail dance fainter titan
titaned and burned
What you're seeing
Is the actuality the reality
You used to think
amazonian women
were a fairy tale
something for marvel
No, bro
The reality is always much more interesting than the bs fairy tale
It's always much more interesting for those of you who are writing to me and telling me about
purging your grade
And how you've been convicted
How the devil is whispered in your ears you want to be like that tyrant
And you've walked you're trying to walk away you're trying to purge
That's exactly what we need to be doing
Right
I smell
Roast pig
Thank you for coming tonight
The core is on our way. Hail satan
Oh
Oh
You
