to what is about, right?
What is about to happen?
What is potentially there that can happen?
That's where you are, right?
But that's a present time.
You're just in the present there.
There is no future, right?
They said the futures never actually happens.
That's why it's the future.
If it actually happened, it wouldn't be the future.
Do you understand?
Oh, love it.
Love it.
Okay.
Let's get one more couple of sets of exercises.
Love doing this.
Yep.
Give me the next one.
This is numbers eight, nine and 10.
I just want you to see.
I'm going to read it to you real quick.
Tos, men, and I want you to notice there's a men here and a death that follows it near
the end of the first line.
Second to last word, death.
In Greek, when you, you don't really translate the men and the death.
The men is there telling you, I've got one thing on this side and the death is telling
you and I've got another thing on this side.
The Greeks, ancient Greeks love to make constant comparisons and contrast.
They love to contrast and compare, right?
On the one hand.
So that's why in English, we usually translate this on the one hand, something happens.
On the other hand, something else happens.
On the one hand, men, on the other hand, death, right?
So what does he say here?
On the one hand, the gods did not guard the eyes of Homer, okay?
On the one hand, the gods didn't guard the eyes of Homer.
On the other hand, right?
They have well guarded the books of Homer, which are about the virtue of people, right?
About human virtue, yeah.
So on the one hand, they didn't guard his eyes, which is a terrible joke because Homer
was supposedly blind, right?
So on the one hand, they didn't guard his eyes.
On the other hand, right, they very well have, have, have guarded his, his work, his actual
works, his songs, right?
And we've got another men and dead number nine.
On the one hand, what?
Ele luke san, ele luke san, yeah.
On the one hand, they, what, what are we going to do?
Well, how are we going to do this?
Ele luke san, what is that?
Is that from the, well, what verb is that from?
Luo, let me see.
Luo, Luso, Elusa.
Oh, look, it's got a leluka, right?
Plus, and it's augmented, right?
So on the one hand, they had dissolved the peace by means of some kind of speech or word,
right?
Logoi.
On the other hand, they did not do it, ooh, it's just got the negative.
They didn't do it, ergoi, indeed.
In word, in spirit, they did it, but indeed, they didn't.
Do you see how that men and the dead is working?
And the dead, you can just put the dead there and it's assumed that you're going to be using
this very same verb, the very same verb.
Look at that beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, blue perfect of Luo, ele luke san, third person
plural.
They had released, right?
They had.
Okay, look at number 10.
Now, I wanted to give you this one because this is a question.
It's a question.
And what is the word that indicates it's a question?
Ara.
Do you translate ara?
No.
Ara is just telling you, oh, I'm a question.
Now can you ask a question without having ara in Greek?
Yes.
Yes, you can, right?
And you'll always, you'll never be uncertain about this thanks to the editors, right?
This isn't in the original ancient Greek, but thanks to the Byzantine editors, we get
things like the semicolon for the question mark.
So see the semicolon at the end of that sentence, that's a question mark.
And it's because some stinky Byzantine grammarian monk who's undergirding stink because he
never washed them, you know, because they didn't know, Byzantine monks always stink.
You have to understand that.
Why do you think they go out in the desert?
Right?
Okay, anyway.
Right, you thought it was a mental thing.
No.
Ara grapses pente biblia periton toisteois susion, henna, there's our Purpose Clause,
henna dora para tus deus pimpomen, right, it's a question, right?
So grapses, grapses, what is that?
That's our verb, that's our verb, main clause.
And what is it?
It's from grafo grapso.
It's a future from the second principle part, second person singular.
Will you write pente biblia, five books, periton susion, about the sacrifices, toisteois,
to the gods, henna, in order that, now jump to your verb in order that what, pimpomen.
Pimpomen, what do we get there?
We get a present subjunctive, a present subjunctive, first person plural, present subjunctive.
Why do we get a present subjunctive?
Because our aspect is continuous, right?
And we have to have a subjunctive because our main verb grapses is a primary verb.
It's in primary sequence, right?
So following a future, we're going to need a subjunctive, and we're going to translate
it in order that somebody may, not might, in order that they may, good, fantastic, think
of it this way, might, present, I mean, excuse me, may, present or future, might, past, think
of it that way, okay, good, good, good, good.
Now when we get to the independent subjunctives or subjunctives of potential, we're going
to get, there'll be a little bit confusion there because we're going to translate a verb
as both may and might.
It's going to get a little confusing, a little confusing, okay, good.
Did I do that whole thing?
Will you write five books about the sacrifices to the gods in order that we may send gifts
to the gods?
Yeah, are you going to do that question?
All right, the rest of your sentences, you feel free to work through those, but what
I want for next week is for everybody who's in on you, which there's over 500 people doing
the language, looking at the language now, for, for you people, what I want you to do
is to read the review.
I want you to try the review.
There are some sentences in there.
Don't fill out anything, but the sentences, I want you to go to the sentences.
They look like exercises, they are, and I want you to try to do those exercises.
Next week, when we get together, I will have half time for you just a little bit of review,
and then we're going to take the exam, we're going to take the exam, it'll take us a little
bit longer, but it's well worth it, and you can sit there and watch me do it, and you
can bounce off and give yourself an approximate grade.
Right?
Now, if you and I were doing that in class together, I would grade you.
That's what I do.
Right?
So anyway, but that's how we're going to do it here at this format with Omenu.
So Aussies who want that night time, it'll be your night time, your evening, and it'll
be on Thursdays.
Aussies who want that, please send me an email with just a brief sentence or two about yourself
and about you want to be able to be involved in a small classroom, because that's what
we've got with Epsilon, fantastic.
I love the teaching, and I love the fact that people are hungry for this, and I'm totally
overwhelmed by your tons and tons of email about how something has awakened in you.
Something has awakened, and there's some kind of dope that you now absolutely must smoke
to find the universe.
I love that, and I love people who are reaching out for the people who are talking about bad
things in the world, and made this and that happen, and the cursings, and the people who
are, you're dead.
I love the comments.
Oh, enjoy hell, idiot.
I love those comments, right?
Keep that coming too, because that fuels me.
I love it.
Absolutely love it.
Thank you for putting up with so much time tonight.
We broke a record.
This is the longest one ever.
I want to thank you to all the 501s who stayed here, who stayed here and hung in there.
You're amazing, and I want you to know it's a privilege and an honor to be with you.
Thank you, and Hail Satan.
Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen,
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies
and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
