Pindar. You have Homer. You have Askelis. You have Sophocles. And they're doing comedy. They're doing
tragedy. They're doing satire. They're doing all these great stuff. And the world is very colorful.
And the architecture looks great. Cool Doric columns, Corinthian columns, temples dedicated
to goddesses that look beautiful. And everyone can go there and have a good time and enjoy the
festival, drink wine, and everybody's living in this polis and civilization is kicking.
And then all of a sudden, by the way, and this is the last and this is the other aspect of it,
you have Aristotle's philosophy, which is updated on Plato's philosophy, which is updated on
Socrates, which is updated on Antisthenes and Thales and Parmitides and Heraclitus.
And there's a big line of thinking and it's all updating itself, updating itself, updating itself.
Socrates, Aristotle, sort of becomes canon, right? People are just sort of gel with Aristotle.
And Galen, the medical side, that's the philosophy side, the science side. On the medical side,
you have Galen, which updates diascorides, which updates Hippocrates, right? And there's all these
different updates of different textbooks that are coming out, just like you see today in academia.
New scholars come along, they update the previous ones. This is all the ancient Greek world was like.
What happened to that system? Galen and Aristotle did not get updated until the 16th century.
Did you know? People don't even know this.
Okay, wait, wait. That's brilliant. Let me interrupt. That's absolutely brilliant,
what you just noticed. Absolutely brilliant. It was everything was set in stone. Galen was the
last guy that the steps or the bridge included all the way up to like 1850. He dominated. He
dominated. Why? Why? Where's the stepwise progress? Yeah, it makes you think.
The main focus was on the church. That was the whole world. The whole world was centered around
the church from the, from, from, I want to say, people and people, like, you know, you get Gibbon
wants to say it's 476. I'll go farther back than that. I'll say 3rd century, actually,
the collapse of the 3rd century. That's the end, I think. That's when it's just darkness from then
on, all the way until around like 1200. Right before the Renaissance, you start getting all these
brilliant writers. Here's one, for example, Flavio. Beyondo Flavio is one of the texts down
reading right now. Great. He starts getting back into the classics. He starts writing about
Kybali and Addis and Adonis and he starts writing about all these ancient cults again,
and it's getting back into the subconscious people again. It's getting back. People are
reading about all the classics again. But here's the point that I'm making is there was no theater.
There was no Homer. They didn't have Asculus anymore. And then people, so I've heard, I've
heard people argue, oh, they had classic texts in those periods. Okay, let's, I'll give you a 500
year span. I'll give you 500 years, 500 AD to 1000 AD. What do you got? Um,
a Beowulf. Oh, really? Beowulf. That's it. You get church fathers. Yeah, no, you'll get smelly,
stale church fathers who suck nut. Those are all dissertations on the Trinity,
on Mother Mary and her divine nature, on the nature of Christ, on Christ's flesh nature,
on the, on the Epistle of Paul, on this text that's on the Epistle of Paul, on Augustine,
on this. They're all just writing about each other. They're all just circle jerking each other
about Christianity for 500 years. They're not doing Homer anymore. They're not doing,
they're not making tragedies anymore. They're not having big festivals anymore in honor of
Dionysus. They're not doing games of Caesar anymore. Well, maybe they can't, they can't,
no, they can't because that jerk Theodosius outlawed it. They can't do anything. They can't,
the oracles, the oracles have shut down. They can't do any of that stuff anymore.
They outlawed, outlawed frivolous laughter. They said, if you laugh too hard, you're honoring Dionysus.
And that, and that's the best picture. This is what I'm bringing. I'm bringing this to my
defeat for a lot of dark ages. It's a decree from 609 AD in Constantinople. It's a, it's a,
papal or not papal, patriarchal decree. It's one of these councils of Trent or something. I can't
remember the name of it. Council of something, council of whatever, who cares? And it says right
in there, if you, if you are caught laughing hysterically while producing wine, you can be
arrested because that means that you're contributing to Dionysus. And they call him the abominable
Dionysus. I love it. He's the devil. And I love it. That's the devil. That's Satan. Dionysus is
a Satan, but it's so hilarious. What he represents laughter, fun, joy, express, loving the world,
loving yourself, enjoying life, hilarity. It's a no brainer. It's a no brainer. It's hilarious.
It's hilariously simple. Exactly. No, I love it. I love it. What do you think is the key?
Let me ask you this. What do you think is the key to exposing? Because Dan and this sort of
individual, they're all over the place. There's way more of them than there are of us. So what
do you see as a way forward? Well, one thing I noticed about people like that is they're not,
they don't seem generally interested in these subjects. They seem more generally interested in
pushing themselves up a ladder and running. I'm going to run for office. It's all about me, me,
me, me. They're not trying to contribute to the knowledge base. That's the one thing about people
like James Frazier is they're genuinely trying to read about the past, read about as many sources
as possible, come up with some sort of explanation of all this stuff, put it all together so that
you can read about it too. Today, it's all about just rubbing the right people the right way so
that you can stay in the positive light and look how great this person is, look how great of a
scholar he is. They just wrote about feminism in the Bible. Whoa, that's so, so cool. It's like,
that's what's going on right now. It's more about promoting yourself and making everyone look how
great of a scholar you are rather than actually doing what scholars are supposed to do. That's
what I noticed. You, it's called, you tickle my tape, I'll tickle yours. Yeah.
You get your book deal. You don't have to work on Amazon because it's going to get sold to all
these universities and then they're going to use that and then they're going to, and then someone
else's tuition is going to go up because they got to pay for that somehow. Now, now you wonder why
it's $100,000 to go to school because everybody's got all these professors who got their book deals,
they get their paid transit so they can travel and go on vacation to Greece and enjoy themselves and
not do any work while they're there. Yeah, Greece and enjoy their free travel that your
tuition is going to pay for. Right, right. It's, it's education right now. It's a bit of a business.
You know what I mean? It's a bit of a business and because it's a business, their mouths are bound.
They are bound by certain things. There's things that you and I discuss here. You can't talk about
it. There's no way. I, and I know for a fact there are classicists to hear it and they're like,
yeah, yeah, go, you go. I had somebody, I had a professor write me a letter. I had a professor
write me a letter and say when everything was happening with them saying I couldn't talk about
drugs and antiquity saying I've got a lot of respect for you. I've got a lot of respect for
you and I wish I could be public, but I'll lose my job. I thought, you know what, that's a,
that's a shame that the system is like that. You know, everybody thinks it's, oh, it's a bunch of
liberals running a system of mind, mind alteration. No, you idiots. You're just saying it because
you've never been. Do you know what it is? It's a business and people do. They suck the butt that
they have to suck in order to keep that cashola coming in. And you know, I have never met a
professor, never met a professor who is a tenured professor who didn't have a considerable number
of nice things and was comfortable. I've never met a tenured professor and the bigger the school,
the more prestige. Did you smell the prestige on Dan, the false prestige? It's a, it's a perfume
they wear, right? The more prestige you have, the bigger your house. I'm not kidding you,
I've been in a lot of universities. People like that, people like that, you can tell that you
had 15 years to just pay attention to school and be a scholar. I've never had an opportunity like
that. I had to go to work in a factory. I actually dropped out of college because I didn't have enough
money to go there. I couldn't get like, I can't, I didn't have someone paying for my college. I
didn't have a Mormon family that's just gonna, you're gonna be a scholar. Like, no, no, but
everyone's like, are you getting a job? There's a factory down the street that's open. You're gonna
go there. We need you, you need to get a job, you need to get out of the like, I had to work. So
like, most people don't have the opportunity just to be a scholar and then take 15 years out of
their life and rack up debt that they're not going to worry about and then just kind of sit around
be on tiktok all day. That's the most privilege I've ever seen in my entire life. And you can see
it. It's obvious. It's obvious. It reeks, it reeks. So let's just say that. It's corrupt and it's so,
it's so greed filled that whatever the greed is going to tell you to do, that's what you're going
to do. Those are the kind of books you're going to produce and that's the kind of quote unquote
scholarship you're going to produce. Look at somebody who's been through a theology training
and they don't even realize, these are people who are making comments about the Septuagint
and about the Torah and the Dead Sea Scrolls. They don't even realize of the basic facts of their
own language that they're supposed to be studying. I thought it was hilarious when the head of
Hebrew universities, Hebrew program, that he works with the government. That dude works with the
government to set the modern Hebrew language, which is different. It's got like 60,000 words,
I think was the last count. Okay, that's good. That's a good amount. He's the one who came out
and he said in an article, he said, there's, he said there's only 7,000. I'll let him be the expert
because he's the expert. I knew it was around 8, 9,000, but he says there's really only 7,000
unique words. So okay, it's even lower than we thought. The fact that somebody can be sitting
in front of you in a green t-shirt and can say to you, this is the way it is, it's 79.
Whatever. Dude, you're in a back alley. Neil, didn't I used to tell you,
didn't I used to tell you that you can get taken into a back alley by these experts and these scholars?
The thing that drove me crazy from that clip was the smug smile that he must have thought 70,000,
but he really meant, he must have heard seven and thought 70, and he just was, you know,
or he must have heard 70, or what do you say, seven? Yeah, the other way around. He must have
heard 70 and thought seven and he got it off. Little does he know that Smirk is for himself.
He's the one that got it all off. So that's why that smugness was like, wow. The confidence,
the pride that I could just go into this podcast, not check and just think that I know everything
in my head that I don't even have to check and then, oh, shit, I was wrong. Oh, fuck,
how am I going to cover this up? Oh, let's just say that I knew it the whole time,
but I didn't get the wrong answer. Come on, you knew you were going there for that question.
It's the first question he asked you. Yeah, first question he asked you. Yeah, before we go.
Do you have anything else you want to say about that or no?
No, no, no. I just want to say, I just want to say thank you for going back to the sources
to be able, when you said, I'm going to show all the sources for each of these. Dude,
that lightsaber of yours, nothing can stop it. Nothing can stop that. That is so
frigging renaissance of you. Yeah. By the way, if you get a source to somebody in the comments
was asking what I was talking about with the laughing thing, what source is he talking about?
I just pulled it up. This is dark ages for you right here. People who deny the dark ages
is a term that we should still use. I question you on what do you think about this? All right.
You have a 60 second canon of Constantinople forbade the invocation of the name of the
abdominal Dionysus when grapes were crushed in the wine vets. Vitroculturists were also
cautioned to avoid frivolous laughter. No more laughter. You're not allowed to laugh. No more
fun. Isn't that crazy? That's dark. That is dark ages to me. I don't care what you say.
This happens in the eighth century. This is the midst of the dark ages. This is the middle of the
dark ages. No more hilarity, baby. You got to shut down the hilarity. You know they've got laws
in the new plan of 2025. They're going to force anti pornography laws and they're going to say that
even a discussion is forbidden. We're going back to those. We're going back to those roots,
those medieval BS roots that we're going to have to live up to. What do you think? That's the last
question I want to ask. What's the secret here? I know I'd like to come back to this frequently.
Real quick on that. Somebody recently made a comment about Islam and they go,
that's some stone age crap right there because I've got something about Islam,
like being terrorists or whatever. That's some stone age stuff and I just thought to myself,
no, the stone age is actually very beautiful. You had the worship of Kubaba and the stone age.
The cultivation of the vine at the end of the stone age.
Mino and Crete at the end of the stone age. Not Mino and Crete, just Crete.
You know there was. Let me finish this thought. What they're actually referring to is the middle
ages. Instead of saying that's some stone age crap, they should be saying that's some middle
ages crap right there. The middle ages is worse than stone age. They did have. We got to recognize
that there was a movement. Somebody told me it was the Abbasids. Check me if that's right or not.
They were building, man. Muslim culture was building libraries at one point.
Building libraries. The only reason I know that I've got Muslim brothers and sisters who followed
classical antiquity is because they took authors like Galen and they translated them into classical
Arabic. Unfortunately, in a lot of cases, the original Galen was lost. So the Arab
Muslim culture. The Abbasids were at the golden age. Were the ones who were bringing us classical.
You mentioned how classical stuff kind of percolates. It was just as much classical for them and they
loved it. Right. And it was again. They preserved Aristotle when the Greeks weren't.
Oh, God. Smarties. And by the way, that's the point that you just gave me my point.
When they say that's some stone age crap when they're talking about Islam.
To be specific, it's more to be more specific. It's middle ages Christian crap.
That's what they're Christians. The middle ages were acting like.
It's honest. It's honest. It's honest. And anytime you get mystical or mysticism that is influencing
the monism, it always creates a polytheistic escape. And you get people who suddenly appreciate
all of the alchemy and things like that. You get people who bring back the classics.
It's the cure of monism. Mysticism is the cure of monism. The best thing that we can do is show
people the rights that Jesus Christ himself is a part of. And when they see that, they'll know who
they are. The bad thing is, is when you understand what antiquity was actually all about and you're
into that dirt and you see those drugs and you see those sex rights, you know, it puts you into
a place that you have the question. You have the question, who the hell am I? Who the hell am I?
What kind of belief system do I have? When did it evolve? And where did it come from? Because
you're not doing the original, baby. You're not doing the original thing that Jesus was doing.
So yeah, love it. Love it. Yeah, I would argue that Dios, Dios volt is the equivalent of Allah
Akbar. Because that's what they were chanting back in the middle ages when they were trying to go
and sack Jerusalem and take it back. Dios volt. Dios volt is to say they're literally acting like
that. So the things that you're complaining about, the things that you don't like about Hamas,
are the things that your Christian forefathers were doing in the middle ages. Same shit.
Right, exactly. That's why I thought that line with Lucifer and the tyrant was so important,
right? Always keep that in mind. Keep that, what is that tyranny, baby? If you do, you'll be free.
And I hope that you, that's a perfect way to send you off because you're going to go off to
Florida. I wish I was going with you. You're going to go off to Florida and you're going to have a
couple of great interviews and you're going to represent the sources in a world that doesn't
want that. It wants a modest false reality that is a fairy tale. And everybody is satanic,
all the satanic congregation, every lady Babylon here, that's why you come here,
is you are dope heads for reality. You want that reality. So I love it. I love it. Neil,
thank you for coming tonight. Best of luck on your trip and all of the interviews.
Give them hell and Hail Satan. Hail Satan.
Some breaking stars by the rain rhymes, but you won't hold the flame of being in the sky.
Diamonds sharp on a magic cover. I fly the man who laughs, wear a mask,
ain't a weak thump. Make these bitches jump. Posse out on Broadway. Dr. Doom. Face gone boom.
Cheat you all up, you're gonna crush. You begin to face the ball and move.
Make you get better soon. Wish you could. Cheat you all up, you're gonna crush. You begin
to face the ball and move. Make you get better soon. Wish you could. Jesus Creepers,
mystery.
