Is Jehovah gay?
I'm flying for peace, all things hidden will be revealed. I'm Freddy Kruger with the purple stone. Hail Satan, my goose is home. I'm in the twilight zoning. Roots are cut and grown.
Devil boy, you took it. Take two hits and hold it. The witch she keep you loaded. So good they want my mow it. I spit dragon venom through hell and through the heavens.
High fire is purple. I'm with the ashy ashtman. Where the horses ride. Flying through the night. I'm here for the promises. You feel alright. It's a promisey. She keeps it tight. Got the costume on. All night. I'm with the fumigation company.
Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication. Cur pileadas. Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon and amen you you know how it goes people you're gonna get me for 30 minutes
delightful delightful dirtiness and then we're going to turn
You over to the DI and he will tell you where you should be if you are what you are
Fantastic, I love the fact that we're here tonight, and I have just a few minutes to go over something with you that is so
Get ready get ready right you thought what what else could there be oh
My goodness it's going to get dark, and we're gonna go to a place that people don't normally go to
But that's exactly
Why we're doing it
We're doing it because we like Paul
Had to go in deep
We needed that prick we needed the purple
Yeah, so what I'm going to do tonight is I'm going to take you on an actual trip of Paul the Apostle
Where he is discussing we're right there. He's right there the ship's coming down. We're getting right there first century here
He comes here. He comes. It's a rena nero. What you're doing druggy Paul. What are you doing?
That's what we're going to look at tonight, and we're going to look at
God and when I say God, I mean God
We're going to be staring Jehovah
Right in the eyes tonight, and you are going to be surprised
What you find you're gonna be surprised
It's the orientation that matters. Let's see. Let's see hit it chewy
We got a first wait wait wait before before we get to Paul and
Jehovah and show you things that people I promise you Satanic congregation people are gonna look at this and they're gonna say oh
What do we do?
Yeah, it's fantastic. Are you ready and the fun thing is we get to go right into the cult right into the cult
Right, that's how we get there. You want to see the mystery as it's happening. Are you ready?
Right and another dimension they look at everything. They say oh you're those nutcases who follow that pedophile
Yes, you do come here Paul. Somebody wants you to get spanked. Where's that? Look what we did. We expanded the universe
My god, I think it was the plant
Seastra, right here we go here. We go Paul come here tonight. It's for you. It's for you st. Paul
You little you little servant of Lydia. Oh
Oh
Everybody thinks he's so smart
Let's watch him tonight. Let's see where he gets his smarts from but first we have some soul fucking to do
I'm so glad to tell you. We've got soul sucking. Are you ready?
Pull out your finest right get on the throne
Everybody the congregation, you know exactly what I'm saying get on the throne pull out that goblet
Cuz tonight we're serving up soul. We're serving up soul
It's UFC
Antiquity
Let's go for it. Let's go for it. You ready? They're looking for challengers now
Yeah, oh, I'm hungry. I'm hungry as I can be give me the first one
Give me the first one. What is that person's I wanted just quick look at this comment
Before we get to the dang clips one of the most interesting interviews. I've ever listened to
About all of this this man is dangerous to the current leaders or lead of religions the world over
Omen Hillman
Should be taken very seriously. It sounds ominous, doesn't it? But the point here is exactly is
Exactly on I shouldn't be taken
Oh, you know people shouldn't be looking at me
But these texts reveal a completely different world than the religious world that you and I have had pulled over our eyes
Yeah, it's a new world, baby. Let's look at it through that. We're the clips. Did we put the clips in there?
Oh, we need another one. She was like shut up
Gekko boy Gekko we love Gekko's
He did his PhD under
Stavrakapulu. Oh
Right, and that's the modern Greek that I heard in his in his accent, of course in ancient Greek
I'm about halfway through her book. God. Isn't that amazing?
What's your book gonna be called God?
We're gonna find him tonight are you ready the number of times the 6th century BCE is mentioned
But never a source right right number of times it's mentioned but never a source
Your guy is full of it. Yeah, thank you
What is that? There was a very important point that I wanted to bring out for people. We do not care about theories
We don't care about word salads here. We care about what the evidence is showing us the reality
That's exactly what people are hitting on. It's nothing to do with me
It's everything to do with the muse the dragon guards that song. That's it
It's the one job
Give it to me. What's the oh, let's hit Dan come here Dan. It's time for Dan
Let me take a couple of these clips and people. This is not personal. This is not personal
This is professional
This is the guy that you see tonight who went to
Dozens of professional conferences were people who have been studying ancient Greek and Latin all their lives
They come in and they
they they wrestle and
You can't mess around man. You cannot mess around. That's what this is about. I don't want anybody
Getting taken into the back alley. Good
Let's go for it. Give me a Dan. I want to suck this up go
There are seventy nine thousand nine hundred on it like forty five words in Hebrew in the Hebrew Bible alone
So seventy nine thousand seventy nine thousand. Yeah, so I think he may have heard 80,000 somewhere. He said eight
Yeah, I think he may have mistook
84 eight because they're the Hebrew Bible itself, which is not all of ancient Hebrew like there's
There was a lot of Hebrew writing and speaking outside the Hebrew Bible
But the Hebrew Bible itself has 80,000
different words in it
Um, right. So who was confused there? We all know it was DuckTales Dan and he said
Something that was way off. I don't know where he got seventy nine thousand nine hundred and ninety five
I don't know where he got those. He pulled those out of some
Dark vaporous black hole somewhere because that's not the that look people. What's the point of this?
um
This is not just a game
When you're presenting history to someone and you misrepresent it
Uh, that's unsacred
That that's something that's befouling the planet
We have to honor the muse of history. Her name is Cleo Dan. Her name is Cleo. Give us the next one
He did correct me on something there. I said it was limited to classical and early greek lyrical poetry
But it's it's also in classical and early greek medical texts and and he pointed that out. So oh, he did
Yeah, now that has an absolutely no bearing whatsoever on the claim that that's what it means in the new testament, but um,
Okay, but it is in medical texts
Okay, did you hear the voice of reasoning sneaking in there and the renaissance
Uh champion coming out of dany jones. Did you hear that?
Yeah, no duck tails. Danny is going to continue leading down this road of deception
Right, it's when you take the sources and you cram them in the person's face
That's when that's when you know, you're in the right place
You as a classicist have done your job. You've just guarded the sources. We don't want to hear what you think
I'm sorry. Dr. P and dr. L oxford
Yale, we don't care
In the slightest what you think
We want to know what the evidence is and we want to understand it for ourselves because we're servants of the muse of history
Right. Um, watch what's happening a couple more. Let's give a couple more go. Um, what is the difference between a
A classical scholar and a biblical scholar
So, uh, a person who studies classics is primarily engaging
In the uh, the greek and the latin literature from the middle of the first millennium bce down into
The first few centuries c e and and i use bce and c e where people use bc and ad
And so classics doesn't really have a ton of overlap with the bible
But the the people who wrote and transmitted and consumed the new testament and as well as the septuagent
Were also people who engaged with classical literature and there's a lot of influence from classics on
the bio
That's not too bad. He's he's only off about 500 years
so, um classical philology is the study of greek and latin and
Our earliest sources are not in the fifth century, right?
You've missed half the boat right now. What are you watching happen? This man is an expert
Who makes his living off of being an expert?
Where is the responsibility
To the muse
Where's the responsibility that we have we have an obligation to be accurate and all you nerdy engineers and all you nerdy computer
Programmers you all understand that
The mathematicians that's the draw
Oh god, we love it. The musicians are even they don't even understand right and they're the musicians
I love it. But what's the?
He's off in the amount of time that we study, but he also makes it sound like
We don't study the bible
Because we just do classical stuff right in dan's mind
