How do we how do we make life easy?
I know we'll put everything in order and the first thing I say is got to be the subject
Then you've got to say the verb then you've got to say the direct object
Right, we'll do it by word order
That's how we'll tell I ate the spaghetti. I can't say the spaghetti ate. I
Because then i'm thinking about spaghetti eating someone because my stupid english brain is stuck in word order
And it's going to affect everything you do from now on
Greek does not use word order
think about that for a minute
ancient greek
passage can spit at you 50 words
And you don't get the main verb until the end of the thing. You don't really know what's going on to the very end
You're just juggling a stuff in your brain
Do you see what I mean in order to allow you?
To be able to juggle this we've got to get the muscle memory
We've got to get the muscle memory down. I need you to memorize the definite article
Okay, what i'm going to do you take it down
Take it down. Show you what i'm going to do for next week. Look there 880
This is officially the largest ever ancient greek class
largest ever
Right, we should be proud of this and we should nurture this and get ourselves to the right place now listen to me
If you need a pep talk
If you're not doing this every day if you're not taking this book that you've got if you're not looking at unit one for
30 minutes a day
Very bare minimum
30 and you can do this on the toilet
You do it in your car when you're not driving
You can do it, you know at a restaurant when you're waiting for your beloved to show up
Um, you can do it wherever you've got a few extra minutes drinking a little bit
Read the vocabulary list and try to pronounce the vocabulary list from unit one
Over tea with your spouse drive him crazy
And then look at you like what this stuff's crazy
Right, but you've got to you've got to put in a certain amount of work. There's a i'm going to give you this as a final
Kind of you know inspiration tonight
there is
a place
That I need to take you I need to take you to the gym
And if you stop working out
You're not going to make it
You'll fall by the wayside the very um one of the very earliest instructions that I remember from john scarborough my advisor
Um was that if you stop
it leaks
You can take a professor who's had 50 years
Of translation and if that professor stops for a couple of weeks
He's me or she is going to leak
They're going to leak
Because it is not a spoken language. It's specifically a language that we just translate
Unless you are actively working it you are losing what you have built up
You have to make constant progress and even if that is just 30 minutes a day
30 minutes a day imagine that
If I told you I have a magic pill
Maybe this would be our commercial because we don't have commercials because we're not here for the friggin money
But if I had a pill for you and I said if you take this every day
It will grow your brain
Your brain your head will get bigger people look at you and be like damn what's happening to your head, bro
And it'll be big because it's growing
If I had that pill for you I do
It's Greek and your brain doesn't need to get physically bigger
It needs to make more connections
The greeks can allow you to do that
Thank you to the 800 some people
Who are consistently
Almost 900
Thank you to the 900 people who are making this
Officially the biggest class somebody write to Guinness
Okay, I taught at university. I taught at a giant university
University of wisconsin
I'm the only graduate student to ever teach medical terms by myself
When a professor had a she had a maternity
Leave right so I took over the class
And there were hundreds of people in the class. I think we had like 270
Something like that. I've been in myth classes where there are 10 excuse me where there are five
Teaching assistants each of us with 120 students
Right. I've been in classes of a thousand people and I can tell you something. This is the only
Ancient greek course with this many people
Look what we did
I want to I want to revel in this and I want to say, hey, um, harvard
Watch what happens. Watch what happens when you take out the greed and when
People just want to be able to use the instrument when you free people. This is what happens
Thank you for coming tonight
And we will be on friday night for a traditional
Lady Babylon and I look forward to bringing you
Yet one more
peeling back
Of that
Unreality to show you the beauty of what is thank you for coming tonight
Hail Satan
Satan in the chorus try some you want more knock knock i'm at the door
Gigi penny wise put the twinkle in your eyes Jesus on the cross from harm and little ones
Don't mess with the kids. Madea. She will come which queen of the dragons madea mama mia
Dreams come through my deer. She'll knock you on the rear put something in your beer
High purple they eat fetus bleed out spingo deeper
Jeepers to the creepers smoking sensamia
Ancient greek we read up
venom from the teeth of
Bloody uzi seaper
Grim to the reaper
Lavender madea
Indica honeya
Hit you on the beeper
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
Michael's poisonous
Hit you with the kiss
Drinking venom drip
Fane gripping her lip
