Barbello
Right I can't see it's too tiny. It's too tiny hang on put the deflectors up. There you go
and
Okay
There we are we're worshiping Barbello. Wait a minute. What um, why are we worshiping Barbello?
because we are the followers of the Christ and
You know what they say about her. I'm translating. You know what they say about her
They say she's that queen of the 8th heaven. Yeah, and that she was
Produced by her father. She was brought into
Reality by her father boom and if this starts to sound like
Athena don't be surprised
This is typical mystery, right? This is the virgin
The mother
Yeah, so who are the people long story short who are the people who were doing this the Jews
Those who worship sabba off
Yes, you mean this is the early first century and
The Jews in the early first century are not worshiping
The Jehovah that I know and love
Now they're not sorry
Yes, no
They're worshiping the child
The child of Barbello
Who rules the seventh?
heaven and
He rules by tyranny. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who is this?
This is Jehovah, baby
Right, look at the sabba off the top there. How does Jehovah rule the seventh heaven remember?
I'm telling you what the people who are with Jesus are thanking and doing and
How it relates to the practice of their mysteries
These are the mysteries of the body's
fluids
flesh and blood
Drinking and eat it or you're not on your way to paradise
Give me the no, what are we gonna do?
Seventh heaven ruler Jehovah. He said he's a jerk
He's a tyrant here. It says he rules with complete force and
What does it also say? Oh, he goes around saying hope Amy hop roto sky will met a talta
I am the first and the last and
Without me there is no other God
Beyond me. There's no other God
Except for me. No other God
Does that sound familiar to you?
Does anybody here wake up Jesus?
Maybe he'll say something like it watch I can put put my hand and make him talk hit
What's happening here when I saw him I fell on my to his feet, you know what I mean?
Oh the glory. Oh, and I fell down like I was dead
There's a lot of that going around
And what does it say here? What does it say here? Is it don't be afraid?
Don't be afraid, right? I
Am the first and the last
Of course he is because this is the same position in the same mystery
Where is that spell?
Where is that spell?
To find the male lover where who do I in who do I call on for that?
Lord Sabbath. Yeah, oh
Jehovah
That is the earliest expression of
The Jewish mystery God
That's it. It's in the text. We have it in concrete
Love it
Love it. Let's see where he goes. Let's see where he goes with it. It's gonna get bad people
Just wait. Just wait hit me with the next one because what kind of mysteries am I talking about?
Right, I'm talking about
the mystery of the iscrologia
the mystery of the
shameful
logos
The mystery of the shameful sayings the shameful utterances
Are you ready for this you didn't know you were coming
Didn't you see on the banner the three X's that were up there?
What are you? What are you thanking? Get your get out of here, right? Cover your eyes
No, of course, you don't want to you. You want to see this. Are you ready for this mystery?
It's it's really out there. This is what they're doing under the name of Christ. Here's another
Here's another one for the New Testament. What does it say here?
Look, it says the things that they do in secret
these things it's
Icecron to even speak
It's literally icecron leg in
They're speaking the ice
chronology
Remember Paul
Remember Paul when we when we met up with St. Paul after the party and he was like, oh god
I don't know if I was there. I don't know if I was in somebody else's body or shooting up in the spirit
I don't know where I was, but I saw things that you can't speak about
And that was only the third heaven
Imagine what the dude who's in the seventh is doing
I
Am
Amen, give me the next one. Oh love it
I'm so hungry tonight
Give it to me
People I want to introduce you to an ancient concept. Are you ready? Taste ice crew?
Yes, say it one more time ice crew
Yes
Are you ready? You want to know what this is? This is what their rights are doing
Mmm. Let's pull up a Victorian the dead Victorian. Come here Frederick
No, this is Alfred Fredericks from over that way. This is Alfred Alfred. Tell me
What is it to do an ice crew to get oh to act that way? It's to act obscenely says Alfred
