I want to bring. Oh, I didn't bring it. What I need to give you finally is to say
Hey, the exercises are there when you finish reading each unit. You should attempt the exercises, right?
You should attempt the exercises and I will bring next week the exercises just a smattering
Maybe half a dozen
Maybe 10 of those exercises and we will go over them now if you can keep up with me
You're doing exactly what you should be doing
You're keeping up with me
You're going to notice
Now in unit two that there are a series of charts in bold
All right the present
tense
the
Perfect tense the future tense you're going to get those now
And you're going to see the endings that you got to tack on to those and what are you going to do with those endings?
You're going to memorize them
You're going to memorize them. What are the presents?
One of the imperfects on s a woman at day on
What are the heiress ass a manatee on?
Interesting. You mean you can just
Wrote those things. Yeah, I need you to do that
Part of the intensive course is teaching you
to go through those charts and just
boom
Memorize them so you can spit them out
memorize your endings in in victorian england when you get the whip to
smash the little boys on their
Back sides for not learning the other greek paradigms properly. You say, what are your endings?
Ah
Now you have to do that at this point because this is basic training when you're translating in the future
You're not going to be thanking. Oh god. Wait. Wait. Ah, I'm oh, this is right. You're not going to be thanking that way
As the more you progress into ancient greek the less you're going to see
That
That uh, tuning you're just going to see the final product and it's going to click
It's like riding away if you get to a point. We're just riding the wave
But at this point in the game if you don't and I lose
I lose people's
interest
If I focus on the paradigms too much
Because it's a lot of work. It's a lot of building
It's a lot of
Weightlifting just constant weightlifting. So here's what I need for you to do for those of you who are following
I'm going to use intensive greek course. I need you to memorize
All the tense endings
For the verbs from unit two for next week so that I can shout out and I can say what are the future endings
And you can say always a woman at the uc
We're going to start doing that next week
What are you going to be doing this week?
grade unit two
Comprehend it start digesting the vocabulary learn. I'll read all those beautiful notes
Those beautiful notes about the derivations of words
And oh god, everybody here. You're going to be 900 people with that much more
Um vocabulary. So keep it up. I know it's tough
We have 1.7 million to memorize
So let's get going. I love it. Um, thank you for coming tonight. Uh, thank you very much
There will be I just want you to know in the works
Um, there will be some kind of coming
octagon
We must if we are true
members of the new renaissance
We're going to have to
Subject ourselves
to public
demonstrations
public debates
And so, uh, we're in the works things are coming
Things are coming. So I'm ready and I'm going to be getting in shape
For it because I want to make weight for this next competition
You know, you know what I mean dan's one thing, but you know, you work your way up the ladder, right?
and um,
hopefully
My exercise program will be able to get me to the stage
That i'm undefeatable and that's the goal. That's the goal
So how am I going to prep just for those of you who want to know over the next few weeks?
I'll be reading
All of the septuagint and the new testament
I have to you know, it's just the thing I've got to do in greek, of course
In greek, of course, thank you for coming
And I hope to see you in the future. There are new interviews out. Um,
Yeah, I did a live interview. Oh god
I'm gonna list those, you know, I've got several of those to list and i'm gonna list those
Um, yeah, let me do that. I'll put them on the uh webs on the
page here
Thank you for coming tonight
Please
Please as you're learning your greek. You're going to become
frustrated
You're going to become frustrated
If you have any access
To the people who are the veterans who have been through the program they can tell you look dude just
Chill out. It's going to it's going to keep like this, right?
And someday you're going to look back and realize. Oh my god. Did I do that?
Did I do that much and you're going to have a test after unit three?
And the tests are fantastic. I'll do my tests in a way
I'm going to do them for you. Oh all all 800 of us or how many of us are there?
Not we're going to do it. Thank you for coming tonight. I know it was tough
I know it was tough looking at some of the origins of jehovah
And the things that you didn't know that were there so for the for those of you who
You know who are going to write to me and tell me I love one of the best comments I got recently was
enjoy hell idiot
So for all of you, thank you for coming sisters of frustration. Thank you for coming. I'll see you friday night
For lady babelon
And we'll bring in the apocalypse hell satan
Maafina
death of a creeper
fashion gibbets
for child interferers
sleep with the devil
and then you will pay
sleep with the devil and you'll be taken away
You must pay when you enter the gates
of babelon
for all that you did the drone
laces rex
imv
cash and checks
doctors do dreams
purple rain
aflina doing a thing
You can hear me knocking at the door. I'm in the purple suit
satanalia
here we go
wolf spain
theory act flow
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
