Uh, what is this the fifth book? It says it says in this fifth book, you know
Are all these principles written out on the theriacs and the elixopharmica?
Those are the theriacs and the antidotes you could translate that as and all you know to all the
these crazy crazy
Species that they're dealing with you know the first one is you know
You're guarding against the just in general poison
White things that are poisonous, but he goes through this list and you're going to see a whole bunch of spiders and snakes
scorpions
Right. Oh just a whole bunch of different types of venoms. Oh my god. There's the there's the one they're using in the religious rides
That gives you the thirst. There's the deep sauce
You oh you freemasons out there. You freemasons who want it. You're this close
You need the sting give me the give me the next one. Let's just keep charging
Oh, yeah, this is what you do and you act place. So watch this people you can drive out of your mind
You can be driven out of your senses
Right. There's a there's a whole set
of
That is influenced by medicine and antiquity, right and that doesn't live behind a wall
like
You know, I'm not talking about the same thing as going to a hospital and listening to
Doctors using their own jargon
Right. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the common person in the street
Has no barrier of separation between these words in greek that are highly highly charged medical words
And any other use of them that's not medical. There is no separation when you say christ
You are envisioning
A drug
That is stinging you to madness
That is the christ
Okay, the christ is stung to madness and we have examples of it outside jesus, right? We looked at medea
We looked at her whole business, right good. She's the founder, right? She's the one who made it
And can I just say for those of you who are concerned for the virgins?
I know you're concerned for the virgins
and you understand
That jesus christ
Was performing actions that were contrary
and that to tradition
Of the orphic mysteries because you you know, you don't want to go there
You don't want to be there with that boy that jesus is arrested with you don't want to be performing those acts
That jesus is performing on the boy just like he didn't want to oh
Take it away from me
Why you get this
Do you understand that as you go into the desert and have access to satan you understand why the trial
Is so heavy
It's so heavy. Let's watch a couple of these idiots go through this
All right, give me the here we go now. Look paul says here. He is
Everybody here's paul. He's about to do his thing
You thought it would be preaching or maybe an ice cream social. No, no, no
He's gonna get ripped with a dude
intimate
intimately ripped
And he's gonna fly
To the third heaven you ever been to the third heaven? Oh god. What does he say? He says I don't mean to brag
Right from all of these visions. I don't mean to brag
right
but
Because nobody should brag. I was given a skull ops in my flesh
I was given a thorn in my flesh and you know what that thorn is that thorn is an angelo satana
Wait, did paul just say
By way of a skull ops
he has access
To an angel called satan. This isn't an angel of satan. This is an
satan angel
Oh
You know what that is
He's sitting on the throne
In order why why is he giving this because god likes to slap him around
He likes to slap him around
Give me the next one. Okay. Are you there? We're we're we're getting crazy with paul
Don't worry about it. What is that skull ops? It's anything pointed. Yeah, that's why I say thorn, right? And they say thorn too
Look at the very middle of this page though
Under number two if you look at the greek on the third line, it says scolopace. That's the plural
Right thorns. What kind of thorns foinikos?
Do you know what kind of thorns you take that gets you to the third heaven?
You take the finition purple thorn
And you fly
With god in love
What?
Yeah, it gets kind of strange like why do we have to have the sexual part paul's dirty bra tells dirty dirty dirty
he's very clear
with the
intimacy level
The he and this dude
This dude
Are having
Right, where's that spell?
Where's that spell?
By the name of johova when you say johova's name. Do you know what you're endorsing?
You are endorsing
The love
Of the same sex
If you had a second third fourth century
Rabbi practicing his magic
You're gonna find johova being invoked
To grab ahold of that other rabbi
and to bring him in
You want to see you want to see it happening? Watch this
Give me the one that we skipped go down. Yeah, maybe that one
There it is
Who is this that we're talking about? Let's just read it together blow it up. Chewie
Yet, I am sypree and the great magician
This is third century who was the friend
Of the dragon of the abyss
All right, well he called me his son and I called him father
He placed his crown and his diet dim on my head
I suckled milk at his right breast and all of you looked at me when I told you Jesus christ is wearing a
bra
Like what?
It's because he gives milk, baby. He gives milk
Now this next part I can't vouch for this next part, right? He made me a place that is right now
That sounds cool, but he subjected me to every power of his
I'm not quite sure what that means and if you were if you told me what's he gonna do to me
Well, first you're gonna this and then he's gonna subject you to every form of power he's got
I don't know
I don't know
I ascended what happened paul. This is this is not paul. This is sypree and no, no
This is paul and sypree and and jesus
This is the performance of classical religion
Sypree and his right sypree and his is deep in the magic as anyone else
Maybe that's why they say he had
Serpent venom coming out of his backside
Yeah, he did look it up
They called him in a graveyard
Was two prostitutes
Why
Why do you need the sex?
It's part of the right brah
There's a reason jesus christ was arrested with a naked kid in the public park. What happened next?
The person who was in the right ascends up to the play of these
And they glided by under me like a ship, right? I learned the whispers of the stars. Of course you did
There's nothing more orific than that
I took possession of the treasuries of the winds
Do you know what the oldest hymns are in the mystery?
The western mystery the mystery of the bronze age
They gave you Judaism and Christianity along with
hundreds
of other cults
