Okay, we must do it from the void
It's 24 24 women
Right
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Oh, and there's whips and falls. What are we whips for? They're for that divine justice, baby
They're for that divine justice if you don't have the whips
If you don't have the whips ladies
How are you gonna bring the divine justice
How are you gonna bring it now for those of you with ears to hear who go to that witches banquet?
Right where the food's not very good, but the company's great
Right for those of you who go there. Where are your whips?
Where is the insanity?
Are you really going to give in?
Really give me the next one. I love it. I love getting
Getting them ready getting the band ready. What are we gonna do here people? I'm gonna show you a miracle. You know what? You know what?
Can we just see her?
Set someone on fire
Can we just see it, please? Here's a text for us. It talks about she of the golden hair, right? She's got this
crown on
Right and this very famous pep loss that is just
full of
poison
And she bursts into flames, but when she burst out into flames this miraculous thing happens. It's wonderful
Shooting off of her accoutrements
Are these
Lava flows these flaming all-consuming fires
Somehow
The medwa is able to control
That flame they call it the seed of fire the seed of fire
The seed of fire remember
something about the devil
Her seed and your seed
There is a way and i'm offering this to the congregation tonight
There is a way out
Do you know what that way out is? It's the afil argros way
It's that life. It's the life without the love of the silver
Do you have the love of the silver in you? Is that a virus that is in you?
Do you know that you demand the mother to eat her own child?
Do you know you do that and why do you do that?
Because you have that love
And it has to be purged
It has to be purged
Every day in every way
The love has to be purged
It's the way out now here you go chewy. We've got
Somebody bringing Henry Cavill which by the way if anybody knows out there Henry Cavill
Please
You know, please
Let him know
That there is a star
That has descended
From the uranos
And that star burns with a heat that was shot
From his eyes
Let him know that let him know that please
Please before something happens, right something
Yeah, anyway, let's go to the next chewy. Does that qualify? You're not gonna okay. Excellent. You see what I do people
I work for chewy
They don't people don't realize that. Um, what am I gonna do? Okay. Are you ready? What are we gonna do with our
Puella, what are we gonna do with our girl?
Who is entering this
world
Of magic and manipulating the things that she herself has seen
Due to her eyes being opened
Right remember when your eyes are open you end up naked
You end up naked
What are we gonna do in these christian sex?
We're gonna bring out
The girls
So that they can be opened
Whether their sisters or daughters or mothers
Okay
Friction do you see the friction this caused historically
We're talking about rights that are chemical and sexual
part of a culture
Christianity
Reacted to itself when it cut this off of its own body
Because christians followed the mysteries and that is what this text is saying the reason it's in latin is the dude
Doesn't want you to understand what it's actually saying. It's a way to hide it
It's a way to hide it and you know what he says here. He says here
It's that's okay. I'm tiny. He says here at the time that we all celebrate the passion of the lord
You know they bring the girls into this
Especially designated area and oh god, he starts, you know, this is gonna be terrible to talk about right and any sort of light
Is gonna shine on this act. They get rid of that light, right? This is all done in the darkness
all done the darkness and
What do they have they have a flaggiti e tested, you know
There's a real
flaggitium
going on
What they're doing is they're allowing those people
to express
that desire
Do you know how to keep people
from becoming
The r-word that none of us can say with an ist on the end of it
a bananaist
Right, you know how to keep people from becoming that
train them
train them sexually
train them chemically
You know, it's not just the lace days. It's not just the ancient traders and the purple who are also trading
Sexual slaves. It's like Jesus. It's not those people alone who understand
The use of drugs in the sex trade
They weren't the only ones who understood it
Right today. Look at what's going on today. People understand that today
the use of drugs
To mold and shape and groom a person
is a reality
What they are doing in antiquity in all sorts of places all over the Mediterranean is they're using drugs
and sex
To shape people
They will burn off your mortality
They will open your eyes
And when you have seen what is floating around you
Perhaps you'll figure out a way to use it
Yeah, because you'll be awake. Otherwise be asleep like everybody else. I don't care. I don't care, right?
Who cares the invisibility around you who cares the oracular the prophetic who cares
Right as long as we get the history. Do we care?
Do we have an obligation to these tanks give it to me? I want to scare people
I've got text to scare people. Are you ready on the expiry of nine months?
When the unnatural progeny of an unnatural seed is about being born
They meet again at the same place and on the third day after parturition
Tearing the wretched infants from their mothers and scarifying their tender flesh with knives
They catch and basins the dripping blood and casting the infants still breathing
On the pile
consume them
Still breathing you're a mother
And you're watching you're still breathing infant child be bled
and burned
Now the question is
The burning doesn't kill so what's going on what kind of burning is this
They catch and basins the dripping blood and casting the infant still breathing on the pile consume them afterwards mingling their ashes
What are these ashes because actual ashes don't do jack
Right
What kind of ashes are these?
Mingling their ashes remember the mother as she saw this being done to demopon. She's like stop stop
Now, you know why she was saying that
Some horrific stuff is happening in this little right
All right, and it's got to be done by the mother who's willing to kill her child
Afterwards mingling their ashes. They make a sort of horrible compound with which secretly defiling their food
Liquid and solid like those who mix up poison with mead
You know those people. What is that a bill cosby reference?
Right
Seriously, what is that sudden reference to it? You know those people who put poison in your drink
I
Not only they themselves partake of these vines, but others also who are not privy to their secret proceedings
You know, what's fun? It's fun to drug your neighbor's mead
You know what you can do you can drug your neighbor's mead and then you can do things with your neighbor
Wouldn't normally
Take place you can bring out that inner. I don't know monster
You can bring out that inner monster imagine ladies imagine
Killing and consuming that one dude
Killing and consuming him, you know, he deserved it
Now imagine doing it when your cycle is tuned
To that violence
When you're brought you are an instrument
Of justice
When you are tuned
To the violence imagine there's a capacity did men have this capacity? No
No, the only men that are involved are the seers and the poets
The seers and the poets they are not part of the mean ads
Why why can a woman only get to that place? I don't know. Maybe it's because I'm a man
That I'm asking that question. Maybe some women. I know there's some women somewhere. I can see them. They're sitting there and they're like
This guy
This guy names the obvious
Right, I know you're out there. Give me the next one. Give me the next one and then we have to get to some
Grammar stuff like that. We're almost done people. We're almost done. I want you to listen to this theration
Again, this is coming from Byzantine greek government named Michael cellis
They are persuaded that by this means the divine symbols inscribed in our souls are thrust out in a sponge
Do you know what you do with rights with magical rights?
You take the symbols that are inscribed in your soul
Thanks to your culture and you get rid of their influence
This is what the theration is telling you
Give me the next one. Do you see why they call them purifications?
Purifications, do you want to be purified of the fog of monism?
Yeah
Here you go
Give it to open your eyes
Open your eyes
My son my child. I want to give you the prophecy again. My son my child
Do you imagine that they will ever again restore literature or anything excellent?
The time is at hand when men will live worse than wild beasts for now
Antichrist is at hand even at the doors
and evil
precursors in the shape of
Monstrous doctrines and unlawful practices is you know what you could call lady Babylon
You could just give it that title monstrous doctrines and unlawful practices
All the blasphemy you can swallow here it is
This has to take place
What kind of things monsters practices are revealed for the Antichrist to come it's the orgies of Bacchus
Do you know why because the origin of Christianity and Judaism and Islam are all
Bacchic orgies
This is what our ancestors were doing
And whatever things have been represented by the Greeks and their tragedies as Saturn
Notice Saturn
Thaestes and tantalists devouring the offspring edifice debauching his mother. Oh, she was so pretty
She was so pretty did it really matter?
Right. He was he was raised outside the house. Anyway, he's raised with somebody else
Right and she was young
When she was married and when he came and killed daddy
Right, he didn't know it was daddy
all right, but
Then he
fell in love with her
Yokasta
Right, look is it just me or is that another cult name? You're right. It is
Love your mother, baby
Love your mother. What's so wrong with it? That's what she told him. What's wrong with this?
Even if it is that way
Who cares? We love each other
