Right, let's see them eat remember. What do they do?
They eat the flesh and drink the blood now. I know if you are taking your period
And you are sharpening it to where your fury
Becomes
A reality where you are taken to the place where you are able imagine this ladies. There's 24 of you
We're gonna have you jacked
On these drugs. It's only women any any men in the vicinity get killed and we're gonna sacrifice a dude
This dude's bad though. Don't worry. What are we gonna do?
Well, we've had him locked up. We're gonna lead him out to the mountains during one of your little
deals
Yeah, when you're your most sharp
And you can have Adam
Do you know what usually happens?
They end up getting torn apart, dude
Torn apart
Torn apart
These are hunting cults
That are part of horse cultures that develop the use of poison arrows
These people don't mess around
and they're
Soldiers who have female organs
But
Governing
Themselves
Those people
Have a lot of this drug right stuff going on. I mean they wake up in the morning. They fumigate themselves
Right
The lifestyle we'll call them, you know, you know, when you say silly and you know what you're actually saying
High
That person is high
That's scutho scuthidzo
Right. It's either to be high or to cut somebody's scalp off
Okay, and who are they they're women some of the tribes are just completely women
completely women
Yeah, fantastic
Fantastic, that's where this is coming from
Now let's get back to she the priestess who sacrifices the child give it to me
Give it to me. She's the all eater. Give me the next one. She's the all leader. What is she?
She is that drama torch and for those of you who are interested in the org
All right, that's the air root that work route
All right, what is she doing? She works the drama by means of what?
Of strange
Muse accomplishments
That's literally what that says
Strange we've got that same word sent off thrive strange
Who is this priestess revealed by the antichrist the one who brings you the right
The one who brings you the right the trick is
Life's trick
It's got nothing to do with
Lengthening your life
It's got everything to do with opening your eyes as to who you are and what is around you
That's the trick. It's an awakening. It's an activation of the brain
They'll get to the point that they do pet scans
Oh my god, this stuff activates all all these pathways
Uh-huh, maybe we had to have receptors for this stuff. You know, you don't have to sit in the laboratory
pharmaceutical companies
You should be out of business
Because all of this stuff is in nature
And it just has to be put together
It just has to be put together. Did you know there are cancer cures?
breast cancer cures in gaolin
And they have to do with that burning purple as well
Very important. Let's take them back to the purple rides. Very go. Give me the next one. Where were we?
Did we get lost? Yeah, um, yep
How do you you know what I mean? How do you eat your mom?
Everybody I just want you to thank for a minute
Imagine especially you daughters
imagine
Cooking and eating your mother
Now I know hang on a second
Some of you are already like, yeah, well, you know
But wait a minute
Now
Put yourself in the position of these 24 women
Who are now tuned into
The ultra violence
The ultra violence of the mother
Who slaughters everyone
Your mind is now there and we have staked this dude out on the ground
And your band is going to come up to him and in a military fashion
You're going to pummel him. Oh god, you make weapons for yourselves. You got this your classic weapon
You know what your classic weapon will be a staff
With a razor sharpened
Metallic pine cone looking thing on the top of it
And what do you do you smash heads with it ladies? Have you ever wanted to smash your head?
All right, but don't worry
We'll smash him and eat him
We're going to eat him. We're going to drink the blood
And when you drink the blood the blood is part of the theriac. It's part of the remedy
It's why you have to harvest those babies. Did we just harvest babies?
Oh, we didn't harvest the babies yet
Oh chewy
Go we got to go there go to the next one quick quick quick go to the next one
Um because it's coming up the baby fest is coming up everybody. We're gonna have baby for dinner
Right yummy. Um, how did you eat those people this way? Give me the next question
Listen to these questions from the interogator. Now for those of you who didn't think the drugs were involved
You know, how are you doing this that you're
Gobbling down these
pharmaceutical thalia
Yeah
These pharmacotic thalia these drug concoctions
Right, how is it?
Because that's what we do and the christians are worried about it because there are sacks of christians who do this
And somebody's baby
Is gonna get eaten
Right
What did the devil do what did the dragon do in the book of the apocalypse which you now understand you're welcome
What did the devil do he went to the woman?
To do what to wait for her to give birth and
Uh, and then what was he gonna do so he could eat the kid he could eat it
He could eat it
That's what the text says naughty
It's so naughty to think of eating children
Oh, I'm so bad. You're so bad. Amen. Oh, I love it. You love it. You know you do
Eating the children now for those of you who like the whipping we've got whipping coming up too
I'm sorry
I'm sorry. These texts are so
Historically dirty
Yes, give it to me. Give it to me. Well, nobody derives any pleasure from this though, right? It's sheerly scientific
um
Next though
Fantastic. Who else is talking about this?
Jesus is talking about it. He says look they'll pick up those snakes and they'll drink their
Death-inducing drugs and it won't hurt them
They're gonna even put their hands on people who were sick
Did you ever get handsy and spit in the mouth of a sick person? That's what they're doing
I'm gonna show you in a second the spitting in the mouth. Why do they keep doing that?
It makes them better, dude
It makes them better
Those guys are on drugs
Big time, you know, christ means to be drugged, right?
You know, jesus christ is
Jesus the drugged guy
Right. Oh my god. Did nobody read the note? Nobody got the note. Um, look what else happens
Um, how can you possibly end up slaughtering?
Children sacrificing children just like you would
The lamb
Do you understand what this sacrificing is?
Let me show you let me show you the sacrifice don't get nervous. I got nervous like oh god. What is he doing? Okay?
Let me show you the sacrificing
The greeks say the chronos
all right
Saturn
He drank down his children. He drank them down
Drank them down
Drained them dry. They're fluid
And why did he do that?
So he could give them back
Protected
Invulnerable
Yeah
You thought the whole eating of the children thing
Which by the way when a mortal sees this happening, it's quite creepy
Yeah, especially when they do the putting them in the fire
Putting them in the fire. You know where this you know where this magic right went
It went all the way from here from taking a child and purifying it
protecting it with
magic
It went all the way to the christian side
Of what are they doing on the christian side they purify the boys
with fire
How do you purify a boy with fire?
According to the catechesis that we have
um you
First of all strip them naked
And you tell them don't worry. It's it's okay that you're naked because Jesus was naked on the cross
Ta-da
Then you what do you do with them then then you oil them up
And this is after you've been having them
Retain keeping food from them right you starve them for a couple of weeks
You'd be surprised how malleable people are with drugs when they've been starved as a matter of fact
You cannot enter the mysteries without a process of fasting
It's part of the deal
And you know, there's probably a ton of people shaman and south america would say oh, that's because that's how the drugs have to work
Blah blah who ha and they're right
They're right
So, um, okay. Give me the next one. What else is she give me? Oh
I want to put up some magic words here. Are you ready? Atleta tlassa
Asal da
del da
Atleta tlassa
You can read it backwards and forwards all you want
Because that's what they do
This is a famous phrase made famous by a very religious person named ascalus
Ascalus was a big a big respecter of the altar of justice
And he writes about the woman. Are you ready?
Um, this is this is the Byzantine person who's using this phrase to refer to the oracle
To refer to the mother who eats her children the drama of the mother who eats her children, right?
And what is she
she
Is the one who bears
That which is unbearable
She's the one who suffers
that which is
You're incapable of suffering. It's so weighty
That's her, okay
That is why you sacrifice your children
Don't pass your children to the fire
Says the text why because people are passing their children through the fire
as a right
It is a right meant to bestow
Immortality they call it burning off your mortality
And it's very painful when the kid yells
And you know, it's being fumigated while all this is happening and they're putting christing it. Oh my god. What do you do?
Right
Get your oils ready. Give me the next one. What happens? What happens? Remember?
the earth
hides the drama
The earth hides the drama if you came here tonight to have your eyes open to the reality
