You haven't read any ancient sources
You haven't read what she's we're about to get his drugs. Where are we with them? We're with the mother
Right, we're with the mother who devours. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Oh, give me the mephitic vapors here
This is beautiful
Where a wait note that we missed go back up go back up to that one that one there we go
Hey, the second line of this right? So the arrow around you is I'm doing magic now, right? I'm doing magic
the error around you is
Taking on the form of a thick death mist and that mist is
There to hide
The true
Poetess
In blindness
You were blind
Your eyes are not open. I
Can give you something I
Can take you somewhere and if we have her
She can open your eyes
Will this thing kill me? No, no, no, no, just stop. It's not gonna kill you give me the next one
Isn't it interesting that you hide the poetess in
blindness is
This why the ancient dragons were spoken of as being blind is
This why Teresius walks around with a stick. Is this why adipus?
Only understands when he's blinded himself
Yes, do you have the guts?
After discovering that you have been madly and passionately in love with your mother
Do you have the guts?
To pop out your own eyeballs
Do you have the guts to do that?
This is the drama
This is the tragedy
That the woman who eats her own child
endures
She is the great savior who endures
Are you ready? Let's see. Let's see what must be done to the child. Are you ready? Everybody's sitting there?
Right? Pass the potatoes
What is going to happen to that child
You pro-lifers I want to ask you
Is that mother
going to kill us in
Edas
Let's see. Let's see the next one. Let's see what she does. Are you ready?
Before we get there. I have to do something. It's official. Excuse me for my satanic duties
This is an implication and I am officially and contractually
darkening the Sun
Because I do not want the Sun to shine upon the vision of
This divine
Poetess
Writing such
Zinotropy now if you sat there if you
Writing what we have to coin words right when you're using ancient Greek
You've got to coin words to catch up. That's all there is to it
And that's why classical philologists end up being the people in society who coin words
Mother Greek has gotten in their system and opened them up
right and
So what is zinotropic?
drama your
existence right now
with the blackening of the Sun and the death mist
around you that is
Zinotropic
Drama
Okay, it's going to appear to you to be very strange
When we give you the Ludovico serum
You're gonna get a funny taste in your mouth and maybe a little bit paranoid
This is the effect of the zinotropic drama
Okay
Those nerds right give me the next one give me the next one those nerds that
Please please Lord Jesus. Can you please bring us back to the Bible?
Where is this woman hidden in
What
Wilderness and what void is she contained?
Do you remember gay in the beginning of the Bible?
right
Right, do you remember the earth in the beginning you remember the uranos and Gaia, right?
You remember uranos and Gaia and what happens Gaia was a oratos
She was in the same place that the hidden
Oracle comes from in your revelation
She is in the wilderness
What they used to call
Eremon
All right, oh
God oh
God it should be it's not but it should be it's neuter
Are you ready?
Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Give me the next one
We're going to the Oracle right you see you see what they did
I'm trying to show you what they did in the third and second centuries
When they created the text that people call now the Old Testament Torah, right the Bible, right all of that
Trying to show you are you ready? We've got to get more
Who is this? Where is this dramaturge?
Where is this one who writes your existence? She is in the blindness
She is in blindness
Okay, give me the next one
Mmm
What kind of mist must you put on you must put on the Achlus?
The death mist
Did you know Lucifer?
Whose member were worshiping if you guys didn't realize that we're on the black sea, right?
And this is late Bronze Age
when these crafting priesthoods own the world and
can guide it through these
Aracular voices. Oh my god
Where did it?
It's democracy of people, right? We got democracy out of the scientific method all the good stuff all the good stuff
Don't worry. It took us a while once the
Anyway, let's by the way, can I just make an announcement for those of you who are history buffs?
I know you love this. I know you love this the oldest form of Western education
Comes out of Lesbos
and
it was the
interference of the Eolian
dialect with
the Scythian
Tech
That brought us our mystery
You know it brought us our mystery
This is where it's coming from doesn't have an origin. Yes
And we're talking about ancestors of these people that go back to the Calcolithic
So don't talk about Egypt. Oh, it came from Egypt. No, it didn't
Yeah, it came from horse cultures
called the Pulaski
Came from them
transmitted their culture through Scythian
lifestyle
Horse these are people on horses so horse so horse adjusted that their bones are shaped differently
The women have you know because it's a big thing for the women on the horses, you know what it means if they go together
They do they really do
Anywho, let's get let's get back into the text there. Bring me another text here. I
Want to frighten people. I want to frighten them. So let's get the good ones
What is she?
Who is this priestess?
Who we saw was the prime oracle the meddwa?
Who is she? She is the paedok ton on
She is the child killer
She is the child
killer
Who is your mother who is your mother?
Your holy mother
Did you know your holy mother is a child killer?
Did you know she is she's a child killer she had be
Right, she kills us all eventually
It's gorgeous. Open up earth. Show us show us what's in your depths. This is why we're breathing the mephitic vapors
It's all part of the it's all part of the
Process of the mystery the initiation and the opening of your eyes. Don't worry. I will warn you though
You will wake up naked
Don't be surprised
Did you people realize that what they were doing in the garden when they take they take the aowa out of the side of the
Adama the invincible. Do you know what they're doing?
Yeah, they're performing the mystery people
And they're sex involved sexual intercourse is the best way to say it scientifically
You know, you could say it like a professor. I had who was a
British instructor of Shakespeare
The in out in out I thought that was clever the in out in out
Thank you for the thank you
Where we mingle that sexual intercourse
In that mid-summer
Is where we find
This priesthood and this oracle
Who is the prime who is the first oracle?
Yeah
Fantastic brilliant the human history is way more interesting than all of the
Garbage that people come up with theory-wise and book-wise to sell books and stuff like that
The actual stuff's way more interesting. Let me show you. Let me show you for example. Look at this
Oh my god
Tane plosin now that plosin is that development. Remember the bible doesn't say that god created adam
Says that he molded him he shaped him he educated him
And
What is what is she then this priestess?
Because we're in the black sea and the temple of diana all their purple all their fingers are purple
What is this place? This is the place of the mother eater
This is the
metrophagon
Do you realize
Everybody that washes the shore on this beach gets sacrificed
Do you understand that you are looking into a mirror
You have washed the shore
You will be sacrificed
Okay
Okay, are you beginning to see where you enter?
Are you beginning to see where you enter this cult how it is that you get into it?
A recognition of your own nature
Right all of us get sacrificed all of us
Right, it's the really really wealthy ones that are just scammering just
Scuttle this place and find a way for me to live extra time
Dude
We all get sacrificed in the end
Right, we all get sacrificed
So let's sacrifice
tonight
a child
To the mother eater
Shall we do that? Shall we do that? There's an ancient riddle in this text
And the riddle says
The
Mother's tomb
Is in the stomach of her daughter
The mother's tomb is in the stomach of her daughter
Okay
I want you to meditate on that
Solve that equation
Tell me why that appears in this Byzantine testimony of the woman who was eating her own children
Give it to me give it to me
This is that molding or confirmation just in case you don't believe me. It's also a training of the voice
You know some kind of training
Who is she the priestess the one who screams awa?
Who is this bucket lady? And by the way, Medea created that worship the bucket worship is through
The medwa
Why do you think the mean ads are all women?
Yeah, why do you think there's an irracular association?
