We're gonna invade this time by the way, we have to take these sources
Because some you're about to get taught the Bible
Yes, you are
Yeah dark ages
Dark ages, you're about to find out
The Jehovah is the ultimate authority
Yeah
Fantastic coming to a school near you. Here's what we're gonna do. This guy's a mogus
I just want you to see that he's a mogus this guy's Simon, right? It's the guys like this
What are guys like Simon doing? What are they doing? They're making mysteries
making mysteries of what
mysteries of the flowing
That flowing from the body
that which is
shameful
shameful
I'm gonna show you a couple of Greek terms
We're talking about the mysteries
What kind of mysteries are being exercised by the followers of Jesus and it turns out it's the mystery of
your body fluids
Did you think I was joking you're gonna get a description of it hit it with them they need it splash these people
They need it. We're talking about that which flows out of the men
Apple Royce the stuff that comes out of the men that's flowing stuff
That's part of it. Give me the next one. These are gonna be quick chewy. Oh, what else are we talking about?
We're talking about that solo gay
that
Syllogy that collection that is the that is the dirty
the naughty
That is the stuff that is we don't talk about it the Brits translated as dirt
in 1850 at least
They'd use that the dirt of
the
eminion
What is the eminion that is the monthly?
catharsis the monthly purge you dumb man
If you knew the monthly purge, you'd know why we're using it in the mystery
I'll take one of those give me the next one I
Could use a monthly purge. How come I don't get a monthly purge
Look people
This section is gonna blow your mind and I'm just gonna translate it to you
I'm gonna give it right to you that climax. I told you about that. We were coming to here. It is look
We're gonna translate it and then I'm gonna stop and I'm gonna appreciate
The elegance of this Greek because this is really elegant Greek
Epiphanious
He's got a little bit of the poet's pin going. He's a composer
this thing reads like a
Beautiful composition
Love it. Thank you. Oh god. He knew the Greek, you know, he walked around
That's how he was known at the time and he was master of five languages some
Pope persona who was no, it wasn't a pope. It was some it's too early
It was a bishop or somebody who called him some famous author. I don't remember anyway
They said he was the master of the five languages, right?
Yeah, fantastic. Well, he's able to learn his Greek
Right, and that's what really makes him such a great writer is he's able to use that instrument
You know, what are you gonna use if you're a samurai? You're gonna pick that sword. You're not gonna take a butter knife
Right the butter knife of Hebrew just can't cut the mustard. You know what I mean?
Who toss me an egg on
Take the unknown look what I you know, there was this guy
Okay, this is epiphanious talking about early Christians
One of these early Christians. He said he had this twisted mind
It was all twisted up from that crazy
demon demonic
magic
that he was doing and the
Fantasies the hallucinations that he was seeing
This dude remember he's a he's a Christian people
right, he's
Following the Christing
Okay, just wait just wait. What does he say? He says this guy was ready
always always ready to what to demonstrate
his
total evil and his
demon
activity
He was always always wanting to show that off that stuff. He did through his magic and
What how did he do it? He did it openly? He did it openly and
He did it on the pretext of
the name
Christ
He did it in connection
with the act of
Christing
Okay, okay, are you ready? What exactly did he do?
He made a death-inducing drug he mixed hella bore with honey and he gave it to his
crazy followers and
Following this axiom of the name of Christ, he put them to death
Next one I
Told you those drugs were there for the right
What you are seeing
Is the right?
He's giving them the death inducer
He's allowing them to go through the initiation
So that they'll come out on the other side now watch what happens
Yeah, we're talking about that mixing with medicines. That's fine
It's what you see look or bases by luminous Galen all of those people medical people, right?
Go to the next one. What happens next what happens next? Oh my god
Look these people
They follow this goddess everything okay, that's high fighters coming in or something. No, they follow this goddess
