Right mad dogs and lunatics have the same responses
This is the place that we want to enter when we bring the bucket cry
You mean they were getting crazy
With their oracular religion. Yeah
They were hearing the words of god
Isn't that cool?
theos
That that lover of theos. How dare you by the way, how dare you? You know who you were who said it?
How dare you think that some commoner
Some commoner
Can't be a receptacle for vision. How dare you
How dare you that's the attitude that I expect from academics?
That's why they're completely useless why you're you're not listening to evidence
You're not looking at things like we're looking at you just you're sitting there listening to stupid ideas
Right, i'm so mad. I've got to be careful what I do from now on
right because I'm
You know, I'm just pretty soon. I'm gonna have had enough. You know what I mean?
Everybody knows when you get to that point and you're just like, okay. Okay. Tell this person who they are
show them
Pull out that mirror and show them who they are and you can do that with these ancient texts
You don't think the ancient Greeks and Romans use drugs?
I can show you
The application of drugs
via
Lildo
I can show you that we can we can relish that
We can look at it and say what kind of medicine freakish medicine is this
Right, you have to look into your own place into your own soul. This bachic revelry is all about her
Right, it all comes back to aphrodite
Bacchus always leads to aphrodite those Arabs
Those Arabs that the Romans were talking about those guys loved it
They loved Dionysus. They loved aphrodite
That they had all the drugs. They're the ones, you know with the drugs. They have the drug connections
Yeah
Comes right out of those desert species
whether they're snakes
whether they're
mur
Oh
Resins resins that make the place smell, right? That's one of the things we're missing from this. You guys have to
What are the smells? We're gonna we have to fill that in somebody brought that up the other day. It was a good point
Music composer of some sort good point. What about the smells?
nice, okay, so I'm gonna keep translating this and so
Yeah, so the earth honored her right she honored the lover of of god
She honored that virgin
Right, you remember simile and Dionysus
Right that oracular power is always honoring
To that beloved of
Zeus
right
Those lovers who are transformed by Zeus
All right, they who have their natures transform
All right, they are
Oracular that's the reason we're here
Right, it's the reason we're here that couple of lady Babylon is the oracular cop
right
By the way, I need to tell I forgot to tell this. I'm sorry. I'm getting forgetful of my old age
When the abomination
Which one the abomination of desolation
When the abomination of desolation is sitting in the inter sanctuary, then you should run
Yeah, the abomination of desolation. What is the abomination of desolation every guess every guess is wrong
But the linguistic proof is clear
It's the abomination of
Desolation
When you have that mystery cup
You are able to enter into that
Jesus went out he said a month into the desert
Why to be tried
By the devil
To be tried by the devil
Do you know what we have to bring if we want to bring lady Babylon back?
We have to bring back the edimosis
Yes, when that is in the temple
Run
Yeah, fantastic
fantastic
Vish I if I'm gonna say one thing every episode until it comes out the translation comes out
I'm gonna keep doing it, but you are better than those linear A people. I know that I'm a
I study with Bennett. I see talent. I know talent
Let's do it. This is the new museum by the way guys. We're taking it away
We're kicking down the doors and we're taking everything away from give us those texts
Give us that Septuagint
Bible you are not worthy to guard this thing anymore not worthy yet out
We're gonna kick them down. We're gonna kick down Jung's door
Right, we step on into Jung's study. Just imagine it going right into a study. Oh my goodness and just
Taking the place apart one stupid bust of at a time
right
Taking that book
Taking that red book and saying as he sits on the floor sucking his thumb
This belongs to us now
This red book belongs to us when you see the abomination
