and
Why is this coming back to medea because all of the purple you cannot take any pathway with the purple
Without coming right back to medea as the source the linguistic source for those of you who want to say
Yay, it's a it's a communion that rose in the east. No. Yeah. Yay. It's a communion that right rose over here
You know and you get racist arguments and people looking for Aryans. You get snazis running around
You know what I mean, and they never know what they're doing
They never know what they're doing
Because they don't master the text
They don't master the text
Let's bring it back up. Well, notice that it was ferrecities
Yeah, look, notice it's ferrecities who told us this. Who is the who is calciope?
She's the one with that powerful expression of the eos
Remember ferrecities is the dude who get this top Pythagoras
Everything you know or thank you know about orphism is coming through that
Ferrecities and he is the one who is bringing us back to medea
Yeah, fantastic, right? This is this is
Oh god, we love it next. Let's go to the next. Um, who's here's another one with the eos through eoh
Look at this. She's the toxaphore. Look at that first word. She's the toxaphore. She's the one who carries that poison bow
Yeah, that poison bow. She's the one who pours out the poison
Hey use heusa
Yeah, oh god. She's that terrible one, right? She's that frightful one. She's the one with the
You know that'll
Kill you with her bolts
Yeah, eohaea the poison pour. That's how I like to translate that
Um, go to the next one
Yeah, and who is eopsaphos? We couldn't do Artemis, right without doing apollo. They're twins
Right, we're talking about medical cults here that we're bringing our daughters to so here is um
They tell us look it's the it's the eopsiphos. This is actually from the psaphos the
pebble or stone
It's also a thing that's used in
Throwing dice, right coming up with sortace
It's a it's a randomizer and remember according to the atrascans
There is no chance, right? Touche is chance
is
Addrastea is necessity
Yeah, think about that for a minute some I know a lot of you're really smart and educated and
Um
I know that a lot of you are professionals
Um, those of you who are mathematicians think about that. There's no random
Uh concept of randomization
In the atrascan system that supports remember one of these great atrascan queens one of these great terrenian
Queens who's probably from this pilascian
Lion is ruling these people named kirke and we call one of our drugs after her
Right, we call our drug the cercean
Right, have you taken the cercean? Well, you know
You got to do this and I got to do that, right?
So um that purple is coming through these people and those people those atrascans are saying um
There is no such thing as chance mathematically. It doesn't exist
Yeah, a non-k exists. You say what what can we put in the place of chance a non-k
And a non-k is ordered, which is why I think the guys at mit are finding order amidst the chaos
That's what they're doing. Do you believe they're doing that right now? It's exciting. It's exciting. Those nerds are hilarious
She got it. You got to give those nerds over to aphrodite. They'll do anything. Um, let's go down to the next one
They think they're
They think they're with it. Anyway, look what look what happens to her. This is what we say happens to the
to
The violet right in her transformation. She turns into
This irritation this provocation and notice how the victorians very cleverly
Gave us the last definition at the bottom and said perverseness
perverseness
So is this thing? Yeah, it's about flushing with blood
Yeah, it's about becoming
irate
And you think well, that's weird. Don't have you ever seen a cow? I get to tell my cow story now
I'm going to go ahead and tell it. I don't care. I'm getting old
um
My cow story is I was taking care of cows of dairy right doing milking and stuff and one night one of them chased me down and like
violently assaulted me and I'm lucky to get away. I'm lucky to get away with
um
With my health, but she was you know, I don't blame her because
She was an estrus
And she had been sitting out. She had been sitting out in this one area for
A long time you take the cows that are an estrus in you and you quarrel you put them in a different pen, right?
And um, so we had them out because the you have to breed them and they know you're coming
Right, they know you're going to be out there to breed them when they're an estrus
So she was an estrus and she got through her crown came over to me and knocked me over and pushed me up against the wall
and I was
But um, she did it out of love
And
When she was doing it, I'll never forget the bellowing I'll never forget that earthy
Growning
Passionate compulsion
to mating
To aphrodite everything leads to that aphrodite
We can't have the world
Christianity is the enemy
Of aphrodite they do not worship the gods
They are atheists
They do not worship the gods
That is why you do not consider sexuality
To be a divine act
Well, I don't know maybe
