Perhaps if it's not an active one, you know, because they don't do the same things they used to right
This thing that you're watching this performance that you're watching this initiation
They don't they don't do this anymore
Right, well as soon as as soon as we see the depths
To which you have to go
And come back from and turn around and come back from you know that we don't produce the mystery that ours is a
is just
Like an egg shell casing of what once used to be a mystery that egg broke
Was in a space capsule
Right fantastic. This is necessity
This is necessity. Do you remember?
Do you remember what we did with our daughter?
What did we do with our daughter in the initiation?
We gave her that violet bring up the violet bring up the violet
Alice call up Alice perfect eon violet. Look at this. Isn't this pretty?
Oh, it's so pretty
It also equals clean on wait a minute. What yeah, the identifications of plants is kind of
It's a herky-jerky. It's not a precise science and sometimes you get multiple IDs on one name
Look at the at the very bottom though that last line. Look at that diagram
Oh, look at that. You didn't know that was on front. Did you?
You didn't know that was on front of the violet right at the tip of the violet. There is a diagram
We on we on the Athenian Greeks say eon right the
Mycenians who first had this
drug called it we on
We on
Isn't that nice?
What is that what happens when you get the we on you cry a we are
Isn't that nice?
They'll call you elios if you do that. Look
There goes elios
Right gorgeous gorgeous. She is
Transforming
Into the star
Into the star our initiation is bringing dawn
You've been smelling let me let me just I need to say this you've been smelling
a god
Who performs testicular tanning? That's what you've been smelling
Right, this is not
His mystery
This is not his mystery
This is the mystery
of
The bringing of dawn of the restoration of that light if you don't believe me, we'll keep reading
I love this. Let's look at some more though. Let's spend some more time with alice. This is alice from
uh alice in wonderland, right? Yes, please
Find look at what clean on is why the by the way. What is this? What is this violet? It's also a lily
And look at ramanu marama too a kind of choral dance. Look, they're doing the crinon
They're doing the crinon
They're doing the dance
next alice
Look, what is yos? What is yos? Look, it's the same route. It's the same route as yon
So what does it mean? Well surprise surprise? It means arrow
It means arrow
arrow
Like a bow and arrow arrow. Yes, like a bow and arrow arrow
Fantastic. What is where's that taking us? Okay. Remember you're at this ceremony
So when when you're seeing them come out doing their dancing
They're violet do the violet and they're doing it in front of you
Don't be surprised if some of them sitting around you
Have bows because this is a bow arrow poison using culture
These are the people who were building the civilization that was so far ahead that was set so far behind
When the mystery was corrupted
By multiple people which we have multiple arrest warrants for I know some of you you've been talking about jesus's
Transdimensional arrest warrant
Right, we've got one it turns out update
We've got one now for moses
Yeah, we've got one now for moses. Yeah
We're we're gonna have to bring them all in right? This is a big case
Under some special trans dimensional law that to be honest, I really don't understand
You got to get yourself a trans dimensional lawyer for that, right?
Yeah
But
It's our duty as investigators to find out why why the link
What grave what gave the grand jury?
The inclination to you know, bring it to bring it, you know, you know bring them in
And our charges right bring the charges
Moses has got it all over him
Right, okay, we got to start with jesus. We'll work our way back to moses. I think if we can make the case
For jesus, it'll be you know, you know how it is once one crime boss goes down. They're all gonna go down, right?
It's just
You know, I I can't even but thank maybe Muhammad will too, you know, and there's there's gotta be a
You know, is there a connection?
Yeah
We'll have to bring in more specialists on that end right either that or you people are gonna have to start learning arabic
Because i'm not talking to you about the Quran if you can't read arabic
Yeah, no and like classical arabic well
Right, and i'm not gonna do it because i'm too lazy
I'm too lazy. No, i'm totally filled up with what i've got to do right greek and latin for me are sufficient
Let's go back. Let's go back to the next
We've got more definitions. Yeah, look at this eos here same root poison as of serpents
Notice it's the venom of a mad dog. You always put mad dogs with lunatics
