And they don't follow justice
So, you know when you've abandoned the gods as an atheist and you only have one moron
as your leader
Who cannot reach into death and bring from death life?
You're in a bad you're in a bad circus
You're in something that needs to be castrated and dc
You're in something that needs to be castrated. That's how
The
ma the maas
Creates
The vision of the physics surrounding them
When you are in that world
When you're in that world
The world of that
motherless
Existence
You're off track
And you're on the way to destruction
It's it's how it is and for that we get the
Desolation
We have to bring the desolation for that. It's just the it's the cycle. It's necessity
Right. It's necessity. So bringing back lady babel on people ask and I've had some people comment about
some
Some harry magicians. I don't know if they're harry or not, but
um, some famous ones
you know
Allister so-and-so and you know, whatever
um
Please people
The source that we're drinking from is pure and clean. I wouldn't send you out to a
to a urine polluted stream and say drink
Drink, this is the water of life
No
If you want the water of life, you have to go to that pure spring
And you you have to honor that virgin
If you are willing
To put your daughter
Into a place
Where she can become the star
And that woman can be born
With everything that that woman is that bringer of life
Yeah, if you're able to do that if you're able to put
um
An emphasis and energy into that process, you know, you're a pagan
And you've broken out of the world of that of that
man
Now remember though for those of you want to give jovo a hard time
and
say well, you know
You know, he's you know, he didn't want them to mess up. It was just you know
Their fault remember it's the first lie that's told by him
Because when you take that fruit
Your eyes are opened. You don't die
Right the death is part of it
Right. He's being deceptive
Death is part of it. You enter death, but they bring you back
And when you come back
Your eyes you're opened
And you are naked
Yeah, do you know the greatest thing the devil did
The greatest thing the devil did was telling eve. No, you can you'll live
Right. He just doesn't want you to have the knowledge
That's all he just doesn't want you to know that to be aware of that
Right. That is what you end up with with the jovo
You or a jesus
You end up with somebody who needs to bend
He needs to bend the way
pagans don't go there because the nature corrects them
The nature keeps them. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm pushing it. It's uh, let's go. We need some there's some more great stuff here
You guys are gonna love this. I'm giving you giving you my sources
No, I want to go up to right about here. Let's go check here
Okay, I want you to just look at the range of the eos right arrow poison rust remember
It's that rust on crops as well
So there's a lot of you know, this root is used all over the place. Look at this eoplocomos. Isn't that nice?
Right that that has the violet hair man. That's what that says the violet hair
Right hair do right. Oh, it's it's gross
Melanothrix
That black hair that black hair, right and who has this who wears this dye by the way, this is a dye, right?
Who who uses these dyes?
the priestesses
Priestesses do isn't that nice like the medusae. Did you know the medusae had died here? No you do now
Gorgeous, this is gorgeous. You can't you can't get more beauty than this. Sometimes. I think this should be illegal
Eoplocomos. Yeah, who who who is Eoplocomos? Look at this the moiseae
Yeah, who are they? They're the muses
They're the muses. Oh, that's nice
What about your fossa?
What about your fossa? Well, that's just the eoplus the fos
Right. Oh, and who is that? That's the name of calciope
And who is calciope as we say her in english?
Right. Who is she? She is the sister
Slash relative slash medea. Yeah, she's associated with medea
