At this point, you wouldn't.
What is going on?
The dudes in the third century who wrote and people,
I'm going to tell you this and I don't care if it takes you 20 years
to prove this right.
The book of Genesis that we're reading from was written by the same dude
that wrote Isaiah, Job, and the other one, Psalms.
Psalms.
And you say, oh, preposterous.
Okay.
Line up your Dan, DuckTales Dan's.
Line them up.
Are you ready?
Are you ready for a linguistic analysis to show you that this thing is a forged history?
It's a forged history written in the third century.
And they are using the Greek as a base.
It's originally in Greek.
They're using the Greek culture to mount their mystery.
To mount their monism.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
It's almost like a parasite, monist religions.
And when I say monist for the people who maybe just joined, a monist religion is one that worships
a single divinity to the exclusion of all others, to the exclusion of all others.
Monism is like a virus.
And you can see it from ancient Egypt, you know, all the way up to 2024.
You can see the virus and how it works to pull down the systems of justice that polytheism naturally
tends toward.
Yeah.
You mean in polytheism, there is a natural justice?
Yes.
In polytheism, there is a nature to watch.
And there is a nature from which you can gain insight.
You can watch a mother give birth.
And what does that teach you from nature, bonehead?
That's not a, that's not a faith.
It's not a creed.
And it's not something you can, you can get from a seminarian or a teacher or somebody on YouTube.
When you worship that nature, this is what you get.
You get that paradise.
You get that paradise.
And that's what they're building here.
This Kurios, this Lord, right?
Just happens to be the one who is taking Adam and finishing his education by bringing him through this right.
He pulled her from his side.
Now, if you're sitting around, you've never seen that expression used anywhere else.
I'll tell you right now as a classicist, Jesus is doing the same thing when he goes up and masturbates
and then offers it to Mary for lunch in the woods, in his private place.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Same concept.
It's a cult, right?
It's a cult, right?
So remember, we're at this party and we've got Adam and Eve and Lucifer.
Adam and Eve and Lucifer.
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Okay.
What's going to happen?
Are you ready for the cult?
You thought this stuff was fairytale, didn't you?
No.
What did the Kurios do?
He brought a battery, made a bow-a-thon for his Adam.
What is a bow-a-thon?
A bow-a-thon is somebody who rides next to you in battle.
A bow-a-thon or bow-a-thos in the nominative.
That is a person who comes up with a shield on your flank.
That is what he was getting.
Now, where is he going to get one of these that he can take from the side of the Adamas,
the one who is made invincible, right?
It's like, you know, you come of age and your daddy takes you out and you do some things.
And this daddy went out and he said, hey, we've got to get the Amazonian woman, right,
to help us with this one, right?
We've got to get...
Now, you're saying, I thought this was all about in the beginning and boop was the earth
and boop, there are the fish and boop.
Okay.
There is a sophistication.
Please remember that you are reading Greek and there is a sophistication to it
that you cannot approximate without the original.
You're talking about, you're getting the third grade.
You're getting the third grade reading of it.
Okay.
And what the Greek is, is the Greek is the adult version.
So it's going to hurt.
It's going to...
Oh, I'm sore, right?
Yeah.
It's going to make you stretch.
So let's stay.
Let's stay with them right now.
Adam and Eve and Lucifer.
Give me the next one.
What are we going to do at this party?
This boy is getting his finishing.
He's getting his finishing.
Yeah.
This was the problem.
I just put this up.
The problem was they couldn't get one, right?
They couldn't get a Boethos.
They couldn't get this Amazonian woman, this Ewa, right?
They couldn't get her.
That's what they're waiting for.
That's what they're moving through the creation for is this Ewa.
Oh, nice.
It's an interesting picture of what the person who's writing this in the third century is
using as their historical models.
It's gorgeous.
It's absolutely gorgeous.
Now watch this.
It's going to betray.
She's going to show she's Amazonian.
She's going to show her Scythian roots in just a second.
If people didn't know that Eve was Scythian and they actually called her Skuta, here you
go.
Here you go.
She's gorgeous, man.
We just have to show people, right?
Where's the third guy?
Bring the third guy in there.
She's in there somewhere?
I don't know.
Who's on that cover?
I'm not sure.
Oh, so let's get back to the right.
What's the first thing that happens?
Give me the text.
Give me the text.
The first thing that happens before any of this has come to pass, before this right, right?
We're sitting here now watching it.
Boom, boom, boom.
And we've got Eve.
We've got Adam.
We've got the devil.
Boom, boom, boom.
And I swear to you, I put that poison sweat right in her cup, right?
You know what I mean?
That was what I was supposed to do, right?
So here we are at that party.
Boom, boom, boom.
