Welcome to the Orchie.
Let's hit the mark every time. Psychotropic logos. You know who's in the right.
Urses with a giggling smile. Produce the flowers with a pow. I give you my blood.
Do you have the blood of the dying god?
Sell fire with the stars in your eyes. Rub it in with the man who's laughing.
I am Bean. Drink Hallelujah from Aphrodite's lips.
Ethos. Proof for juice coke. Gorgeous. Make your face melt.
Terror cards dealt. Ancient songs of cosmic spells.
Wave the magic wand from overhead. Simon says he'll see.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Initiating Apocalypse.
And tonight I've got a couple of real real doozies for you.
Tonight we're going straight into the cult. Tonight we're going to see that interior.
I can't wait as the ship warms up. I just want to tell you how excited I am to be able to bring you these sources.
Whether his source is a young, there they are again.
Look, it's coming out Danny Jones soon. I saw a clip.
I saw a clip and it was fantastic. It was the most gorgeous display of raw crude reality
that I've ever had the pleasure of being involved with.
Oh, Hail Satan. It was a wonderful, absolutely, absolutely wonderful experience.
And I think the interview backed up as it is with the storm.
I think it will titillate. I think it will drive us somewhere into a wave of renaissance.
This is fantastic. We're going to look at some of the really gritty stuff tonight.
We're going to go right penetrate right into the depths of the orgya.
We're going to enter into that zone where it is improper for those of us who are uninitiated to go.
Yes, you mean we're stripping off. We're stripping off the protections of the mystery. Yes. Yes, we are.
Now, I'm going to do a trick here in the beginning because I know everybody loves tricks.
I'm going to reach into the Bible. I'm going to reach into the Bible and I'm going to pull out the queen,
the all queen right out of the guts of Paul, the apostle. Where's my where's my whip? Where's the crop?
There's the crop. Paul the apostle. This one's for Paul.
He's a snake pusher. He's a venom junkie. You've got to hurt him in different ways.
Come here, Paul. You know what I'm going to do? Here's what I want you to do.
I want you to disgorge the lovely song of Medea. Can you do that, Paul? Can you do that?
I know you're so, so bent on your Christos. I know you are Paul, but I want you to disgorge the contents of your guts.
And I want it to be the song of Medea.
This man is crazy, mommy. Pass me the chicken nuggets, Tommy.
Let's go. Give me the first source. Love it. Hit it, Chewie. God, I love it when the chip jerks like that.
Look, Titus. Who is Titus? This is the epistle to him by Paul. Who cares? Who cares?
What does it say? More importantly, what does it say?
It says, someone of their prophets said the Cretans are always liars and they're cacotheria.
They're what? They're cacotheria. That means bad drugs.
Yeah, yeah. Bad plagues. Those thorns that you get in the flesh that drive you to the mystery, right?
We saw, everybody saw the, the ass by Paul and he's like, oh, no problem, blah, right?
Because why? And everybody's like, dude, that guy's jacked, right? Love it.
Okay. Hey, Lydia, send me some cashola from the purple mafia so that I can spread the gospel, spread the gospel.
Let's go. Are you ready? This is mafia stuff, you know what I mean? That's the way it is.
What else are they? They're cacotheria and they're gastritis argae.
Now, gastritis is a consumer. It's your gut consuming everything.
Who are these people that Paul is talking about here?
Well, first of all, he's quoting someone. Who are the people that he's quoting talking about?
They're people who are consumers who are unwilling to work the land.
That's what that says. That's what odd guy are. Yes. These are people who want to make cash.
They don't want to work the land. Do you know who these people are? Who are these people?
These people are Cretans. These people are Cretans. No, really, it's talking about Cretans.
Okay, give us the next one. Let's look at, I just want you to see this word.
Pseostase, right? This is that liar. What I'm translating as liar.
And I just want you to see at the very bottom here, it says alluding to Cretace.
Ah, a pseostase, right? By affeminities.
Oh, there's the guy who said it, who Paul is quoting.
But Paul, because he's such a junkie, doesn't know the guy's name.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Education. Education.
Julian was right. You cannot let the Christians teach classics. It goes down the tubes.
Yeah. There's a reason for it. It's linguistic, believe it or not. Isn't that gorgeous?
Oh, love it. Love it. Let's go to the dissent. Okay, to mention Julian.
Did you, I should have told you he was coming in the party. Look at, look at this people.
What is this? Who, what is this saying? Cretans are liars. They're all liars.
They always lie. Where's it coming from?
Let's resurrect Phodias in his encyclopedia called the Bibliotheca.
We've got so many sources that we don't have anymore. It's wonderful.
Oh God, this Phodias, he needs a little slap, just a little one on the buttocks,
so that, you know, give him like a football player and give him another football player,
you know, kind of a just shadowy, you know, just slightly, slightly erotic,
a little bit. Something like that for Phodias, because these sources are outstanding.
And what does he say? Let me just translate this to you.
He says this dude named Athena Doris. What did he do? He's an Eritrean.
And what does he do in his eighth book of commentaries?
Oh my God, these people. Amazing. Thousands upon thousands of authors.
Oh my God. What do they do? What do they do?
In his eighth book of the commentary, he says that Thetis and Medea were in a contest in Thessaly,
a contest about their beauty. Yeah. And this new judgment came about, right?
They picked somebody, right? And what happened?
He gave the victory to Thetis, right?
But Medea being just as angry as you could possibly be without bursting into a supernova.
What did she do? What did she do?
No, really, what did she do? Oh, there it is. She said the Cretans, a bunch of liars.
They're always liars. And what did she do then? She cursed them.
What? Look at this beautiful word.
What is that? It's from Epi and Arra is the Greek root for the curse.
If you don't understand the curse, you don't get democracy.
Oh God, watch. I'm going to bring that all together.
What did she say? She cursed them. Never to speak the truth again.
All of these, you know what? All your Cretans, you know, you're never going to speak another word truthfully again,
just like you did in the judgment of this beauty contest.
Yeah. Yeah. This is serious. And what happened?
What happened? It's for this reason that everybody knows now that Cretans are friggin liars, man.
They have that reputation for being liars, right?
And then he cites the source of where he got this.
You know, with a dude, an Antiochus, somebody we don't know.
What? Just another, another amazing, the vast ocean.
Do you see what I'm saying? The vast ocean of ancient Greek is just, oh, it's a tribute to the most potent mother language of all time.
Oh God, so sexy. Give us the next one. Give us the next one.
Okay, now wait a minute. So this guy Epiminides that I haven't introduced you to yet.
He's coming on and he is an advisor to Solon.
Solon is, you know, Mr. Democratic reforms.
