What happened before this?
I hate when movies do this, but I'm going to do this because I'm moving backwards.
What happened before this?
Before this, God stoned Adam.
What do you mean he stoned him?
He stoned him.
He blitzed him.
He took him and scrambled his brain.
He threw him into ecstasy.
He threw him into ecstasy.
And Adam went into this stupor.
Ecstasy.
What kind?
Is that where we get our word ecstasy?
It sure is.
It sure is.
That's okay.
Keep going.
It's where we get our word ecstasy.
Now, what do you think?
Do you think that there's a Hebrew word for ecstasy?
No, it turns out there isn't.
All the Hebrew says is it put him to sleep.
You can see they were like, okay, these weren't dummies.
These people who were writing, they were just bad translators.
You can't even say they were bad translators.
They were working with 7,000 words.
If you only had 7,000 words, and that's what the average vocabulary of, I think it was
7-year-old.
If that's your vocabulary, you're not going to have words in it like ecstasy.
I appreciate that.
What did the people do?
They just went, oh, okay, here.
There's no Hebrew word for ecstasy.
Instead of that, we'll put the word sleep, and that's what they did.
They put the word sleep, and your translations into English will reflect that lie.
That lie.
There was no ecstasy.
What are you talking about?
They just put him to sleep.
Do you see how that obscures the reality?
Because if they've got ecstasy going on, they've got some kind of ritual, some kind of drug
to induce the ecstasy.
Oh, God, and there's a billion we could choose from.
Right?
Especially if our dude who's writing this is living in the third century.
He's got all the mysteries to choose from.
Goody-good-good.
Oh, God, it's gorgeous.
People who didn't realize.
Now, some people, some people didn't realize that Judaism is a creation of the third second.
You know, I would say you have to include the third, right?
But second first century is BC.
It really gets going first century, second century.
That monism of Judaism.
Jews were not originally monists.
Yeah, it turns out they're all from Crete.
Yeah, at least that's one of the places that they migrated from over to what you and I call Palestine or Israel.
Right?
Yeah, it's not like an amazement to them in antiquity.
Right?
So by the time this document is being written, you've got to realize there is no Moses.
Right?
He's a fiction.
Moses is a fiction.
Not only that, but it's a bad.
It's a bad use of, you know, I don't know.
Maybe they ran out of, they ran out of pizza that night or something in Alexandria, right?
They ran out.
They crashed and they just couldn't come up.
So they were just like, oh, just take, just take Museus.
Right?
He did the same thing.
Just make him Moses.
They were just writing.
It's like maybe there were a group.
Maybe it was a group of writers and maybe these writers were not so good.
Right?
These are not.
If you put Genesis, the book of Genesis next to Homer, Homer will make you weep.
I have seen people weep publicly.
Right?
Like a really good movie, reading Homer.
The differences in the, the differences in the style are laughably, you know, from, again,
people, it's third grade stuff.
It's third grade stuff.
And don't blame just this, just this attempt, you know, it's really an insult.
The creation of the Torah was an insult to Judaism because they already had the Greek,
which had much more beautiful detail.
It was very heady.
Judaism was born in Alexandria.
It didn't come out of Egypt.
It didn't come out of Syria.
It didn't come out of Palestine.
No, no, no, it was born from Alexandria by people who had been speaking Greek for a long
time by people who had a liturgical language for which we have nothing left over, nothing,
everything, Hebrew scholarship, ancient Hebrew scholarship is based on, is based on a Greek
text.
Yeah.
So we have to look at the reality of what's going on.
So we're at the garden, back to the garden.
What did we do beforehand?
We got drugs, right?
We got booted into ecstasy, right?
Why is God putting Adam into ecstasy because he's about to pull Eve from his side?
No.
Do you remember?
I'm going to show you the Lord.
Do you remember what happened?
Oh God, who's standing with you?
Oh God, now stop.
I'm so afraid.
Oh God, help me.
Right?
I am the Lord.
Can you see my form?
Can you see my form?
Yeah.
I will give you the Son of Sema and says Jesus and it won't kill you.
It won't kill you.
I am the Christ.
Do you know what God glories in?
God glories in the Christ.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's give me the next one.
Oh, it's going to get, okay.
I'm going to take a little bit dive, a little bit dive into a little bit.
The dragon.
What do dragons do in antiquity, by the way?
By the way, I'm sorry.
For those of you who are out there and thinking this dragon has scales and flies through the
air and stuff like that, you're wrong.
I'm sorry.
It's just a dude.
It's just a dude, but it's a crazy dude.
And this dude sees visions and stuff like that.
And he has one task to guard this tree.
That's it.
Nobody can get close to the tree.
You can't get a, you can't even get soldiers in there to surround them and get to the tree
