And so here we are.
We finally have this woman here and now we have a choice.
We have a choice between this glorious Amazonian queen.
And you're going to know she's an Amazonian because I'm going to show you.
God reveals it.
He lets it slip.
She's an Amazonian.
Give her the next one.
Give her the next one.
Are we okay?
A little interference there.
What is the tree?
That's the...
I think we skipped over one.
But that's okay.
I can go from here.
What is the tree?
What is it doing, by the way?
For those of you who are just like, wait a minute, he's just talking about drugs, right?
Christ.
It's a drug term, but yeah, yeah, I am talking drugs.
And what is it that tree did?
The one that God said, don't eat, it'll kill you, right?
Which he didn't really say, right?
He said, it'll put...
It'll kill you via Thanatos, yeah, right?
Devil said, no.
What does that tree do that he told you not to partake of?
It's the tree that causes you to have kata noe'o, to be, to exercise.
It's a verb, to exercise kata noe'o.
What is that?
Chew, give me that.
Tell me what kata noe'o is.
To be in one's right mind or to be in one's senses.
Do you know what that thing will do?
It'll reset you, and you will know, you will know, yeah, that's what it's all about.
That tree and the access to that tree is what creates the adamas.
This is all cult, mystery cult, and it makes perfect sense that it's being created in the
third century.
There is no Moses.
Judaism is a Greek invention, yeah, not a modern Greek invention, because the language
has deteriorated to such an extent.
But the ancient Greeks, yeah, like Plethon, let's bring it back, let's bring it back.
Give me the next one.
This is, I just wanted to show you, this is the, now how do you translate that into Hebrew?
You can't, really, right?
You have to just get some generalized word like knowledge, knowledge, knowing, premeditation.
Look how, that's kind of shotgunny down there with skill and truth, seriously.
Right?
Well, they have to do that with the ancient Hebrew a lot.
Sometimes you know one of these Hebrew words is not, right?
It can't be what they're talking about, because you read two books earlier that it was something
else, right?
Unfortunately, they do this, and this is one of those occasions for them to do it.
You can't say ecstasy, so you say sleep.
You can't say a state of mental soundness, a state of mental health.
You have to say knowledge, right?
This is not about knowledge.
This is about a right and these three people who are going through it, yeah.
He's going to get mad and is going to reveal his own hand by showing the Amazonian who
is Eve.
Give me the next one.
Let's get to it.
We'll have a couple more, and what's going to happen, and your eyes, right?
The eyes, so this, that's what they said was going to happen.
They ended up eating it, and what happens?
Their eyes were opened.
I just wanted to show you that he wasn't lying.
The devil's right.
God was lying.
And what happened?
They understood that they were naked.
They understood that nakedness, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They got gnosis.
They received that gnosis, and you know what that means?
They become us gods, yeah, yeah, wow.
It actually worked out like the devil did, and they're sitting there naked, and what's
going to happen?
Give you the next one.
They heard, they heard the voice of the Kuryos, he's walking around in paradise, right?
It's about midday, right?
So Adam and his wife, they hide themselves.
They hide themselves from his gaze, right?
Why?
In the middle of that place in paradise.
Why do they do that?
Why do they hide themselves?
The dude is walking around, this is what the text very carefully expresses.
The dude, this Kuryos was never meant to be magic, invisible, who hot God.
This is a Kuryos, and he's walking around the garden saying, where the hell are you
guys?
And they are naked.
And why do you think they're trying to hide?
Why do you think they're trying to hide?
Where do they go?
They go right back to it, where the devil is, they go right back to the tree where they
all got high, where the devil is, and what happens?
What happens to these underlings of the Kuryos?
Watch, this is good, go ahead, this is good Hellenistic.
Adam says to God, he says, hey, I heard your voice walking around in the paradise, and I
hid myself, because I'm naked, brah, right, because he's naked.
What do you do when you're around that tree, that tree that causes you to come to that
place of complete and total health?
It involves getting naked and children.
It involves getting naked and children.
Think of this cult, think of this cult, getting naked and children, producing them, producing
them.
Yeah, yeah, and an Amazonian woman, are you ready?
Let's see her, let's see her, give me the accent.
And what does Eve say?
Well, first Adam says, hey, you gave her over to this whole situation, right?
And so she took the tree, she gave it to me, and I ate it.
And so Kuryos says to the woman, what did you do?
What did you do?
And the woman says, the serpent, that serpent, he bamboozled me.
He bamboozled me.
He fooled me, he fooled me.
It was a sweat.
We know when the apocryphal works, it was the sweat of the devil that did the bamboozling.
He bamboozled me, she said, he gave it to me, and I ate, I ate, ride, ah, keep going.
What does the Lord say?
What does the Lord say?
Oh, whoops, there we go.
And what does the Lord say?
He says to the serpent, he turns to the devil and he says, because you did this, you're
cursed.
Now, wait a minute, do you mean the Lord, Yahu himself, who shows Moses his behind?
Yahu himself, all speaking from the bush, you know, Yahu himself is cursing.
Yeah, why?
Because it's the third century people and curses are the big thing, right?
That's Hellenistic magic, baby.
That's Hellenistic magic and God is using it.
This is the same God.
This is Yaho.
This is the same God who brings together male lovers.
If you are a man and you are interested in another man, you can ask Jehovah, Yahu Hashim,
and he will get you that love.
Do you understand?
Yes.
They were worshiping by another name, the devil, Eros.
Eros, I showed you the passage last week, you cannot magically control Eros.
He has everything.
