What was that third one doing there at the bottom?
It's the juice of that one.
If you drink that one, or you use it as a Christing, an unction, that's a chemical Christing.
Right?
That's what the term Christ means.
Right?
So, if you use that anointing, as you all like to say so sillily, if you use that anointing
or you drink it.
You know what happens to you?
You get regal morbo.
Oh, I don't want any of that.
I don't want any of that.
What is that, man?
Kills your liver, bro.
Makes you jaundiced.
You know, they have to take care of people who are in that mode.
So what do they do?
There's more drugs that will balance.
Right?
You have to fight what it is in the venom that causes that.
Right?
It's killing the liver, and you have to counteract it with another compound.
Isn't that cool?
It's the whole idea of the theriac.
The theriac, good.
Any of the beasts, any of the beasts can bring you that cure.
It's the one that pairs with the black death that is the mystery drug.
Yeah.
You got the black death, and you got the theriac.
Do you know why she is so dangerous, Lady Babylon?
Because she has the cup, and it's the beast, the bringer.
Okay.
Did everybody get that?
I know my congregation got that.
Okay.
Stop it and go back and look at it for those of you who didn't, because the rest of us want
to get through this.
Look at that.
Look at that cup.
Oh, that was gorgeous.
I like that.
It's almost like a tripod.
You can sit on that and use it as a tripod, right?
What do they use tripods for in antiquity?
Oh, they collect things, and who sits on them?
Well, the Aracula Priestess does.
Eat my flesh and drink my blood.
Yeah.
Let's go.
Next, my last one.
I want to bring up my last one.
Right.
That was it.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Look, one more element that I want to show you for this is that they're combining.
On that second line, they're combining that thing that biblical translators translate as
a morsel.
Remember when Judas is at the dinner with naked Jesus and the other 11 boys?
And he's like, hey, take this.
He's like, watch.
Jesus is like, watch.
Right?
Jesus is close buddies, and there's a kid sitting on his lap too, probably John, right?
And he's like, look, watch this.
And he gives him that morsel that he soaks in the wine, right?
And he's like, watch this.
They're doing this right here.
And what do you do?
What do you do when you know what hits the fan?
And you know what hits the fan?
You got to use this method of dipping that, right?
Of taking that substance for the sake of what?
For the sake of what?
Ad refochilandum mentum.
Oh, didn't that sound...
What do you want?
What are they trying to do for you?
They're trying to do refochilandum to your mind.
They're trying to remedy your mind.
Right?
Again, we're introducing toxins, and we're following them with antidotes.
Yeah.
Yeah, fantastic.
I think we get all these visions, right?
Right?
And then he goes on to talk about, you got to be careful not to let, you know, back to
the toads.
You got to be careful not to let what you're making clawed up, right?
You got to keep it.
As you put it back into the, back into the copper, right?
Put the lid on, all that kind of stuff.
So long, long, long scientific detailed process for making this stuff that starts with the
toads.
Why?
Because we're going to use these biological substances, you know, if somebody wants to
fatten you up on drugs and puts you through a process whereby you're able to squirt out
in whatever way is necessary, some kind of life giving substance.
That is what humanity has pushed to obtain.
That's what came to a head in antiquity.
And what flourished was all of that attempt to use the environment to bring medicine.
And apparently it's about to get dark.
I hope that you can join me for the second part.
We will go deeper to the bottom of this little insert in the De Orto Wallowani.
We'll go even deeper and we'll look eye to eye to the serpents.
We'll find that one and we'll bring the fire.
Yeah.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I hope that you enjoyed a brief look at those who are the vampires, those who eat the brains,
those who eat the flesh and drink the blood, those who get caught in cemeteries at 4 a.m.
with naked boys, right?
Thank you very much for coming tonight, Hail Satan.
Too late to be in the dark harbor with the love cup, grape juice, straightening you blood
suckers, deep purple makeup, cause I'm cuckoo for crazy puffs, bitches, Hail Satanic Coke,
Boogie Man, Argonaut Themes, Selling You Some Dreams, Lady Babylon, Kuba Libra, Hot Stacks,
I'm loading the Scorpion Venom and Dragon Snake Latex.
I'm loading the Scorpion Venom and Dragon Snake Latex.
