Do you see it?
Did you know that Jehovah, did you know that Jehovah sprang, the worship of Jehovah sprang
from people performing magic with a God that performed magic by drawing from the side of
the Adamant, the Ewa?
Yeah, it's kind of interesting when you actually look at the cult and see what they're doing.
Okay, we've got to come up with more.
Bring me the next one.
Bring me, did I finish that last one?
And I will, oh, here, no I didn't, give me that, I don't think I finished it.
So you're cursed, you're cursed, right?
And what else does he say?
I thought he's going to say, you're going to go on your belly, right?
You're going to eat that dirt, right?
All the days of your life, right?
You're going to end up in that Chthonian, oracular earth cast down from Uranos, right?
He's letting them know.
You can see the drug knowledge on both sides.
You can see how the drug cult is being used.
It's its own language, and I think that's why they're saying dragon is their spoken tongue.
They're speaking dragon.
For you and I watching this, we'd be like, huh, huh, right?
We haven't been initiated.
When they initiate you, you can open up and you can start perceiving and understanding
the way they are talking.
Very much, Anthony Burgess S. I love it.
Hey, the dude who's working on, who did the dissertation on Clockwork Orange.
That's fantastic.
I love that.
I absolutely love that.
Okay, right, right?
Let's do it.
Hit the symptom mask.
Give it to me.
What does he say?
Oh, now he turns to the woman.
He turns to Eve, and he says to Eve.
Are you ready?
You didn't know what he said.
See in the third line, what the third word is, spermatos.
I knew it.
I knew if we were going to be involved in some kind of cult mystery.
I knew that we're going to be dealing with sperma, sperma.
What does he say?
I'm going to put, I bet we talk about drugs too, I'm going to put this, this fighting
spirit, right, between you and the woman.
I'm going to put this fighting spirit.
You remember she ended up with Adam, right, and they had twins, and they were nothing
alike, and one killed the other one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hyper-opulation.
Right?
Seriously, it's the poisons.
No, I'm serious.
They talk about it.
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't care.
Read Soranus.
Okay.
And what's going to happen?
He says I'm going to put this division between your seed and his seed.
Yeah.
Do you see what happened with the Amazonian woman?
That's not her identity yet.
It's coming up.
Give me the next one.
What else is he going to do?
What else is he going to do?
Oh, and this is just some insufficiency.
Oh, yeah.
This is what Eve is in Hebrew.
She's a helper.
Right?
Again, do you hear the third grade, right?
This is not the warrior.
This is not the huntress, because all of these cult drugs are being used and developed by
these hunting cults.
This is not their God.
This is not their Ewa, right, that you and I have in our mind.
The helper.
Oh, I'm going to be a helper.
Wee.
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
No.
What does he say to the woman?
He says to the woman, look, here's what I'm going to do to you.
Okay.
Here's God's punishment.
Are you ready?
He says to the woman, I'm going.
And by the way, listen to the Greek.
Play Thunon.
Play Thunon.
Right?
That's a repetition there.
That's native to the Greek.
He's pulling it out of his backside if this is coming from the Hebrew.
This is very much, and they love doing this, right?
This repetition is extremely common.
It's usually with a verb and then a nominal form with using the same root.
Yeah.
Good.
Anyway, and what happens?
He's going to make your pain.
He's going to make Eve's pain and groaning in her childbirth.
He's going to make her have pain in childbirth.
Wait a minute.
You mean God threatened Eve with painful childbirth as a punishment?
A punishment.
How are they not having painful childbirth in antiquity, in the Bronze Age?
How are they not having painful?
They're not having painful childbirth because of the Eos, because of that poison that they're
using on their Eos, Eos, Eos poison, Eos snake venom.
They're using those medicines to cause a painless birth, a painless birth.
What is the curious punishment?
This is the Jewish God.
What is the Jewish God's punishment?
What is the modest God's punishment to take away the drugs?
You're going to have painful childbirth.
He's going to kick her out of the innermost circles where they use these drugs.
Yeah, she's not going to be a part of it.
That's what she suffered.
That's what she suffered.
I bet she was like, skip you.
Skip you bra.
I've got things to do on my horse.
Fantastic.
Give me one more time.
What is the proof here?
What is the proof here?
People, I want you to see that the punishment can only be a part of the culture.
It can only be a part of the culture.
These images that we're getting and these extremes, these things that are happening
that are leading us, these vivid, vivid like with Jesus, masturbating and then eating it.
Those mental images are anthropological radiation.
Somebody at the time is talking about that activity, that activity.
Is it historical?
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
Look what it is pointing to.
