Isn't that glorious?
Salvation is the gentle-mindedness of the great virgin.
And she comes to purge.
Now, those are all of the signs that you need.
Right?
Those are the images with which you can reconstruct the right.
We've got all the drugs.
Put them together.
Yeah.
Please understand.
I want to say one final comment, please.
And I know you're giving me too much time.
Please understand the first time that I saw that Christing was putting a substance into
somebody's eyes to alter their mental state.
The first time that I saw that, I thought, okay, there's one rope through this cave.
And I only feel stable and comfortable with those drugs because they are a hardcore scientific
element of all of this that I can just walk through the right with.
I don't know why he's doing what he's doing.
I don't know why this priestess is saying what she's saying.
I don't understand how she can see the future and why the universe has this three-fold matrix
that it swims within.
I don't get repeating time.
I don't understand any of that stuff.
But what I do get is that the drugs, these are just plants and animal things.
You know what I mean?
These are things that can make sense, that can make sense.
So I'm going to keep my mind on those.
And next time, now, I did have one reference for you.
I wanted to bring, but I couldn't because I can't.
I'm not comfortable with my translation because technically, I mean, literally it says,
this is the medicine that you use on those boys who have been reaped.
And it's kind of a different way that I've seen it for castration, right?
Yeah, okay.
So I was going to bring you another castrated boy tonight, but instead I've got a priestess
who is pre-puberty, who is having her growth guided chemically.
And here we have the formula for you.
And by the way, these tablets, they're made, oh god.
Please come tomorrow.
We're going to talk about the actual drugs that they were using to create this great, great mystery for us.
To allow us to enter into that death and rebirth.
This is why we all went to Elucis.
It's good to see you all back here.
I want to say please people, please be looking out for Danny Jones.
Danny Jones, I love this guy.
I had the best day.
Look, I had the best day of my life.
Absolutely loved it.
So I think the interview is going to be fantastic.
The gods of the underworld were backing me up.
There was thunder and lightning, you know, and boom, and make a point and boom.
You know, we had sirens going off.
God, tornado city, baby.
Love it in Tampa.
It was gorgeous.
Brought it with us.
A lot of wind.
Fantastic.
Please let me know what you think about it.
It should be out.
I'm told next week, maybe Monday.
Maybe Monday.
Fantastic.
And let's see what kind of perception this light of day gets.
Thank you, Danny, for that opportunity.
It's my honor and privilege to be able to bring you this right out of the Muses temple.
It's gorgeous stuff.
Everybody keep it up.
Keep it up.
And I hope to see you there tomorrow night.
And for those of you who are having, you know, the dream thing,
let's just put it at that.
Whatever happens, you know, it's Vegas, right?
It stays in Vegas.
Talk to you shortly.
Hail Satan.
God of the Queen.
Written there with magic ink.
Guarded by a dragon in the grave.
Of Mars on the east side of the Black Sea.
Dragon venom from the God with horns.
I am being Ionic.
Watch the image.
Jude's letters in Greek.
Copia, Ouroboros, Cleo, Medea, and Bacchus.
The dragon venom will knock him back.
Phase interferometry.
Traces floating.
Crazy eyes.
Drinking purple mead and whiskey with Lady Medea.
Straight out of Babylon.
Venus with a penis.
Gold horns of Alexander.
Hitch you with the man the broad set on the DMT.
Way up the elemental piece.
Slang what words will it mean?
Dragon venom of darkest dreams.
