That's how they speak around here.
Okay.
It was a tremendous time.
Everybody, the classes are coming.
Let's get serious.
The classes are coming and I'll have the platform up and going.
And then we can figure out the way to farm an army, a Renaissance army.
For those of you who have the call, you can feel it.
Right.
People write to me.
They're like, I feel it.
I feel the call.
Right.
I can.
It's something's pulling me.
Right.
You may have seen something a little serendipitous.
These people are usually talking about serendipity.
Yes.
Yes.
What is that?
Somebody smack young.
All right.
For those of you who love young, this is for you.
Very bad.
Very bad.
All right.
Let's do this.
Let's do this.
Here's what I've got tonight.
I want to show you a few slides.
But before I do, before you hit the hyperdrive to it, I just want people to know that I've
got several classes that I'm going to go ahead and offer.
I'm going to use this opportunity because Danny asked me in the interviews like, what
did you do after university, after they drove you out of town?
Yeah.
What does one do at that point?
Well, now I have a chance to do something.
Yes.
Yes.
Right.
Now I have a chance to bring back that university.
Only ours is going to be better.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Definitely.
Can you hear the thunderous applause of people?
I've got some classes to offer you.
And I consider taking them.
Of course, we'll have the intensive Greek.
This one will be a strict 20-week course.
You go at your pace, but you have to make the benchmarks in order to pass it.
You got to be up there.
If you can't, you can't.
You just got to work.
And I'll have labs there and I'll be mean to you, right?
But in a good way, in a good way, not in a derogatory kind of way, but in a way to get
you pumped up.
Because one of the things I talked to Danny about was this language makes you smarter.
It makes you smarter.
And people will comment to me and they have for years ever since I've been teaching it.
People come to a point and they realize, oh my God, I'm out thinking of the people around
me.
My husband's a lot dumber than I thought.
Yeah, it's because the Greek does something to your mind.
It causes you to expand.
It causes you to reach out and to stretch in directions that you're not used to stretching
with your foul Anglo-Saxon mouths.
That language that you have is so barbaric English.
So barbaric.
It doesn't matter what dialect, it's barbaric.
And half of its base is Greek.
Okay.
So what we have to do is we have to expose ourselves, those of us who have the call,
to that baptism, that dying of the Greek.
And when you're wearing the purple, yeah, you're ready to fly.
You're ready to go, yeah.
Mind expanding.
Can you believe that?
It's mind expanding, but it's sweating.
This isn't just a pill.
That you're going to take and you're going to go to La La Land.
That's what those religious historians are for.
Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.
But we have to point out those who are deficient.
You know, come on, man.
They're samurai, right?
You guys know that I'm Ronin.
That's what my publisher told me.
She said, she's from Ronin Press and she said, you're Ronin and that's nice.
That's a compliment because the Ronin were basically outcast.
Their Lord had been overthrown, their Dimeo had been overthrown, they had nowhere to go.
They could just live a life as a samurai, write poetry, do what's right, that kind of
thing, but they got no protection from the Lord.
They're not part of the structure.
They're on the outside, man.
Life is not the same when you're in exile, yeah, right?
Because they're dangerous.
Once your Lord's been lost, you're a dangerous element.
Yeah, fantastic.
Do you see where we are?
That's where we are.
So I was able to talk with Danny about some of that kind of stuff and you can hear Stephen
eating his popcorn in the background.
Okay, give him a hard time for that.
It's a perfect effect.
I mean, it's a perfect effect.
It was gorgeous.
These guys are geniuses.
Absolute geniuses.
I loved it.
I'm going to go back.
