Okay, yeah, so what are the courses that I can offer you?
Let's just slow down and let me give you the courses.
So Intensive Greek, I'm going to have a basic Greek lit and a basic Roman lit.
I'm going to go ahead and throw in a little bit of, you know, I'm thinking about cutting
out that side completely to be quite honest because I don't think we have time.
Yeah, I don't think we have time.
We need Greek.
We need Greek.
That's the one that we really need.
So we'll have a Greek literature course then.
Also a myth course because I know people or they want to, I used to teach myth at the
university.
Right?
So I understand.
We'll have an English word roots course.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think that one I'm going to incorporate with the literature in order to kind of push
people toward doing the Intensive Greek.
The Intensive Greek is just for those people who really, really want to excel.
I mean, these are the crack troops.
These are the people you send in first to the library.
We get to those beaches, the library.
These are the people we send in first, right?
These are the people who can preserve and protect.
These are, you know, love it.
Love it.
Okay.
And then we'll have a course on cult.
Course on cult and a course on drugs.
Yeah, drugs.
Finally we will have a course on magic.
On magic.
Of course on magic.
Let's say courses.
You understand what I mean is that we're going to the sources and I'm going to give you the
dirtiest stuff.
I'm going to give you the stuff that people say, oh, okay, it's time to switch off of
YouTube and to switch on to Patreon.
Right?
Because I don't want to get stuck with, you know, I haven't put on something that's used
as words that algorithms don't like to refer to.
Yeah, I think one of them is un, what do you call that?
What are we chewing?
Un, unregulated, unincorporated, somehow, you know, whatever, detached from the teat.
Yeah, that's what they call it when you're sucking that teat.
When you're taking in that milky little goats.
Yeah, that's what we're here to punish, right?
You remember that when you're chasing those saders and you're beating them, you got your
rub done and you're, you're putting your applications via the rub done into the part of the human
body that's capable of absorbing the drugs that are on those, um, that route, rub done
that sacred, um, wand.
You thought wands were all, isn't it funny?
Everybody was watching Disney again and everybody thought the wands were these, you know, Harry
Potter, which is just obscene, man.
It's just obscene.
Harry Potter's wand, uh, was this, is this whole thing?
I think I understood.
I think I found this in junior high.
I think I found this in junior high.
She was the one of the best teachers I ever had, you know, definitely.
I'll leave it at that, um, because this is YouTube and let's keep it.
Let's keep it.
You know, um, I'm always going to do that, people, by the way.
I'm always going to do that.
Monetized.
We're not monetized, right?
Yeah.
Good.
Okay.
Um, you got the raw stuff.
It's going to be magic and cult.
And for the magic and cult and drugs, um, I, I may want to combine those into one grand
course on the mystery, yeah, the mystery.
I heard him.
I just heard some Melvin say, yeah, and to me, the mystery is, uh, yeah, in the plural
Melvin.
Yeah.
The performance, the activation of the throne of Satan.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
Love it.
Love it.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
Um, let's go to the sources and see what we've got.
Now this is the kind of thing that I'm going to pull out in the classes and I want people
to be able to follow, even if you don't have any interest in the Greek, I want you just
to follow it.
Hit me with the passage.
Remember people.
This is the famous passage, Mark 14, 51 from the New Testament, Kai Neoniskos, Teess.
And this Teess here, it never gets translated.
It never gets translated.
Right.
It's an indefinite.
So it's some something or someone.
And what is the sum of it?
It's some Neoniskos, that second word.
That is not only a diminutive on the end of it.
It's root is boy.
So this is young boy, young boy.
There's a some young guy, Jesus is with some young guy.
And what is that?
What is some young guy?
What is what is what is the fourth word in soon a colute?
He's assigned to him as a, as a what?
Well like a slave or a soldier.
And this guy's not, he doesn't have any armor on.
So wait a minute.
You mean Jesus Christ wasn't just not doing carpentry?
