I love this.
Okay.
Um, thank you for the great pictures, by the way, Chewy.
Chewy didn't go with me this time.
Next time Chewy will go with me.
Um, definitely.
I need my own Chewy.
You know what I mean?
And so leaving behind the bandage, the kid ran away naked.
Good.
Now, all I want to point out, because you guys have seen this 1000 times, all I want
to point out is, look, all we're doing is going to the Greek.
That's all we're doing.
We're just going back to the Greek.
And the only way for us to really get down to the dirt is to read a whole bunch is to
read a whole bunch.
That's, that's the only way it's the only way.
Kid fled naked.
Let's go to the next one.
We're going to fly through these because I've already taken people's time.
Um, here's the newer NIV.
Let's, let's kick it up.
Let's meet this thing up.
He fled naked.
No, that's not what it said.
No, no, no, no.
Said first, the bandage fell off his, you know, who, yeah, the belongs.
Yeah, because why?
Because why?
Because he and Jesus, who by the way, by this time, Jesus is groggy and paranoid.
He's falling over, says Mark and paranoid, scared.
Yeah, he's the guy's messed up.
He's jacked, right?
So he's got to take from that boy.
Why do you think he's sitting there?
It doesn't, isn't it a gorgeous intimate picture of Jesus that when Jesus Christ is
arrested in public park with a naked boy that he has a difficulty taking the cup through
that bandage.
He has a difficulty doing that.
He's like, oh, father, oh, dad, remember dad's a child's sacrificing.
So it doesn't matter.
Right.
Jesus got no sympathy on that end.
So it's like, oh, oh, and by the way, for those of you who think, and I get this every
once in a while, this image of your piety, your Christian piety, we must spank the bottom
of Christian piety.
That's what you get.
And go hang with your sisters.
When you, because piety, be a Thomas, never mind.
When you give in to the fairy tale, you give, you end up giving over everything.
And Jesus didn't have a good relationship with his father.
His father killed him.
His father killed him.
Your model of what a father is is not that.
Did you know, right?
The Olympians are looking around like, whoo, right?
Did you know there's a good father out there and a good father would not put his child to
death under any circumstances?
I don't care what you can come up with.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
So this run to the, run to the real Zeus here and see what it is.
By the way, Zeus is thousands of years older than Yahoo.
So you can see that Yahoo is a corruption.
It's a corruption, right?
Of the generation of heaven and earth.
He didn't, right, in the beginning was, right, wood on us and guy, go, they all know this
next one.
Look at this.
Get up.
He says, Jesus is like, um, this is when he gets discovered, right?
And I want you to see a gait is the, a good, oh my God, let's get going.
Get up.
Right.
His guys are half passed out on the ground.
Right.
See, um, they can't even stay awake.
He's having a problem.
He has to wake him up.
He, he spends an hour with the kid and then he goes back, um, or a watch, which can be
a, uh, two hours, two and a half hours.
Yeah.
So depending on who was doing it at what time, a freaking century.
Um, so it could be as long as two and a half hours.
So he's there, um, with the kid for a considerable amount of time, comes back in his guards.
You know, they're asleep again.
Right.
I can't keep these kids awake.
Right.
Give him the stimulant.
Right.
Somebody give these kids the stimulant.
Um, that's what the lace stays is up to.
Right.
So, okay.
So there we are.
Kid runs away.
Good.
Let's go to the next one.
Let's go to the next one.
Um, he, I just wanted to show you, this is, he's, dude, he's in a rush.
He says, look, betrayer is going to come over and hit it.
He's got a name for him already.
The betrayer.
Jesus is good.
Like Trump, he makes up names.
Yeah.
Isn't that funny?
Oh, that's funny.
Um, at this time, Jesus answered and he said, Oh God, I'm so ex homologic with you.
Right.
