What's the next, that same verse?
Boom.
Look at the one, two, three, four, five, six word in.
Hit Tyra.
Right?
What does Jesus say to him?
Jesus says to him, do what you gotta do.
Love her.
Do what you gotta do.
Love her.
You mean my universe of salvation and Christianity is based on that dude?
Yes.
Yes it is.
Yeah.
So if you got no problem with pedorasty, then worship away because, and there may be some
people out there, you know, it's like you can't create a genocide without weapons, without
some kind of plan, without some kind of payments, right?
You can't, you need that as backing.
If you cut that off, you can't have it anymore, right?
If you're a genocide, go away, it has to be supported, there have to be resources poured
into it, right?
That's the way it is.
If you want to shovel the fires of Yahoo, that's the way you gotta do it.
Remember the divinities, that father that is that good father that doesn't kill his
kids.
Are you ready?
This is from the Goya, the priestess on the Vatican.
All of those forms have fled into the animals.
Okay, you just sit, no, no, you know, sit on the throne.
Those of you who are sitting on the throne, sit on it again a couple of times, you know,
get the feeling back in your soul, you know.
Get those brain connections connecting, you know, and look at the throne of Satan.
Yeah, good, hit the last, hit the last one.
Look people, Jesus replied, do you do what you came for, friend, seriously, seriously.
Does that even make sense?
Right?
Do you see, you thought the muted tones in Jesus' skin, you thought that was, you know,
because he was born without hormones or something, right?
Something's going on.
This is, we're not going either male or female on this one, we're just going blah, right?
That's the fairy tale Jesus that you've got, right?
He doesn't say, look, that frigging betrayer is coming, let's get out of here and then
get French kiss and then say something to him, friend, are you kidding?
Are you kidding?
No, no, it is an attempt to obscure the original and that's what we at the museum and at the
place that we'll be collecting ourselves at the Omen, you, that is where we have to have
those details.
I'm not going to be satisfied.
You know, I saw somebody that Neil was interviewing a long time ago say, oh, if even 65% of what
I say is right, I'm happy, seriously?
That's the major of accuracy, well, get out of the way because we're going to sink your
ship.
Yeah, we're, you know, that's, we're serious here.
We carry the purple.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
Why?
Because it was hidden?
No.
Because we were the wise and we figured it out.
That's what God doesn't want you doing.
That's what Yahoo doesn't want you doing.
He doesn't want your eyes opened.
Will it kill you now?
You'll have new life.
You'll be alive for the first time and he doesn't want it.
Why?
Because he's Yahoo, bro.
I don't know.
How long do you think I've been ruling this place?
Yeah, he's Yahoo.
Give him his child sacrifice.
You have a choice.
You have a choice.
It's an incredible thing to watch.
Incredible.
But, you know, those are the, those are the happenings and the waves and time and from
that you can chart a course.
You can know how to ride those waves.
Yeah.
Because you can see where it's going.
That's what the oracular science is all about.
How do I know the future?
Yeah.
How do I know the future?
How does she, how does she know the future?
Yeah.
Love it.
So somebody get my goat, please.
Let's just say hello.
So bring Penelope up.
So as we end tonight at the sacred moment of the Satanic congregation, as we end this
point, I want us to focus, as you're sitting there, please focus on the symbol of the cross.
Look at that cross.
Look at that cross and see exactly what that cross means.
See it for what it is.
See it for the shame because you're going to wear that thing.
You're going to wear that thing in the eye on.
And just so you know, the cross goes down just like the swastika.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Let's go down the list with all the ingredients, original sources, psychedelic potions, double
trouble, ridiculous, Venus, the producer, hung on the temple up high, snake witch queen
of the dragons, throwing weed in the graveyard, with kisses of poison for you.
Just come and see it tonight, make you with the dragon venom of the darkest time.
