I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Wednesday Night Bible Study.
Tonight we have an excellent, excellent lineup.
I think you're going to, particularly those of you who are in the cult,
those of you who are visiting, sit back and relax.
For those of you who have ears to hear, tonight is going to go especially deep.
That's why I want to give a shout out.
I want to give a shout out to the people working on the dragon tongue.
I'm looking for fish.
We have at the end of Lady Babylon, you may not have realized it yet,
but we have at the end the dragon tongue itself, which to this day has never been deciphered.
The word that is shown to you at the outro is the word for dragon.
I welcome, I welcome your interest in the cult.
Tonight I'm going to take you somewhere where you cannot go.
This is a text.
These are the words tonight that you will not see anywhere else.
This is a buried esoteric text and tonight we're jumping into a deep, deep, deep, deep.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
I want to begin tonight by letting you know that we will be having a couple of short videos
full of all the imagery that is Orphic that will build your initiation.
For those of you who are asking, I'm behind.
I don't know what is this and that.
It's great, isn't it, to be able to build an association where only those of us with ears to hear can hear.
That's fantastic.
That is a true mystery.
That is how the mysteries function.
Tonight I want us to put on our Orphic solution caps.
I want you to know, I want you to be sitting on that throne.
You have the hysteria and your possession.
You are sitting on that throne because tonight we're going in.
We're going in deep.
And we're going to teach ourselves something about the Bible.
We will kick around a few people in the meantime.
Don't worry.
There's plenty of people to kick around.
But it's four minutes after.
