them. Anybody who is a person of the book, right? I'm talking about those great three religions.
They are based on an historical lie. And I'm saying lie because it was intentional.
It was a misrepresentation of history, a misrepresentation of history. And surely there
is somebody sitting in this audience today, somebody who can say, boy, a lot of bad things
happen when people lie. Yeah, they do. A lot of bad things happen. And if your society doesn't
worship Lady Justice, you're gone. That's it. Let's go. Let's go to that last quote. I want to
pull this up here just to give people, somebody asked me about Armenian stuff. And I came across
this and I thought, this is perfect. It's quite perfect, right? For everybody who has ears to
hear who's watching me now. You know what this says? They call that color Armenian, right?
They call it Armenian. It's just like kalche. It's just like kalche. What? It's just like
kalche. What is kalche? Look at this. The murex purple porfura. Yes, theirs are burning purple.
Fantastic. There's our burning purple. And do you know what root this is following? They'll tell
you here, the guys at Oxford, they didn't know, right? It doesn't appear to be a Greek root.
It doesn't appear to be a Greek root. But we know that the kalche, that burning purple, which is
that thing that brought the Bacchic Empire, that kalche is using the same letters that
Kolkis uses. Huh, the Kolkians. Huh, interesting. Those people in Georgia, modern day Georgia,
with their kingdom. Fantastic. The archaeology is going right back there,
right back there to those cultures on the Black Sea. It's so exciting. Love it, love it, love it.
That burning purple is in everything, people. The Plaskians brought it. The Phoenicians peddled it.
The Kolkians mastered the mystery that used it. And from that, the Bacchic Empire permeated the world.
This is fantastic. You guys have been an outstanding audience tonight. I want to encourage you to
continue sending comments, because I would like to begin increasing my engagement. And I'll start
my increased engagement with my gracious audience, who gives me 44 minutes of their time,
twice a week. I want to say thank you. And in order to say thank you, I would like to start
engaging. So anything that you've got right now, I'm going to look over your comments,
and I'm going to look over the chat. Anything that you've got right now, questions, throw them in
there. Anything that you want to see. Anything that you want to maybe take the ship a little bit
next week somewhere else. If you take it somewhere else, I don't know. You want to go back to the
5th century? I don't know. You've got some sexy stuff back there. Fantastic. But I'd like to increase
the participation, just as my way of saying thank you. To my Greek students,
we don't have that much time before I need a cracked dragon tongue. So remember everybody,
it's on the end of the show and the outro. Come and see the dragon tongue. Help us figure out
what's going on and hail Satan.
