What does the Hebrew say for that? The, it says the first and the second without any floor, without
any architectural reference. What? It's just first and second, whereas the Greek uses two terms
that are architectural terms with the word first and second in them with the floors. The people
who back translated the Hebrew obviously couldn't handle the technical advancement of the Greek.
That is not what translators do. Translators do not dump technicality into a text.
You can't make a text more technical than you got it. It doesn't work that way. It's dishonest
and it's propagandistic. So here we go. I'm sorry. Let's get back. Let's get to the exciting stuff
here. I'm going to go back to that one more time to the holey. I just want to show people the holey
one more time. Notice the bottom people here. Look at that. Look at number four, serpents venom.
Oh, okay. Now I know where I am. I'm at the serpent venom. Oh, wait a minute. Number five,
a bitter drink in Matthew when he's sitting on the cross. Remember people who haven't caught up.
Jesus is standing on the cross. Ah, he's screaming above the inside. I'm so thirsty.
He's sobbing. He starts screaming out magic terms, stuff like that, right before he croaks.
They offer him a drink that's got this in it. Okay. Fantastic. That's what we've got in our text.
We've got that substance in there. Oh, this is wonderful. This is wonderful. Let me just go
back and make sure that we covered everything from that initial text. I just want to make sure.
I want you guys to notice on line 46, those of you who are in Greek, I want you to start looking
for the Orphic terms, auto-kerns, vox, orphica. Do you see on line 46?
You see that? That is that cry to shout Iacus. To shout Iacus. And what does it do when you
cry Iacus? It makes a song that is invisible, makes a song that is invisible. Who is doing such things?
Line 47, Oeonoi. Those are, take it down. Those are those prophets of the air. Those prophets
of the air. For those of you with ears to hear, the prophets of the air that tell us the signs.
Are you ready? I'm going to show those to you because I want you to be Joseph. I want you to
just bury your face. Just open up his coat of color. Just bury your face in the middle of his
chest. That's what I want. Joseph, I want you to smell him tonight. Are you ready? Are you ready?
Okay, let's go to the next text that I've got. Boom. Yep. We're going to look at Selene just
briefly. I just want you to see. Here's a hymn to Selene. And I want you to notice, yes, she is that
great goddess queen. She is that one who admits the lie that defines Selene. The one with the
horns of the bull, right? The one who was in the air, that night walking meanie, right? She is that
nocturnal one. Look at the very last line on this page. Telesphore. Telesphore. What is it?
What is it? Telesphore. Yeah, let's see what we can make of that. Telesphoros is one who brings
fulfillment. It's used by Homer. Thanks, right? Able to fulfill or fulfill or accomplish. Okay,
okay. Having the management or ordering. Look at the very bottom. Look, it's even a deity,
worshiped in company, right? With a Sclepias and Hygia and the Telesphore fans out there
are roaring. Telesphoros. You mean Selene is Telesphoros. Yes, yes, yes. Did you notice in the
hymn that said she was both male and female? Said she was both male and female. And now we just
clipped off every monotheist in the group. We just clipped them off like pinching off something.
Yes, we just clipped them off. Fantastic. Yeah, show that. Go ahead. Do you throw that up there?
Oh, here. You know what? It's time to bring back Dracula's poet. Now, try to drink in the blood of
