It is a Greek concept. It is a Greek root that is used all over the place. Yes. Yes,
this is the origin. Remember, classical Hebrew vocabulary. Tiny, tiny, tiny. Ancient Greek vocabulary.
Very big. Very big. Here's one of those biggies, right? Let's go to it. Go to it. Yeah, check out
this one. How do I get that? Yeah, here's what we're looking for. Here's what we do, people.
For those of you outside the cult, cover your eyes. In that right, in that ritual,
when we bring that orgiastic high through the drugs, through the drugs and the sexual intercourse,
when we're doing that, we are drawing down the moon, the power of the moon. What does that mean?
All the any classes you meet can tell you that. Drawing down the moon, drawing down the moon.
All the esoteric fruit cakes on the planet can tell you that drawing down the moon, drawing down
the moon. They don't know what it means to draw down the moon because it tells us here,
you draw down the moon within the holey, within the venom. Bring up that holey.
Bring up that holey again. Look at this. Look at this bile. Look at this bile. Look at number two,
the ink of the cuttlefish. Wait a minute. What? That's in McCander's, Alexa Pharmaca.
That's a drug manual. Fantastic. And what else is it? It's the, wait, look at the Hebrew. Okay,
we just said Hebrew, Greek. Here's a perfect example. Right. Here it is. I don't take,
I don't take pleasure in this. I don't take pleasure in this. It's very, but it's my duty
to reality, to, you know, be straight up with it. Okay. So look at number three with the Hebrew,
a poisonous plant, various, various they call him locker poppy.
A poisonous plant. Do you see what state the classical Hebrew language is in? It is so infantile.
It is so nonspecific that you don't know if the plant that you've got is an opium poppy for
pain killing or hemlock to kill you. Julian, Julian, the apostate. Come here, Julian. Come here.
Tell the folks. What was your position? Emperor, emperor, Roman emperor. Fantastic. And Julian,
what did you tell the people about the Galileans, the people we don't now call Christians?
What? What they, they, they're making a mistake with the Hebrew.
The, there's no show me what Julian says, show me the math. Show me
your works of literature on medicine. He says that show me they have none. They have none.
What happened? What happened? It's not their people. And we've, we've suffered because of the
wake of the attempt to establish Hebrew is the earliest tax. It's not, it's not,
it's not. Let's keep going. Do you see that? Go back to that definition. Do you see that? They,
they, the language itself can't even distinguish between two plants within a
pharmacopeia that for the Greeks has thousands of species. Now, there is a secret in translation.
It's unidirectional.
Can only go one way. Yeah. You can only go one way. You cannot take a text and translate it
with a higher degree of technicality than it possessed. And that's what we've got going on.
In your Bible, in your Bible, the Greek lever level of technological achievement is higher.
It can't be a translation. For example, in Noah's Ark, I just wanted to bring up Noah's Ark. Somebody
asked me about Noah's Ark. In Noah's Ark, when the building instructions are given,
in the Greek, it talks about the first and the second floor of the structure that's being
built. And the technical term is the area that is roofed. First floor, second floor. Fantastic.
