That's the brilliance of what's going on is that we're connecting now
All these minds and expertise now are connecting, we're on the same frequency
Christians and the Jews and Muslims, Hindus, they're going to start doing, they're going to see what we have here
And they're going to start, if they haven't already, they're going to flood to this because this is the movement
People are not going to be going to buildings, right?
We have to think of the future
And the future is for us constructing this virtual temple, right?
We start with this temple of muse and we will build a city
I know that people are interested in different areas, people want the magic, right?
They want to, we have to start a magic class immediately
There has to be a specialty
We have to get people to understand the rudiments of necromancy
And again, not by preaching, not by teaching, but giving people the sources
By giving people the sources and saying, look, don't trust me
Trust what this witch from the fourth century said
Because that's what we're harkening back to
Yeah, tell me
I think Rob raises an interesting concern though
And this is something that I think we need to address is that we need to focus in on certain things
And we need to have, like you were bringing up Amon, we need to have sort of designated organizations
Where people are focused on specific things
Like if we can be more organized in our approach, we can have a better way of understanding these things
So people who are more dedicated to tracing the mystery and what the drugs are
And people who are more interested in the magic, but we all, like you said, and we all need to be doing the necromancy
But that's the idea where we're at right now is that the Discord is wonderful for invoking this freedom
And invoking ourselves to just follow the muse, but it does lack cohesion
And what your episodes bring is that cohesion
And I think that's what we need to try and do going forward as we try to make this a little more formal
And create our order of the rose is have a more dedicated focus and have people streamlined
And dedicated to specific pursuits
Yeah, let me ask you both this question while we're here
And maybe we can bounce this off the audience somehow
We have a real duty to put together this scene
And to figure out what Jesus is doing with this naked boy
And what are the details of it? We have a duty to delve into that
We have a duty to bring that
If we're bringers of reality, right? If we're trying to tell people, look, what you've been sold is a fairy tale
And let me show you what's actually there in order to open up their, to take off their blinders
And to free them, if we are really going to perpetuate the Bacchic freedom
Then we're going to have to have a mission that's oriented to those people who are currently enslaved
We have to be ministers to the enslaved, do we not?
Oh, definitely, right? But the question is how do we approach this too?
Because there's also was a lot of concern on the discord like both Rat King and Dion brought this up
It's like they're in California, they could start a church tomorrow if we wanted to
But you're going to get a lot of people who are looking for wish fulfillment
Who aren't necessarily seeking the same things that we're seeking
So we have to be, not exclusive, but we have to be careful in our approach, right?
We're not a church, right? We're trying to invoke the mystery
We're trying to bring that back, we're trying to bring Lady Babylon back
We're something new, we're something different, you know?
Yeah, let me elaborate just by saying that's why I used the detective metaphor
Because that's all we can do. Who are we people? Are we part of some special organization? No
Are we funded by billionaires? No
Are we some kind of special illuminati? No
We're just average people who want to know what the reality is
We want to put aside the bullshit with the academics
We want to step aside from the hoo-ha and from the sale
The wholesale shopping out of the prostitution of history
You know what I'm talking about
We want to put those things aside and we want to just get down to that basic level of the evidence
That's what we are
I would never ever want to start a church
I would never want to start a church, you know?
Or any sort of organization that was anything beyond a salon of people who were influencing the world around them
By their worship of the muse
It's all that matters, you know? Let them have the world
Rob, what do you think our mission is?
We're getting further into this
We're getting further into the mystery
The more episodes we're putting out
The more people are becoming accustomed to what you're presenting
And that's only ever been my mission to get your work out there
So people can review it and just have a look at it for themselves
It's had a profound effect upon me
But that doesn't mean I'm not...
I just want to get it out there for everybody to see
