he beat with me in paradise, bro. Right? This is him. He's bringing it. This is the Christos.
Good. Let's go to the next one. Look at this. Let's go back. Step in the ship real quick.
Oh, can you feel it? Oh, it's kind of yummy. Let's go back to Homer.
Yeah. Let's go back to Homer. Do you want some Homer? I'll give you some Homer. Yeah, love it. Oh,
you strangers. Who are you? Who the heck are you? Where'd you come from on the sailing the sea?
You're here to do something or are you just wandering without a reason? That's the second line.
Yeah. And then on the third line, if you'll notice, the third word in is laestatus. Laestatus.
He says, are you like those pirates that go over the sea? Yep. They wander over the sea and what
do they do? They appropriate souls and they cause strangers great pain, man. Great evil.
Why? Because even when this song was being composed, even at that time in archaic Greece,
even at that time long before classical Greece and democracy, at that time, the world
was under the control and influence of gangs, of gangs, highway robbers. And when you say highway
robbery, you think, yeah, put up your hands. No, I'm going to kill you and I'm going to take your
children and sell them to the next town because they aren't that bad looking.
This is the group to which Jesus himself associates his name when he says, I am not one of these.
Who thought you were one of those Jesus? Maybe it was the 200 soldiers that showed up.
They're going to break up your gang. The only thing you got, brah. Listen,
look at how unprepared he was. The only thing he got is three dudes, three teenage boys. One of
them is the head pimp and that kid has got a sword and he's not very good with it. Right?
Yeah, he's not very good with it at all. You thought all those soldiers fell on the ground
and then got up again. That's not what the Greek says. He says they took Jesus down
and he's screaming, not a pirate. Would you come out here?
To all the weapons. Let's get it back to the text. Back from Homer. We don't need to go back
to Homer after Homer. Here we go. Oh, I love it, people. Thank you for being here with me
this whole time. It's very, you know, I love it. I can smell it in the air. I love it.
Yeah, and what happened? Yeah, so they make him a crown. They make him a crown
from the acacia thorn and they put on him this hematio and porfum, this purple robe.
Yeah, you say, why would they do that? That's kind of odd. Why are they doing that? Right?
This is the one that we've got here. Look at what we're going to do to him. He's not wearing
back clothes either. Go back up to the next one. Where are we going to? Where does Nonus take this?
Nonus takes this. Look at the second line. It says Jesus esthetized clothes. They're died
with the Haimati Kochlu. Kochlu. Do you know what that Kochlu is there, that last word?
That is that sea murex, that shell, that little shell creature. That is the murex. That's why
they're purple because they're died. They're soaked. The clothes are soaked in that Haimati
Kochlu. And do you know if you look this up in Greek, you'll find that it equals Kochos.
It's a flippy dippy of two consonants. But Kolkis is the place that it is because of this
collection process, because of this whole harvesting of the purple and what you can do
with the burning purple. Yes, right. So they're giving them a hard time. They're giving them a
hard time. And again, we're here for associates. So let's try to pick up. The mystery is still not
revealed. If it was, you got to get your money back for your ticket. You guys didn't pay anything
for this. So you can't get anything back. But it's not there yet. Don't worry. I wouldn't do that to
you. I want to give you something good, because that's me. I'm giving. I'm giving him being.
Okay. Verse 40.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. So he offers them. He eventually goes to Pilate and he's like, what is this?
Your truth? I don't care. And then he's like, look, I let one of them out. There's this dude
Brabus, right? He's Lacedace. Right. I'm going to let him out. Can I let him out? Right. And they
say, no, no, no, no, they're so angry. They say, no, no, right. I wanted you to see what happens to
this. Go from the eyes of antiquity. You know what they were doing? They were, I don't mind,
they were really pissed. They were really pissed in hearing how mad they were. And this crazy rage
coming from their mouth. He offered them. He said, look, I'm going to give you one of the Lacedace
that has been taken captive, right? It's been drawn into our Roman cleaning up of your
garbage system. Right. Romans don't abide pirates, man. That's not, you don't have civic order that
way. You think these idiots would come to Rome? No. No, they wouldn't. Well, they did sell slaves
on the slave market. Okay, okay. Right. But they have, they got no control like they do in Judea.
They control the territory. Right. That, that Roman governor is just there to try to keep the peace
and to sort out this kind of stuff. Right. And he says, look, I can let one of these dudes go to you.
Right. And, and just, you know, unbind him, let him go. Next one. And then what, what?
Never mind. It's about the Hebrew. Keep that up there, though.
They say no. They say no, even though he's the Thasma for, I mean, the Thanataphore. Yeah,
no, don't bring him. Don't bring the death. Let Jesus out. Let Jesus out. Hey, isn't one of those
kids? Isn't that kid at the door? His kid, one of his kids after all. Yeah, he is. Let's go to the
next source. I want you to see here for the Hebrew, for the things that the, that you're going to
read or Hebrew and have been translated as Hebrew, they aren't. They're a Syrian. They're a form of
Syrian language. And so having said that, I want you to think about these people that I'm going to
introduce you to. Oh, and by the way, Jesus is closed. I forgot to tell you, Jesus is closed.
They're Thespastic clothes. See that first word? They're oracular. They belong to a priest.
They belong to a king who is God generated. Okay. If you didn't know that about his clothes,
it wouldn't make sense to you why the soldiers were doing what they were doing. Yeah, fantastic.
There's the Thespacios. I want to introduce you now to the mystery. I'm going to bring you to the
mystery. So let me get a, we've got, we've got a little bit of time left and I want to bring you
to the mystery. This says Magdalene Marie Filodakros. Who is Mary Magdalene? She is the one
who loves the tears. The one who loves the tears. If you are to track down
Mary Magdalene, you'll find she is the one who's always associated with the tears. And you say,
