We're looking at reality
He wants to know the guy who's questioning Jesus
The Archpriest
What does he want to know?
He's asking him
He's saying, hey, what about these students?
What about these students?
And what about your teaching?
What is your, what is your teaching?
What are you spreading?
And what's Jesus?
What's Jesus?
What are we going to, what kind of response
Are we going to have?
Now some of you will think
That you're dealing with the guy
In the paintings with the halo
And the hand
Even when he's casting out the, you know
Money changers
Even when he's doing that
He looks like he belongs to the concert somewhere
Right, he doesn't look like it's not intimidating
That man is not intimidating
Right, let's look at him here
This is not who you think it is
This is gangsta G
Gangsta G
And what is gangsta G doing?
He's responding, but he does so
With a bold, bold story
He has no lack of confidence
Right, says Jesus
Literally says Jesus, don't shake
What he's got to tell to this guy
What he's got to tell this guy
Look, you thought he was humble
Look, we're seeing, we're seeing
Let's see, next one
Let's see Chewie, what's the next one?
Boom
Okay, here we go
And Jesus said, look, I stood around
And I said everything openly
Right, I taught these people in synagogue
In the temple
Yeah, I didn't hide anything
I hid nothing
Now, watch, watch what nonus
Shows us of that, of those words
Go ahead, hit it
What did Jesus say?
Uden hupukufion laleon le storimuzhoy
Oh, you ready?
Are you going to feel this, this is big
This is big, are you ready?
I never spoke in that coded language
That the pirates use
Never spoke it
You won't catch me
didn't use your lingo. I don't have these kids for the sake of trafficking. The
ones that he just took him to the temple and they're like, ah, taking over the
place. Yeah, this is who we're talking about. We're talking about co-conspirators.
That's why those people are afraid to show up. One of them comes and people, I
don't know why everybody misses this kid. There's a kid who's in with the uncle I
think it was, of the priest. And this kid is in with him. I'm gonna show you.
Guess why he's in with him? Because it's about the fishing business. When you go
out on those trips. Do you know why naked Apostles like Peter end up on boats?
There's a market. There is imporon. Yeah, we have, we have a supply and a demand.
Guess where we're doing it? We're doing it where the lace stays do it. We'll take
you out on that boat. Yeah, take you out, brah. Take you out with the boys. Who would
you like to meet? Who would you like to meet? Now do you understand why there is
a crowd of people? And by the way, this is before sunrise still. There's a crowd of
