She's from the island of Lesbos. Yeah. And that's, if you talk about Lesbos, you talk about the influences of the groups.
Talk about the influences of all the Scythian tribes, the Amadsones, right? What do they, what do they do? And they're all over Lesbos, right?
And here we have Sopho, who's called the Tenth Muse, who's writing about these. I want to bring her tonight to this love story because in order to understand the mystery, isn't it funny?
In order to understand the mystery, you have to understand the love story. You have to feel and experience a love story. Wow. Wow.
That's fantastic. Why would you want to root that out of society? Adonai, everywhere, kurios. Do you know how Adonai Elohim and Yahu or Yahweh, do you know Yahau?
Do you know that they, that they are all non-existent in the text? They're all translated as kurios.
The Greek is the original people. The Greek is the original. The Hebrew post-dates the original and purports to be the original,
but is a back translation and modification of the original Hellenistic Greek Septuagint.
I'm bringing you those native terms, those Cthonian terms, those native terms that will show you this. Let's do it. Let's go to the first text up here.
Whoops. Here. Let me just get this squared away a little bit. There we go.
Oh, we had some comments, didn't we? We had some comments. I messed up the order again. Comments, correct?
We need to do a couple of comments. Before we jump on Adonis, let's do a couple of comments. These are important because I want the audience to know.
The people who are giving me their time, I'm looking at your stuff and I'm analyzing, saying what kind of responses are there and how can I tailor things to what people are, you know, where they're looking.
It's a frontier. It's a frontier of information. So, yeah, let's go to the first comment and see. Yes, I love this channel. This one's just ego-stroking.
I love this channel so much. Thank you. I've been watching all your shows lately and I love the way you teach and you're down to earth humor. Thank you. Shantel, thank you.
I and you guys just seem so honest and real, not like all the other teachers and preachers. They just seem so confused, right?
Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. I appreciate the support. People would say, hey, that's just as good. It's not better than you're going to hell.
I love that you're going to hell, too. And for the evangelicals, please be specific. Please give me some detail. When you write something nasty, write something.
You know, lately, of late, it's been said that it's been questioned whether or not I'm a meth user. I can assure you I'm not. I can assure you I'm not.
I live in a place that's savvy on all things chemical and I can assure you I'm not.
Thank you, though, for the concern slash suspicion. Let's get one more comment. Let's get one more comment.
Yeah, Lady Babylon or anyone who understands what Oman says at minute 2518, something about hymns of moot.
Yeah, the mercenary poet who fought with Vlad Draku, the impaler. I don't exactly understand hymns of moot.
Yeah, a great source out there for Tar Targ. Great source for you, Targ, is Mike or Michael Maroulas.
