And he is, he's a really interesting guy we're not going to go into, but we need to bring in some more of his poetry as we have in pre episodes.
Yeah, look him up, check him out. Love it. And let's go now to the text. Yep, the very first one that we're going to come up with. Take down that, please.
Now, here's what I'm singing, right? I add so ton add on them, right? I'm I odd sewing. I'm I odd sewing. What is that? What is the where's the I odd so there?
Go for it. Yes, I odd so sorry guys, I'm a little bit my timings off tonight. I apologize. I'll slow down a little bit. Look at this.
Right. It's it's because dates make me nervous. I apologize. I apologize. But dates make me really nervous. I odd so be whale. Right to cry. I I to cry I I or to grown. That's what I odd so is I'm groaning.
I'm wailing. Right. Who am I lamenting? Who am I lamenting? This is the cry that one shouts while lamenting I I astonishment or grief I I beautiful, beautiful. Let's keep going.
I odd so ton add on them. I'm crying adonis. Right. This is the group of mourners who is speaking. I want you to get the I want you to get the the whole context here.
You are listening to a group of women who are mourning the death of the Donis, the lover of Aphrodite. And a Donis you must remember his reputation. He's 18. And he has the reputation for being so exceptionally handsome that he's become
the lover of several gods, Apollo included. Yes. Yes, Apollo included. Yeah, fantastic. So he's really, really good looking. Really good looking. Okay, devastatingly good looking. But if you want to judge Donis, judge him by this one
thing, the Lord that they're adopting the coolest that they're adopting judge him. I don't need judge him by one thing.
He's killed. Trying to drive a wild boar out of his girlfriend's garden, where she has planted roses. And she loves those roses and adonis. Donis can't can't put up with that. Right. It's his drive. Everything that isn't her must be.
Stopped that garden that he's in that paradise that he is in. He's the guardian of it. Yeah. Yeah, that's a Donis. That's a Donis. So good looks aside, right? Remember, there's two very good looking, very good looking figures from antiquity who are the two best looking
figures from antiquity. Number two, Adonis. Number one, in the same family, the children of dawn, Iosforos, the devil. Yeah. Yeah. Did you know they're related really, really good looking family? You know what I mean? Adonis's mother.
Adonis's mother is Mira. And Mira is that oily, lubricant, drug containing medicinal, abortifacient, psychotropic that they are using in the right. She's confused in antiquity with Smyrna.
Just like in the drugs, coincidentally, Smyrna, the drug is confused with Muron, or Mira, the drug of the sexual practices on Cyprus, where we know how to celebrate Adonis. Yes, fantastic.
Okay, let's get, hit the Greek, more Greek. We need some more. I'm gonna, we're gonna see the reason that we all came. Yeah. So the beautiful Adonis, right? He's dead. And the loves, the erotes, the loves, imagine one love with his bow, eros.
I imagine that broken up in the universe as an invisible force throughout the cosmos. These forces, these erotes, are mourning. Yeah, they are in mourning. Why is love in mourning?
Okay, let's keep going. Let's keep going. I want to bring up a little bit of, I want to bring a little, a little bit of Sappho into it. Watch this, people. We're switching to Dorian.
Hey, the Aphrodite. Oh, God. Aphrodite is loosening her curly hair.
Alalatai. She lets out the Alaladzo. She lets out that Hallelujah. She lets out that scream. This appearance that you see in the third line, I want you to focus on it. I know most of you don't know ancient Greek, my students, right? You're learning it.
But for those of you who don't know it, that third word on the third line, Alalatai. Alalatai, that is the oldest appearance of Hallelujah. This is from Sappho. Love it. Love it. Let's look at what all of that.
Let's, can we go to Hallelujah? Let me finish translating that before, just so they can see what. Yeah, yeah. So you're shouting and all of your sacred grove where you were with him, right? She's there when he dies, right?
And what is she? She's walking around a sandalos without her shoes on, without her sandals on, and she doesn't have her Plectos. She doesn't have her hair braided. It's all down and she is full of pain. Let's go to the next text, please.
For the next slide, yes. I, I, we're back to the lament. Let's be on, by an I, I, tan kuthere, an O. You know, there's that shout. I, I, right? You can hear it. You can hear the women. You can hear the women there. I, I, they're bringing it up. I, I, right? It's repetition. I, I, right? They're mourning. Kithura, right? Kithura be with us, right?
