The, the love itself, the loves, they're all mourning, right? Because the man is dead, right? The man is dead and his form, his holy form is lost.
And then the third line, interestingly, says there is a beautiful form in Cyprus, in Aphrodite, when Adonis lives, but the form dies with Adonis. The form dies with Adonis. Wait a minute. Okay. I want you to stand aside and say, where's the, where is the cult taking me?
Because it's her dissolution. When she, when Aphrodite loses Adonis, she loses the morph, she loses that form. And that Adonis is transferred to the Korah, to the Korah. And now she is in a season of mourning.
And suddenly, I want you to start smelling the kufi. We are in the right. We are with the mourners. We are undergoing the right. And what is our next text? This is going to bring us back. Boom. Yep. Blow it up, please. Yep. We're in the right. Are you ready? The spirit.
His spirit, what happens? Let that spirit flow out.
I will milk the sweet potion of you. Oh my God. I will milk your sweet potion. What is she talking about?
What is she talking about? She says, I'm going to consume the love. I'm going to consume the love. And this great philema, this great manifestation of philos, that which is charming and beautiful and lovely.
This thing I will guard. I will guard this thing. Sorry about the mic. I will guard this thing, this philema.
What is she doing? She's bending. Now, please, the men, shut yourselves off for a minute. Women, we are in the right. And she is taking the last breath of her beloved.
That this is that sustaining wind that keeps that mystery alive. She will eventually recall him. She will recall him, but she must first remember we're a bunch of cultists in antiquity. That's who's dancing around.
She must first place him into death. He must first enter into death and be subject to the great Korah.
When she decides, he will return because Aphrodite will bring him back. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice?
Ladies who are cultists, we've got to get this thing up and going. We've got enough funding. We've got enough transdimensional funding, I should say, to go ahead and get this thing running.
But we need to put that person into that death state. Once again, it's a central part of the cult. It's a central part of the cult.
Now, everybody put your roses on, because as Sappho told us explicitly, this is only for those who are members of the Order of the Rose.
Where does that rose come from? Where does that rose? I've heard a thousand people in a thousand different places talk about roses and Valentine's Day, and not a single person ever hit the target.
A bunch of ha-martaloi, you know what I mean? Missing the mark. Falling short. Did you fall short? Yeah. Sometimes people fall short.
Let's go to our next reading. This is great stuff. What's happening?
What's happening? Paphia. She pours out as many tears as Adonis. Let's fall his drops of blood.
Yeah. And the earth, the kson, see that in the second line? The guys who were taking Greek, ksoni.
That earth that is drinking up all of the tears and blood, what does it do? It produces anthe. It produces flowers.
Hang in there with me. You really need to be on the throne for this. Hang in there. You produce flowers. The blood produces the rose. The blood produces the rose.
The tears, the tears, the anemone, right? The windflower. Yeah. So-called. Several species, we think. Identify for that.
But Rose, we've got. And that's from the blood. That's from the blood. And remember, what is in that cup? I give you my blood. I give you my blood.
