I let that liquor drown in my days. Now I'm taking my last ride. I paid the highest price you can pay.
I'm on my way to Potter's Field. The Palmer's Grave is where I'll be. To rest until the end of time for all eternity.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Satanic Initiation, and tonight we have for you such a delight.
We have a great, great, great love story, and I'm going to bring that to you against the background of some fairy tales.
Some fairy tales. Yes. We're going to look at a couple of big names. We're going to look at Adonai. We're going to look at Elohim.
We're going to look at Yahoo. And we're going to take back those names. Fantastic. Tonight we begin part one with Adonis.
Welcome to Lady Babylon.
Fantastic. So I've got several quotes and I'm going to set that machine that we've got going.
We're going to head back to Cyprus and we're going to find the worship. But before we do, we're going to set the stuff that's popping in the air.
We're going to set that for you tonight with little imagery, and we are sneaking in this imagery to allow you to be lubricated just to give you that place.
So there's that easy motion. Let's hit that first one. It's chewy. Star charts. Bring it up.
Take away all these dark desires that threaten to send her away.
All these things that catch my eyes are phantoms on your food chase.
And here we are. And you're feeling it and you're setting into that throne. Today we're going to see she who is of that many formed throne.
Fantastic. Buckle your seatbelts. We've got to get some cult today. I'm going to flash you up a name.
And I want those of you in the audience who have ever heard the word or the name Adonis.
Adonis is fine. Adonis is fine as well. I'm going to bring you the real name behind that name.
And that is what you're looking at now. Adonis. Yes. How much older? How much older is this one than the previous?
How much older is Adonis than Adonis? Yeah. We're talking Mycenaean. We're talking Mycenaean. Fantastic. Fantastic.
And I'll show you the root. If you'll stay with me all the way at the end, I'll show you the Mycenaean.
This is lovely. This is lovely. So we're talking about Adonis. How is Adonis translated?
Well, it's funny. In the Septuagint, it's all curious. So very conveniently, you see, we're tracing, we're just taking the crime scene, pushing it backwards in time and watching it roll backwards.
Why do they want it to equal Adonis? Oh, I don't know. Maybe it's because that's how they're translating curious from the Septuagint.
You mean Hebrew is being translated from the Greek? Yes. The Hebrew is translated from the Greek.
