They're not. It's the big weakness.
I've been there in the business.
I can tell you what its weakness is,
but to me that's comforting because that's the avenue that we can take
to get the real picture of what's going on.
It's the drugs, right?
Now, a lot of people have asked me, they've said,
drugs, what you're saying is they're using drugs and religious right.
And it's so disturbing to me having read as much as I have from antiquity,
not modern takes on it, but from antiquity.
For somebody to step forward and say, we're still questioning,
did you see what we just read from the Greek magical papyri?
Did you see how the drugs are integrated in the vision?
So for the head of the department at the University of Wisconsin,
step up and say that Romans just wouldn't do such a thing,
is complete and total ignorance of the things that she's supposed to be guarding.
So Lady Rowan, that's what I would say.
Could we deserve more detail on the precise action of Mary
and what she did with the alabaster?
Lady Rowan, you still have to argue with people about the alabaster.
You still have to argue.
We have to try this from the last 500 years,
thanks to King James and his knuckleheads,
which by the way, he wrote a great work on demonology,
but his translation is just accept that this is the Hebrew.
Just accept it, forget about the fact of the Septuagint
and how it says completely different things, right?
So yeah, King James, all influenced by a,
when people become influenced by a cause or an orientation
or a bias where they want to set out to prove something,
you know you're in terrible shape, just go to the sources
and that's what I would say was known as.
Known as is just another way, another support for the fact
that they were using these pharmacological items
and Mary was using one that's very popularly used
by devotees of Venus for the sake of sexual health in temples.
Get over it, right?
That's the beautiful thing.
Read the pharmacology people, it's not.
Yeah, it doesn't have to be as crafty as you think.
There's no theories.
Please, the last thing I'm going to do to anybody here
is ever give you a freaking theory, right?
There's no theories or like armpits.
Every academic has them
and only under certain circumstances
would you ever want to smell them.
Yeah, another question, Rob.
Yeah, that's a great answer.
That is, with you mentioning the King James,
I want to go back a little bit further
and the early Gospels
considering as known as in fifth century,
then do you think it's possible with all the editions
and all the editing that's gone on in the Gospels
that known as could see through that,
could see through the disguise,
if there's a disguise,
could he see through that and penetrate with his language
so he could leave it within a text
potentially?
Yeah, that's a good question.
That's a good question.
What I would do is I would say,
okay, let's be careful here.
We're investigators and let's look at the language
is known as picking up on cult use of language
and that's not odd.
Does Galen use technical language,
technical vocabulary for his medicine?
Hell yeah.
Did he get it?
Does he develop it through Hellenistic doctors
like Herophilus?
Yeah, oh yeah, he does.
Can you track that language?
Yes, you can do the same thing with known as.
He's using highly, highly, highly technical terms,
just like Galen's bit from Nero,
when Nero's physician,
when he uses the word polypharmacon.
We don't have to guess.
We don't have to piece this together.
All we have to do is look at the language
and say what is that language preserving in the amber?
It's like the amber that's preserving that B
from 200 or 20 million years ago.
That was a little bit off.
Factor of 10.
Yeah, I don't know if that answers your question,
but I feel good about it.
Good.
What else do we have?
Yeah, we're going to shift across now to
I'm struggling with the pronunciation
because it's up.
Is it Diaz or Diaz in regards to Saturnalia?
Oh, Dispater.
Yeah, Dispater.
Yeah, it's a good example.
Is that a good example of the gender trinity?
Yeah, let's talk about God.
Let's talk about God.
Yeah, who is the Dispater, right?
Is that Plutus?
Is that Pluton, excuse me?
Is that the wealth?
Is that the king who sits on that throne?
And in the underworld?
Is that the guy who abducted Persephone?
Is that Zeus?
Yes.
