We know that, right?
We know what Asterion is.
Can you find Asterion?
Can you be on the throne?
Let me give you the images that if you are on the throne, you'll be able to see the magic of you.
We've got to get there.
We're in a hurry to get there.
Let's keep reading.
He says, we were with Ion, right?
Now you know why you need Ionic life.
Yes, I sanctified through holy consecrations while there subsists within me holy for a short time my human soul might,
which I will again receive after the present bitter and relentless necessity, which is pressing down upon me.
Good, good, good, good, good.
For I, yes, and the sun, I draw in breath.
Oh, now I get directions.
Draw in breath from the rays.
Draw up three times as much as you can.
And what's going to happen at this point in the initiation, which honestly, this is the point everybody comes for, right?
You want that new birth.
Here it is.
Are you ready?
You will see yourself being lifted up.
Awesome.
Told you guys you would fly and ascending to the height so that you scorn to be in midair.
Yeah, it must be freaky.
It must be freaky to suddenly see yourself in midair.
Oh, where the drugs?
Dr. Carol Newlands from University of Wisconsin Madison.
Is it true that Romans use recreational drugs?
Let's get you up there.
You will hear something either of man or of any other living thing.
Apparently your attention is focused on the panic of suddenly floating up into the air.
Not in that hour where you see anything of mortal affairs on earth.
So you wig out for an hour.
You're gone.
You're under for an hour.
But rather you will see all immortal things.
Okay, what are these immortal things that everybody gets to see when they're under the influence of your mystery?
In that day and hour, you will see the divine order of the skies.
The presiding gods rising into heaven and other setting.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
Rising and setting.
Did I hear dawn?
Oh my goodness.
I did hear dawn.
After the kufi, that I may gaze upon the unfathomable, awesome water of the dawn.
Those are those waters of life.
You want to gaze?
Oh, and by the way, they do this at dawn.
Right?
There's directions in the formula that Nero provides.
Right?
We've got it through Galen.
There's directions in there for what you're supposed to do in that pre-dawn session.
So this is right before dawn.
Remember the early Christians all met at dawn?
Why?
Because they're Satanian.
Because Judaism and Christianity are Satanian bronze age religions.
They are in the most basic elemental way.
They are satanic.
Judaism and Christianity are satanic.
Let's keep going.
Shall we?
This is beautiful.
And so we've drawn in.
So at once you put your right finger on your mouth.
These are more directions.
We're at dawn.
Having our moment.
Right?
Freaking out because now we're floating.
Yeah.
And what do we say?
So at once you put your right finger on your mouth and say silence, silence, silence.
Symbol of the living incorruptible God.
Ground me.
Silence.
And then some world-case Magica, the magic words.
So imagine, okay, where are we again?
We're at the ceremony.
It's fries of dawn.
And all of a sudden I'm in this position where I'm entering this ionic life.
I've been drawn up into the air and I'm scared.
And I'm there for the dawn.
And now I'm using that force of dawn to ground me.
To keep me safe.
Yeah.
Isn't that cool?
Symbol of the living incorruptible God.
Fantastic.
Okay.
Good, good, good.
Then make a long hissing sound.
Next make a popping sound and say more world-case Magica.
Then listen to this.
This is what you see.
You do.
You wanted to come along and see what happens in a Saturnian initiation.
I'm showing you what it is.
Right?
I'm profaning this mystery so that you can see what they saw.
You don't need to go out and try to reassemble the crew.
You don't need to go out and figure out how to make these substances.
Right?
You don't need to go out and figure out how she can use them to put her into a state to cause him to go crazy.
Right?
You don't need to.
You can see what the vision is for.
And then we're going to bring it back to Jung.
Because you're thinking Jung is way beyond that.
