People don't get this right away,
but you do if you study Roman religion, especially.
And you see the evolution of the God concept.
You know, it's Deus, right?
In Latin?
In Latin?
From Beowas in Mycenaean.
It's got that di-gamma in the Upsilon or in the U in Latin, right?
Is it originally U or V?
Anyway, so Deus, Dispater.
Yeah, is that Saturn and Cronus?
Yeah.
Is that Zeus, the one that we think of, that rules Olympus,
the one that rules the ether?
Yes.
That is the Zeus, right?
That is the Zeus.
Well, that Dispater is just a Zeus of the Kthon,
which is that it's like a different dimension.
Underworld.
Just translate it as underworld, right?
But it still has this worldly connotation.
It's like the underworld rules this place.
You don't realize that, right?
But the underworld rules this place.
Would you be surprised to wake up and find
that there was a separation of powers
and that there was one power that ruled this ether
and the other power that ruled...
Okay, well, that's what they're looking at.
That's the way that they're viewing the world.
And all of this can be made visible to you
if you can sit on the throne of Satan
and tell you use these images
while you search these images.
It unlocks.
We're not supposed to tell it, but it works.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
Any other questions?
I think we'll...
Is that about enough?
Yeah, that's okay with me.
But what I'd like to do is talk about contacting you
for people who like to contact.
I mean, we have so many brilliant comments.
I love the comments. I love going through them.
And I just think they're fantastic
what people are putting in.
And where we're at is we're kind of...
I'd like to communicate with people
and have people be able to communicate with each other
because YouTube, you've got...
It's limited. You can't even copy and paste.
Unless that's just me, maybe it is.
But I'd appreciate some suggestions.
I'd like to suggest maybe a dedicated Discord.
There is a Discord.
I think it's fantastic.
I'm on the Discord myself.
I think it's brilliant.
I like being on there.
I like the people on there.
It's fantastic.
But I don't know if people are comfortable
joining the Discord.
But definitely I'm not comfortable
putting any sort of details on the YouTube comments.
They won't encourage anybody else to.
So we've got a problem with how do we
get in touch with each other.
And I'm trying to solve that.
I'd appreciate some suggestions.
Maybe some platform we could all join together
and discuss things with each other.
I mean, that's the Discord essentially.
But why aren't people all joined?
And maybe there's a reason for that.
And what I'd like is to solve that.
In the meantime, would you be OK and comfortable
passing on messages through your email
at the Lady Babylon website?
Yes, at the Lady Babylon website.
If you want to get in touch.
And I promise everybody that sends me something.
I'll be more diligent.
I'll be as diligent as I can.
I'm up against teaching and getting people.
And this is the fun thing.
Getting people to actually be able to translate with me
and to be able to look at a text and say, oh my God,
I just translated that.
Those moments, it takes a while to get there.
It takes a lot of commitment and some students have it
and some students don't.
So I'm encouraging people who want to learn
ancient Greek to consider taking up the cost.
It depends if it would be useful to you.
But what I can promise you is that when I give you that ability
and you have it where you're sharp enough,
you can go on to intermediate reading.
Then you'll be able to see how that important it actually is.
I had a new student today who came in and he was looking
at logos, just the word logos.
And he is a religious, not historian,
but he has an undergraduate degree in religious history.
And he was surprised, orgasmically surprised,
genuinely surprised at just the word logos
and what it actually means.
And I can promise you from experience that those of you
sitting here do not know what logos means.
We could go into a discord and I could say,
