This purports to be something else.
If we don't have a new birth, this is not ionic life.
Are you ready?
Let's keep going.
First origin.
This is the invocation.
Imagine yourself at the event.
First origin of my origin.
First beginning of my beginning.
Spirit of spirit.
The spirit of the spirit in me.
Fire given by God to my mixture of the mixtures in me.
Are we repeating this?
Yeah, right.
This is part of what we're performing.
Nice.
Water of water.
The first of the water in me.
There's a repetitious thing here going on.
We're not being given directions about what's happening.
Okay.
Earthly material.
The first in the earthly material in me.
My complete body.
I blank.
And this is formulaic.
I insert name here.
Whose mother is blank.
His mother.
Seriously.
Is this the patrilineal Greek stuff that I've been surfing under?
Yes, it is.
But it's not.
It's it's it's starting to smell like women.
Perhaps the voice in the beginning who is invoking two female deities in order to save a child.
Maybe that voice is actually female.
Fantastic.
Does Lucifer have a penis?
Yes.
That's the question.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
Okay.
So I so and so whose mother is so and so, which was formed by a noble arm and an incorruptible right hand in a world without light and yet radiant without soul and yet alive with soul.
And then we have more walk walk case magikai, which don't let them tell you that they know what they're from.
They don't.
And we know that for a fact because the PGM says that it's using five different forms of something that it calls Orphic gramata.
Yeah, so in my opinion, the best safest guess will probably be old, old, old Greek.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ellie.
Ellie.
It's not what Jesus said on the cross.
It's what Jesus said on the cross from the mouth of a magician.
Performing.
It's why I'm so thirsty.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Give me over to immortal birth and following that to my underlying nature so that after the present need, which is pressing me exceedingly, I may gaze upon the immortal.
Okay.
This is what this right is doing.
It's giving you a vision.
A vision.
What kind of vision?
Vision of the immortal.
It's that other universe he says that we don't see.
Right.
It's phantic.
Satan's kingdom.
Right.
Gorgeous.
Beginning with the immortal spirit with the immortal water with the most steadfast air that I may be born again in thought.
And the sacred spirit may breathe in me so that I may wonder at the sacred fire kufi.
So you know they're probably burning kufi right now.
See there's stuff going on in the background that you kind of have to piece together.
He talks about inhaling it in a second.
Okay.
So kufi helps give you that ionic vision.
I know you don't believe me, but just hang on there for one second.
One second.
Here we go.
I born mortal from mortal womb, but transformed by tremendous power and an incorruptible right hand with the immortal spirit, the immortal ion and master of the fiery diadems.
Remember ion that we talked about and who I am was fantastic.
Are you here?
Are you here smelling?
Chronos?
Are you here because you know Chronos is Saturn, right?
Oh, the Saturnian verses.
Somebody asked me about the Saturnian.
Yes, and connection with Satan, right?
And the de-rotification, the absorption of that row.
Oh, very nice.
Those Saturnian verses are early, early, early.
And it's just a link.
It's just a link.
We'll talk more about Saturn.
And this person wanted to know about Dispater.
Yeah, Dispater.
Wow.
You know, you get the throne and you have the Plutus from the throne.
Who's sitting on the throne of Satan right now?
Would you be surprised?
Look, let's just give it up for those who haven't been here yet.
And I've been to this point.
Let's just give it up.
I'll get my whip out.
Let's just give it up for the throne being the analog of the ancient drug.
Yes, the seat of power, which is exercised by the spirit that is in that plant.
That's the throne.
Yeah, Asterion.
