I am the wise man who came from the east, suspecting a miracle from afar.
And I am the egg that surround and nurtures the seed of the God in me.
The solemn hours lengthen and my humanity is wretched and suffers torment since I am a giver of birth.
Have you figured out the riddle he has?
Where, Vince, do you delight me, oh God?
He is the eternal emptiness and the eternal fullness.
Nothing resembles him and he resembles everything.
Eternal darkness and eternal brightness.
Does it sound like fanase to you?
You should notice.
Why?
Because Jung is using that as his model.
He is using that as his model.
Eternal below and eternal above.
Double nature in one.
Simple in the manifold.
Meaning and absurdity.
Freedom in bondage.
Do you smell the bockens?
Yes, you are going to get to him.
You are going to come to Bacchus.
Subjugated when victorious.
Old in youth, yes and no.
O light of the middle way.
Enclosed in the egg.
Embryonic, full of ardor.
Oppressed, fully expectant.
Dreamlike, awaiting lost memories.
As heavy as stone.
Hard and molten, transparent.
Streaming light, coiled on itself.
And now my favorite part.
Which is theft.
He knows it.
He knows he's such a thief.
A naughty thief.
Amen.
You are the Lord of the beginning.
Amen.
You are the star of the east.
Amen.
You are the flower that blooms over everything.
You should be getting to see.
To see him, her.
Amen.
You are the deer that breaks out of the forest.
Amen.
You are the song that sounds far over the water.
Amen.
You are the beginning and the end.
One word that was never spoken.
One light that was never lit up.
An unparalleled confusion and a road without end.
I forgive myself these words.
As you also forgive me for the sake of your blessed light.
Yes.
Rise up, you gracious fire of old night.
I kiss the threshold of your beginning.
If you are not tasting the orphic.
If you are not appreciating the fact that his mystery is a resurrection of antiquity's orphic mystery.
If you don't realize that you are at a leucis.
That you are with the Christ.
Then you are not a born again.
Dancers await you.
The Bacchus.
Let's continue on with an introduction to the devil.
Bring me back to center because I want people.
It's my passion to do this for you.
To bring you the devil is the thing that not many people get the privilege because he is so.
When the experts speak up about the devil.
When the experts speak up about the devil they usually do so condescendingly.
It was such bad information.
There is so much about him.
There is so much about the dawn bringer.
Why would you not bother to dip in?
I don't know.
This is the beginning of the book the second.
Within the new book.
Written by Jung for a specific time to be released this specific time.
This is the red one.
The door of the Mysterium has closed behind me.
I feel that my will is paralyzed and that the spirit of the depths possesses me.
Do you feel possessed by the spirit of the depths?
I hope you do.
I know nothing about a way.
I can therefore neither want this nor that since nothing indicates to me whether I want this or that.
I wait without knowing what I am waiting for but already in the following night I felt that I had reached a solid point.
I find that I am standing on the highest tower of a castle.
The air tells me so.
I am far back in time.
I am almost traveling in time.
My gaze wanders widely over solitary countryside.
A combination of fields and forests.
I am wearing a green garment.
A horn hangs from my shoulder.
I am the tower guard.
I look out into the distance.
I see a red point out there.
It comes near on a winding road disappearing for a while and forests and reappearing again.
There is a horseman in a red coat.
The red horseman.
He is coming to my castle.
He is already riding through the gate.
I hear steps on the stairway.
The steps creak.
He knocks.
A strange fear comes over me and there stands the red one.
A long shape.
Holy shrouded in red.
Even his hair is red.
That's fantastic.
We could use him in the right then.
