What I'm going to say this is scientifically and educationally appropriate as possible. It is her vaginal excretions, you know, ones that are there following coitus, you know, or some kind of initiation of the ejaculatory process.
Now, see, we can do this in a sophisticated way. But that cup is what gives us the death and the rebirth so that we can have ionic life. So you better be paying attention.
This practice of the sacred name of Rome is this mystery. Okay. Okay. Find her. Find her name. And you understand, you have ears to hear. I see.
All right. There's something very important coming up, something very important because, and I don't normally do this, but feel the burden, because people are writing me and say, don't do this. And I do. I'm sorry. It's again, it's a devil thing.
Right. I kind of feel a burden. Right. You know, you need me. You need a gadfly. Okay. Let's see what God says. Bring on God. Come on out, God. Give us your Oh, yeah, we got that's Lady Babylon. We're, we're done. We saw her. She's got the Delugmoner cup. So tell us God, are you ready, everybody? Are you ready, everybody? Words of God.
Right. Don't be purifying your sons or daughters in the fire. Right. Don't be purifying. What do these people do who are there? They purify their sons and daughters in the fire. Okay. Okay. Fine.
We got a DEA thing going. Right. Cause all that is is fumigation people and they use skin creams. Well, they do make cuts in the skin and then cover them with the drug. They do do that. So drug treatment. Right. No wonder God said, I'm going to take away your drugs. DEA was born. Right. Let's go. Next one.
Hmm. What do we do? Take away all your pharma coy. Right. This is your pharma costs. And what does he do? He sings. He chants. Right. Think of the combination of drugs, magic, religion. Yeah. Is a medicine. I'm sorry. It's a form of medicine. All these people are doctors, right. Pythagoras was right. You don't. Yeah. It's all around the body.
If you think you can learn Pythagoras by reading the quotes of his students who lived hundreds of years after him. If you think you can capture with the capture Pythagoras and that good luck. Good luck. But you may not want to waste your time. Yeah. Yeah. Look at Pythagoras from his practice.
Look at him as somebody who understood the deep details of all the interactions. I mean, the guy is traveling around just to try the drugs that the Egyptian priests have. And then the magic I have. Right. Good. That is what gets you to Pythagoras. Isn't that nice? Wouldn't we want to send our people toward Pythagoras? We need some kind of educational institutions that will.
Grow the brain. Actively. Love it. Love it. Let's go to the next one. Whereas we need that. We need more direct quotes. Yeah. He doesn't want the people in tick and he doesn't want the people seeing signs and what's he going to look? What is what am I going to do says curious? Right. Right.
I'm going to off on these say your, your, your people, your ethnic who are there in your land because it's your land. It's not yours yet, but there are people there. Right. Whether they got there yesterday or a hundred years ago is irrelevant. There are people there.
Right. And he says, what am I going to do? I'm going to offer needs of them. Good. Let's show people what God's going to do.
What is God going to do? He's going to offer needs of right people. I'm sorry. I got to lean in on this one. Yeah. Yeah. Remove do away with destroy obliterate.
So create steel obscure make away with make it disappear. Take that down. Look at that. I'm going to make those. I'm just totally obliterate those people. You know what yahoo is yahoo is a, you know, when yahoo said that the Olympians looked at each other like
seriously, you know, what kind of divinity you watch here. You know, remember he's going to command them to go into these cities and just bomb the hell out of him. Right. He says the statues, the images, everything you're going to obliterate it.
And then you're going to kill who, who should we kill? Men, women, children and the ones that are still on the breast. Kill them all. That's what yahoo said. Kill them all.
Yes. Now you think who is this maniac in Hell's Kitchen? Look at him. I must be totally out of my mind. Tell me. Tell me, Oh muse, tell me how this is practical right now.
Show me the child sacrifice. Here we go. Here we go. Let's go see it. I can't wait. Look people. Look at it. Read it. So I'm just putting up contemporary happenings. That's all. Does that bother a lot of you? Does it bother you to do that?
You mean I can put up ancient texts and you don't care, but put up a modern one. Come on. Get with it. Yeah. Starvation. Starvation. You mean you can use an army to induce starvation. Why? Of course you can. Right.
It's one of the tricks of the historical trade of genocide. Do you think that our century and the century before ours were the first to produce genocides? Look, people, I've studied a lot of ancient history, right? A lot of it. Several thousand years.
And I can tell you just from that slice of humanity, that pie is full of genocide. Full of genocide. Yeah, it goes and comes. One culture, one century is being genocided. The next century is doing the genociding. That's history. That's human history.
It's dark and it's ugly and it smells. It smells and it doesn't matter if you're an Adolf Putin or an Adolf Hitler or an Adolf Trump. It does not matter.
Oh, did we forget? I forgot now because the child sacrifice Adolf Netanyahu. We got to add him to the group. It doesn't matter. These people will always be there. Historically, they're like seeds through the timeline.
And our job is to make sure they don't get to the point that they can kill children. Why? Why do we have that? Because we follow the great mother. Your culture has no room for the great mother.
So they will look away when the children become the targets. Yeah, look away. Look away. Look away. Don't see it. You can't get away. The great mother. Your fate doesn't care, right? You're here. You're here right now.
You're here right now. Let me tell you something. There are two groups of people in the underworld. I hate to, you know, spoiler, spoiler alert. I hate to spoil it, but there are two groups of people in the underworld.
There are those who either directly support or participate in genocide. And there are those who don't. And you know what? They have to be put in different cell blocks. Yeah, because there's even a justice in hell.
There's a justice there, right? Nobody wants to be part of the genocide. Nobody does. Here's the problem from antiquities perspective. You and I, we share blood guilt. You say, what do you mean? What's that mean?
What's that mean? You can be indirectly responsible for killing someone if you make it possible to happen. Or the higher standard and Tartarus is you didn't say anything about it. You let it happen. If you permit these things to happen, you are just as guilty as if you are directly supporting it.
So on one hand, we have the Christians who march forward Joshua soldiers and kill them all, right? They know where the blood guilt is, right? But for those of us who are supporting it, not speaking out and paying for it to happen.
