Can we get it?
Can we get something?
I just want to see something.
Because I'll believe you.
Being biased against this text being dated to this time.
And they'll say, well, Jeremiah, it takes place in the time of King Hezekiah and the
blah, blah, blah.
Okay.
So did Daniel?
Daniel lived in the time of Belshazzar, but we figured out that Daniel has clear knowledge
of what happens in the Hellenistic world.
So we know Daniel's a later text being backdated at, in fact, a lot of people point out that
prophecy is a genre.
It's like the sibling texts, they're backdated to show what happened.
So why wouldn't you say the same thing for Jeremiah?
And I just funny.
And then he says, and then someone else said, um, I'm talking to someone else about it too.
And this person points out that there's a, a rock that somebody found under the city
of David and on the rock was a name of somebody.
The name was like Yerukim, son of somebody.
That's all it says on the, on the rock.
Can't date it.
It's not carbon-datable, right?
So you just got to look at the, the, the inscription and it just looks like some regular Hebrew
from any time and it has this person's name on it.
Well, it turns out that in the book of Zechariah, this is going to blow your mind.
You're going to, you're going to be like, what, this is laughable.
In the book of Zechariah, somewhere in this book, it mentions a guy with that same name.
So they took, they said, since Zechariah is dated to 650, that this rock must be from
650 because a guy's name is on it.
That with the same name that's in Zechariah, standard of like, of like the, the, the historical
method and scientific met where, where, when we get the Bible studies that all goes out
the window, like you mentioned, the classes, six department is a whole different world.
You're going to get to try to get a PhD in classics, whether you're going to have to
know Greek and have to know languages for it to get a PhD in like some Bible studies,
you get a master divinity, which is nothing master divinity is laughable.
And then you get, you take that master divinity and you just give like a PhD in some random
studying Daniel or something.
It's a way easier PhD is what I'm saying.
I'm not saying it ain't easy.
I haven't done it.
So I, who am I to talk, but I'm just saying it's a different world than classics.
And I don't think anyone would disagree, I don't think anyone would disagree on that.
When you, now you know, my classes have the same reaction to Bible scholars, right?
Cause it's not really real, right?
When you can date something like that from a absurdity, I mean, okay, if we did that with
the rest of history, we would be so confused and you could say anything you want, you make
any argument you wanted, you know, no, there's a standard Niels pointing out and that's standard
is the text.
We have that thing preserved.
Do you think archeologists make stuff up?
They're trying to figure out from the dirt, they're forgetting that evidence there.
We have that with classics too.
We have that evidence.
So it's all about handling that evidence people.
And you've seen them, we showed you, they're using the drugs, they're in these sex rights,
the Christians are doing it, Jesus is doing it, what, you know, how many naked boys am
I going to have to find associated with Jesus before somebody says, huh, maybe, you know,
maybe this guy's right, you know, we should go back and look at it.
Neil, how many years, give me a number one between one and 10, how many years before
what you and I are doing is going to actually catch up to the academics where they're going
to say, oh, wait a minute.
It's a good question.
I was talking about Derek, I was talking with Derek about that.
And I think it's going to be, it's only a matter of time before they're going to have
to, they're going to have to engage with this stuff.
The more, the more people that come up and say the same thing, like Russell Gamerkin,
from a whole different point of reference is coming in the same conclusion as you and
me and a few others.
So eventually you don't you want to prove us wrong?
If you, like everything you're, everything that you guys are to have consensus, consensus
on, if it's so rock solid, if it's so well slam dunk, no, but we know these dates now,
then shouldn't you be able to just lay something out for me that I can't defend, right?
So I think it's a man, I think it'll be short couple of years, two, three years.
Good.
I hope you're right, man.
I hope you're right.
And I hope this type of the new museum with this new technology, I hope it catapults things
forward.
Thank you.
Thank you to YouTube for let, you know, letting people do this.
Did you know that to get a master divinity, you have to sign a statement of faith?
Did you know this?
Is that it?
There's SBL seminarians.
They have to sign a statement of faith.
Can I pull it up?
Can I pull it up and show people what it says?
Of course.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Fine.
All right.
Because think about this.
Why, why is this there?
Okay.
So somebody tried to tell me it's not that big of a deal, deal, could stop it.
They're just doing it because, you know, whatever, whatever.
Well, then why are they doing it?
Like you're telling me that I have to sign on a piece of paper and lie?
So if I don't plan on being faithful, then I'm going to lie.
I'm going to sign something and lie to you.
And if I do want to be faithful, then I'm signing something to say that I'm going to
lie to other people because if I find something that goes against my beliefs, then I have
to say it.
I don't believe it.
So why, why, why should anyone take anything that SBL says seriously?
Look at this.
Discussing faith and reason.
Um, oh, I think this is like some sort of like, oh, okay.
So this is them.
This is an art.
This is from the SBL site saying that, uh, basically saying, because they're getting
a bunch of complaints from people saying, you guys are signing statements of faith.
What the fuck?
Right?
So here's them saying like, no, we don't, does it mean anything?
No, it's not a big deal.
Look, all these people sign these things saying they, they take their work serious.
Okay.
Big shit.
Oh shit, dude.
Sorry, but like that shit is just not cutting it for me.
Like, I'm sorry.
Why is it there?
I'm just saying, am I, am I being, am I being crazy for asking why that's there?
No, no, no, no.
I think, do you think it's maybe this kind of similar to the apostles creed?
I mean, they came up with that pretty early too.
Like it's the, what is that stuff for when you make a mantra that everybody has to follow?
That's just control.
Isn't it?
It is like you're, you're putting someone in the position.
No matter what they're going to, you're saying, you need to be a liar.
Now think, well, before you say I'm being like unfair here, let's run, run this down.
You're a Christian.
Okay.
You're a Christian.
