He's three away.
Jesus, John, Valentinas, and Marcus Magis.
So Marcus Magis is over in Rome.
He's very high up.
He'd be considered a cardinal today.
It's extremely popular, and I just want to make one more thing clear before I read this.
He was never in his lifetime charged with heresy.
He was extremely popular during his lifetime.
It's not until a century later, century and a half later, where an orthodoxy begins to
form.
And like Dr. Amon was saying, orthodoxies come along and they hijack these wild movements
and they sort of, they corporatize them basically.
So he becomes a heretic way later when it becomes convenient.
That's very important to know that.
So the things he's doing here are considered normal Christian practice for the church at
Rome.
Okay?
Vatican, basically.
So it says, Another among them, Marcus, in adept in sorcery, carrying on operations,
partly by sleight of hand and partly by demons, deceive many from time to time.
This heretic alleged, remember this is written by a guy way later, alleged that there resided
in him the mightiest power from invisible and unnameable places.
Very often taking the cup as it offering up the Eucharistic prayer and prolonging to a
great length than usual word of invocation, he would cause the appearance of a purple and
sometimes red mixture so that his dupes imagine that a certain grace descended on the communicated
to the potion of a blood red potency.
The nave, however, at the time succeeded in escaping detection from many, but now being
convicted of the imposter, he will be forced to desist from it for infusing secretly into
the mixture some drug that possess the power of imparting such a color.
The purple as alluded above, uttering for a considerable time, nonsensical expressions.
We all know what this is.
This is mania, this is a reverie.
He was in the habit of waiting in expectation that the drug obtaining a supply of moisture
might be dissolved and being intermingled with the potion that might impart its color
to it.
The drugs, however, that possess the quality of furnishing this effect we have previously
mentioned in the book on magicians.
So basically he's talking about this Marcus Magisk character is drugging people during
the Eucharist.
And what would happen was if you continue to read the next page, he basically says like
these people would go into Bacchic frenzies, they would go into these states of euphoria
and psychedelia, psychedelia, and then he would tell them that's the spirit of God who
descended on you.
That's the Holy Spirit.
That's Jesus.
And there's guys snitching on him as if he's a heretic, but if this guy, if it wasn't in
the cards to make this guy a heretic, if the political situation didn't present itself
and this guy was part of the orthodoxy, you'd never know this text.
You would never know this practice ever existed.
That makes sense.
Now, go ahead.
Do you have something to say?
Yeah.
No, no, no.
That's an excellent, excellent point.
There's there for some reason.
He's not just making it up and, you know, it matches the traditions that we have with
it.
It's exactly what you would expect.
So beautiful evidence.
Love it.
Now, real quick, I just want to point something out.
So keep that in mind when you're looking at John 13.
Like you know, some people will say, this is not this isn't historical.
This is this is legend.
And it's like, OK, why is the author saying that Jesus had to dip the bread in the dish
and give it to Judas in order for Satan to enter him?
What is the author even trying to say there?
To me, it's a it's it's tomato tomato.
It doesn't even make a difference because whether it's attributing this to Jesus or if
it actually happened, it's like, well, what's going on here?
Are you as are they showing you?
This is like some sort of tradition to get people in the state.
And one more thing I want to show.
This is from this is also this is from John, John 19, same author, same text.
And when he's on the he's on the cross, right, he says, I'm thirsty and they give him a sponge
of vinegar on the stock of a Hissa plant, right?
And real quick before I show you what a Hissa plant is down here is a weird thing that happens
when they see when he sees his mother.
Where is it?
It's down here.
Oh, right here.
He sees his mother and then he says to his mother, oh, by the way, this is the disciple
who my beloved disciple, the one that sits on Jesus' shoulder.
And he says, woman, here is your new son.
Wait a minute.
Your new son.
What is you married?
Is this your is this a his new mother-in-law because you're married to this child?
What's going on here?
That's a weird thing to happen.
How would your beloved disciple have this become your mother, your mother's son?
Weird.
Just say it.
Now, I want to show you last thing.
I want to show you what a Hissa plant looks like because this ties it all together.
This is the Hissa plant, purple, of course.
It's always purple.
All the drugs are always purple.
You ever notice that?
Why?
I have.
I have.
Even the text that I brought from Marcus Magis, he says it was a purple substance.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Something's going on with that.
Yeah.
You say the acacia thorn is also, isn't that a purple, produces a purple acacia and mimosa
hostila's barks.
When you blend it up, so it looks like a bark, but then when you blend it up and get it to
a fine powder and add a little bit of water, completely turns purple.
Dark red, blood red, purple, like the color behind me turns into that.
Nice.
Nice.
Okay.
Neil, tell me, having brought in that source, what do you think the broader world out there
will think?
We're beginning to see the kind of the stripped of all it's Disneyland.
We're seeing Jesus with prostitutes.
We're seeing him take, use these kids.
How do we take this message to the world?
How do we, do we do it with just this scholarly approach?
What are we doing here?
Are we, you know, we have an audience and the audience is engaging.
What do you think?
I'm just, you know, what's your vision?
Keep bringing the sources out.
Keep bringing the sources out.
I was just talking to someone before this about Jeremiah, the book of Jeremiah.
The people just assume this book was written in 650 BC.
Okay.
Interesting.
So that's, that's the case, it should be cited, it should be passed around, it should
have spread somewhere by the, by the time they get to the third century BC, this text
should be well known, right?
No.
I'm like, okay, well, can we, can we get a citation of this text?
