Godzilla thing in Japan, deep purple cape, bits of bright Zeno, fill up with Cheech and Chong everywhere I go, with tables, cash and checks, down the yellow brick road, with the flowers of evil.
The man who laughs more, grows shiny trees, with magic beans, darkness through dreams, hit him with the weight of the triple beam, elemental bees.
Cheech and Fang, you and my Fang, purple crushed blazes, psychic, powerful dreamer, with the Godzilla green.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, so nice to be with you here tonight on Initiating Apocalypse.
I've got to put out a warning here. I've got to let people know that this history that we're going to look at tonight is so edgy.
It may make you feel certain ways that you don't want to feel.
I know all of Satanic congregation comes here just for that. I understand that for the rest of you, buckle up because this material is tight tonight.
Okay, what I want to do is I want to start this off with a purification. I want us to focus. Tonight, my job is to bring you an Adolon.
I am here to bring you an image. We've already walked through the initiation. We've already been there.
Now it's time to activate our Adolon. It's time for us to do what our ancestors did before people came along and said,
You can't do that anymore, and we're going to burn all your books.
So let's get into it tonight, and we're going to do that by purifying this place. This time machine keeps working.
We've got to mist it. We've got to fumigate it. Bring it in, Chewie. Let's look at fate.
Moira, gorgeous. That is who we are appealing to tonight to clean up this place.
The edge that I told you you would feel tonight, that edge is the sword of justice. That's the sword of lady justice.
Tonight, we bring in Yahoo. Where's that whip? Where's that whip?
Get over here, Yahoo. Get over here. You know it's so tough. He respects that.
I hate to get into the whip so quick, but Satanic congregation loves it. Say Hail Satan for me. Love it. Hail Satan.
Let's get into it and find the dirt tonight. Oh, we're going to bring Yahoo in here.
Sit him down for everybody who doesn't know what the heck is going on. Yahoo is the one we don't name, right?
He's the one with the son, you know? Killed him. Ka took all of your stuff. Ka, because he loves killing children.
Yahoo loves killing children. Now, I can tell you, I can assure you this is Satanic to the core because it is so precise and reasoned.
Yeah, reasoned. Pure reason. This is the Logos, baby. This is the accounting. What does Yahoo want you to do?
You would think you would want to know what your God wanted you to do.
Well, let's go to his mouth and see what he wants us to do. But I'm warning you. I'm going to spoiler. Is child sacrifice?
Yes, yes, it is. Child sacrifice like you've never seen it in the past, in the future, brought to the present. Child sacrifice to the great God, Yahoo.
Oh, fantastic. See, we call it here on Satanic initiation, here on Lady Babylon, here on initiation apocalypse, we call it exactly what it is.
Satan told me to do that. He said something about credibility. Nobody would believe you if you ever say anything that you can't give them the source from.
If you step aside, young almond, that's what he say, call me young almond. If you step aside from that, for one hair's breadth, yeah, it'll never work.
And your greatest hopes will be disappointed. And then he said, and don't take any money. And I was like, seriously, on the money, he's like, yeah, don't take any money. Come on, bro. What do you have?
What do you have? Look at the people who were taking the money. Love it. Let's get it out there. Okay, let's hit the first source. Where are we going tonight? I'm drudging, drudging up out of the dirt.
