Now you understand why all the prostitutes.
Now you understand why Mary has the sex drugs.
Now you understand why they call the semen of Jesus the love of God.
You are sitting there and you are not a Christian unless you are abusing children.
The only true Christian today are those creepy priests.
They're the only ones.
Those creepy youth pastors, they're the only ones.
All the rapist Baptists that you can find.
They're the real Christians.
Now, this is a religion that is founded by a pedophile perpetuating a rape ritual.
And I'm not the one saying it.
No, this is.
I didn't make this up.
All I'm doing is showing you tags.
I showed you the intheotic bread.
Let's see the next one.
I just want you to see people, the purple.
I wanted you to see the purple.
Yeah, I think that maybe go back to that one.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, and by the way, this one describes after he shows his flesh, right?
What does he do?
He makes a kind of a false meat train.
He makes a false ladies girdle, you know, around his pub region.
Yeah.
And he ties it off good with a strong knot kind of thing.
Yeah.
And it's kind of in a fashion that's coming out of the tombs.
Yeah.
This lintian thing that he's using.
But what is it?
What is it says?
No, he says it's that cure.
It's the cure of those ecmodic feet.
It's the cure of the ecmodic feet.
Yeah.
You remember that stuff that he's putting from the washing from the kids?
Yeah.
When you talk about purifications and mystery, you have to remember that the first mystery
queen, Lady Babylon herself, the medwa, the queen of caucus, you got to remember that
those rituals have to do with the creation of fluids that can be used within the religion,
within the mystery, right?
It's Lady Babylon's cup of her own sexual juices that is the right.
When they bathed Medea, they collected the water.
She didn't have a bath.
They washed her and collected the off-runnings and distributed those as medicine.
Yeah.
You mean Medea was so jacked with so many drugs, even coming out of her colpus, when she takes
care of Jason people, you know where she gets the drugs that make Jason invulnerable to fire
and to pain?
She gets them out of her vagina.
It's the medicine of the time.
If you've got a problem with the sorcery, then I don't care.
But Jesus is in the midst of that.
He's in the midst of it with these kids.
Let's go to the next text.
We're almost done.
Oh, yes.
We've got a wrap.
Look, but I want to give you the goodies that were here.
Just so you can see, what is he doing?
What is Jesus doing at this point?
This isn't notice his summation or paraphrasing of John, right?
He says he pours out that water, that Hupakulpion water, the water that comes from below the
lap, the water that comes from below the lap, right?
Wait a minute.
Are we getting Vio?
Are we getting Vox Orphaca?
Yeah.
Guess what?
We're about to see it with the messengers as Jesus describes why he drug Judas.
Just notice here that, yeah, he's washing their feet again, dirty guy.
I just want him to see the water that comes with the lap.
And I want you to notice that second and third word.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
We need to get on.
Yeah.
I'm going to skip that one too.
But I want you to notice at the bottom, oyster thin taste.
This is more of John's gospel talking about other people that entered an ecstatic phase.
And these people were the ones that were doing it because they were accepting the Christ at
the well in Samaria.
When the kid apostles are all like, why is he talking to that woman?
Yeah.
Right.
Water of life stuff.
It's driving them crazy.
It's typical cult stuff, people.
You don't see this because we've seen only the fairy tale.
Right?
You expect the church to give you the historical reality?
No.
They're going to convey whatever gives to you.
You know, any religion is going to do it.
Orthodox Judaism is, that's all Orthodox Judaism is, is an attempt at propaganda to control.
That's all Orthodox anything is.
Anything Orthodox is an attempt to set parameters about what is right teaching.
Orthodox.
Right?
So that's all that they do.
That's why you have Bible studies.
Right?
It's why you have Bible.
Haven't you ever wondered why classes study just ancient literature except for the Bible?
And then you have an entire department where people study just the Bible out of its context.
It's because they want to control the propaganda.
That's Orthodox right there.
I don't care if you're one of the Taliban.
You're controlling it when you threaten girls by saying, I'm going to throw acid in your face.
That's all you're doing.
That's all you're doing.
Let's go.
Love it.
Love the exposure.
Get it.
Get the, get the next one up.
Okay.
So Jesus is young.
What's going on here?
Oh yeah.
He says it with the hand.
So he says in the hand that I'm, you know, I'm going to give the one who's going to betray me with this thing that I've baptized that I've soaked.
What have you soaked it in Jesus in these little drops in these little drops, these little drops that are infused, these little drops that are infused with that wine dark or wine faced.
Literally with that purple, those purple drops.
Yeah.
Now again, this is Vox Orfica.
Go back.
I need to see that again.
Please.
This is Vox Orfica.
Right.
The one that I'm giving it to.
Right.
I'm giving these infused with the purple and this one is going to do exactly what I set up for him to do.
Right.
This is masterful manipulation.
