Yeah, neither will Athena.
You're disgusting.
You're disgusting.
Your hands are covered in blood.
We should be the furies here.
We should honor the furies.
Yeah, they punish blood.
They punish that murder.
That fury is behind them.
The followers of Dionysus were almost exclusively women.
Oh, fantastic.
Imagine that.
A religion of women.
That might take you somewhere.
Make you something done.
His menads ranged across the mountains, screaming and dancing and celebration of their God.
They were intoxicated, divinely inspired women who freely consumed the wine of the God and
thus became maddened.
Even slaves, slaves were free under Bacchus.
This is a Saturnian practice.
You bring the slaves.
There is no slaves.
There is no free.
The first is last and the last is first.
Now you know where Jesus stole that from.
Yes.
Holy, holy, holy.
Yeah, that's all Greek.
Love it.
Love it.
The menads who followed Dionysus and ultimately Aphrodite celebrated a single individual.
Someone called the Korah.
In the Greek language, a Korah is a post-puberty girl, someone who has recently developed the
ability to create life.
In the classical mind, the Korah was a mortal who had been freshly initiated into the cyclical
rites of nature.
She understood the rhythms of life.
She understood the power of creativity.
And she understood the sway of madness.
The Korah was a young girl, just a teenager.
But so were the gods and goddesses of the ancient world.
Those of you who are sitting here, I need you within the Satanic congregation.
I know I'm going long and I apologize.
But I need you to see within the Satanic congregation that these divinities are not what you think
they are.
When we project a female divinity, you are not getting an accurate image.
I'm talking about the Korah now, the teenage girl.
The Greek title, Korah, is used to describe many goddesses.
Aphrodite was depicted in myth and in art as a Korah.
The muses were teenagers.
The fates were teenagers.
Athena, the Korah, the queen of the underworld herself, and Artemis were all teenage girls.
Interesting.
So again, remember how prominent these cults are.
And that when you come to see the Virgin, the statue of the Virgin, when you come to
worship and honor those images, those visions, realize what they're celebrating there.
Realize what they're saying has the power.
Those oracles were those Korah.
They were those girls who were in that state that nature had brought them to.
Classical civilization is constantly augmenting the natural state.
It's what Paul the apostle is walking around raising his hand saying, no, it's not about
nature.
It's about bumpus, the invisible power that will strike you dead if you don't give all
your money to him.
Right?
Right.
Just check out Ananias and Sapphira.
Yeah.
You know what Porphyry said about Ananias and Sapphira?
Yeah.
Dude, they got knocked off.
A couple of Christians, they sold their property and they held a little cash back for themselves
and they got knocked off.
Peter, James and John knocked them off.
Yeah.
Whoo.
That's Christianity.
That is what took down the Roman Empire.
You see the brazenness of it.
You see the Putin-esque, self-righteous.
This is the cause.
Only Moscow and Kiev have to be joined.
It's putting you into a crusader.
There's nasty people there.
There's all sorts of Nazis and homosexuals, drug users.
You see?
This is the Christian way.
Putin is not a monster because he was born in the wrong city.
