You get your master divinity.
You go to, you sign your, your statement of faith.
Now you're, you're basically signing on a piece of paper that if I find evidence that goes
against my faith, I have to reject it.
You're telling someone to do that.
Now if I'm, if I really just wanted to get this, if I'm really just trying to get a PhD
as a Bible scholar, and I don't really have faith, right?
Let's say I'm a real critical scholar.
You're still making me sign it.
And because I'm not going to go along with this thing, I'm lying to you.
So I'm lying to somebody, no matter what, you're making people lie by doing this.
How stupid is that?
It's just, it's so crazy.
It's like, I can't take it seriously anymore.
I can't.
It's almost like, it's almost like mind control.
Isn't it?
I mean, you see it.
They talk down on people, like people like myself, who I do this completely on my own.
I'm not working for a university.
I'm not a, I don't have a, I'm not a scholar.
I'm just a guy with the channel that wants to learn and wants to make content.
But when I come to some of these people with their masters of divinities and I talk to
them and I bring stuff up, like, Hey, why does Herodotus never mention any of this?
Like, I'll just say stuff like, how come these elephantine Jews living in the fifth century
don't have any book of Exodus, they don't have a book of Genesis, they don't have any
of the prophets, they have a temple of Yahweh, but they also have other, like, what's going
on?
Like, why is there nothing, no evidence at all of any of these texts until the fourth
and third century.
And they, they just write me off like, I'm, like, I'm being like, like, I'm a mythicist
or some crazy person.
They just write you off completely.
Like, you, like, what you're saying is so, it's so beneath me that I don't even have
to respond to you.
That's what that's how that's, that's the type of mentality that I, that I get when
I, when I bring these, bring this stuff to their, to their attention.
It just seems like what I'm saying is so, it's so look at, look at me.
I have a PhD in the, in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So that means I went to school for 10 years and you, you're bringing stuff to my attention
that I've never heard before.
So therefore it must not be true.
That's what it feels like.
It feels like you think because you went to school for 10 years that you know everything
now.
And it's like, that's not what I'm seeing.
I'm not impressed to be honest.
I'm just not, I would, I would correct you on one way, Neil, I would correct you on one
way.
You said, I'm not a scholar.
That's not true.
That's not true.
You're a better scholar than people I worked with.
Okay.
So that's, that's absolutely not true.
You're a scholar of this public museum and people come to you to get that information.
So you know, you may not be sharing in the glory of the boys at Princeton and Harvard,
but yes, we can smack, but you're a scholar, but you're a scholar.
Don't ever say you're not a scholar, but no, that's bullshit.
That's bullshit.
Those degrees that those people have are worthless.
They think they can hold them over your head.
You show them the evidence and they run away.
They run away like cowards, Sir Smug, you're a coward.
I asked, I asked for a citation of Genesis, just so many one, one person mentioning the
book of Genesis and the ancient world, let's say before, all right, before 400.
Let's see, that should be pretty easy.
I get shown a Hebrew word, two Hebrew words side by side in the book of Jeremiah.
Now, yes, it's true that in the book of Genesis, those two Hebrew words show up side by side.
How is that a citation?
You found a genetic connection between two texts, maybe.
How is that a citation though, right?
That's what I asked for.
That's what I got.
So if that's the best you can give me when I ask for a citation of the most masterpiece
book of all time, the book that started three major religions that conquered the world.
And all I'm asking for is somebody somewhere that mentioned this text before 400 BC.
And the best you can do is show me some language in another book that doesn't even say, like
a citation to me is when Plato says, in Homer's Odyssey book 10, Odysseus does this.
That's a citation.
But when something happens in one book and they mention a word, they use the word chaos.
And then in another book, someone else uses the word chaos.
That's not a citation.
The citation would be, oh, in the book written by Moses called Genesis, here's what it says,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
That's a citation.
And that's what I said to this person, I said, that's not a citation.
They wrote me off like I was some crazy person because I didn't accept this idea of a citation.
So I'm just saying that that's the best, if that's the first thing you're throwing at
me, then I already know that where I'm going is in the right direction.
Do you feel, Neil, you don't have to name names.
But do you feel that in all of your interactions with scholars over the years, do you feel
that you may have been intellectually molested a little bit?
Oh, yeah, especially, especially when isn't the church glad I broke out of that pretty quick, though.
I'm sorry, even after, though, even after like coming out of that.
And I start, you know, start following different with different academics.
Yeah, of course.
That's that's the case sometimes, you know.
Yeah, yeah, it's just a shame that people won't that people won't kind of say, hey, damn,
the fame, damn, the career, damn, the money, we're just bringing the museum.
And that's what you're doing.
That's what you're doing.
Well, I hope I hope your art, by the way, for all my audience, I hope Neil's art continues to
take off because he's going to be the next get this.
I hope you don't mind if I tell him, but they know that you work with me, you produce some
of the video that I'm bringing out and your style and your, you know, your certain flair
that you've got.
And I want to thank you for doing it.
I want them to recognize that as well.
But I have presented Neil with one of the most difficult projects I think you could have.
And that is, I asked him to present the image of Lady Babylon, the media producing the
communion from her vagina, just as the texts talk about.
And I'm hoping that he can do this, but he has to go up against an AI.
You have to battle an AI, right?
Things very regulated on what you try to produce, which is, which you can understand that
because there's people who try to make, you know, pedophilia shit going on.
So you can see why it's like that.
So I don't know what it's going to let me do.
I don't know how far it'll let me go, but we're definitely going to try it.
Pologically, people remember, I'm going to be reading a text.
This is a preview.
I'm going to be reading a text so the whole YouTube community can know how on the up and
up this is, I'm going to be reading a text of a Roman, Gaius Valerius Flaccus, where
he describes Medea taking the drug from her vagina that is used to anoint Jason so that
he can be both flame retardant and without any pain, you know, stimulated for combat.
Love it.
Love it.
So I'm hoping that Neil can bring this image of Lady Babylon through.
I love it.
Neil, I can't thank you enough for working with me.
My pleasure.
All right, guys, thanks for coming tonight and rock on and Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
