Sunday morning, dark clouds rising Oh, there's no sunshine anywhere
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom To grasp the message in the air
Oh, if I could have one wish And know that it would come true
Had a wish that God would give us strength To know just what to do
Then we could tear down the fences That fences all new
Fences created by such evil men Then we could tear down the fences
That fences all new Maybe we could walk together again
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation.
Tonight, what I've got for you, we're going to go back to that party
where Jesus was partying with a room full of young boys.
We're going to see what he's telling them, we're going to see what he's doing
and we're going to watch him drug Judas. That's right, tonight we're going in deep
and we're going to take ourselves to a place we can't come back from on Lady Babylon.
So we're going back to that banquet. We're going back to that supper.
We're going back to that place that all the great masters have tried to depict.
We're going to go back and see that tonight only this time.
We're going to focus on that kid and we're going to focus on the poisoning.
Let's see what happens here. Chewie, we've got to cleanse this place.
We've got to get it up to par.
In order to do that, we're going to make a banquet here, so I want to bring in the queen of banquets.
Let's look at Golden Aphrodite, shall we?
Let's see what happens here.
I didn't know that Morningstar was a muse, did you?
Well, as the muse, they called her Urania or Urania. Fantastic.
Now that I feel the place is clean, I want to jump into the dirtiness that makes the dirtiness all that much more pleasurable.
We're going to go to a banquet, a place that's been set up.
In order to get there, I want to start you with one verse tonight, and I want to bring that in.
This is from notice's paraphrase of John.
This is from his paraphrase of John. Chewie, blow that up for me. Thanks.
I just want you to notice a couple of things right up top.
He's intoxicated. The kid is intoxicated, right?
Remember their ages, their mathetes, their students, their post-primary.
10 to 17, 18, 19, something in there.
And what's this kid going to get?
He's going to get from Jesus, look in the second line, an entheon arton.
And I just want you to realize that's the entheotic bread that Jesus prepares for Judas in order to get him to react to what Jesus has put in his head.
Isn't that amazing?
We're going to go see some prostitutes in antiquity.
We're going to go see these first century prostitutes.
I want you to keep in mind that entheotic bread, and I want us to go...
Let's look at the context of what's going on here.
Look, you know, he loved these kids.
He loved them all the way through their initiation, all the way to their telos, to their completion.
And when it became night, I'm translating, when the sun set below the horizon, there was a banquet that was centered around the love-making table.
I knew it.
I knew it.
I knew there was something.
Notice, are you saying that there was something going on that has to do?
Well, let's just keep bringing it.
It's going to get dirtier and dirtier.
Let's just see.
He's made this banquet.
He's got everything set up for his love fest.
And this is not agape that he uses.
This is an agape.
That kind of love.
That love that one feels in that special bond between an adult and their fostering child.
And I use those terms on purpose because according to knownness, Judas is Jesus' foster son.
Yeah.
You see, all these boys that Jesus has been picking up,
they're looking to him.
Yeah.
You see what's going on?
You see what's going on?
Bring up the next verse, Chewie.
Let's keep going.
We've got to just keep right in there.
Okay, so this is from the Bible, right?
You'll see the verse on the right.
And so the students, they were all amazed.
If you realize now that Jesus' students were amazed quite easily on a regular basis,
you can remember their ages, right?
Remember their ages.
And you say, well, no wonder.
I always thought he was treating the apostles like they were stupid.
Yeah.
No, he was treating them like they were children, which they were.
We're about to see one of them sit on his lap.
How old is a kid who, while they're sitting on your lap, reaches up to where your breasts are?
What is that?
Maybe nine?
Something like that.
That's the party that we're at, people, right?
I know we've been here before, but I'm going to add the drugs.
Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Here we go.
Let's go to the next one.
Yeah.
Did we get all of that one?
Yeah.
Oh, I wanted you to see.
So, you know, they're all amazed.
Anyway, look at that second line, that second to last word, Tecna.
How is he addressing his followers?
How is he addressing him?
You can take it down.
He's addressing them as children.
It would be very odd for a grown man to keep addressing a group of grown men with the word children,
my little sheepies, over and over and over.
You would think we would have picked that up many years ago.
Right.
It's only the naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested that makes us start to
think about kids anyway.
Okay, let's get, let's go to the next one, please.
Here we are.
Here's another one.
This is Matthew 8.6.
So, yeah, he's like whoever scandalizes this is that Jesus.
Whoever scandalizes one of my little itty bitty buddies.
Take it down.
That's what that first line says in Greek.
Right.
Whoever scandalizes one of my itty bitty micro buddies.
I got my micro buddies here.
My name's Jesus.
I like my little boys.
That's what that says.
Are you surprised?
Realize, please, if you have enough until this point, I hate to blow it.
I'm going to tell you their prostitutes, their prostitutes, the boys are prostitutes.
Okay.
Are you ready to prove this to me?
Prove it.
Bring on the evidence.
Let's keep going.
Oh, here we go.
Yeah.
No, we're done with that one.
Keep going.
Here it is.
Oh, look, look.
So Peter Tom starts to talk to me.
He says, look, you know, he says, look, Jesus, we've left behind everything in
order to join ourselves to you.
We've left behind families.
We've left behind homes.
We have left that behind.
