way smaller. Did I say gigabytes? Cause the giants, okay. Here's the eye on the eternity. Look,
it's opposite to chronos time. Time. It is not eternity. It is that which is opposite to time.
Okay. Are you ready? Well, I'm going to take you to the ion and we're doing this for a good reason.
Boom. Here we, here we'll be the next one. Um, psuche, take eye on. Think of the soul and ion
as being, um, both parts, two parts of one duality that is existence. Okay. If you take those two
concepts and say, oh, they got married and that's us. Go to the next one. Um, here's your ion,
right? And the Christians will say, Oh God, this is eternal. No, I want you to see,
I want you to see the, the, um, look at the first line under a, and it talks about Poseidon
returned by orange. And then at the end, it says in parentheses properly, and then it gives you
the diagramma in the middle of the word. I won. So again, this is a bronze age concept. This is
so far before Christian Christianity and Judaism that it's, it's a, it's an unfamiliar,
Saturnian or satanic world. Yeah. And who is the ion? He's the dude when you go into a Jewish
synagogue in the second century or first century, and you walk in and you see him on the wall with
Greek surrounding him in a zodiac. You'll know where your Jewish roots are. And I'm sure that
there's a lot of people who are suddenly like, Oh, that kind of makes sense. I kind of won't,
I've always been looking at that zodiac thing. Yeah. Congratulations. Welcome home.
Welcome home. Your God is called ion. Fantastic. Oh God. Oh God. It's Orphic people. Right. It's
Orphic. Fantastic. Um, go to the next one. Okay. Now here's what I'm going to give you. And this one
is for, uh, Dan McClellan, because this is Pindar. And I know for a fact, because Pindar people
is really, really difficult. Pindar, you know, some, there are some classes somewhere. I'm sure
who were like, No, no, I can do Pindar. No problem. Pindar's no problem. But most classes, if they're
honest with themselves, know that Pindar is of, is of the more difficult persuasion. He's a lot of
Dorian. And it's just, you know, it's just, I don't know. Dorian is just, it's disruptive. I think
the Athenians were right. Um, they had reached that apex of the language. They were able to draw
where you can draw to the ether. And I don't think that Dorian was doing them any favors or pushing
them up. You know what I mean? It was just, uh, the Ionians, you could ask the Ionians to, they
would be like, yep, a Dorian. That's why the Spartans are the way they are. Look, I studied
with a guy from the area where Sparta is, and no offense to any modern Lacanians, but
Lacedaemonians. I don't, you know, I love you, baby, but you just didn't, your ancestors
kind of dropped the ball and the Athenians were like, you suck, right? Yeah, Athens. Anyway,
this is Pindar. And Pindar writes, um, in his fourth Pythian ode, you hear Pytho there, right?
Python, right? Okay. In his fourth Pythian, he writes about the great prophecy of the Medwa of
Medea. And in it, he says, what does he say? He says, Hera, listen to this, what happened here.
I'm just going to translate this for Hera, right? Cause a very sweet desire to enter in
to those young men who were half God. Yeah. And these are heroes. These are heroes. And what are
you, or at least they're going out to try to show their heroes, right? You know, it's a, it's a thing
you do. It's the thing you do. You go out and you do, you do great things, right? And it tests you.
How do you kid? Get out there, do something great. You bonehead, right? That's the way of life. And
what's happening? What's happening? Oh God, she didn't want, these are all the people on the ship,
the Argo, right? And she didn't want anybody. This is what she's putting in their mind. It's a fear.
And I'm going to put in your mind the fear that you're going to stay home with mama,
that you're going to stay home with mama and do nothing, right? In a world that doesn't give you
any danger, you're just going to end up dragging out the ion.
You know what else you're going to be? And you're not even going to be able to find that best of
drugs. The one that helps you when you are in death. Yeah. And you won't bring out your virtue.
You're not going to. That's what they're afraid of. Hera is making them afraid. They won't be able
to live up to that mystery, to be able to find that pharmacone. You see that last word on the
bottom? Left hand side, last line. Pharmacon. That's what they're looking for, right? Do you want to
have that? Where do they, where do all these knuckleheads end up? They end up with Medea. And
what is she doing? She's providing with the pharmacone. She takes it. Where does she take it
out of? I've told you time after time. She takes it from her vagina. This is the first communion.
And I'll show you in the Greek how it is the first communion. It is from her
life fluid that all of us talk about salvation. Yeah. Some of you talk about it through the
avenue of a dude who got arrested in a public park with a naked kid screaming, I am not a child
trafficker. That's how some of you got it. Yeah. Fantastic. Salvation. The gospel, right, baby?
She's the origin of the good news. You know what the good news is? It's a prescription. It's the
power of a prescription to bring you health. You didn't even know that. Why do you think he's the
great physician, bonehead? Right? Come on, Christians, get up off the ground. Get up off the ground.
Know your own things. You don't even know your own Bible. It's disgusting. I'll tell you when I
taught seminarians, I told them on the first day of class, first day of class, you do not know the
Bible. You do not ever read it. You've never read it before. And by the end of the third semester,
they're all telling me, oh, I understand what that means now. Yeah, exactly. That's the power
of this language. Until you get there, don't say that you know this stuff, right? Bring up Pendar.
What else? What else did she do? So she put in the head. She put in the head of these young heroes
who are going off to do, they're going to abduct, they're going to take a fleece with a song in it
that is part of the mystery. It's the directions for the communion. It is the life, right? It's why
it has a dragon posted there. The dragon, just like the Medusa, is a position within Bronze Age
society, right? It's not a dragon. Oh, it's not. Where is Tolkien? Where is Tolkien? If Tolkien was
here, I would, what would I do? I would make eunuch for the kingdom of heaven. That's what I would do.
Here's what we go. They don't want to be left behind, right? And someday,
undangered, they want to find that drug. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
Mm. Mm. Look at this. This is John 316. What is it that Jesus is offering? Remember in Mark,
he offers you drugs that induce death, right? And snakes and vulnerability to snakes. Awesome.
Which goes along with the formula. I mean, that's the whole deal. That's what boy is doing, right?
The boy is providing an immunity, basically, for the poison that is the thosemum. Okay.
John 316. Here he is, right? Oh, God. God, so love the world, the cosmos. The cosmos is the present
functioning, or it's the lines. It's difficult to describe. The cosmos is that which beautifies,
most essentially. And when I say beautify, I mean to make healthy. You know what a woman's
cosmos is? Literally, an integrity. It's the chest that she possesses, that contains all of her drugs,
cosmetics, and anything for personal hygiene. Yeah. It's her salvation, right? Those elements
are her salvation. And what does it do? It brings her, it brings her to a place of health.
And now, if nobody's figured out the sacred name of Aphrodite, the name of Rome, then something is
wrong. I am not doing something right. But I'm confident. I'm confident you will come to the
place of health and salvation. I'm confident. Fantastic. That's where we are. Give me the
next source. Quick, before it wears off. No, he loved the world so much. He did. He gave his son.
He gave his onlyborn son in order that everyone who believes in him, right, may not perish but have
Zohane Ionian. And that's why we brought in the ion, right? Because that's what we're looking for.
Give me the next one. And I just want to make sure that you understand this ion, right, is defined
here in Greek. Now, they're going to give you period of existence. This is what the Greek says,
the Greek definition, totellos. It's the completion that bounds the time of each person's life.
That's called the ion. It's the completion. And that's why a telete is somebody who has been
initiated in the mystery because they have been able to see the completion of their life.
When you enter into death, you become one who is now outside of time in ion.
Don't ask me what the physics are. I don't understand it. But this is what they're doing.
And if you haven't been there, you don't have ionic life. Cicero's walking around very happy.
Oh, God, I'm so glad I went to the mysteries. I wasn't alive before I went. I didn't see the world.
Why was he able to do that? Because they resurrected the queen of the underworld.
Right? How do you think you're going to see the completion of your life without seeing her?
Oh, you say, I'm a misogynist. I don't have female divinities. Guess what? Guess what?
That's why you got to love the devil, man, because this is his place and you're here being
tortured for a reason. Isn't that gorgeous? Somebody once told me a Jungian psychoanalyst
slash therapist slash all around good person told me, oh, my, you're so handsome. Thank you.
I know. This Jungian told me. He said, look, the one thing that they used to crack Nazis
after World War II was mother. If you make him, he said, you can open up a Nazi with any kind
of psychology and they have defenses. They will not resist until you approach him with the mother.
And for some reason, the mother breaks him down. Isn't that gorgeous? You know what the enemy of
fascism is? A mother. I guess it's because a mother wouldn't, you know, a mother wouldn't do what a
fascist would do, I guess. Yeah. It's not, I don't know. It's some kind of people. I'm telling you,
I'm just a person of average intelligence. I don't get the physics of all this stuff,
but there's something there about the mother that breaks down that Nazi tendency. Yeah,
that gets inside. You can really pierce somebody's conscience through a mother. Love that. What would
your mother say? You jerk, right? I guess that's the idea, right? Right? I wonder if he could just
smack Hitler in the face and say, what do you think all the mothers of the world think about you
and your stupid mustache? Right? Something like that. I don't know. I'm sure the Jungians didn't
do that. You know, Jung had a chance to declare Hitler insane. He didn't do it. Can you imagine
how that would have changed history? Oh, it's too bad Jung didn't have the gnats. Let's go,
little goofy. I'm glad he gets, come here, Jung. Come here. Oh, you're so disgusting with your
little wimpy response. You let the Nazis take us over. Stupid Jung. Here we go. State of completion
or maturity. Right? That's another. That's a secondary definition. I just wanted to bring that in.
Have you been to the Ion? Because you haven't been born again, brother. And what's happening here?
I want to give you this. Look, the Christ, the original Christ, of course, is Medea.
Right? The original Christ. And what is Pindar doing? He's saying, look, in the 17th generation,
the, from Thera, as Medea gave her prophecy, it's going to be fulfilled, right? And this is the,
or it was fulfilled, excuse me. And who is Medea? She is that daughter, that zaminase daughter of
EETs, who is himself a child of God. The sons of God came into the daughters of men. Do you know who
she is? She is the child. She is the giant. The sons of God came into the daughters of men. Who
did they give birth to? Well, first they taught them all about drugs, and then they gave birth to
giants. Oh, Medea. Medea is a giant right from the earth. Oh, God. The first Christ. Isn't this
gorgeous? What is she going to do? She's going to make it so that you can be born again, so that
you can be awake. You can thank her later. You can thank her later. All of Christianity, all of
Judaism goes back to this woman. This is Pindar. Thank you, Pindar. And what does Pindar say?
She's zaminase. She's that child of EETs. And what is her mouth? Her mouth is divine. That's what it
says there. From her mouth divine, she breathes out. She is the despoina colchon. She is that queen,
that bronze age queen, who has total power, right? Makes us afraid. You know, the dragon,
they say, is only afraid of one, and that's Medea. Isn't that gorgeous? Dragon's only afraid of her,
right? Now, what did Jason do? Jason was like, I'm a rich Greek guy, and I had a pedorastic
relationship with Chiron, and I know all the arts and magic. And by the way, he uses the sex drugs
on some Islanders to get him to have sex with him and all his guys. He's a pervert just like Jesus.
But anyway, and he deserves what he got. Yeah, he deserved it. Definitely. Coward. He was a coward too.
Historical. History's greatest coward. Okay, go to the next one. What are we doing here? This is
zaminase. What is Medea? She's raging. Notice the raging word of violence. What's a zaminase logos?
It's a word of violence. I have a word of prophecy. Oh, yeah, I got a word of violence for you.
Are you ready? This is who she is. Zaminase. She rages. She rages. Now, you know why Odysseus was
afraid her sister was going to cut off his testicles, right? Well, sometimes she's called her sister.
Sometimes it's her aunt, right? Whatever, right? Yeah, love it. Fantastic. Let's go to the next one.
Oh, where are we? We're with her. And what happens? Boom. Oh, I wanted you to see so what we're with
the Medea, right? And we're in that Christing experience so that we can see the Ion so that
our eyes are opened and we can have that Ion. And what is that Ion? Remember, this is the
thing in the Jewish synagogue. This is what they worship, right? This is what Jewish people
