worship before they worship. Yahoo, right? Yahoo is derived from Ion. And what is the Ion? This
is an ancient Greek. This is from Ezekius, a definition of what it is. It's the Beos ton
Anthropa. It's the life of humanity. It's the life of humanity. The Hippocrates, he says, took this
and he quotes them. The Hippocrates took this and turned it into what is existing within your
spinal column. It's that which gives you life. It's that which innervates you. The Neura, or where
we get our word nerve, is what they thought was that life capacity that can be channeled through
the body, right? This is that, oh, God, this is that most powerful. And they say that you can't live
without this, right? So, wait a minute. You said, I thought Ion just means eternal. Do you see how
stupid Bible scholars are? Do you see how stupid they are? Let's go back to the next one, Chewie.
I can't, I can't deal with any stupid Bible scholars anymore. They're laughable. They're
laughably bad. Yeah. Okay, so we're back to the Bible. Yeah. This is, I wanted you to see how bad
this translation was. It's just verse three of Hosea, Hosea 13. I think it is 13, 3. I'm pretty
sure 13, 3. And he says, on account of this, they will be what? They will be as clouds,
as clouds, yeah, and as what? As drossos, or frine, por elmene. Right. What is that?
That's the stuff that is the kind of the drossos is really, it's related to the word hydros. It's
coming from the same root that hydros is. And hydros is what comes out of your lover's armpits
when you're, when you're actively engaged in coitus, sweat, aka sweat, and the sweat that is on
those plants in the morning that kind of evaporates in the air. You know, we call that do, the glistening
do. People produce glistening do too. They do. Fantastic. So that's how they're looking at it,
right? Look at how they're looking at it. Don't look at like some modern. That's the problem with
scholarship. It's all from modern brains. John Scarborough told me that first day of graduate
school, he said, shut up and listen to me. Number one, you only pay attention to the sources.
He said, put down every secondary book you've got. Anybody writing about it from the modern world,
put it down. It's useless. Yeah, I love it. I love it. That was good instruction. I owe him for that.
Go to the next one. Yeah, good. Yeah, that one. And what happens? He says, look, so the translation
says, look, these people, they're going to be like these clouds, you know, they evaporate. They're
going to be like this drossus, this do that evaporates, right? And they're going to be like
the hnus. That's the dust that you sweep off of the circular threshing floor. Yeah. Yeah. And
they're like that. They're vapid. They're just flowing, flowing away. And then finally he says,
hosatmus, these people are going to be like the fog or the fumigation, apodakruon. Now,
dakruon literally means tears, tears. Okay, you ready? But I know that those tears are medical
little lozenges, pills, right? They talk about the tears of opium, for example, the stuff that
drips off the opium capsule. When you scarify it or scarify it, excuse me, when you make a cut in it,
and it bleeds out this milky white solution that has all of the goody good numb numb in it. And
that little thing is called a tear. Anyway, you can make tears as drugs. And he says here,
the fumigation from the drugs, that's what you're going to be like. You're just going to be
off you go and smoke. That's all off you go. Now, how did the Hebrew translate this? Because
remember, this is not Greek translating Hebrew. If it was, I'm going to have to see the word tears
in Hebrew, but you don't read this translation. And this translation is using the Hebrew,
just like the King James. Therefore, they will be like the morning mist. Okay, that's okay. Like
the early dew that disappears nice, like the chaff swirling from a threshing floor so far so good
Hebrew. Nice job. Like smoke escaping through a window. What? There's no window there. And it's
really not smoke. It's really a vapor from a fumigation. Oh, God, these people are terrible.
What's the Hebrew actually say? Look at the word that the Hebrew uses. Yeah. Ashon smoke,
straight up, of course, very simple smoke. Okay, you can see how we're downgrading to the third
grade. We're not talking about the mist produced by specific drugs, but we're talking about the,
you know, smoke. I mean, that could be, you know, what? Yeah, the stuff coming out from between your
ears, right? What's the next one? And what do they do with the, that by the way is how they
represent opnus, right? Now notice he says mist vapor steam, right? Okay, go down. Go down. What's
the next one? What's the Hebrew get? Nope, up one. What's the Hebrew get for the night? Oh, no,
you're right. Go down. What's the next word? The doctrine on the tears, right? I want you to see
what these tears are. Literally, it's tears. But look, number two, that was drops like tears,
that's what I was talking about, gum or sap, right? Or the drugs that they're using, right? This,
when they say sap and what are they talking about? Medicinals in the collection, they talk about,
Gailen talks about the tears all the time. Love it. Tears of the poppy, baby. Give me tears of the
poppy. Doesn't it sound nice? Let's go to the next one. That was drops like tears, gum or sap.
There it is. What's the first example they give us for that? A con face. Do you know what a con
face is? Nia will get all excited because a con face is that acacia that he's always talking about.
Yeah, there you go. You apparently you can get some kind of tears from it. What are these tears
being translated to? In Hebrew, I am not kidding here, people. This is Aruba. And I'm not talking
about Jamaica or, you know, any of the nice places to visit. I'm not talking about St. John or
any of that kind of, you know, stuff. I'm talking about Aruba, the word for lattice or window or
sluice. A lattice or a window. How did you people turn drugs into windows? It's because if you were
to talk to a third grader and tell him, read to him the Iliad, he would write out a very, very dumb
down version of that because his linguistic skill was a cap. And that's what we have when we're
talking about 8,000 unique words in Hebrew. We're talking about a cap. So when I said, look, there's
tech here involved. The Hebrew can't capture the tech. The Septuagint is not a translation of any
Hebrew. There is no Hebrew that exists. Hebrew is a liturgical language with just a few words left.
Okay. Was Jesus speaking Hebrew? Of course he wasn't. Give me the next one. We're almost done.
I'm sorry to take so long, people. This is Hesechus Maghewin. What does it mean, that word,
that root magic? Look, it means to goatewin. It means to charm or transfix or to fascinate someone.
When someone tells me, that's fascinating. I know the magic is working. What is a foskinim? It's
a phallus. What do you do when you're going? You serve the gods and you hear the word in English
therapy. We're stealing it from this. What do you do when you serve the gods? You perform therapy.
Isn't that nice? Therapy. Love it. Love it. Next one. Just a couple of words here for us to
end off to get the sensation of where Medea is operating because she's the original Maghe, right?
Right? She's the original Maghe that every witch harkens back to. That's Medea. Fantastic. What is
the Magana? Magana are pharmaca. They're goitemata. They're things that are meant to charm you. And
what are those things? They are pharmaca. They are drugs. Those magi that came to Jesus looking
for the star. Guess what? Let's just take a look at them. Give me the next one. Give me the next
one. You know what? Go all the way down. I want to go all the way down to that one. Here we go.
We're going to finish up with this. Are you ready people? What is this? It's a dream. It's a dream
that Medea's father had. And this is again from the Orphic Argonautica. It's a dream that he had.
And what does it say? What does it say? It says the very girl that he was nurturing,
that taking care of, that he was growing. That girl, he saw a star.
And what did that star do? On the line before the break, you'll see,
called Poison in Himer Toisi. Himer is that root for desire, lust, that thing that drives you
towards Eros. Himeros is always accompanying Aphrodite. That's what does that mean? It means
desire. Himeros, desire. Do you have the desire to cause that activity to perpetuate?
That's Himeros. And what is Himeros? What is desirable? Desirable? It is her colpus.
And you'll say to me, this will always be translated as fold of her garment or lap.
Possibly bosom. Possibly bosom. It is. Let's show them. Here we go. It is what? The one after it? Yep.
Look at this, people. Bosom or lap. Thank you, Victoria in England. Very nice. Very nice. Look
at number two. Uh-oh. It equals Eidoyun Gunaycheon. That is the vagina. And then it gives Soranus,
who is a terrible name for a gynecologist, but that's what he is. Dr. Soranus. And he's a gynecologist.
And he uses the term colpus. Just straight up for vagina. Now watch this. Those of you who had
a little, who have had Greek, right? Those of you who have had Greek, you'll notice that it's in the
plural, right? You say, how can it be talking about Medea's vagina, where the star is? How can it be
talking about that? Because look at the colloquial expression. Look at B, the colpoitase husterus
are the sinuses, the sides of the, what is in the vagina, right? They considered it a plurality.
Oh, wow. Okay. Well, that kind of makes sense. And that explains why our famous Roman author,
Gaius Valerius Flakis, is telling us that Medea is taking the drug from her vagina when she gives it
to Jason to make him adamus invulnerable. Do you see the one who created
Bacchic worship that leads you to Aphrodite? The first communion, those of you who are going to
communion this weekend, the first communion was the pornea, that glistening dew that was the cup
of Lady Babylon. It was hers. Before Jesus is ever causing those children to ingest
his seed, Medea is giving her seed for the salvation.
To your health, to your health. I wanted to say a couple of things really quick before we
head out tonight. I wanted to say a couple of things. I wanted to again thank everybody
who was involved in the transcripts, who was involved in pushing the Greek course,
people who are getting places where people can access the book and all that kind of stuff like
that. I want to thank people for doing that. I want to thank the graduate dojo that went through
that's going through the process of getting into reading groups and all that kind of thing. I want
to thank them for hanging in there during this time. I'm very honored to be able to be a part
of opening up that universe for us to show, to give us those sources, to protect those sources,
and people are learning the Greek. On Wednesday night we'll have another Omen you and everybody
should have read Unit 1 and should have attempted to perform the first five exercises
which we will go through. If you have done that you will ace the instruction.
Excellent. We'll go over vocabulary. We'll do everything. Thank you everybody for coming
and that is so important that we are actually using the tool because this will bring us
renaissance. They can't blind us. They can't give us fake history. They can't give us false
interpretations if we can access the primary sources. It gets my goat that people don't
give the primary sources more honor. Thank you Penelope for coming tonight. Say hi to everybody.
Thank you for coming. Everybody in the 822. Thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate it.
Please reflect upon what is behind the cross. Please reflect on it, this purification. We need
to get to the bottom of it. We need to see what our actual past is. I was sitting with Chewie
and just the reality just started to set in. Imagine living in a universe where everybody
worshiped a dude who was arrested in a public park with a naked kid. What kind of universe would
that generate? It's like a strange question. What do I do? What do I do with the foot washing?
What do I do with the touching of the children? What do I do with getting arrested with a naked
kid? What do I do with it? How am I going to reconcile who Jesus is in the text and who I
believe he is? It's a difficulty. It's a really difficulty. How am I going to come to grips with
the fact that Moses is a creation of the third century of a branch of a satanic cult that was
perpetuating an oracular tradition? Yeah, how do I come to? I don't know. Maybe it's too soon for
the monist to find out that they're all descendants of the devil. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail
Satan. Something in the wind, lightning hit you near, fried to little bits. There's Satan in the
chorus. Trash him your one more, knock knock, I'm at the door. Gigi Pennywise, put the twinkle in your
eyes. Jesus on the cross, from harm and little ones. Don't mess with the kids. Medea, she will come.
Witch queen of the dragons. Medea, mama mia. Dreams come through my deer. She'll knock you on the
rear. Put something in your beer. High purple, they eat fetus. Bleed out, skin go deeper. Jeepers to the
creepers. Smoking censor mia. Ancient Greek, we read up. Ben him from the teeth up. Bloody
Uzi sepa. Grim to the reaper. Lavender, Medea. Indica, honeya. Hit you on the beeper. My goose poisoners.
Hit you with the kiss. Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip. My goose poisoners. Hit you with
the kiss. Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip. My goose poisoners. Hit you with the kiss.
Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip. My goose poisoners. Hit you with the kiss. Drinking venom drip. Fane gripping her lip.
