we started saying, hey, like it takes us two to three months
to make each one of these little mini documentaries on YouTube.
Why don't we supplement the documentaries
and just do one of these podcasts, talk about it.
And we started doing that and after a couple years,
the podcast video started to get way more attention and traffic
than the actual documentaries we were spending all this time
and put pouring our blood, sweat and tears into.
So eventually we're just like, fuck it, we're just gonna,
I'm gonna start treating the podcast like its own documentary
minus all the B-roll, all the music
and all the grueling editing that goes into it.
So that's basically the gist of it.
Give me up. Tell me something, Danny.
Looking at everything from the camera's angle
and having been initiated into that art, did you bring,
I know you brought the moral lesson out of it,
of look, let's all push ourselves to drunken mania.
Yeah, the success and all that, put all that aside.
Did the art of working the camera, did that kind of
foster your growth in the field?
Well, I mean, that's definitely where it started,
the art of the camera and the different lenses and the lighting.
There's so much that goes into cinematography
and that was my passion for sure.
But it's just, it's not a sustainable way to live,
at least for me to live.
I have a family, I have a lot of people that I'm responsible for
and for me to be like running around with the type of stuff
that I was making, I was running around in really weird places
like filming creepy people telling weird stories
that I thought were interesting and that shined a light
on parts of society that people really didn't pay attention to.
I was like, I like to think of it as like turning over rocks
and finding what's underneath there would exist
that people don't see on a regular basis.
But yeah, no, it's weird.
The transition from the whole camera thing
and the cinematography part of it really,
it didn't really translate to podcasting at all, to be honest.
But yeah, I don't know if that answers your question.
No, you haven't gone anywhere
because you're still talking to creepy people.
Yes, exactly.
I can't help it.
I can't help it, Amin.
You're in the same zone.
It's the muse calling me.
The muse is calling me to the same type of stuff.
No matter what the medium is, my calling is there.
I know what I want to hear.
I know what the stories that I want to tell.
And when I first discovered you, I was drawn to you like...
When I first listened to your podcast with Hamilton,
and Hamilton made a point in the beginning of that podcast
that he wouldn't be able to post it on YouTube
because he thought his YouTube channel struck down.
I was like, there's got to be a way to get this guy out in front of more people.
There's got to be a way.
And we made it happen.
At the end of the day, that's all that matters.
I just like telling the stories.
It doesn't matter what the medium is.
Whether it be a podcast, music, writing, literature, or cinematography.
At the end of the day, it's all about the muse.
And that's what I did with Dan McClellan.
I defended the muse.
Yes, yes.
Oh my God, do you hear it?
Look what happens, Satanic congregation.
You poke the man and out comes the font of classical wisdom.
It's like it's natural.
It's part of our organism or something.
We have that temple to reason.
Everybody, pay attention.
This is the transformation.
This is the mystery, man.
I love this.
Oh God, that muse is everything.
That's another thing that I really loved about you.
When I first listened to your podcast on Hamilton,
I started to do some research on you.
I was just like, first of all, how do I not know what classics is?
Second of all, how are you here looking the way you do,
performing the way you do on these videos with 30 plus years
of scholarship and research and reading
and dedication to this art.
And no one else knows about this.
I was blown away.
And another thing is you're not out there writing books,
trying to monetize this in any way.
So that's another reason I was really fascinated with it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I told you, devil's contract, man.
You got to keep that solid.
If you take any money for it, you lose that access to the muse.
It's gone, baby.
And I don't know what the Greeks were trying to teach,
but I think the heart of that is you can be seduced away
from her beauty just for some paola.
And it has a corrupting influence.
You know what I mean?
It's got a terrible corrupting influence.
Okay.
We don't have to sell anything on here.
Here's what I want to do.
So everybody hears, and Danny, please tell me if I'm wrong,
but you are not part of a religious organization.
