Oh, look at this little tidbit. Okay, so where's the mind of Jesus? Okay, I'm going to show you the mind of Jesus in a way you've never seen before. Where is he on his way to the garden? Where would the Bakken be?
He's taking his communion. It's starting to kick in. And what is the whole troop doing with him? They're all going to get scandalized with him. They're all going to get scandalized with him. And what are they doing? He can't even keep three of them from falling over asleep, right?
Because the drugs are kicking in. And he's there. What are they doing? Look what this says. They went there. They went to the mound of olives. And what did they do? What did they do? They were singing hymns. They were singing hymns. They were Dithirambic. Right? What is that hymn of mourning? It's that place that you go to when you've taken the drugs that will kill you.
And bring you alive again.
What do you think we're doing with Lazarus and the cave people? What do you think all these demoniacs are doing?
If you read the Bible, just read the New Testament and ask yourself just this one question. Read the whole thing. Ask yourself one question. Where do all the demoniacs hang out?
Yeah, it's a cemetery for a reason.
So what do we do before we go to our cemetery? We have a procession. We're Balkans. We have a procession. And what do we do in our procession? We sing hymns. The Athenians took this historically, these Balkans, and redirected them into a theater.
And said, hey, let's just set you up here and you'll do your thing here. Isn't that nice?
Yeah, gorgeous. That's the theater. That's the theater with these possessed people. Remember, and they're naked. Right?
Do you have a problem with naked meat nads running around beating up and torturing people? If you do, you might want to vote to quash the uprising. Yeah, fantastic.
But Jesus, he's right in the midst of it. Where's his head? Give me the next script. Look, they got me doing it. Give me the next passage, please.
Oh, God, I love this. Watch this. Jesus is about to go in. And he's like, hey, hey, Peter, Peter and the two sons of Zebedee. You know what they call those guys? Those are boy and wad of guests.
And look, we got to make fun of some Aramaic, some Aramaic linguists who didn't have a brain bigger than a P and had an agenda. So all of a sudden, we think it's something that it's not.
Let me show you some classical. It works out for a boy and wad of cases. And you notice I'm using the diagram. That is good strong. I'm going to show you good stuff here.
But sons of thunder is what the group is that they're a part of these are the sons of God, baby, the ones that are pierced by that lightning.
And you say, wait a minute, I thought we were with Bacchus. Exactly. He was bathed in the lightning. He was bathed in the lightning.
You mean Jesus was bathed in the lightning. Jesus was bathed in the lightning.
Got to get a little medicine on that. Let's go to that. Let's go to the next one. So, um, yeah, wait, go back to that one. I want to make sure I didn't miss that.
Yeah. And what is Jesus? Look, let's pick this up. Everybody who's making the special. Get these details in. Right. What is he? He's in pain. The pace that way.
