Yeah, and then he says, and that literally just says, that is to say, or witches, the sons of the Brontes, that rod, boom, boom. Do you feel it? When that light comes from the sky and you feel that, boom.
Yeah, that's Brontes. They say, they say, you know, that's the weapon. That's the weapon is that shaking, right? And what does this guy do? He's Bonerges. So somebody came along and said, oh, let's put some Aramaic into the text, which is stupid, which is stupid.
Yeah, let's go to the bookstore and grab some chop suey and throw it at the wall and see if any of it sticks.
Now, that's what that is. Now, I'm not kidding you, people. This is not Aramaic, right? The sons of the bolt are the bonkins. Why do you think he called those guys that you know what those magicians could do? You want to see how much they were into drugs?
You thought, oh, it's an Aramaic. They were, why did they call that? You know, the Aramaic is switched backwards. You flipped your consonants, your morons. That thing perfectly works out in Greek, right?
Right. Wedgace is a working and born as a shout of the Bakant, the shout of the Bakant. Oh, okay. Nice. Now let's watch what these people are doing. Go to the next one. Yeah, yep, that's good.
Go back to that one for a second. Let's just make sure. I want to make sure. Yep, that's it. Go to the next one. Fantastic. And what are these guys able to do? Look what these guys are able to do, these sons of thunder, as you have been calling them, right?
Right? What happens? Do you want us? They, something's wrong. And they asked Jesus, Thele, you want that we should, you know, call down the poor from the Uranus. Wait, call down the fire from heaven. Are you kidding me? What does that mean?
Call down the fire from heaven. And all of us get in our little bus to go to our school where the big purple mascot touches us.
And we say, what's going on with this text? What's going on? Right? Bring it back up. Bring it back up. Look, look at it. Look at the word that we've got here. A poem. You want, we should maybe say something to bring down the poor. You see the poor? This is all over.
So if you don't know these texts, you don't know what the fire from Uranus is or the fire from heaven as it's called by Baptists.
God called the fire of heaven down. Yeah, you can scare people with this stuff. You can. Moses is doing it too. Why? Because he's a wizard.
And why do I say wizard? Because these are people who are involved with drugs. That's the word for wizard and antiquity. Drug users.
And what special trick can these drug users do? Well, thanks to Medea, they can have the fire of Uranus.
Oh, God. Oh, God, you mean this Bacchic Empire built by that Queen in Georgia who ruled all the way from Babylon to Northern Italy? Do you think? Do you think that maybe it was her industriousness with these drugs and these substances that drove it all the way down to Jesus? Yeah.
And it's not me saying that. It's known us. It's known us. We get a chance to see the actual Jesus through known us. It's amazing. And it makes every passage work.
I'm telling you, I have spent the last two weeks unfolding Jesus Christ. It's amazing. It's amazing. And I hope to keep bringing it to you. I want to end with this little tidbit. Go ahead and give me that last one.
Give me a little. There we go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Look at 26. So this is from like first Chronicles.
First Chronicles. I don't know why it's funny. And Oiko de Mason, they built, right? Who did? He sheared it, built something. Dawid. Dawid. Yeah, Dawid. There's a diagram in there. Dawid. Yeah, good.
Enthusiastereon, they built there an altar to the Kurios. Yeah. And they compelled sacrifices, things that they were going to burn and things that have to do. It's a special sacrifice as a way of saying, thank you for saving me.
