I'm really surprised.
I'm really surprised that this isn't part
of the education anymore.
So when you say there's 7,000 unique words
in the ancient Hebrew language,
is there a difference between ancient Hebrew
and biblical Hebrew?
Would there be a different number there?
No, no.
They call it biblical Hebrew.
They call it classical Hebrew
or ancient Hebrew to distinguish it
from modern Hebrew.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, but it's all the same thing.
He did text me after the show.
I think it was that night
or maybe the next morning that he's like,
hey, it was bugging me.
I had to look it up and I was wrong.
So he did at least recognize it afterwards.
Yes.
Yes, okay.
We might put something on the screen to correct it
or I might let him comment below the video or something
so people know.
I don't want people to be misinformed on it,
but it's a podcast.
I say shit that's wrong every day all day.
No, no, no.
No, you don't.
Yeah, I'm not a biblical scholar.
From your mouth.
It wasn't from your mouth.
It wasn't from your mouth.
That's unfair.
I thought your questions today were brilliant.
Absolutely brilliant.
I thought it was more journalism than it was anything else.
So, and you were trying to cut down to get,
you're just trying to get the reality.
Let me show you really quick.
Give me the next one, Chewie.
This is that professor, by the way,
who made that statement just for people who think,
well, his sources may not be the right sources.
This is the professor.
It's Gabe from Hebrew University in the Knesset,
which is just a stone's throw away,
takes all of their Hebrew for modern Hebrew from him.
He's the one who standardized modern Hebrew,
and he does a fantastic job.
He's part of their national organization to promote Hebrew,
modern Hebrew, fantastic.
He's the one who's talking about ancient Hebrew
being 7,000 words long, but for the Greek,
I just wanted people to see for the Greek.
This is from the TLG,
and you can see that there are 115 million words, right?
That's just occurrences of words.
There are 262,000 lemita in Greek,
which are definitions, which are lexical entries,
lexical entries, right?
But you can have one word for a lexical entry
and have eight other Greek words underneath it.
They're embodied in the same definition.
So we're looking at unique words.
That's what we want, and you can see.
This database, which is at University of California,
this database has collected all of Greek literature.
It's called the thesaurus lingua griki TLG,
and look at the number here.
It's 1,775,000 unique word forms.
So the question is,
and this question is difficult for people to answer,
and I'm going to play a clip that's from a debate
that happened just yesterday or a day before.
In this, the question is,
does it matter that there are only 8,000 words in Hebrew?
Go ahead and roll it.
But I think, last question.
Yeah, what is your thoughts on the idea
of Hebrew having 8,000 words and Greek having?
What is your thoughts on that?
And then we'll go to super chats.
I don't know.
So I guess it, so much of this depends on how you're,
like the problem of making this kind of a comparison
is because Greek and Hebrew,
like they're different, they're different systems,
different systems of languages, right?
And because of that, I mean, for one thing,
Greek has vowels.
Hebrew is a, is a continental polyglot.
And it's hard to make this one-to-one comparison
because words, what constitutes a word in Hebrew
does different things than in Greek.
And Greek is a much more flexible, malleable language
because of, thankfully, vowels.
Because of that, it's just, you know,
there's things that you can do with it
that are way more expensive than whatever you can do with Hebrew.
So in that sense, Hebrew looks like it's just a much simpler.
Ready for this?
Language, right?
Okay.
Danny Jones, what's the feeling that you get to,
honestly, to me, it makes me a little bit queasy
to have that big of a bowl of verbal vomit.
