And I just wanted to show you guys that this word that is describing Jesus's mental state is used of Numa.
And it says it's with respect to his soul. Yeah, yeah, that place, that place of confusion. It wasn't because of a confusion in his soul that he did this.
What did Numa do? He dropped everything. You people are going to love this. You know what this says? Numa left the city behind and all that city life, and he chose to live out in the wilds.
Yeah. And what did he do? He wandered a lot by himself, right? That's what he wanted to do. And he wandered around sacred groves and meadows and places out in the wilderness.
He wandered in these places. And what was he doing? What was he doing? Well, in that place, this is at least what they say, right?
The Logos. What's the Logos on it? The Logos on it is that he knew of goddess. Yeah, and that he was with that goddess. And what did they do, right?
We know historically that Numa took that goddess's words, put them into scrolls, and those scrolls became the foundation for the religion that built your Christianity.
Okay, fantastic, fantastic, especially for the papa in the seat in the Holy See. Yeah, you know, I'm talking to you.
Here we go. What happens here? What happens here? So Numa has her as not, he didn't go to this place because he's crazy, bring up the next one.
He didn't go to this place because he's crazy, delirious. He went here because of what? Because he had a taste.
Now, everybody who's, I told you this would be sexy tonight, it's gonna get a little bit academically sexy because he had a taste.
Yeah, he had a taste. What do you have a taste of? He had a taste of the Holy Homelia. Have you ever had the Holy Homelia?
I'm asking you, sitting there tonight, have you ever had Holy Homelia? What's that?
Chewie, Chewie, you gotta find out what that homelia is. I'm sorry, intercourse, company number two, look at number two, it's sexual intercourse.
But look at number three, it's also instruction. Take that down. Take that down. Is your intercourse holy?
It's a shame if it's not. Yeah. Is your instruction coming from your intercourse? You know how it is. You have an interaction, right?
There's things going on, bits being passed back and forth, sacred homelia, sacred homelia. I bet that's the first time I'm glad to be able to introduce you to sacred intercourse.
Just think about it for a second. Holy intercourse. Boy, is that not going to be welcomed by the Baptist? No, it's not. No, it's not.
Frustration reigns. Let's go to the next spot. We gotta keep it. We gotta keep it hot.
Okay, I wanted you to see, look, look, look, these sons of Zebedee, right? James, John, and James, right? They called them Bonerges.
