And I want us to be able to have a little bit of fun with some menads. So, where's Elian? Elian, get up here, Elian.
Now, I'm just going to drag you, Elian, in here because this is a lengthy passage, but I want you to keep an eye on the partying.
I want you to keep an eye. I don't think you realize how deep they went in antiquity. I want you to see the Balkans doing exactly what Balkans do.
No more story time. Put away the Noah's Ark and the pictures and the rides. Pop up little animals. Put that all away because now tonight we're going to see the real stuff.
You're about to watch Balkans. We'll get a little bit of the atmosphere here. I want you guys to soak it up. Then we'll go in and we'll see the Christ.
Fantastic. Let's bring up that very first. Oh, I got to squeeze over here. I got to squeeze over here. Blow me up, Chewie.
Yeah, I'm too small. Look, I'm tiny. Okay, Elegi. Oh, by the way, this is from, yeah, we said, it's a translation by Thomas Stanton.
Look from the 17th century. Is that the best you could do? Is that the best you could do? It's Elian. Give them a break and it's a fine translation.
Elegi and Kehlani were daughters of Preetis. The Queen of Cyprus worked them to prostitute themselves and so much as in some parts of Peloponnesus, they ran up and down as it is said, naked and raging.
Remember, this is the prostitution that isn't just prostitution. It's also temple worship. Right. This is a religion. You're watching religious. These are nuns from ancient Greece.
What are nuns in ancient Greece? They get naked and they run around crazy. Oh, is this fantastic? They're raging. Would you like to be one of these nuns?
Just get rid of everything. Drink your drink and next thing you know, you're chasing, chasing images through the air. Oh, you fly. They say it's flight. The witches, they got it from the Balkans, right?
It's all the pharmacology. You just have to trace the pharmacology. Let's look at it. They roved also mad into other parts of Greece. Oh, look, it was like an extended crazy vacation.
A religious purgation of your soul. You got to be done with your problems after you come back from one of these. Transported with this distemper, right?
We've got something going on in the mind is likewise reported. The wives of the last of the monies were transported with Bacchanalian fury. They got into it too. Right.
Now, listen, this is not just us showing up at a concert and taking something that a pharmaceutical rep during the day and a peddler at night gives people, right?
No, this is a sophisticated combo. We're about to see snakes and stuff like that. Oh, God, love it. And look what it does. It drives them. It drives them on.
Do you know now why Medea brought this to people? You can free somebody. You can free somebody without their even resisting, right?
It's that contagion that which has that power. Lady Babylon has that power of contagion. Bring us back. I want to see what more of those dirty Balkans were doing.
Show us this dirty. Eileen, show us this dirty Balkan stuff. Yeah, they say that only the Minyades, Laokipi and Aristopeia, yeah, and I'll see a thief. They declined the dance of Bacchus.
