Yeah, it comes from the word for a trap. It's a trap. Something that you get caught in. And it goes back to the scandal on that was used in there, one of the traps they made for animals, small animals. Yeah, you don't want to get into a trap.
Stop. You're going to scandalize me. You're going to get me caught. You're going to get me caught. Let's, let's see. And now we're going to take that verse. Watch this. We're going to transform that verse. I want to put that up there one more time.
I'm going to transform it into English using the King James, the new American standard and all the chappy chaps. Here's one. All this I have told you so that you will not fall away.
No, but good try. Next. These things I've spoken to you so that you may be, so that you may be kept. Oh, from stumbling, kept from stumbling. That's a wee bit closer. But no, these things have I spoken to you that you should not be offended.
Look, does anybody feel like we're all sitting in the same circle watching the same person masturbate? That's what I feel like. And I'm tired of it. King James, you can stick it in your ear. Let's go to the next one. Where's the next? Fantastic.
Fantastic. Now I'm going to transform. Here's the magic. Here's the magic. My assistant can show some mind changing, altering images while we're doing this, but I'm performing a magic trick as we speak. And I'm transforming that verse into this thing, into this thing right here.
And how am I doing it? I'm doing it through somebody who lived in the fifth century, whose Greek is better than the best, is better than the best. This guy knows everything about cult, particularly.
My God. Let's see how he translated that verse, because he took that verse and he rephrased it. And here's what we've got. I want to read this to you in Greek.
This is great. I'm sure you'll get it too big.
And what does that mean? No, keep it up there. My eyes are terrible. Keep it up there.
What does it mean? Let me just translate it for you. I'm telling you this announcement in a fit of prophetic rage.
So that you don't have to partake of that unstoppable poison that induces the fury. Why did we go from one universe to another?
He just said, he just said this was all. What is the scandalizing? How is he translating the scandalizing?
You don't have to enter into the fury because he does. And tonight on the night he gave his flesh and blood, on the night he took of the cup of the vine, I am the vine.
You're the branches. There he is. There he is. Anonis says, what is he doing? He's taking that. He's taking that oistress for us. He is assuming the oistress for us.
Okay, that explains a lot of why it's about to say that Jesus was in a state of intoxication. Let's look at the next slide, please.
I want you to notice this vocabulary. Here's your oistress people. And I just want you to notice a sting or anything that particularly drives mad.
I want you to keep that in your minds. Keep it in your minds. What does madness have to do with Jesus? You have to have the madness.
Next one to have the prophecy. What is the oistromanes? That is a state of being mad from that sting, from that raging, from that raging.
The Christ is a rager. That's why in the Gospel, according to Anonis, Jesus is constantly shouting. And you see in a Bacchic, with a Bacchic shout,
