He's writing about the basards, you know,
or otherwise called, he's writing a Dionysiaca.
Wait a minute, what?
Yes, another, you saw, I thought there was only one.
No, no, no, there's multiple, right?
All of a sudden, do you realize how small a view
of antiquity you've been getting?
You mean there are other epics,
other than known us about Dionysus?
Yep, yeah.
You mean the epithets that Jesus is using
as Jesus Christ are all Bacchic epithets?
Yep, you mean hallelujah is a Greek expression?
Yep, yeah, yeah.
You see what you have to do is you have to build.
You have to build your own foundation.
If you don't have one, if all you got sand,
you gotta build a foundation.
You gotta put something, make it work, right?
You can't just start on the sand, right?
It's probably gonna sink anyway, right?
Go somewhere else.
Yeah, take Philo with you, right?
Josephus was a liar.
He was an out and out liar.
It's amazing.
People will believe anything if you write it down.
And of course, what are they all writing in?
Greek.
Anywho, go, go, this is, I'm sorry.
Do that, do that, I think it's too,
I think it's abusing the biblical scholars too much.
Can we get the excessive abusing
the biblical scholars sound?
Do we have that anywhere, Chewie?
Can you key that up?
Ah, ah, ah, ah, he's already dead.
Yeah, exactly, right?
Come on, man, you gotta feel bad for him.
All they've got is a text that's from a defunct language
that somebody propped up and shocked a couple times
with the battery and it twitched.
Right?
Come on, man, I wanna show you a woman.
I wanna show you a woman and this is in response.
This last little bit is gonna be my response to Bart Ehrman.
My response to Bart Ehrman.
Bart, you stepped in it.
You stepped in it, Bart, you know you did
when you said this week
that people in antiquity all thought
that women were inferior to men.
They were not finished creations.
And Bart, you know what you've done, Bart, right?
You've taken a 2000-year period, Bart,
with hundreds of cultures and you smashed them all together
under the power of Aristotle and his misogyny.
You smashed it all together and you did that, Bart,
because I know what you did.
You wiggled out from the generation,
the generation of scholars who were saying,
women did nothing in the ancient world.
They did nothing.
Yeah, they were chattel.
They were chattel.
Sorry, sorry, Bart, but you know as well as I do
or maybe they don't teach you in biblical studies,
but you should know that a generalization like that
about antiquity, you're never,
and there's no generalization that you can prop up, right?
I can walk you over to the Amazonians
who are kicking the Athenians' tails in battle
and tell them, hey, what do you think?
You could tell Medea that, but she wouldn't care
because she's already sending out pithias all over the planet.
Yeah, yeah, you got them as far west as Brittany.
They go beyond the Hesperides, beyond the Hesperides.
Oh my God, oh my God, but that's okay, Bart, Bart,
I know that you can't help it
because there's a certain load of stank
that you have to bear within the discipline.
I get that, but that doesn't mean
that you aren't doing something that is disrespectful
to the muse, right?
Classical philologists, texts, that's what we are, right?
We work with the texts.
We don't dig in the dirt.
We have to, you have to a certain amount,
but we don't dig in the dirt.
We leave that to the archeologists.
We dig through the texts.
We dig through the texts.
I wanna get you this woman, bring her in, finally, somebody.
Is this she that I was looking for just a minute ago
and you look at the top and the Greek students,
look at that, Hypatia.
We're gonna be talking about Hypatia.
She's one of the authors that, you know, as mentioned
and in this source.
And I just want you to know, let's put it up there.
I wanna translate it for him because, oh yeah, this is,
yeah, she's the daughter,
the Hypatia is the daughter of the geometrician Theon, yeah?
And she was a, sorry, he's a philosopher in Alexandria
and she too, it was a philosopher.
Yeah, and famous, was known by many people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, she was the wife of, no, no, no, sorry.
She grew to her acme.
Oh, isn't that nice?
Isn't that nice?
She grew to her acme in the kingship of Arcadius.
Okay, cool.
