Judgment of this. What is this porno? She's great. And she's seated upon all the many waters, many waters. Do you understand what they're saying? She is seated on many waters. Sit on that throne of Satan in order to see.
And what happens? A lot of kings with her ended up pornating. A lot of kings ended up pornating. And they got intoxicated. She bewitched them. They got intoxicated, right? The people, those who inhabit Gaia, they became intoxicated with her.
Bunch of bockens. Bunch of crazy bockens. And what made drove them over the edge? The cup of her pornea. The cup of her pornea. Now I'm going to say this is simply and as directly as I possibly can.
The purple dye is just one of a compound. One of one ingredient of a compound of of ingredients. And that this is used to produce another drug through her.
Her pornea, her ejaculation is the product. It contains the purple. But it also contains her life. It contains her seeds of fire.
If you want to turn on the mystery in order to see the future, you're going to have to bring her drug back. It is all part of the Bacchic way.
This is why Jesus is arrested in a public park with a naked boy at 4am because he is also trying to bring back the communion.
There is the eating of flesh and the drinking of blood and by the power of Lucifer, by the power of Beelzebul, the God of Great Council.
By his power. He who sits on the throne of Cthon. It's by his power.
Interesting. Now you know why they're accusing Jesus of working for the devil. Because he is. He is. Wow.
Okay. Let's go to the next text. I got a couple more here for you. I just want to wrap up and explain some things to you.
I want you to see. I want you to look straight into the eyes of the morning star. We're looking at the purple tonight.
I told you the purple will come back. It's come back. What are we expecting next? We're expecting the voice of the morning star.
Are you ready for this? Pindar. I got to call up Pindar and I got to bring him back and I got to say Pindar. What can you say to me?
Pindar says, you know, Jason, he took off his clothes. You know, he trusted in the God. Yeah. And what did he do?
He began. He undertook the work that he had to do. He undertook it, right? And the fire, it didn't touch him.
The fire, it didn't touch him. We are burning off your mortality. The fire doesn't touch you. Why? Because you have followed the ephetomies, the commands of that all pharmaceutical stranger.
That all pharmaceutical stranger. You know who I'm talking about? You know who I'm talking about? I'm talking about scootha.
Who is scootha? That's what Dracontius calls Medea. It is her epithet. It doesn't mean she who is Scythian because she is not Scythian.
She hangs with Scythians. She's culturally living a Scythian life. But she's also anchored to these Libyan traditions surrounding Amun.
And as she develops the Bacchic Empire, she does so by exposing this pathway through the purple. It comes from her body.
Bring us back to Pendar. Pendar, tell us what she says here. Next one, please. Look, who's all this coming from?
Everything that is happening, I'm telling you, everything that is happening.
Caetomedeus epos ancomisa is coming for the fulfillment of the word of Medea.
Wait a minute. The prophet that I was referring to tonight, who was that prophet? That prophet is Medea.
That prophet is Medea. And who? Who? What is she doing? She's speaking from Thera. She's speaking from Thera in the 17th generation.
Though her word will be fulfilled, right? And who is she? She is Zaminase Pice. Take that down for a minute. She is Zaminase Pice.
Ayatollah. She is that ever rushing current of fire that is unstoppable.
That's what they call the Queen of Babylon? I didn't know she was Queen of Babylon. Did you know she was Queen of Babylon?
She was. That's what they called her. When she was 12, how did they manage to get her to that stage by that age?
She's saving the world, spreading a religion, a holy virgin. Amazing work, guys. Amazing.
It helps when your researcher is the one who is developing the drug. It's part of our model that holds us up.
