Okay. Let's go back to the text, people. You guys are indulging me tonight. I'm going to be a little indulgent and run this out a little bit. She would blow that up. Here's another one, people.
Look at this five. And what happens? What's on her forehead? What's on her forehead? This is what we're going to see. Pull, right? Come on, people. We're pulling. We're pulling her into this dimension, invisible form.
Are you ready? What's on her forehead? Name. What great name is on her is on her forehead. Mustadion mystery.
This is her. The mystery. It's funny. There are thousands of thousands. There are billions of people who bow, who bow to a God and his son in a right that was created by a woman.
Yeah. There she is. Mystery. She's got the name. You people cannot take it. Jesus Christ didn't pop onto the scene and create his fairy tale La La Jack in the beanstalk world from nothing.
There's no ex nihilo. We're scientists. We have to have causes and facts. Nobody created that world. That world's in your head, Christian. It's in your head.
They all stole it from a woman, but they couldn't replicate it. They couldn't replicate the right because it required her voice.
A quiet her voice to bring it. All they got was a room stinking of sweating children and a dude who got arrested with one of naked in a public park at four a.m. Hail Jesus.
Let's go back to that text. Finish off. Yeah. Yeah. She is that mother. She is that mother of all of those poor night. Yeah. And she's the one who has that.
Abomination. Abomination that off running. What kind of genius was able to turn a body fluid into a communion that would build an empire of the mind.
Do you wonder why their teenage girls were more educated than you and I are? Did you wonder? Yeah, those priestesses are the ones carrying those sciences with them.
Wasn't Julius Caesar. He was hanging her picture in the temple.
She was doing it.
I'm going to love this when it hits. This is going to surprise all the classicists. They're going to sit around because they've been preaching since the 60s about the oppression of women.
I'm going to show them a real woman. I'm going to show them the one who's who's voice shaped their history. This is Lady Babylon. This is the mystery and it's coming.
Let's do the next one. This is a somber ending to the sixth season, but it's the most hopeful I've been able to generate.
Look at this. We got to look at the book of life. You didn't know Zoe had a book, did you? You didn't know the Medwa had a book.
Shall we hit the next one? Let's go through these people. This is going to be a little bit riddly. There's going to be a little bit, you know, kind of like riddles here. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And any who, any who, those who have the mind that is so false, right? Does anybody here possess Sophia?
I'm looking in the crowd tonight. Does anybody possess Sophia? Okay, because the one that does, whichever of you has her, blow it up again, please.
I mean, what happens? You know, there's, there's seven heads and seven.
Okay, I think we're back. I think we're back. Yeah.
What did I really want to show you here all the way down at the bottom? I just want you to see.
Okay, I think we're back, but we may go down again. We seem to be having an equipment failure. So I'm going to get this in as quickly as possible.
The Thadion here, right? It's the, the trick is it's not what you think it's not a beast. It is a beast in the sense that it's a serpent.
It's the same thing that happened to Paul. When Paul in Acts, we see it illustrated, he was in Malta and he gets bitten by the little tiny poisonous guy and they're all like, haha, he's going to die.
And he doesn't. That's what we're referring back to the Thadion. You have to remember there's a number of them. Oh, the empire is caught up with us tonight, Chewie.
We're, they're right on our tail, people. Let me just run through this. Okay. Um, look, there's a, you know, there's a number of them.
There's a number of them. There was one that is no longer anymore. And there's anyhow, there's a number, right?
There's some that were and one that's coming back and an eighth, an eighth. I want you to focus on the eighth. We are bringing back that eight and we're going to do it obscenely obviously for people and it's going to flood.
It's going to flood us here. Bring us, give us the next text, Chewie. We need to get through this before we blow, tie fighter catches us here.
Um, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, um, this is just Paul, he's picking up this, this group of sticks that he's got, you know, and he's putting it in the fire and this is a Hidna.
