I want you to look at that third line. This is a Hidna specifically. It's the Viper. It's one of the Viper's that he's talking. Oh, right. We all know what they're using the Viper.
They're actively using the Viper for these Thanasimon, these things that cause death and do death states. These drugs, when I say things, I mean drug combos.
Good, good, good. And anything, it's things hanging from his hand. Next one, next one. And what is that? The, the strangers saw it and they're like, this dude's going to die, brah.
He must have done something pretty, pretty awful to, to live out of this shipwreck, to get saved from the shipwreck, to wash the shore, and then to get bitten by a Viper. He's going to die, but they were all amazed when he didn't.
Uh-huh. Yeah, he's got the antivenom. He's taking the Theriac, baby. If he can take the Therion, he can take the Theriac. He can take that potion.
Um, rectally, by the way, that allows him to get through the burning purple. Wait, what? The priestess has to put that onto a, yes, there's an account of this. You can see it.
My God, man, you just have to find the Satyrs and the Satyrachon. That's it. Fantastic. Okay, next one. Let's go to the next one. I'm loving this, but I want, I want to give people their time's worth.
Look at the top. I have to be able to see this, right? Wild animal. This is Therion, right? What I wanted you to see is I just wanted you to go down to Beast, and you see under 3B, we've got a little poisonous animal, and we talk about ETS.
Is that ETS? Yeah. Okay. All right. We've got a little Orbaceus here there further on. I wanted to see it, but let's go because they're going to catch us here in a minute.
Boom. Fantastic. What is the Theriancos, people? Look what is in parentheses, just so you know. This is for all the people who are like, oh, this guy is crazy. Right? Listen, Tommy. Listen, Tommy. I know you're, I know you're, you know, I know you're a mature Tommy, but I want you to see here that the Greeks are actually making this connection.
You see how the Therion is in your parentheses there, right? These poisons that are being used in medicine, right, are composing a larger group that we put, we talk about as Theriacs, right? Look at that.
Look at that. An antidote. Antidotos. Does everybody see it on the third line down? Antidotos. Wait a minute. I thought you said Jesus and his crew. They're all, take it down for a second. I thought you said they're all doing Hebrew and Aramaic. You're so full of it.
Oh my God. Do you see what happens? The people who wanted to write the history, i.e. the Christians, they rewrote it so that you would think this is coming from the Hebrew and somehow that Hebrew is telling me things that poofy magic stuff.
Yeah. Messiah. Really? No. No. Not really. They're using the Greek language. They're speaking it. They're eating it. They're drinking it. They're living it. They're making love in it. Isn't that nice? When you hear, listen, you're in Jerusalem.
If you listen very closely, you'll hear the moaning. You'll hear the moaning in Greek.
Oh my goodness. This is gorgeous. Give us the last one. Okay. I'm sorry. We went to a strange place here. Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead. I just wanted you to see the Nard. Here's the Nard. I think we skipped one. Some spike Nard, right? Some Celtic Nard. Oh, look. Oh my God.
Oh, look. There it is. There's some Celtic Nard. What's the difference? You know, it's all medicines, right? There's mountain Nard, right? Orea. Orea just means the stuff you collect in the mountains. Do you people see how complex the art of drugs is and antiquity?
Look at the bottom. You've even got a Babylonian Nard. You've got a Babylonian Nard. And all of these Nards are used for different things, but there's one thing that Jesus is using them for. Go ahead. There's one thing that Jesus is using them for that we know.
Through Mary Magdalene. This is what she's doing to the Alabastrian, right? Now, watch this. This verb, I'm going to show you. Bring out, bring out the... Where is he? Where is he? Bring out the seminarian. Where is he? Bring out that seminarian. I need him. Come here. What's your name? Otto. Oh, here's Otto, the seminarian. Otto. What can't you do here, Otto? Bring the text back up for me.
The one I had before. Bring it up. This is what... This verb is what Mary is doing to the Alabastrian. And people don't know how to translate it. Now, translate it as break, right? Mary comes in with this vile of extremely expensive perfume.
And the container for the perfume is a phallus-shaped applicator made of this gorgeous stone. Oh, God. And what do people think that she did with it? They don't think she did with it. What Juicy did in Aristophanes played Lysistrata. Her name was Merina, right? Juicy.
It's a joke. Nevermind. What happens is she brings that Alabastrian, right? And people don't... They try to translate it as Mary's... Ah, she broke it.
Well, you had... I heard one person try to explain this once, is, well, you had to break it to open it. Wait, what? They had a stone that was filled with sex drugs that you had to break to open.
That doesn't even sound engineeringly possible. It's rubbed. And why are they rubbing it? Because that's what you do with the Nard, baby. You got to rub it. When you rub it, it warms it up.
Any dork in the ancient world knows that when you rub that substance onto that medical applicator, you get a heat. And that's what you need. You're going to Aphrodite. You don't go to Aphrodite cold. You ever try to go to Aphrodite cold? You can't. You can't.
Aphrodite is a fire, baby. Morningstar fire. That stuff's got to heat you up. There is no part of your being. No part of your physical being in the realm of Aphrodite that doesn't become activated by heat.
Can you feel it? Can you feel that heat? In antiquity, they could. Yeah. So the friction, you and I might say, of the preparing, the way that they prepared the drug, warmed the drug so that it could be applied and not be uncomfortable to the person.
Yes, all of this, people, behind the New Testament passages that you were looking at, that you didn't know was there. Why? Because what Julian said came true. You let the Christians take over the education. And the next thing you know, you guys will be a thousand years behind.
Yeah. Congratulations. We are that regression. We are that regression of civilization that resulted from the rise of Christianity. That's us. It's only a classical renaissance that will save us. It's only a classical renaissance.
Oh, God. Don't you want to bring it? Don't you want to bring back Lady Babylon? Let's see. Next one. I'm going way too long. Let's finish tonight, right?
And so he's going into Bethany, into the house of Simon, you know, the one that had the leprosy. Yeah. And he's laying down there and this woman, you know, in possession of an alabasteran, she comes in there. What's in her alabasteran?
That Muron. What is the Muron? Muron is that compound sex substance that they're using that not only helps prevent pregnancy, but also may have helped prevent venereal disease.
