Your researcher cannot be the one who is being experimented upon. They didn't care. And they did. And she did. And this is what she produced.
All of your religions, your Judaism, your Christianity, your Islam, they are all the product of one woman's brilliant work.
Yeah, let's see her. Go to the next one. We're going to start to pull out here. I want you guys to see this still. Thank you for hanging in there with me.
I know there's people giving me their time, and I appreciate that. And verse 4, and the woman was Patebeble Mine.
Remember that naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested?
It says that his Gumnos, his naked parts were Patebeble Mine. They were covered. They were covered with that bandage.
What are her coverings? Her coverings are what? Por furun. Por furun.
You know Aphrodite's girdle? That thing that has the barb on it that she can hit somebody with? What's it do when they get barbed with it?
Make some nuts. Make some nuts. Yeah, in a very specific nutty kind of way. In a satyr kind of way.
In the way that you would see one of these centaurs with their apostles. You didn't know that centaurs had apostles, did you?
No, you didn't. But you don't read, Isaiah. You think you do. Because King James has played a dirty trick on you and used the Masoretic text.
But you don't read that text because they took all the centaurs out of the prophets.
It was too much, linguistically. It was too much to consider. If you look up centaur now in ancient Greek, you know what you're going to find next to it?
Petarast. Paiderastea. Interesting.
Jesus Christ is following as models for his salvation.
Petarasts. Jesus Christ is in a line of mystery.
Petarasts. His boys are his boys. Mathetai. Students. You remember Socrates? He's charged for corrupting the youth. Yeah, at least that's what is being thrown around.
He's not walking around with 40 year old men. Right? Okay. Right. He is working with the young. I mean, he does know 40 year old men.
But his students are of a different group. Just like Jesus is going to be referring to his kitties and sheepkins as his students.
Post-primary up to through your education. So 10 to 9, 10 to 18, 19, 20, somewhere in that range. Yeah.
Paiderastea. Petarasti is part of it. It's part of the cult. We're going to be discovering this, and we have the great, everybody in Satanic initiation as the great, great vantage point.
We get to be right up front as it comes forward. We have the purple. Next, we bring her voice. Chewie, go back to the text. Let's give everybody some time off.
Look at this. So she was dressed in that purple, right? And coconut. Anyhow, she had some other stuff on, but I wanted you to see that she's a who's supporterion who soon she has this golden cup.
This isn't any regular cup. This is a cup of offering. And she's got it in her hand. And what does it contain? It contains the abomination.
Until you see the abomination of desolation in the temple. Yeah. That's what we're looking at. We're looking for that time. We're looking for that exact. Are you ready? Are you ready for the fun?
Are you ready for the slaughter? Are people ready? People are saying, who's side? Who's side are we on? What are we going to pick? Right?
But we all know the games are beginning. We're going to see a slaughter. Yeah. Yeah. Turn up. Is it just me? Somebody touched that thermostat again? The insanity stat?
Somebody turn it up a little bit. That's Bacchic. There's a radiation that comes from that Bacchic power, quantum stuff. I don't understand it. You know, probably gives you cancer if you sit around it for too long.
But I know this for sure. It makes you nuts. It makes you nuts. Which, for those of us in a cult, is a good thing. Because how else are we going to be involved in the eating of the flesh?
We're all going to consume it. It's all our table, people. You don't have a choice. You're about to watch. You're about to watch and partake in that slaughter. Yeah.
You know what the watchers say? They're constantly harping on this. Humans. They're one group. Yeah. They don't even realize that. You and I, we do things together. Our corruption is shared.
And you can't see that other side. But when you do, don't be surprised. Follow the gateways, the muse, or go to the slaughter. Yeah.
