What?
What?
What?
A laughable and at the same time, pitiable example of this art is told of a young man
of Narbonne who was led into slavery by a Thracian pirate.
He was put to sleep by a powerful drug and his testicles were so neatly cut out, but when
he awoke thus deprived of his virility, he marveled at himself as at a new man.
Yes.
A new creation.
Gorgeous.
What do you do with eunuchs in antiquity?
There's a lot you can and can't do with eunuchs.
You can't get pregnant from them.
Yes.
You can't.
They no longer can impregnate you.
However, they still have sexual drive.
So they make excellent, excellent, excellent slaves for the wealthy.
For the wealthy.
Yes.
You can have, if you're a woman, you can have multiple eunuchs.
Take your pick.
Take your pick of the eunuchs.
What kind of eunuchs do we want?
We want eunuchs that are good looking according to the Bible.
These have to be the best looking eunuchs.
We have the, just so the people get the, you know, go ahead and put up words of Jesus.
Jesus said something about eunuchs.
Wait a minute.
A cigar, eunuchoy, hotines, ecolias, metros, eginecesan, bring it back up.
I'm just going to translate.
There are eunuchs, the sort that are that way from birth, yeah?
And there are those that are made eunuch, eunusized.
He says there are those that are eunusized by people.
And there are those who eunusized themselves for the sake of the kingdom of Uranus, hodunamanus,
Horein, Horeito.
Let the one who is able ascend engage.
Let the one who is able to engage engage.
This is mystery.
This is mystery.
Who is Jesus talking about?
People don't even recognize this.
I must have heard a thousand, thousand different Bible scholars and sermons, pastors and priests,
theologians, mon-seniors.
I must have heard a thousand of these business about the eunuch.
Nobody knows what that means.
Does anybody realize that he's talking about eunusizing people within cult?
He's talking about mother, great mother.
He's talking about Addis, bro.
Jesus knows Addis.
Some people do that themselves.
Jesus had to know the golly, or he wouldn't have been talking about people voluntarily
