The abomination of desolation
The abomination of desolation
Abomination of desolation
The abomination of desolation
Yes, we'll play that a couple of times to hypnotize you.
And that's what we're going to be talking about tonight, but before we begin in order
to get the right spirit, right, because you can't, you can't, people, necromancy 101,
you cannot summon a dead eunuch.
Can't summon a dead eunuch without a dead lover of eunuchs.
So tonight I want to, come on, Chuck, come on.
I can, I can feel you.
Can you smell it?
It smells like an opium den in here.
You know what I mean?
We're in that French salon and we're drinking wine, we're drinking wine, hashish.
There's some hashish in the air.
Some of us are partaking.
We are in that place that droogs go to all of we droogs.
Yes, throne of Satan, right?
These are truly the deep things of Satan.
Fantastic.
Let's bring up Chuck.
Chuck, Baudelaire, that's why we went to France, right?
Everybody's like, why'd you stop the car early?
We're not in antiquity.
No, no, no, we got to just go back a couple of hundred years, man.
We're going to go back to Chuck, Chuck, set the stage for us.
And by the way, for those of you who are listening, just consider this the opening
him.
Yes, we're in that oracular place that Chuck so mastered.
Yeah.
So here we are.
We're looking for that oracle to emit that sweet smelling voice.
We pour out prayers, we pour out prayers, but first, where's our eunuch?
Where's our eunuch?
Bring him up.
Bring him in.
Eunuchs.
Get us up here.
Yep.
There we go.
Oh, here's so nice.
Look at this.
Where are we?
This is the book of Daniel, right?
Which many of you think was written in Hebrew, but it's not.
The oldest version we have is in Greek, and it is not a translation.
It is not a magical, let me step back, fairy tales aside, everybody around you thinks that
this book of Daniel was written in Hebrew and then translated, maybe Aramaic translated
into Greek and Septuagint magically by 70 some scholars and they weren't even scholars,
right?
They were holy men because who else could go into different cells and come up with the
