castrating themselves because, you know, it's a big deal, right?
Check out Lucian.
The golloy, and the golloy are constantly those guys that make themselves, you know,
your 10-year-old boy, and you're caught up in the thing, and you're doing the right,
and off it comes, off comes the testicles, right?
Next thing you're gonna throw them into some lady's house, right?
Seriously, should bring you up, dress you up.
Eunuch, that is gorgeous.
Well, Daniel, Daniel is one of these eunuchs, and people are like, I love it.
The Christians are like, oh, well, you know, to what proof do we have that his testicles
were cut off?
Yes, yes.
Okay, well, remember we're in the world of the lace days.
Who do you think was cutting off testicles?
Is the pirates, right, those pirate child traffickers, the ones that Jesus is running
out saying, I am not a child trafficker, right?
The other one's making eunuchs.
That's funny.
Jesus is talking about, that's twice that he's talked about, directly about child trafficking.
We have to keep note of that.
There's gonna be more evidence in his trial, right?
Okay, fantastic.
Yeah, let's go back to that first passage, Daniel.
What happens here, right?
He wants him, he says, King says, hey, brah, Arch eunuch, come here, come here, brah, Arch
eunuch comes down and he's like, I want some boys from the seed of Israel.
I want these captives, you just take a place.
What does he want?
He wants Neoniscous.
Does everybody see it next to that big number four?
That's the arbitrary verse number four, Neoniscous, wait a minute, I've seen a Neoniscous before.
I saw one in the garden with Jesus and everybody says, well, he could have been 35 years old.
Yes, it's a diminutive even, the Sigma Kappa is a diminutive, so it's the little boy.
Oh, yes, that's what he wants, Darius is like, I need my Neoniscous, you know what I mean?
And what kind of Neoniscous do we want if we're king?
Let's see, who are these irracular boys?
Look at hoisuk esti, in whom is not any sort of momos, no blemish, no fault, no physical
fault, but they are kalustey, they are hot to look at.
I want hot boys, that's what Darius says, go get the hot boys of Israel, hot boys, let's
go get them, bring it up.
I told you, your Bible is dirty, it's dirty, right?
So what's he going to do with these guys?
He's going to establish them before himself, to stand there before himself.
He's going to educate him, he's going to bring them through and show them, look at that last
line, the gramata ka glosan hal dayon, the gramata ka glosan, the written forms and
the language of the Kaldian, and you think, Kaldian people, and you think, oh, he's talking
about one thing there, language, yeah, no, he didn't mention a language, but he also
mentioned the gramata.
And for any bonehead who has read, which excludes most classes, the PGM, you know, straight
up that these gramata are magical symbols.
Magical symbols, the gramata, orfica, right?
Those magic symbols that are being used, fish is trying to figure out, right?
