And this is in the, you mean this kind of stuff is in the text? Yes, it is. Go back. Go to the next text, please. I just want you to see the nafta here, right? And they give us, okay, blah, blah, blah. It has a nominative, I mean, it has a masculine, a feminine and a neuter form, right?
But again, he mentions that the Medes call, right? They call it nafta, this explosive stuff. Just wait for it. We need the nafta there. How is this woman involved with sex, drugs and explosives? What does this have to do with sex in the Bible and Jehovah yelling at his wife once again?
Bring us that conversation. Do we get that one right up next? Should we go hit that one? No, we don't need that. Hit the next one. Yeah, here we go. What happens to people according to the prophet? You're back in the prophet's shoes. Naum is his name. And you'll be surprised to find him. You'll be surprised to find him in places that are magical, as opposed to just your biblical, your biblical stuff. Right? Right? Where did I? Where did I go wrong?
Look at the top. Where did we go wrong, guys? They became weak. Why? They become weak. Why are these people weak? Who are we talking about? These are these people who live in Niva? What? What's going on? Yeah, you become weak in your body. Why? Because you have playthus porneus. Turn us off. Do you have playthus porneus? Do you have too much?
It's porneia. Yeah. When you are in the mystery and you are satirical, you have the satariasis because you've been taking the satirion. And for the last 24 hours, you have had an erection in retu that is being used in the ritual. Your body is being used.
You are taking the communion from others because everybody knows there is no mystery without Aphrodite. There is no mystery without the orgasmos. You cannot, Jehovah, take that out of the cosmos.
You cannot exile her from the cosmos. She is that mystery. And you are a frustrated, lonely God. We bring, we bring. Here's one for the, here's one for the book, the bottom of Jehovah. You feel that? You feel that? You're lying sack? Yeah. Amazing. Amazing.
Let's not follow the liars. Let's follow decay, justice. Remember, we're pagans, right? It's a pagan revival, right? We're pagans. You say, I don't act like modern pagans do. No, you don't, right? And they don't act like ancient pagans did.
Ancient pagans were trying to save. We're trying to save what they had built and to build the museums. They're trying to save society. They're not trying to rip it down, right? Okay, you've got to be pagan about this. It's those Bacchic mystery religions that we have to hunt down because they're constantly trying to overthrow us.
Yeah, it's just the way it is. You can't get Christed and not end up insane. You cannot get Christed and not end up insane. This is Naum, the prophet. Give us the next text, Chewie. This is, this has got to get lighter, right? If we're going to enter into, yeah, this is the portion of Amun. I just wanted you to see this.
This is the portion of Amun. See that second line? Last word in the line. This is his portion. What? She who inhabits those rivers. Yeah, gorgeous. And whoops, that's not the one I wanted. I wanted you guys to see. Look, tonight, technically, I've been talking a lot about languages and I've been saying something that is completely, completely going to be questioned.
Nobody's going to want to accept this. Ten years ago, I stepped forward and said, those people were all on drugs. And people said no way. And the very people who said no way are now writing books about drugs.
Shame on you people. Well, let me tell you the next thing, the next step that we've got. The next step we've got to overcome is the question of the source, the question of the source. These are Greek sources. Look on the left here. Or is that my, this way?
