That's a quick translation. And now I want you to look at a couple of words that will anchor us into the past in a way that no professor can BS their way out of.
You got no theories here. I got no ideas. I don't care to waste your time. You know that.
What I care about is letting the source get to you. I'm a librarian, right? That's what we do.
Well, welcome to hell. Fantastic. Pull up the first after my source there.
Yeah. I just want you to look. Can you blow that up, Chewie?
Yeah. I just want you to look at the brightness, the glow, the effervescence, the flash of lightning.
This is what that Artemis controls. This is what she controls.
Look at the very last line and you'll notice. Oh, look, theocritous. Nice, nice, Hellenistic stuff. Love that stuff.
What is he doing? He's using it for love. He's using this flame for love. Fantastic. Let's go to the next.
Let's get a little bit deeper. Do you want to know who this is? This is a Wanasa or Anasa.
If you de-digamify it, this is a Mycenaean word. Where are we talking about now with the Mycenaean stuff?
This can be as early as 1600, 1800 BC. Fantastic. We're in an area now that I feel a little bit more comfortable with where we've landed.
And look at what this means. Look at this. Oh, what is this? See the diagram on the front of that thing right there?
Oh, that's gorgeous. A queen, right? A lady. It's addressed to a goddess up until what? Up until Pindar.
So until Pindar, it's how you refer to goddesses. Now, I know we are not used to worshiping women.
I know our society, much the contrary, does everything it can to keep a segment of us from completely oppressing women.
Yes, yes. We do not have in the modern world the concept of the Wanasa.
We do not have that great Empress who is worshiped. He is very specific.
This Orphic who is writing this is very specific and says she is worshiped today. She is worshiped today.
Medea, a woman of the Bronze Age, was worshiped while she was alive as the goddess Artemis.
Okay, bring us Artemis. Let's see in the next slide. Let's see what we can make of her. Who is this Artemis? Who is this Artemis?
Yeah, well, first of all, let's go to the next one. That's for the initiations. No, one more.
Yeah, those are all our initiation words. Fantastic. There's Lyssa. Here's the madness, people. Look, look, look, look.
Here's the madness that she brings. Wait, what? Yes, she is the one to be feared. It is her bed that brings fury.
