This is when you start seeing visions and stuff
What do you think that kid was doing sitting there?
Right?
You got to see those visions
You see the system that was around Jesus
And the performance of his mystery
Do you see the system that was functioning
That was operating?
Right?
That kid was there for a reason
And Celsus is screaming at the world
Look, they're no different
They do the same things
They reverence Jesus as they reverence Antinois
Antinois!
What is Hadrian doing with Antinois?
What is Heracles doing with Highless?
Yeah, and what is Jesus doing with the naked boy?
We're building a picture of the actuality
And now, just to finish off
I just want to play this
I want to roll this film clip
One more time, this little clip
And I want you to think about
What period of time you're inhabiting
And I want you to think about
Whether or not time is a river or a cycle
Let's hit it, please
This fight has come to us
And you know what I say?
Bring it on!
No homos will ever be allowed on this church
As long as it's on the pastor here
To let you know that verse one is the truth
The whole truth and nothing but the truth
So help you God when you understand faith
The devil's hoping you don't know who you are
What is the deliverance that Jesus Christ has on you?
In a few years they'll die out
Do you know why they can't reproduce?
Cancer! Cancer! All the pain is gone!
We've prepared, birds prepare, eagles don't prepare
We've said hookah, hookah, hookah, hookah!
Jesus would say to our politicians today
Who are telling us what light bulbs we can and can't use
But they won't say don't murder your children
Someone who was so deeply into paganism as to do this
Was restricted from the privileges and rights of citizenship
But in the nation because they had defiled the image of God
This is how your breathing hell was like
They toppled civilization and issued in dark ages
Now they have the power to destroy everything
Look at where you are in history
Thank you for coming tonight
I will be a few minutes at the discord tonight
To chat with people and throw around for people to throw around ideas
It's a great place to come to throw around your ideas
Yeah, and maybe tonight we'll drop some cells
Maybe not, but please, please
As we go through this material, take it seriously
Because this is the reality that we have now at present
This is our reality
We have to do what's right, guys
We have to defend that space
We have to keep these texts
Have a good week
Hail Satan
We wish you a Merry Christmas
