Yeah. Okay. Hey, watch this, guys. Let's watch and see if Elijah is usually how alias is translated, right?
Let's watch and see what happens. Wait, what? What did that soldier say? Wait, all I got was some dudes that were there cracking some kind of joke or seeing if he will, well, what are they doing?
Well, he's been in and out. He's been saying things and screaming about being thirsty. Yeah. And he's been saying stuff. So he said something that tipped us off.
And what was that thing that he said? Let's go there. Let's go there. Look, everybody back in the ship. We're going back by two minutes.
Okay, good. Get us there, Chewie. Lightspeed. No, next one. There we go. And this is what Jesus is doing at the time. What was that?
Son of God, would you please speak up for me? And Jesus let out this great voice and breathe out his breath for the last. He ex pneumaticized. Yeah, he took out his breath.
This is the way people have a saying to die in antiquity, right? The breath is the life that pneuma. You don't have your pneuma anymore. You don't have life. That's the way it is. Yeah, love it.
Lovely imagery they've got now. But he breathed out his life. Okay, so there he is, people. He's dead. He's dead on the cross. There's a problem. He's early. Nobody else is dead. The two people that he's hanging between, those people aren't dead.
Why? Because this is not how you die from crucifixion. You die from crucifixion by suffocating. Yeah. So when it came time, when it came time, we've got some problems with the guards.
They're telling us Jesus died prematurely. It's now at this point when he breathes out that last air. Okay, two minutes ago, what did he just say? These people were making a joke about him hallucinating. I want to see what was he saying? Take us back.
No, one more. There we go. Yeah. And in the ninth hour, he shouted, you know what? This is not the behavior of somebody who's dying from loss of blood. It's not. He shouted out, Jesus, in this great voice. The guy's got some pipes on him, right?
And he's, he's bellowing out, Eloi, Eloi, Lama Sabakthane. And people say, what is this? This must be Aramaic. This must be Hebrew. This must be the sacred language of the angels.
If you would stop just for a second, those of you who are my students, go ahead and put it back. I'll let you see the words that you get here. I want you to tell you in the Eloi, Eloi, that lambda is oftentimes a representative of a digama, right? You'll get it. The people up the stream, they couldn't pronounce the same way.
So what do we have here? We have Eloi. We have the shout that is given to Bacchus. And what do we have in Sabakthane? We've got two gods. We've got Sabah and we've got Sabah in his Chthonian version, written large. Do you know what this is?
This is the shout of a Bakant who is performing the mystery. Take it down. What is crazy is that he got himself killed while performing the mystery itself. He was supposed to enter into death and then come out in resurrection.
But his boy got clipped and he ended up dazed on a cross, screaming out Bacchic implications to the God. And they go on in that verse. It goes on in that verse and talks about what we interpret this to mean.
Why? Because it wasn't a language. It was a magical expression from the Walk's Magikai, right? The Walk's Magikai, excuse me. The voice says plural. The magic voice is good.
All right. Do you see how we're getting us? Okay, we've got him. We've got him screaming. I'm thirsty. I'm thirsty, right? We've got him. Long story short, he gets poked in the side, right? Because the soldiers come out. Why do they come out to break people's legs? And why? Why are they breaking people's legs? Go ahead and bring out the next Greek.
Yeah, so the soldiers come out, right? They came out. And what happened? They broke, they smashed the legs of the first guy, right? Like they're using some kind of hammer, right? And then what they did? Well, they smashed the legs of the other guy, the ones that were crucified with him.
Okay, so you've got to see, this is all because people didn't want the view for the holiday that was coming up to be a bunch of dudes on crosses. Who wants that when grandma comes with all of her presents? I don't, right? So what did they do? They took, they took down Jesus, right?
That's what the text tells us. And how are they going to take him down? Well, he's got to be dead, right? Just finish the execution. You know how the Romans finish a crucifixion? Jesus, hold your ears. This might be painful. I'm not talking Mel Gibson painful, right?
I'm not talking three hours of the most delightful, gruesome, sadistic stuff that I've ever seen invented. I mean, this, Mel Gibson and the Marquis de Sade are right in the same place. Those guys, those guys would get along. You know what I mean? Same level. You and me, Mel. You and me. Yeah. De Sade. It's amazing.
So let's get back to the actual crucifixion. Jesus, close your ears. So they get to Jesus. And of course, as we just saw, he's already dead. He's already dead. And that's when one of the guys yells out, yeah, he was a son of God. Do you know why? You can follow the fairy tale and you will.
Behold, the son of God.
Right? That's the fairy tale. The other side is the sons of God, like the baptize were a group of people associated with a drug and sex ritual. Fantastic.
Sons of God, you know what they did? Yeah. Yeah, they got together with the ladies, the ladies, like Mary Magdalene. Did you guys know the sons of God? They didn't know the sons of God. I can't believe this. I can't believe this. They were with Mary and her crew, right? Jesus is always hanging around with what group?
He's not hanging around with wealthy. He's not hanging around with the business people. No, he's hanging around with prostitutes and the accountants. Yeah, fantastic. Okay, so within those circles, he's able to do the right so much so that he gets himself caught.
