The channel and who are helping to keep it from
Turning into some kind of you know, it's chaotic mess. Oh, thank you. I appreciate your
You're going for it. Hell Satan ride ride. I was beautiful. Thanks doc. Oh, look at that. Who said that? That's
Oh stoic
So I like stoics. I do I do. I love stoic Seneca, man
You got to read the media. Did you read the media? You want to learn stoic philosophy?
Read the media, baby. Oh god. It's so sexy. He's got actual incantations. How does Seneca get those?
Well, he's got access to the Etruscan stuff that's in the imperial libraries
Oh god
Information right at the top. Love it
Love the strong women people need to see this reality. Yeah
Yeah, boston make it happen boston people do need to see it
They need to see it. They need to see everything down to down to the details
Just down to everything stuff that will certainly get you thrown out of any victorian circle
Yes, love it. Love it. Let's keep it going
Lad, doesn't Athena spring forth from the head of Zeus?
It seems like political action and either direction will ultimately be funneled and guided by her. How else
Will the had be split will the head be split?
Yeah, remember, you know, that's a good who was that?
It's vox
Okay vox. Thank you very much. That's the voice. Um, thank you very much
Hephaestus, right? Don't you want to swing that axe?
How do you get Athena? You got a cracks? You got a crack
Jehovah's head open
Isn't that amazing?
Is that what we need to do? We need to crack who is gonna look this is satanic initiation
You know, um, this is satanic
apocalypse
Certainly we have to have a commission somewhere
Somebody look it up one of our lawyers. Check the paperwork. Um, shouldn't we have the obligation of killing God?
Isn't that
Isn't that something we should be doing? Well one way that I've seen that's super cool
Is by splitting open his head
Splitting open his head who takes the aegis?
Athena does
Right, that's supposed to be Zeus's
Yeah, yeah, but Athena takes it
Oh god, is she getting more more and more just
Desirable, I love this. I love this. Um, that splitting open of the head by the way
Splitting open the head, you know that means something
right, so
Uh, let's just let's just all swim in the quantum physics of that
Yeah, right good party on right good
Keep going wait. Let me show
Um, yeah, no no
Wait Carl the idea that you are a wait the trolls is this trollery? It's
Wait, is there trollery? Okay. Um
Yeah, okay
Oh, look, we don't yeah
Um imagine imagine go ahead and take it down
Since people want to discuss and people are free here to discuss
Yeah
Um, I saw some misogyny the other day now. I don't know
I don't know about you, but as soon as somebody gets
misogynistic
Everything else they say becomes garbled. I can't hear it. It becomes like brrr brrr brrr
What kind of barbarian if you know what I mean in the civilized world
Um
The female voice
Is that voice that gave us
Our institutions the great mother, baby. Who who does not worship the great mother?
All right, come on
Athena's the virgin mother. She's the sotae and I before anybody else is she's giving that kid her own ecore
Oh god, wonderful
Love it. It's how I mean Olympus wouldn't be Olympus without it the cosmos the organization. It doesn't work
Unless she's there
Oh god, you better hope that she's here now. You better hope she is
Oh, let's go to that. Let me let me pick calm down people calm down
Look at it. Look, we got a mosh pit out there. Boom. Boom. All right, right one of the people saying
Hail Mary. Hey good. Good. It's somebody's playing a game. Don't let me get it. Oh, no
Oh, no, um, let's give Carl a chance. He let him come back sexism. He says
Sexism only women can do. Oh god. Do you what have we done? It's a hornet's nest
What can we have some order order jury?
Order um, I love it. Look at you guys you debating and
Yeah, doing doing the stuff. I love it. Can we all I wish everybody was so excited
About this almond should debate
Carl no Carl um, I'm not or no who said that he said
Yeah, oh a cult examiner. No a cult examiner. I'm not here to debate Carl right
I'm not here. I'm a lot. I'm here to give
Everybody in the satanic congregation the access to the tax and I've already done it
Right. Um, Carl can say whatever Carl wants and thanks whatever he wants
Right. Um, remember from the beginning
That we have welcomed. I I love it. Carl. Send me something that tells me I'm going to hell or something. I don't know
um
Bring bring yourself to the place of doing what you really want to do
Communication wise. Um, this is a place. It's an open forum for people to be able right satanic congregations should be open
You should be able to come here. The only thing you cannot do here is say jack
If you're saying jack and trying to blow hot air
Um, you're in the wrong place, right? They don't serve that here
This is synthomasque, baby. Love it. Let's go back. Let's go back. Is that are we good? Okay?
Let's go. Chewie says hey flight's over. Um, thank you very much for coming tonight. I'm going to play
um
Teddy base again
On this exit and I want you to love it. I want you to love it. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail satan
Oh
You can see the function of the mystery it's in the oil from India the sorceress
All drugs are always purple. Take a trip a cave in the desert. You'll take care of it
By the command of my voice pull out the dope
Punk funk with the tippy top
I can get you all the water in life. You'll be
