Yeah, all right, one, two, one, two, all night, hell Satan, toxin on the arrow, all the dreams, washing the feet with cloth underwear, peddling his horn on wheels, counter toxins with healing waters, welcome to the slaughter, hell Satan, we're selling the bricks of lies, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the
wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling
the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires,
The Apostles were a bunch of confused children.
The Prince of Darkness will ain't cup full of violet,
vagina juice.
Out to you by Teddy Bass.
Oh, God.
I am so head over heels over this sound.
Oh, God, I just want to play it all the time.
Welcome to Lady Babylon.
I am so glad to have you back in the workshop tonight.
I've got some stuff to bring you.
That's fantastic.
But I want you to be seated on that throne.
I want you.
Listen, I had an interview this morning.
It was yummy.
But nothing, nothing is as yummy as Satanic congregation.
And I say that to you.
I look at you sitting there standing there.
I see you.
And it makes me feel at home.
It makes me feel at home.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much for being involved.
And I'm going to let you speak tonight from the gallery.
Love it.
But look, we got some serious stuff to discuss tonight.
Now, I do have an interview coming up with a guy named Mark at my family.
Thanks.
I'm crazy.
Fantastic.
So as soon as that comes out, I'll let you know.
I'll let you know.
I'm giving it to him, people.
I'm giving it to him.
And they love it.
They love it.
It's so.
Wow.
You know what I'm here to do.
By the way, shout out.
Shout out to Mark tonight, who's going to be in our presence.
Welcome to the Satanic congregation.
People, welcome.
This is fantastic.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Let's do this thing.
What do I have for you tonight?
What we're going to do is the dirty, dirty stuff you're always asking me for.
You're always coming to me, coming, dating my brain.
We're going to take that little bit, that little wrinkle in space time.
We're going to just gently, gently, don't overdo this.
Just gently.
We're going to pull it to the side and look.
We're going to see.
We're going to gaze right through that little fold in reality.
Boom.
To see through the event horizon.
That's where we're going.
This is fantastic.
Democracy.
Democracy.
I heard someone this week in some popular YouTube bonanza.
It was an interview, a debate, and the people were debating.
And this one gentleman, this one gentleman said Christianity created democracy.
Christianity is responsible for democracy.
Turn your scientific clocks 180 degrees because Christianity has historically been the degrading
force of democracy.
It is like an antidote to a venom.
When you embrace tyranny and become the servant of the savior, you kill the drive of democracy.
I don't want to give you any ideas.
I don't want to do that.
I'm not going to talk about Christianity tonight.
I will because you know me.
But our focus is on what was the, what did democracy really come from?
Because there are many of you out there who may buy in to this educational approach to warping
reality and think that Christianity was somehow involved in the birth of democracy.
No, no, no, no, just the opposite.
Just the opposite.
Yes.
Okay.
What about the actual birth?
Let's go to her tonight.
Let's go to her.
Do we have, Chewie, do we have a depiction of what our AI powers that be, what they project this?
Show me the girl.
Yes.
Show me.
Who is this person?
Who is this person?
Give me another one, please.
Who is she?
She looks young.
She does.
She does.
It is she who produced democracy.
That's who I'm going to, I'm going to bring you tonight.
And at the end, by the way, at the end, I've got a really goody, a gym.
You're not going to find this anywhere else.
This is a gym part of a secret name of the person that birthed democracy.
Are you ready?
This is centuries, centuries before Jesus, right?
This is centuries before Yahoo was invented.
