Yes, of course they do. I'm sorry. You didn't see it the version of history that you saw was disney
I'm sorry
But there it is keep going. This is what they're wearing. Let's love love that. Who is that chewy?
Oh, is that medea?
Fantastic. I love that. Oh
I love that expression. Let's go to the next one. Look at this hold us
Hold us. What is the chorus of fury say my tip? Look at the Dorian
You guys relish this in Greek relish the Dorian and how it sounds different from the attic
Wait, what they are addressing night
with a capital in
Okay, we just set ourselves
right remember
Remember that night is that oracle
Right, the Irenia ways are serving the oracle the furies that are casting your
Present that are weaving your present because the future is the grace told us but we all ignored
It's not achievable
That's what defines the future. That's what is the future. It's that which will never come to pass
Yes
In the now is the weaving of your fate
It's where the sisters have power
Go back to that text, please and what do they say mother?
Right, they're crying out to nicks
Right, hear us
Why are they crying out because they've been wronged?
Let them all whether they're blind or whether they're seers
Let them all know
Give us the next one
Over the sacrifice
This is our song
Do you know what their song is the song of the Irenia ways? Are you ready when you hear this remember?
after the trial
We only achieved justice because Athena was able to
Take the Irenia ways and permanently established them as divinities in Athens
Huh permanently established them. Isn't that nice?
If you will recognize
Their
justice
Your city flourish
She understood that
And that offer was enough to appease them because of course what god does not want to be recognized
Yeah
Love it. Let's go to the next one. Well, we're burning it up. We're almost done people. We're almost out
This is the coming around the bin. Um, so on this this is their song. What do they say their song is their song is paracopa
It's insanity. It's frenzy
It's para fora, you know para fora. That's when you're taken out of your mind
It's freno dales
It is destructive
of the flame
Oh, you mean in order to be healed you have to be destroyed
Lias will tell you that yeah
Right that invisible one. It's not we're not talking about him wait
This is the hymn of the iranuez says the text. It is the desmios frenon
It is that which binds your frame
Your midriff your gut from which you think
You're thanking feeling gut
It binds it
Oh god
Not to any music either. It's a shout
to mortals
Get the next one. Can you hear it? Can you hear the shout if you can?
Um, we know that mars is coming
fantastic
Oh, love it. Love it. Love it
So are these are these humans ever going to find their way? Are they going to find that beautiful speech?
Yeah, let me tell you something says athena
From translating from these fearful women
From their faces
Do you know what she says there is something great?
There is a great advantage to you
citizens
from their faces
You know and
Tell us keep going
if she says if you
Will be well-minded
You will honor them always
And establish a city
That follows justice
That's how you practice
From that from the establishment of those courts
from the establishment of that cult of justice
You mean court was originally a cult? Yeah
Yeah, it didn't they didn't build a ziggurat next to it build the courthouse the secular courthouse
They didn't do that
You know, what about on the other side?
What about maybe there's some
No, no, it's temples
Temples to justice
If you don't consider justice, holy and that this is the question
This is the present of the future and the past brought together
If you don't
hold justice
in regard
If you excuse it
when justice is overlooked
You will lose your democracy when you stop looking into the faces
of those demons
that punish
the blood of murder
if you stop
You're in a bad place
You're in a bad place. You're gonna lose it. I've got one more passage for you tonight and then one word. That's the treat
It's the
It's the treat that you've been I've been tempting you with until the end. Um, or estes. What's he say?
Um, this is at the end of his trial. He says oh palace
He uses her he uses her title, right?
