There's lots to discuss
But I can't I can't I can't define them all as we can do is look at the sources and where we're getting
These drugs from because these drugs are from the ancient world. We need to look at the ancient sources
That's what you're doing and I love it
I can't I can't I can't say any any more than that. I haven't got any profound
comment on
How the how they work or I want to investigate it. That's where my standpoint is on that question
I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer that question
Fantastic fantastic. So that's nice. Look you've shown where the draw is right? You came here the
For the drugs in the first place. You wanted to see the history. You wanted to you know, you wanted the reality
Totally respectable. Okay. I have a question for everybody and then I'm just going to let people throughout what they want
um
Snappy and I were talking a little bit earlier about the
The connection, you know
Neil mentioned it very very nicely
With his little episode with alexander. That was a nice cut into this but we have this thing between east and west
Right and it seems to follow like a pattern of
The transmission of knowledge and of drugs
Right
Can you tell us something about just mentioned? I know it's not everybody's area of expertise, right?
I just want to you know discuss. How about some gypsies perhaps snappy
Yeah, right. So one thing like and when anamon and I were talking earlier
We were going over like I'm going to be doing an episode
My podcast with deon where we were going to be breaking down the tire mystery which is connected to
Hercules and is connected to the cult of mary salami and to the Phoenicians and
Eventually it winds up making its way to
alexandria
And it makes its way eventually to spain what's interesting about all of this is you also have
The gypsies following a very or the roma people also following a very similar kind of trajectory
so the story goes and some archaeological evidence to support this as well is that
Most of the roma people are employed
By alexandria the great and are brought to alexandria to be musicians and then later on
There's a diaspora and they're forced out of alexandria and they wind up making their way to spain
and all of this becomes really significant because we also have
Uh, the labors of hercules which talk about cadiz and the pillars and they recently just found a temple to hercules
In 2022, you know, so and it goes right back to what you were saying with that with the castle magic as well
like
There's so much of a deep connection here
And there's all of this thing with the trade routes and the the the sterian purple and how it
Makes its way across the Mediterranean basically
Yeah, it's there's something about that die cartel. You know what I mean? It's transmitting along with it
Um, this kind of spirit this bachic spirit with it. Yes. Um, I see
Neil is waving his drugs in the air
Fantastic
The the group because they talk about the root cutters and the sources. It's all root cutters. But the uh, sir sir
just happens to be
That the the plant in South America and in Tibet that has the highest
Numb percentage of DMT content also produces a red blood red dye
It makes you wonder was this this is another species of the same thing that these sources are writing about they describe it to a tea
Roots cut that produce dye and psychedelic experiences
It's too it's it's identical
Now neil explain to explain them, uh, the audience, please
Um, you're talking about the acacia root, which is what you're what you're what which is perfectly legal people. So
So you're talking about kind of a complex
Um, but doable chemistry there. Um, uh, fantastic and all right
What do you think then of the dyers, you know, we kind of these descriptions of the
Phoenician eyes and the mouth being dyed right like they're exposing themselves to it. Yeah
And oh doesn't the experience
Is not i'm not just talking about when you went to a party you took you took a couple of its mushrooms
And the room looked cool and there were some the walls are breathing. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about
Literally being in another dimension
I'm not saying that figuratively
You literally go somewhere else and you literally will speak to something
I don't know if you want to call it a god. You want to call it. It's something else
That literally will happen. I don't care what you believe in that could happen. It's fact
So neil, how does that how do we integrate that into medicine then because that's where
The um science is going. How do you bring this all down into?
You know the therapeutic world
Can can we resurrect these rights because these are ancient healing rights
Can we resurrect these rights? Is there you know, should we be
Looking into how to do this as far as I know it's been healing people's depression long term
As far as I know, I've haven't heard of any any downsides at all yet
As far as I'm talking like in controlled settings and and people doing it not not just going crazy and doing there
People doing this for real and being serious and being appropriate with it as far as I know
People when that's been down the right way, it's been 100 right. Perfect. There's been nothing
No overdoses enough just people being healed
depression
You know mental health issues stuff all all types of wide ranging things even people becoming more alert and more
Enlightened as a result changing like life changing stuff
Okay, so here's my question based on that. Here's my question for everybody and we'll finish with this
um
Watching Elvis and watching that spell
That takes place if we were to combine here's my question. Can we combine?
sexuality
with psychedelic drug use
to achieve healing
Yeah, and just real quick. I know I keep talking but
You the sexuality part is important because it's not just about taking the substance. It's about
Playing the part it's about the music. It's about the atmosphere. It's about meditation
It's about how you enter the state
So you the drug doesn't do all the work for you. You do have to work
By getting into that state
so yes
Yeah, I was just gonna basically go go along those lines. What's key here is the image, right?
