One of the most important things like you can't just be having the drugs without the image itself
It's the image that we're trying to invoke that it's going to take us through the right
And if you look at the rights, there's all this procession, right? It's not enough to simply die
You have to die and be reborn
And then you have to invoke that image that everyone sees, right? Like this is the key here
And what I also want to highlight is just that we see a lot of these kind of mysteries surviving and healing people in our modern day
Like we can look at ayahuasca. We can look at ibogaine and while they're different and they're not the same
There is a there is a healing aspect that has survived and there is a transformative kind of death and rebirth
That happens that these people go through there is a communication with the ancestors
It's a similar kind of process
And I think like the more we learn to understand these drugs and approach this scientifically
We can try to recreate that and understand what this experience even really truly is
Nice nice rob you've got the last response. We're talking drugs cult and sex. It's all yours
Oh, that's a good book
There are the the eyes and the mouth for you. Yeah, um
What what what
What can you what what what can you do with with this? What what what are the possibilities?
I'm on that. That's I I've got a question not not a response. I've got a question. What are the possibilities?
I'm resurrecting this right
Because there's no doubt. There's no doubt. We're getting um
positive responses with psychedelic treatments. There's no doubt especially in
PST
post-traumatic stress
Right, we definitely get an end of life. There's terrific results. There isn't a complete across the board
success
There is there are other aspects to it, which I'm not going to go into but
this
What we discuss and the mystery and and the rights in the mystery is is is like a ladder
There's there's ladders that you climb. There's like um, so you go
The ala ala senior mysteries you'll go and perform those rights and the very
The very organized and the kind of guaranteed to have this mystical experience
You kind of guaranteed to go there and
Nobody ever complained. Don't put it that way and everybody liked going. Um
But that's not exactly the cave of trothonius
There's there's different places that you'll go to and there's different levels and different experiences
From what I can gather. I'm I'm not sure that it's just one
Simple method. I think you've got like you've got different psychedelics at play. You've got different
You've got lsd's lsa's
You've got psilocybin. You've got dmt
You you've got different drugs that are being formulated in an ancient setting in an ancient world
Now that can't you can't arrive at that with the modern chemistry that we've got
I can't get there with with the modern chemistry we've got
I'm trying we're trying to get there and we we need some serious assistance
We need bio biochemical assistance to resurrect this right
That's what we require and that's where we need to go into and get
Kind of some professional advice from somebody in these fields
That we need to go into, you know, you're not going to get there unless you you're getting this help from somebody out there
We need we need this help in my opinion. It's a very interesting
scenario because
The mystery that we discuss that we are discussing
The the mystery that gaelan's describing the mystery that might is going on in getsemmony
these these these rights what we are talking about
um
Are rather different to the allicinium mysteries
They're under the mysteries
but
I think the separate ones I think
Dianisis represents
A different type of mystery with with bromeos
I think that word means a heck of a lot and I'd like to
Investigate that I'd like to go into it which brings me to an announcement of a discord
um, I'm going to be as quick as I can but
The discord if you find the discord
Then you might be on the discord. I'm going to leave it at that what I'm going to say is it took me a while there
two years ago
I saw the sacred speaks podcast so
I try and
I spent three days in frantic research
I arrived at a boy called talus foros
And I wanted to contact him on
And it was uncontactable. You couldn't get old of him. He was virtually impossible. There was no web search
There was nowhere you could go to find him and I had to find him and I found him and I'm here today
And I'd suggest and I hope
Anybody who wants to get to the discord is either there already or knows the way
And and I'm going to leave it at that with the discord
I don't want to cause any controversy with it. It's an investigation into what these
episodes produce
I'll leave it at that. Thank you
fantastic, so rob
snappy and neil three
obvious cultists who want to be
Resurrecting ancient rites. I'm speaking to you evangelicals now. You see what a service I'm doing
Because this movement is being reborn
Right, it's being reborn. There is a time when the dragon
is released
Yes, love it. You guys
fantastic
Beautiful comments. Thank you so much for taking your time to join me
And to contribute and until next time hail Satan
