investigators and it's sad because they're all involved in like major slaughtering of
people.
It's one guy was like 900 whole group of women and children.
The last time I'd seen women and children destroyed in groups like that was when King
David did it.
Yeah.
I was, yeah.
Slaughter.
Why did he slaughter women and children in both cases?
They did it for the same reason.
To please the Lord.
Yeah.
To please the Lord.
Look at the one you serve.
Look.
Look at him.
If you're not sure yet, if you haven't broken through to reality, look at your God.
Look at him.
Yeah.
Look at the people and why they serve that God.
Oh, sacrifice.
There's usually the ones doing the very thing that they're broadcasting.
Right?
Yes.
They're usually the one committing the children to slaughter with the signs that say save the
children.
It's the same group.
Yes.
We walk among humans to observe these things.
We're the watchers.
Right.
The sons of God.
Yeah.
It's got to be Victoria's secret.
If you can show up in that kit with your hair done well and you know I'm talking about you.
Yeah.
That's the phase that you must enter or you're not legitimate.
It's not the son of God that we're talking about.
Yeah.
10th and then 11th when they have been.
This is just so when they show up, they can they can know that you've been completely informed.
I'm just doing what a good attorney does.
11th when they have been so marked, they make many vows as never to adore the Eucharist that
they will both and word indeed, he continual insults and revilings upon the blessed Virgin Mary.
It's the 11th.
Okay.
That they will trample upon and defile and break all the relics and images of the saints
and of everything associated with the kingdom of the pedophile.
That is our blasphemy.
We bring them the truth.
We bring them the reality.
We show them, show them the blood that you drink.
Guess where that comes from?
The money that you take to the charities.
Do you know where those goes to?
They go to men whom the less children.
Yes, they do.
And that is what you prop up.
Look.
Look at the lies that you support.
I'm speaking to allow Lady Babylon.
To feel comfortable.
Remember, the temple is a trap.
It's a place to open up.
Avoid in which a divinity is absorbed.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think your time is done because yes, look, I'm going over.
I'm going over.
So we have to, we have to mosey on what I'd like to do is now pull up for you.
I'd like to pull up a couple of Greek texts for you.
And I'm going to bring the first one up.
Julie.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
And right away, the spirit.
Compelled him.
Ejected him.
What is going on?
We're with Jesus right after he meets with John and all John's boys out in the baptizing wilderness.
That's where we are.
Oh, and he sees that spirit and that spirit compels him into the air a month.
Into that place of solitude.
