Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that whore called Destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Thank you for coming in tonight. You are in for such a treat.
I want to start us off by saying we're going to talk tonight to the issue of the coming of Cersei.
That's right. I have brought to you tonight Cersei herself right into the man pig pen.
This is wonderful and she will keep the flow going.
I've given her full permission to follow both the way of Sodom to employ the Alabastrian where need be.
Those of you with ears to hear know what I'm talking about.
This is great. I'll introduce that in a second.
But before we get started, let's be brainwashed for a second.
Real.
Thanks for coming tonight. This is going to be outstanding.
We've got to pack everything into our 30 minute attention span.
Here we go.
I want to first introduce you to Cersei who will be joining us now on the chat.
She is there specifically to inspire the men pigs.
She is there with her wand. She will drug you. She will put you under. She will beat you.
You are a beast and sometimes she will walk among your ranks and she will pick one of you out.
People will descend on you and you will be made into a meal.
It's fantastic. It's very Bacchic.
Yes. So welcome tonight Cersei.
Please let the fun commence.
Tonight I've had a lot of people asking me about magic who want to learn the magic.
In order for us to get there with the Bible studies, we follow Jesus right at the crack opening of his ministry.
Right when his magic hits skyrockets, we follow him tonight.
On the way there, we will stop.
I just want for us to jump out of the time machine for a minute.
It's just right around the corner. It's not that far away.
I'm talking 17th century, early 17th century witch hunting.
Witch hunting. And remember when we talk about witch hunting, we're talking about people killing other people.
So this is good real history here.
We're not talking dress up here. I don't want anybody with black lipstick.
There's no reason for that unless the fashion dictates.
Anyway, we'll stop off there just briefly.
So that's what I want to do. Let's jump right into the text.
And we're talking about the devil's pact.
The devil's pact.
So let us commence.
Guazo, come over here. Yeah, get Frank, get over here.
This is, oh, pulling it right out. Guazo, tell us what's going on.
Well, as the men of old associated witches with marvelous deeds, sir,
John of Salisbury says that when God permits witches can with the help of demons,
shake the elements together and alter the true appearance of things.
This is quantum magic. This is not fairy tale magic. This is quantum magic.
They can foretell much of the future.
Can anybody smell where we're going? This is fantastic.
They confuse the mind of men with dreams.
Oh, and by the way, these witches aren't all female, as he's about to say.
These are men that we might call a mage.
Yeah. Okay. Yes.
And nearly by the potency of their charms, drugs can cause death, et cetera.
Saxo grammaticus. Isn't that a nice name?
Saxo. Saxo. Yeah.
Saxgram as we call them writes the giants and sorcery in the north practiced unheard of wonders with various illusions.
Yeah, what kind of illusions and could so skillfully deceive men's eyes that they hid their own features and those of others on the various phantasms.
You have just stepped into the fagress.
This is not medieval magic.
This is ancient magic.
Yeah, ancient quantum physics, the manipulation of thought, the visibility, the rearrangement in order to create.
Okay. Here's where we are. We're landing here.
Okay. Can you just tell us a couple more things here? Yeah.
And they obscure the true shape of things. Yeah.
They did other marvels of those, which we have already told of Simon Magus.
Thanks. Thanks. Okay. Yeah, I get it. I see where we're going.
Pythagoras made his thigh appear to be golden.
Why would he do that?
And by his spells tamed an eagle with which he often conversed. Oh, yes, of course.
Right. He's one of those that talks with the eagle.
Fantastic.
Yeah. Okay. So here's what I would like you to do.
Mr. Witch Hunter, could you please tell me?
What is this thing that we call the pact with the devil?
What? What? Where is it?
It's because I think it's with Jesus.
I think so. Tell us.
The packs formed between a witch and the devil may be either expressed or tacit.
The expressed packed. And by the way, for those of you in a legal language department, watch, keep an eye on this.
The expressed packed consists of a solemn vow of fidelity and homage made fidelity and homage.
Yes, proskinesis bending the knee.
Yeah. Okay.
