What's to think about and exquisite language. The re-reading is amazing, which I appreciate
because you've missed things in the first reading, the second reading you go back, the third reading,
the fourth reading, and there's so much depth to these texts that you can kick a busy grouse,
kick me busy grouse, and I appreciate what Nancy's doing. She's engaging with the texts,
recognition. She's following the way, she's following the way, and she's using necromantic
techniques to do so. She is raising the dead in honoring the muse. Yeah, yeah, this is
I do want one more time to bring up, can you bring up the name of the dragon for the people?
This will be the last thing that I throw in, but for the people who can't really visualize
the dragon because your mind is stuck in Tolkien and you're thinking dragons from Tolkien, right?
Who by the way is a thief, but you know many of the best authors are. So you're thinking this dragon.
I want you to see this is not, this is not that dragon. This is an individual and what you have
on the screen in front of you or what are called the Orphic Gramatha. These are the Orphic writings
or the Orphic letters and our text tells us that this is the name. This is what the dragon is
called. If you could translate this, you would be able to possess. If you could translate this,
you would have the image that is in the name and with the image of the name, you would be able
to possess the power of the dragon. Isn't that cool? That's one of the coolest things I've ever seen,
right out of antiquity people, right out of antiquity. Do the scholars at Harvard do this stuff?
No, they don't. Do they do the medicine? No, they don't. Right, the safe?
This time I'm not on mute, you know what? It's lacking strength at the end, hasn't it?
I'm going to the chat. I can see next in the chat. I'm up next.
I'm not made for YouTube. I'm not made for standing in like this.
Other people are really good at it. Amen's really good at it. Thank you.
All right, guys. All right, guys, I'm holding you and I'm not respecting you to keep holding you.
I appreciate everyone and I'm next satanic initiation. I'm considering you've asked me,
people have asked me to show them a magical operation or to bring it to an accessible point.
It's the same thing. Keep the question about the asking if I will do the sortase
in front of you visibly so that you can see it and experience it and what it is.
Can we communicate with these sources? Can we create a template where the muse is able to function?
I will ask the muse. I will ask the muse if she wouldn't mind.
Rob, I thank you for joining and to everybody out there. I thank you for your time.
I'd like to thank the gallery. Thanks for your comments. Thanks for your questions.
They're very much appreciated. I need them. They're going to be my bread.
Please send them and I'll get them up and try and address them in the best way possible.
The best format possible. Let me know what you think, what you think about what you think
about what's gone tonight and I'll try and improve. I've really enjoyed everything tonight.
And with that, we say Hail Satan. Yep, Hail Satan. Goodnight.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru
