reading that and listening to an audio group and when I went to the last man audio group,
I was receiving more mystery information than I was in a text book that's out there to reveal
mystery terminology. It was just quite astonishing how much information Mary Shelley
gives in that novel. Because you're devoted, that's perfect, perfect wrap up. Because you're
devoted to the muse. Do you see what he did? Do you see what the Satanist did? Oh, congregation.
Do you see the Satanist with his shaved head? Do you see what he did? He worships the muse
and follows her and she explains to and shows him a reality that allows him to be awake.
He's able to understand in a way that he normally isn't. Can we bring up, Rob, just because you said that
and just because the commenter, Nick, said about the pedophilia. Can we get away from the pedophilia?
Just because he said that. Can we end with the devil and pedophilia? Is that okay? Let's go.
Where are we going to go in this text? I'm going to bring it up to you. It is. Oh, you're going to love this.
It is. I only remembered it, Rob, because you brought up knownness and nobody ever talks about
knownness, right? It's these two lines, please, the upo lines. Thank you, Chewie. I wouldn't be able to
do this without you. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Look at these lines and Rob, this is taken right out of
the heart of the Bacchic Satanism, the Bacchic Satanian age.
There's our word for star. Isn't that nice? Aster at the end of that line.
U po emos stelag iddyn eos fhoros. Nice. That's the end of this sentence.
So, not yet. What is this translated into? Not yet has my star arrived or been drawn
on having bathed in the outpouring, having bathed, having been bathed in those waters.
Not yet has ios fhoros stelag iddyn. Not yet has the bringer of dawn shown his holy light.
Yeah. Isn't that nice? This is directly, you can remove it now. This is directly, and why do I say
there's pedophilia? This is the derivation of ios fhoros from the waters in the book of the
Apocalypse and the Revelation. You will all be familiar with, because then, well, maybe not everybody,
but a lot of people will be familiar with the dragon's use of the waters and what that means. Now,
if you go back and look at it in the book of the Apocalypse, now it will suddenly start to make sense.
I am profaning for you this mystery so that you can make sense of it. Not yet has the morning star
been drawn from the waters. What is that holy line that is penetrating our hexametric
oracular wisdom? Oh, isn't that nice? Where's the connection with the pedophilia? This is in a section
that has to do with the boy lover of Apollo, the sun god. Remember, we're in the astral religion now
with the Saturnian cult. This is the sun god we're talking about, and of course, if we're going to
talk about dawn, dawn is the culmination of the entire cycle. It is everything that the great
mother represents. Are you kidding me? You mean Lucifer represents the, is the bringer of the great
mother? Yes. Yes, the bringer of dawn. Oh, it's simply great. Where was that exit from?
Oh, that was book 11. That was book 11 of notice in his Dionysiaca, which is the war,
like the one we had tonight when Dionysus went over to India and fought the gods of India
and brought them drunkenness and ecstasy, and you'll say, oh, that's the soma plant. What about the
soma? Right, right, jump in there, dive around, get into that cult stuff. Right, who's going to,
is anybody going to read the antidotes? Yeah, we need to do it. Okay, I think we've had,
I can't waste more than, much more than an hour of people's time. I don't want to.
Can I give a quick shout out to Nancy Devine. She's reading Byron, loving Byron. Please,
what does Nancy say? What does Nancy say? I've got to read more Byron. Re-read is what I mean.
