They go to, they go in their incubation.
They go and they go into a coma.
They're, they're prescribed by the gods to resort to their and live in the village near the cave among the experienced priest who on their behalf sleep in the cave and through dreams prescribe the cures.
This is mind blowing.
This is ancient medicine practice, man.
This is amazing.
These are also the men who invoke the healing power of the gods and they often bring the sick into the cave and leave them there to remain in quiet like animals in their lurking holes without food for many days.
And sometimes the sick give heed also to their own dreams.
But they, but still they use those other men as priests to initiate them into the mysteries.
What?
They're getting initiated into the mysteries here too.
And to counsel them to all others, the places forbidden and deadly.
A festival is celebrated every year at Akeraka.
And at that time in particular, those who celebrate the festival can see and hear concerning all these things.
And the festival too about noon.
The boys and young men at the gymnasium, nude and Christ said, I'm using the Greek Christ said with oil.
Take up a bowl with a haste, carry him into the cave.
And when let loose, the bowl goes forward on a short distance falls and breathes out his life.
There you go.
That's, that's the city of Nisa where Dionysus was born.
And that is where these, these pre-socratics came from to Italy to set up these temples of the music.
They did it.
They copied it exactly how they saw it over there.
This is where the source of that from.
Brilliant.
Brilliant.
Nice.
Look at that everybody.
One source there.
Pow.
That is more biblical history and context than you have ever gotten in your entire life from any priest or any preacher anywhere.
Beautiful.
Beautiful.
I love it, Gnostic.
I love it.
Tell me something really quick.
What are you working on?
And what's, what's the latest thing?
I just want, we've got you here and I like your art.
I dig your art, man.
What are you doing?
Tomorrow, the video that you and I were working on together will be finished.
Medea.
Okay.
And what else do you, what's your latest?
I'm just curious.
What's your latest?
Truscans coming next.
Truscans.
Fantastic.
Are you going to tell us?
This is going to be a good one.
Yeah.
Are you going to tell us some crazy stuff?
Medea.
Medea is in the, she's part of the story of ancient Italy.
Yeah.
Can you imagine that?
Medea is in Italy before any, before any of these, you know, Roman senators even thought about.
Like Medea, that's, she's there first.
Yeah.
I, you know, you wonder why Julius Caesar went to the temple of Venus Gnetrix, Venus the
mother, the producer of our people.
And he hangs up a portrait of Medea by some famous Greek guy.
I don't remember who it was, but yeah, famous portrait of Medea.
Love it.
They've got her name is, and people don't realize, Neil, think about this.
Um, you and I have talked about this, but she is famous all the way from Babylon to Northern
Italy, how in the late Bronze Age, with their technology, with their technology, how is this
technology?
How is it that one person can have such a broad power base and they end up in Athens and they
end up in the kingdom of Corinth?
Yeah.
Oh my God.
The entire, entire peoples will give you an example.
The Arians, they were called the Arians.
They changed their name to the Medes to be named after her.
So when I think of this, when you think of like, worldly famous people, you know, Alexander
the Great, Julius Caesar, uh, Genghis Khan, you know, whatever, there's a lot of them.
She was the first.
She was the first world famous queen before any, but before Caesar, before Alexander the
Great was Medea.
Everyone knew, whether from coast to coast, everyone knew who Medea was.
Yeah.
She's the, exactly.
She is the inspiration for the earliest Greek literature.
We know our sources tell us before the Homeric epics, there were epics about Medea.
It's amazing, but people think the most powerful human ever is a man.
They're going to pick some dictator from the 20th century or something.
No, no, no.
Medea created an empire of the mind that guided all of history.
That's, you realize it's her mystery.
You Christians who are, who are, who are celebrating a mystery, it's hers originally.
Yeah.
Oh God, I love it.
And last thing I was going to say, just to highlight how, how famous she was in Athens
in the fourth century, fifth century BCE, there's people writing plays about her still
600 years later.
And this is geographic wise.
This is a whole, this is a three seas away, the Mediterranean, the black sea.
This is two, three seas away.
So why are people all the way on this side of the, of the, in this, in this area, writing
plays about a queen who lived all the way over here 600 years ago.
That tells you something that's never been done anywhere else.
You can't, you can't, you can't like match that up with another example of someone else.
You can't.
I love it.
I love it, Neil.
I love it.
This is so, for those of you who want to buy this, you can't.
But this is in the sources and as you can see what we have just done is just straight
from the sources.
We got no arguments.
We got no scholars here going, Oh, I've got to keep my reputation.
Right.
You, those people can, as my good friend Cyrus said, you can sit and spin.
You know what I mean?
Neil, thanks for coming tonight.
I'll give you the last comment.
The sources, like you said, you can, we live in a time right now where you don't have to
get on a voyage and do a boat that you might sink in and just try to travel to Alexandria
and then maybe if you can read that you'll be able to like try to read some different
language.
No, we live in a time now where almost everything's translated and it's all on the internet.
You can go, you can look it up.
Get the knowledge.
There's no, like, you don't, you don't, there's no, you don't have to go to college.
I mean, you could.
Great.
I'm not saying if I'm wrong with that, but like you can, this stuff is like right at
your fingertips and it's beautiful.
It's a beautiful ancient world.
I love it.
Beautifully stated and with that we'll end.
We'll see you guys on Friday.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
