Fantastic.
Devil has such high ethical standards.
It's amazing.
Amazing.
Anyway, this is from a Byzantine physician.
You're not going to see him repeated elsewhere.
And I don't believe that there is a translation into English of Paul of vagina.
I may be wrong.
I may be wrong.
I haven't seen one in years.
So I'm going to have to bring this to you from the native Greek.
Don't, don't be worried.
It's pretty straight up sixth century Greek.
It's not, you know, difficulty wise, it's not too bad.
And because it has a lot of medical lingo in it, I've been exposed to that stuff.
So after a while, you kind of learn how to talk the talk.
So go ahead and pull that up.
And I'm, I can't tell you how fortunate I am that I'm able to have access to these things.
Blow that up.
I'm able to have access to these texts.
We should all be thankful for this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it seems that the toxicon, and remember the toxicon is a drug that's described by
Scrobonius Largus as being so bad, being so bad that the people who get it speak in tongues.
Yeah.
They babble.
They babble.
These people speak in tongues.
And for some reason their tongues are on fire.
Tongues of fire.
They say the lips too.
This doctor says the lips too.
Okay.
Let me translate this thing to you.
So it seems, blow it up please.
It seems that the toxicon is named from the act of Christing the arrows performed by the
Batabaron, right?
Performed by the non-Greek speakers.
They're talking about these people up around the Black Sea is what they're talking about.
Right?
So, but notice on that second line.
Wait a minute.
This isn't the word for anointing in Messiah.
No, it's not.
It's the word for Christing something.
Why?
Because when you're using a drug, as we already saw in Euripides, you're Christing.
When you're sitting in a gymnasium, you're getting anointed.
The Christing has to be there in the case of the application of mind-altering drugs.
It is the drug that brings you the fury.
The fury.
You look it up.
That's all it will say announced.
The fury.
Yeah.
Love it.
Love it.
Okay.
Bring us up that passage again.
Let's keep reading what this doc says.
So, yeah, what is this thing?
Well, he says, it's very bad when people drink it and it causes their lips and their tongue
to be inflamed.
It says that they get a form of mania, a form of mania, and it causes them to see many varied
types of vision.
Yeah, it causes them to see, and they're tough to treat.
Most of these people don't make it, but when they do, right, it's, he says, first of all,
it's necessary as they're coming through it.
And then he reads off this giant.
Look, this is, okay, I got to read this.
It's necessary to treat these people by binding them in chains and compelling them to drink
sweet wine with rose oil in order to throw up or vomit, right?
So, she's trying to get them to vomit the stuff that they've eaten.
Then he says, then you take the seeds of this plant along with some wine and you drink it,
and then you do this every day.
You're applying the roots of so-and-so, the blood of so-and-so, and by the way, the blood
of so-and-so, there's specific types of ingredients, right?
The semen of Helios is an ingredient, right?
The sun semen, right?
They're not talking about actual the sun and actual semen, right?
So, okay, it's cult speak.
What else are you going to be using?
You're going to be using these substances, including the Sidonian apple, and when you're
going to be administering this stuff, right?
With all of these wonderful plants, you're going to be doing it in the wine.
And after much time, if the person manages to come through the danger, I'm translating,
if the person manages to come through the danger, they're going to be bedridden for a while.
And then when they try to get up and move around and assume a normal life, what's going
to happen to them?
They're going to be constantly frightened, constantly, take it down, under stress, right?
Constantly frightened.
It has such a profound mental effect on you.
This arrow poison has such a profound effect on you that it changes the way you react to
people around you after you've been born again.
Have you seen what's there?
I'm going to give the call, right?
Did you know what I want preachers to write in?
I want these blood suckers.
I want them.
I can give the call.
The word of the devil now.
Do you hear it?
Do you hear that call?
You want to see the unseen.
There is a world around you.
There is a world around you functioning alongside and contrary to your own dimension.
There is another dimension that exists, and that dimension impresses itself upon yours.
As the guys at MIT are now fond of saying, you are the reflection through that event horizon
of the actuality that is on the other side.
You are the reflection of the actuality through the event horizon.
All the space around you is filled with that world.
You interact with it every day.
You smell it.
You taste it.
You live it.
You're experiencing it.
Those acts of passion.
Those acts of passion are because of those interactions between the seen and the unseen.
Those of you who have eyes to see, like the dragon.
The dragon, it's from the Greek word for seeing.
But we know the dragon is blind.
So why did they name the seer as the blind one?
It's because that invisible dimension around you cannot be perceived except by entering into blindness.
You have to become like children.
You have to be able to come from a state of being unaware to a state of awareness.
Yes.
Interesting.
That's quite a cult thing you've got going.
Well, it's Bronze Age.
Right?
Old stuff.
Health.
Health and drugs.
Yes.
And now intercourse.
And how do we keep our oracles from becoming pregnant?
