We give them the burning purple.
It is that burning purple that Mary herself had access to that she had in her culprits.
Right?
It's that burning purple that the midwife said, whoa, burn in my hand.
Right?
Something's wrong.
Yes.
It's that cult power that allows the virgin to bring into the world the Son of God.
And all of a sudden, you know, we're right back at home.
We're right back at home with the giants.
We're right in that culture of drugs.
None of this is available to you through the modern fairy tale of Christianity, church history.
It's not there.
You're not going to find it.
I'm going to bring that to you and you can find that stuff yourself with the text because this is the age of you got no excuse.
I used to have to go to library.
Right?
Nobody does that anymore.
It's all going to be online now.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
This is a huge universe.
Okay.
We've got Gnostic Informant who's going to come and he's going to, he's going to say some strange things and I'm going to shut up for a minute and just let him hit at it.
How are you doing Gnostic Informant?
I'm doing all right.
I have some little allergy bothering me.
My eyes look a little red itchy, but it's okay.
I'm all good.
So I, that was fascinating, by the way, and I was like, I always do when I come on here, I listen and then I start thinking of stuff to pull up to bring to the table.
And I'm thinking about the time period in which the Greeks started to move to Magna Graecia, which is it, which we know is Southern Italy.
They called it the Magna, little or greater Greece, right?
Magna Graecia.
And a lot of these Greeks came from what was Asia Minor, modern day Turkey.
And a good book on this that I learned a lot from Peter Kingsley.
He, in the dark places of wisdom, he, he gives you all the sources.
It's really well sourced primary sources showing pictures of like archaeology.
I love it.
I love it.
Well, here's what I want to connect with what you said.
He talks about how like Parminides and Pythagoras, they would come to Italy and they would set up the first thing we do is they would build a temple to the Muses.
And then you, so they built this temple, they built it a certain way, certain dimensions, certain ionic columns, it would be like rectangular, it would be up on a hill.
And you go inside there and you would find on one side of the, whatever, north side, I'll say, there is obviously Apollo, golden Apollo with his lyre.
And this particular Apollo that was worshipped by Parminides was Apollo Ulios, Apollo the healer.
And this place was a multifunctional place where the people would go and they would deliver births there.
It was like a hospital.
There was also a temple.
So you had your, you had your doctors, you had your, your magi, you had your priests, you had all your, you know, your, your, you had your poets, you had your scholars.
This was the place, right?
It was the temple of the Muses.
This is the place where everything's at.
But on the other side of the temple, you're thinking, what is it?
Zeus?
What is it?
Nope.
The most important thing ever is to have a statue of the goddess Themis, the goddess of justice.
I have a screen that I want to share.
Thank you for that.
True is on point, by the way.
Themis is the Titan goddess of divine law and order of traditional rules of conduct who first established by the gods.
Prophetic goddess who presided over the most ancient oracles, including Delphi.
And Themis is referred to divine law.
She is the early bride of Zeus, often represented seated beside his throne, advising him.
She's that wisdom.
You know what I mean?
She, without, without, without, think about this, without justice, what do you have?
People call, people like, I get comments on my channel all the time.
You're a social justice warrior.
Fuck yeah, I am.
Hell yeah.
Thank you for that compliment.
They think they like got me on that one.
That's a, yeah, I am a warrior for Themis.
Of course I'm a warrior for Themis.
Why wouldn't I be?
That's the, that's the divine way.
That's the, you're the one that's off.
You're the one that's on the, on the off course, not me.
So, but I might, but I want to get back to the medical side because that's, that's all cool and important.
Oh, by the way, you're probably wondering if Themis is the earlier wife of Zeus, Hera must be very jealous.
No, Hera actually called her Lady Themis and looked up to her as like a motherly figure.
There was no beef between them.
Weird, right?
Hera is always mad at all Zeus's other girlfriends.
She wasn't mad at Themis.
She loved Themis and called her Lady Themis and respected her.
Anyways, put that aside for now.
I have a, um, so that's not all though because you would go down a pathway because you, you know, the Greeks weren't stupid.
They knew that you couldn't just put all the sick people in one room.
Certain people had to be separated.
They had to be quarantined.
They knew this stuff.
I think the word quarantine is even Greek, not mistaken, but I could be wrong.
It could be Latin or something.
But anyways, um, they would go, they would take them down this path and they would go like, I don't know, half a mile, a mile away and they would bring them down to the shores where there's a cave.
And in these caves, they set up these, well, first of all, they had a grove for Dionysus down there.
They always have the grove for Dionysus outside the temple, not in the temple.
For some reason, Dionysus always was outside the temple.
They have the grotto of, grotto of Dionysus.
You kept going and it's called the plutonium, the caves.
And in these caves, they would take really, really sick people that are about to die or put them on, or if they're on some sort of drug incubated and they put them asleep into a coma.
They would bring them to these caves and then they would, uh, they would come back from these caves and report their dreams.
And oftentimes these dreams were considered to be prophetic and the priests would be waiting.
The priests would be waiting for people to wake up and say, tell me what you saw.
I'm writing it all down right now.
This is serious.
This is the, this is the oracle.
This is the symbol.
You have to buy a lot.
Tell me what you saw.
And they took the shit seriously.
This is no joke.
This is no joke.
Well, anyways, I have a primary source about where these are originated from.
Because by the way, I mentioned these Greeks came from, from the East to Magna Graecia.
This is a, this is a, uh, this is a, a thing that goes back to the times of Medea's kingdom.
Remember talking about the ancient Medea kingdom, the area known as Nisa, you know, in Asia Minor, where Dionysus, the God of Nisa Dionysus means Dionysus.
The God of Nisa is where he's born there.
So I got a source from Strabo.
I'm going to pull this up on my, on my screen right now.
This is the last thing I want to say.
And then I'm done.
This is going to, you're going to love this.
You're going to love this.
So this is from Strabo from geography.
And what you're about to, what you're about to hear right now, I'm going to read it and read this whole thing.
It's real short is the, the, the, the origin of these incubation caves.
They're called plutoniums.
Here we go.
On the road between the Tralions and Nisa is a village of the Nisians, not far from the city, our car, our caraca, where there is a plutonium.
Remember, I mentioned what those are.
Those are these, these are these caves with the costly sacred priest, sacred priest and a shrine of Pluto and Corey.
And also the coronium, a cave that lies above the sacred priest, by nature, wonderful.
For they say that those who are diseased, diseased and give heed to the cures prescribe.
I was just mentioning this.
They're on their drugs.
They go to the caves.
