It's only for special sacred people, right?
OK, let's go.
That's the party that we've all come to tonight.
Can you feel it?
It's the reality of the story that we've been told.
Let's go to the next one.
Go to the next one.
Oh, yeah, and that spirit came on.
Anyway, and phony, that's OK.
And there was a voice, right?
There was a voice from the heavens.
And you ask yourself, why is this plural?
In all the translations, they're just
going to translate it, heaven.
Because everything in English blows, yeah, heaven.
They're going to translate it.
No, it's a plural, a plurality.
It's a plurality.
Do you remember Paul, the apostle, getting high,
pushing that thorn, pushing that thorn in the flesh,
getting that snake high?
Do you remember him doing that?
You know Karson at the Pythia?
Because he is Christing, and she's
telling the world about it.
Yeah, yeah, drug use and junkie Paul.
He was even embarrassed about it himself.
So where are we at?
Go back to Mark.
What does Jesus say?
So from the heavens comes out.
Paul went to these places.
He went to the third or the seventh.
I always forget which number.
I'm terrible with numbers.
But Jesus, from those zones, is able to draw that pnellma,
and he's hearing a voice.
And we're all standing around looking at Jesus
and his Baptists getting nuts, getting high,
and hearing things.
He's going to go off into the Eremon.
Look at this.
What does it say?
And a voice.
And there was this voice from the heavens.
And what did it say?
Yeah, you are my lovely or beloved son.
Yeah, in whom I'm the champ, bro.
I'm the champ, right?
He hears Daddy's voice coming from the split within the heavens.
Are you looking up?
If you're looking up for a dove, painting a picture,
where's the dove?
Look at some of the stupid portraits
that come out of the Byzantine world.
Look at that stupid stuff that comes out with respect to this.
It looks, not only does it look fairy tale,
it's just unbelievably bad.
Classical art, when the classical world was overthrown,
the art was sucked out the backside of the world.
I can say that because I'm free to say that to you.
There's no professor on the planet that will tell you this.
But Christianity killed Western art.
It killed it.
Killed it dead.
You ever seen what it produced in its place?
They look like zombie people.
Yeah, they look like zombie people.
We went as humanity.
We went from a place of knowing eros.
We went from a place of worshiping Aphrodite.
We went from that place.
We went from that place to a place of looking
at men who look like zombies in cloaks that don't show the body.
They hung crosses on everything.
They killed your art.
And for 1,000 years, you entered the Dark Ages.
When you finally climbed out of the pit
through the Renaissance, you got your bearings back.
There's a constant tide coming to wash away.
Civilization, whether it was the Greeks when
they were holding the football, or whether it was the Romans
when they were holding the football,
or whether it's you and I holding the football,
that civilization is in our hands.
Yeah, and there's always a force against it.
Let's keep going.
People didn't like that I brought up
things about world happenings.
I only have to say that.
There's a certain element at the present
that must be injected to make this worth your time.
Go.
Let's hit the next one.
Love it.
Mark 1, 1.
Yeah, this great boy.
Yeah, let's go on.
So the voice is speaking.
But why we even mention this?
And immediately, the plumber, the spirit, throw him.
It literally, boom.
You know how all these guys get high in the Bible
and see visions?
They do it as they said themselves
through the Pnellma, through that spirit, through that air.
Have you ever been with Amogus?
And he's caught that air.
And he's in that place where he can see the things
that you can't.
Yeah, that's what we're talking about.
Jesus gets the Pnellma.
Now, I will just say from experience,
because I've been hounded by Charismatics.
Charismatics love to come and pray demons away.
For some reason, I attract them.
Can you believe that?
I think it's my good looks, but it may be something else.
Anywho, this whole demon possession thing, right?
That is the power that is controlled.
When you have that Pnellma of God,
that's when you get to step out of that chronic world
into what's the Ionic.
The Ionic is what you modern day Christians
translate as eternal.
And it's totally wrong.
And you don't know what you're talking about, which is sad,
because you originally did, and your people
