Maybe that's why he's talking about the dancing and the chorus
For the temple
Oh, it's beautiful, look at the Jews performing these rites
The rites of a pagan mystery
You would think, you would think their history would have stopped them
But it didn't, it didn't
And that's how we get to this quirky scene that nobody can explain
The English translations are terrible, keep going to the next, what's our next?
Here we go, okay, so what's gonna happen, right? The High Priest is found out
The High Priest is found out that Mary's pregnant
And he summoned Joseph and Mary, right?
Kaip and Jochielos, and so the High Priest says
Ap-O-Dos-Ten-A-Parthenon
Give me back my girl, give me back the virgin
Notice he's still calling her a virgin, right?
Yeah, the virgin whom you took from the temple of the Lord
And so, I'm reading this literally
And so, Joseph stood there and started crying
I'm sorry, he started crying
Okay, Kaip, so, you know, probably because he's scared, right?
He defiled the virgin, the temple
My God, man, that can't be good
Kaip and Jochielos, and so the High Priest says to him
I am going to make you drink the water of the judgment of the Lord
And it will make clear your wrongdoings in your eyes
Take that off for a minute
It will make clear your wrongdoings in your eyes
Now, in a minute, he's gonna untie them both, right?
If you read this in English, it makes no sense
It makes absolutely no sense because
And this is where we on Satanic initiation will benefit so much
What they do is they follow the actual analog
They follow the metaphor, right?
And they say, Joseph goes off through the wilderness
He comes back and everything's fine
They're following the analog, right?
Listen to it with your ears
It's a drug interrogation
Okay, so he's gonna give you
And that thing that he says he's going to give him
Is a title for a drug
The judgment of God
Yes, you know what the judgment of God is?
It's a drug
The love of God
The love of God
Let me say that again
The love of God is the name of an ancient drug
Do you know what it's made of?
It's Jesus's semen
Yeah
Yeah, bring those tags
Bring them sh...
Bring those tags
Yeah
Let's go back to the Greek, finish this up
And the high priest took him
And forced him to drink
And when it says it took him, that's really like
