Where's my whip?
Let's whip it out of him.
Jesus, did you go to medical school in Egypt, Jesus?
He keeps quiet all the time.
He's no fun, man.
You can smack him, and smack him, and smack him.
And he just kisses, sits there quiet.
I don't get it.
I don't get it.
But it's hard to get answers out of him, right?
Jesus is a quiet fellow when it comes to necromancy.
But that's OK.
We've got enough on the record of what he already said
to put him away forever.
You know what I mean?
So OK, let's go.
Let's bring it to that second of those, this one.
Look, I'm going to give you a secret,
because you've come tonight.
Here is a secret within a secret that you're supposed
to be picking up from the epsilon.
Here is a secret within a secret.
It's like a commercial within a show.
Here we go.
Look at the bottom two lines halfway across,
and then, everybody recognize Oduseius there, as Odysseus,
right?
F-thito, leogaleo, tupeis, haliu, cupo, chentru.
You know what that means?
Go ahead and take it down.
That is a Hellenistic priest of Apollo, who is the physician,
the holy physician, who knows the Christ.
He knows what that is.
He knows that category of drugs.
And so he's going to be piling into his poetry
a whole bunch of stuff.
And he's writing to another priest from somewhere else.
So there's mystery, religion.
There's more Christianity in this guy who is before Christianity.
There's more Christianity in this text
than there is in the New Testament, 10 times over.
The raw anthropology is all there.
He says, hey, you know what really happened to Odysseus?
And this is why Jesus has to be the pion, the healer,
the divine physician, because of the capacity
to do exactly this, what he's doing,
to be able to step forward and to be able to push
that son of God to the place that they need to be.
Bring us what happens to Odysseus.
Are you ready?
He dies.
And how does he die?
Well, people don't know it, but this priest is telling you.
Those of us who were in the know know
that Odysseus died from pushing that poison.
He was like Paul.
He was addicted.
And he was pushing that poison to get to the seventh heaven.
How do we know that about Odysseus?
How do we know that he's a junkie?
We have Odysseus the first time he ever appears to us in Homer.
He's out looking for the arrow poison.
He's out looking for it.
Other people don't want to give it to him.
The guy finds he doesn't want to give it to him.
It's too dangerous.
You're going to kill yourself with this stuff.
Guess what says Nicander?
He did.
He did.
And that stuff is so strong.
If you don't have the right theory act,
it's going to kill you.
You're going to be dead.
But this is what the people go through.
Everybody in the congregation tonight,
this is what people go through in order
to get into the right in order to come through that initiation
and then in order to sustain that Holy Spirit.
In order to bring that Holy Spirit, how do you think Paul
made it up into the third, fourth, fifth, sixth heaven?
How do you think he made it up there?
He made it with this process, with the mystery.
He made it with this launchpad of the compound drugs.
They're all there in the text.
The languages, they're screaming, screaming,
but we don't hear it, right?
We don't hear it.
Why?
Because we've been through the dark ages.
This knowledge has been kept from you
in order to construct a false image that
would control you.
I know that sounds like we're living in the matrix.
I know it does.
Yeah, and I can't deny it.
I can't deny it.
That is what people do when they rewrite history,
when they appropriate, when there is no visible record
and you have to take traditions to yourself.
It's what cultures do.
They appropriate what is valuable
and what is most valuable.
I'm going to say this tonight.
I know that you guys have heard this maybe before,
but I'm going to say it tonight.
Humanity reached its linguistic apex with ancient Greek.
All languages are not created equal.
Greek came and survived and expanded and developed
and destroyed other languages that
were too weak for the onslaught.
Those languages were holding people back.
We, as human beings, evolved a capacity
to expand our own minds, our vision,
to get our brain to develop and to fire
on all of the receptors that it's got,
all of those receptors for Asterian,
all of those receptors, those opiates,
all of those receptors, all of those compounds,
those proteins that come from the snake venoms,
that work upon your hormones, yeah, yeah, huh, yeah,
all of that designed to bring you a virgin.
That's the mystery and that virgin has the water of life
and she won't be here unless we produce her.
That's Lady Babylon and that is what the Christians
are so afraid of.
She is the enemy.
The devil's not.
