Yeah, let's just see that oysters. Let's get Hasikius to tell us what oysters is, shall we?
Okay, are you ready? I know some of you have seen the oysters before, but look, here's a Greek
defining it. This is not me. This is a Greek. And just like yesterday, we're not going to insert
words into our Greek texts that aren't there like cannabis. We are also not going to provide our own
definition of things. We're going to use him. We're going to use him. Look at this. Look at this.
Edithismos. What is Edithismos? Oh, this word makes me so excited. This is the dirty part.
For those of you who, you know, who, whatever, everybody should see this. Go, bring it down
to the next one. What is that Edithismos? That's an irritation. Have you ever had that irritation?
I've got that irritation, that itch. I've got the itch running me. And sometimes I've got to have
this Edithismos. I've got to have this itch, this irritation that leads me to Aphrodisia.
I want to go to Aphrodisia. I want some provocation and some rebelliousness. Oh,
don't you love that? It's a perverse rebelliousness. Don't you love that?
You may be able to bring more medicine to more people through the temples of Aphrodite.
Bacchus, the cult always leads to Aphrodite for a healing reason. The oracle is a healing oracle.
You need that. You might not go in, as one of the watchers was telling me the other day,
you might not go into your school or your workplace and shoot up people and then
write manifestos about how you hate women because they all rejected you. You might,
if you had been put through a society that recognized the value of sexual initiation,
you wouldn't have never have gotten to that place because you would be mentally healthy.
The priestesses in the temple, they'll help you. They will help you. Are you depressed?
Are you depressed? Do you not feel well? Does your body out in an imbalance? Come, come.
We will help. We will help. Yes, this is mental health people. Mental, straight up mental health.
Yes, designed by women. It's gorgeous. The history here is fantastic. Let's go to the next.
Yep, go ahead. Yeah, and what is that Aphrodisias, right? This is what the
Oystrus does for us. Are you ready? Takes us to Aphrodisias or Aphrodisia in the plural, right?
And what are those things? They're the things that belong to the goddess, the things that belong
to Aphrodite. And pray tell, Mr. Titan, who's going to introduce your giant children to me, pray
tell. What, what, what are these Aphrodisiacs do? What are these things that belong to Aphrodite?
Back to the definition, please. Yep. What are they? Sexual pleasures. Ow, sexual pleasures.
I see. Does everybody see that? Look at number three. Pudinda. Pudinda. What's it? Can somebody
look that up? I don't know what that is. I know there's a Latin word, pudor, that means shame.
Shame. These are your shamed bits. Yes, they are. That's what the Oystromania leads me to.
When I'm taking the Oystrus, when I'm getting that sting, boom. Yes, it leads me to
Aphrodite. Look at number three. Temple of Aphrodite, right? They got places for this.
I need to go. I need to, that's where you're going to find the drugs. That's where you're
going to be healed. You get up off your backside and go down to the temple and spend the weekend
there and come back and you're going to be refreshed. You're going to be refreshed. You might learn
something. You might walk away with a little more respect, a little more respect for those
priestesses. You may. What a perfect, perfect solution to your problem. Gorgeous. I love it.
It's brilliant. No, I need that one more. There was one more thing on the Aphroditeus.
Yeah, I just want you to take that down. I just want you to look at the bottom.
Yeah, we're in Cyprus. It's the name of a month. January, February, March,
sex. May, June, did you hear me? January, February, March, sex. May, June, July.
Do you like that? January, February, March, pudenda. It's pudendal season. Let's celebrate.
We're celebrating the female genitalia. If you're celebrating the female genitalia,
because it's female genitalia month, your society might be a little bit less
misogynistic, you think? Maybe a little bit less. You can get to that level of understanding
