they're teaching them about the plants. They're teaching them about the plants and they're teaching
them about the drugs. And he says here that, look, one of them, here, one of these guys teaches the
other ones about the craft. And what is he teaching? Please, I'm just going to run through the list.
I'm just going to run through the list. They teach him how to make weapons, weapons, and shields,
and how to make war, how to press on a war. They teach him how to mine and how to work metal.
Oh, okay. So these guys are at a time when they're working that bronze. There, those bronze were,
okay, cool. I got it. I can see how that'd be intimidating if your neighbor can show up in
bronze armor. What? That could be scary, I suppose. You know what I mean? They show them how to work
that metal and they show them how to make those drugs that are used in things like the cosmetics.
Yeah. And wait, what else do they do? They teach them Bafika. Bafika. I've got this one. What is,
what is Bafika? I think that one's up there, isn't it? Yeah, Bafikos. Look, this is dying.
People, we have walked in to those dyes yet again. Okay. Fantastic. We've walked right into the
dyers. That, of course, that art is, of course, associated in antiquities, antiquity,
with a technology that was allied with drugs, drugs, right, that oysters. The Eos is called the
violet or the purple. Why is it called the violet of the purple? Because when Io, when Io, right,
what started the war between the Titans and the Olympians anyway? What started all of this?
The Io started all of this. That was the one issue was the Io. Oh my God, you mean it's all
about this oyster? It's all about that draw, that itch, that drive. Yeah, it is. Look at what
they're doing. And Paul the Apostle spank his holy bottom. Paul the Apostle would tell you,
look what they've done. They put the nature into the divinity. They worship the nature and the
Greeks and Romans would say, of course, why wouldn't you? Why wouldn't you? Yes. Well,
right? Do you see what happens when you worship the nature? You castrate Jehovah.
You castrate Jehovah. If you want to have young girls who cannot be educated, you have to have
Jehovah intact. If you want to follow that mother, that great mother, you have to castrate Jehovah.
It's why, it's why she came to Cronus. She was like, look, Cronus, nobody else castrate him.
And he was like, yeah, way, man, yeah, way, man, I'm there. And what happened when Cronus castrated
him? Boom, the foam born came through Aphrodite. Do you see how she is that perfect Aphrodite is
in their mind? That perfect manifestation of nature. Urania, they call her, the Iranian one.
She comes from Uranos, that foam from the water. Yes. Gorgeous. Oh, I love it so much. I just want
to put on, I just want to play the rea for you. I seem to have dropped my notes, my tags. There it is.
Let me just read you a couple of things about rea. And while Chewie regaled him a little bit
with rea, they don't watch the Greek the whole time. Yes. I'm going to read the second half because
it's in Greek. Yes. So yeah, she's that beautiful form, right? She is that incredible mate of Cronus
who rejoices in what? She rejoices in the screams, the hallelujahs, the hallelujahs of mortals
in the mountains. She rejoices in that. And there is both dark and light in that,
because that ololudo can be a shot of war. And we know that rea is full of this war.
That flow, rea is a flow. That flow is full of this war, full of it. Fantastic. What else is she
called? Sotera. I don't know if you noticed in the clip, I'm going to play it again because I want you
to see the titans and the giants. But that flow that is rea is called the savior.
She is the savior. Why is Cronus important? Why is Saturn important? Because he responds to rea
and does what she says. She is the one who has the power. And what do they call her? The palm
bacillia. She who is the all queen. He's only a one ox. Cronus is only a one ox. That's that
Mycenaean king. This is before anything, Moses, anything that you can possibly think from
from what you and I call the Bible. This is before. These are the Mycenaeans doing this.
And there she is. What a beautiful, beautiful goddess. Image that hits you right here. Like I said,
Nazis are no match. This tears through them all to the core. Love this. And she is that one who
loves war and she is what the savior and she is what the one who brings that cleansing of demons.
