people around are afraid of them. All the tribes and the territory around these
dudes, they're afraid for how long? Look, Greek guys, it's a genitive duration of
time. Yeah. Time within which. What is that? It's the whole life. Zoes. It's that whole life.
They're always afraid. These guys have a reputation. These giants. They were, okay,
I still want to date one. Let's see. Come on. Come over. Giants have a seat. Next slide,
please. Yes, I call them slides, annoyingly, because they're not. Yeah. These giants are,
are you ready for this? Are you ready for this? They are the offspring of Gaia and Uranos through
the Titans. Are we all children of Earth and Sky? That's the question. Children of Earth and Sky.
In the beginning, Hoteos, God created that Earth and Sky. He was the Protagonid. Oh my goodness.
Do you hear the, do you hear the, the strains of Old Testament just coming apart? We're taking
these back, man. These texts are good peg and text, man. Moses is waving around a snake for a
good reason. And for those of you who can't embrace the richness of your own heritage,
I don't care. I can embrace it all. Moses was a drug use in Magus. Drug use in Magus. Just wait
until we profile Moses, because he's on the witness list for the trial of Jesus on charges
of transdimensional child trafficking when he was arrested in a public park with a naked boy
at 4 a.m. and I was 15 minutes. Fantastic. Let's keep going with the, keep going, keep going.
You can't get this stuff anywhere else, people. You can't get this stuff anywhere else. It's
not going to come, right? I'm going to pull up because people talk. I was going to say,
I was going to rant there for a minute and I really need to for just a second because you're
going to be watching. Oh, God. You're going to be watching on YouTube and you're going to be watching
shows on, and you're going to see dudes with this. Don't think about it, right? We're going on a date.
I've invited them to come on. Let's see who they are. Everybody's scared of them. Everybody's scared.
Don't be a human, right? Come on. They're going to teach us some good stuff. We'll know them by what
they, what they exude, what they give us. That's how we'll know them. Oh, take me to it. Take me
to that next source, please. Loved it. Oh, God. Okay. I'm going to take my copy here, which is
for some reason on the page previous. Give me just a second. Sorry, that's poor
preparation. My book fell apart though, so I have the page. I'll just look at it here.
Yeah, Cronus. I just want to read you something about Cronus. What is he? I thought I remember,
these are hymns, and the reason it's so important for you to watch that video is the same reason
when you walk into your church, you understand? And it says, before I have my long, boring speech,
you guys go ahead and listen to some music and get energized, right? It's those images in the hymn
that we're transferring. Now, those people are not under the influence of strong drugs,
and they're not in the sex orgy. So the experience is going to be a little bit muted. But let's read
to him so you can see it. Cronus, what is he? I thought he's that always fresh, you know,
vigorous chude. He's that father of the great gods and men. He's that one who has such crafty advice,
so intelligent. He's that strong one. He's that great Titan. Titan. What are the Titans? The Titans
are what was before, took over. The Titans are what was before. Everything that's ruling now is.
Yes, very confusing. It's the older generation. And I'm trying to be extremely specific with
Titans because you'll have people BS you talking about Nephilim and BS you about what these things
are. These are Titans produced, these giants. And what are Titans? Rhea and Cronus are Titans.
Rhea and Cronus are Titans. What is the, this is the last one, too. I put this up on the,
my very last interview today. Yep, go ahead. That's, yeah, here is your verb, right? I'm,
I told my Greek students, everybody, don't forget, all of Greek turns around, it's verb.
The verbs are the engines that drive the language. Excellent. So what I want you to do is what,
what is the Titan verb? It's titino. What you can see is epic, reduplicated for tano and
adectano will do, right? But look what this means to stretch. Wait a minute. Read that Greek
following stretch, toxa, titino, stretching that toxa. Wait a minute. Do I, do I have a bow?
