Thank you.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
It's good to see you guys here tonight.
We have a great, great, short Bible study for you tonight.
And we're so privileged to have two guests, two special guests.
Now it didn't, it takes a lot to bring them, but tonight we're going to have, I'm pointing
over here because I've got them both tied up on the floor, tonight we're going to have
Billy Graham.
Yes.
Welcome.
Welcome the ghost of Billy Graham.
And of course, as usual, our friend, Dr. Young, who won't be saying anything due to his ball
gag.
So without any further ado, in order to get to the Ionic life, let us now turn to Billy
Graham.
Billy, bring it.
Oh, come on, Billy.
Oh, I can feel you, buddy.
I can feel you.
Bring me.
Bring me Ionic life, Billy.
What must I do to have eternal life?
The greatest problem in the world today is sin.
What causes people to hate and lust and have greed?
It's sin.
It's a disease that we all have.
The Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.
You've missed the mark.
You've broken the law on your way to spiritual death and eternal death and to judgment.
But Jesus said, I can do something about that.
I can change your life.
I can make you a new person.
Jesus demanded that we make a choice.
He says there are two roads of life, the broad road and the narrow road, and you must too.
There are two destinies, heaven and hell.
Which road are you on?
Which master are you serving?
I don't have to be touched.
I don't have to go to hell.
I don't have to be lost.
My soul has been redeemed.
I'm going to heaven.
I've got to first repent of my sin and receive Christ as my Lord and my Savior.
You have to repent of your sins.
That means to be willing to change your way of living.
You may have no power to do it, but if you surrender to Christ, he'll give you the power.
How many of you here tonight are broken?
Fed up, but you don't know what to do.
You give your life to Christ tonight and you will have supernatural help in breaking those
chains that bind you.
God's not waiting to judge you.
God's not waiting to condemn you.
He's waiting to receive you with mercy, with love, with open arms and forgive all your sins.
You know, there only comes a few times in our lives when Jesus in Nazareth passes by
and we have an opportunity like we have tonight to receive Him.
You may never have it tomorrow, as far as God is concerned.
There are people here tonight that may never be alive tomorrow.
You may never get off school again like this, or your heart may not be this tender to God.
Come while you can, and don't put it off.
God is waiting to welcome you with open arms, to receive you as you come to Him in repentance
and faith.
A symbol, and yet could be life changing tonight, and all of heaven will rejoice.
And with such power, Billy Graham brought you eternal life, eternal life.
Can we see?
Can we see John 3.16, please?
Can we see John 3.16?
Everybody together is opening reading tonight in this Bible study.
Let's look at John 3.16.
This is the first time I've ever seen John 3.16 in my life, and I've never seen John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
John 3.16.
