Do you have demons today? Do you have a little demon that needs to be cleansed? I can cleanse
you demon. I can cast out that demon. I've got a place for you to go to Cyprus several thousand
years ago. And once you're there, those demons can be drawn. They can be drawn from you.
Yeah, it's a place of healing. It's a hospital. Those clever Greeks were building communal
hospitals, places where they could purify their citizens. Isn't that nice? If you had a place
like that, we might have we might have a little bit more calm. There may not be this electricity in
the air. Yes, yes, you have to bring that mania, that madness in order to achieve that calm.
That calm. Fantastic. And I just want to say at the here near the end of the oath, near the end of
him, excuse me, says she's a savior multiple times. And then it says, remember, this word
savior is far before Christians are calling anybody savior. What does she send on the whole,
on the entire earth? What does she send out, Rea? She sends out the Cades. She sends out what?
What does this great goddess send us? The nurse of Bacchus. What does she send us? She sends us death.
Death. You know what the Cades are? They're those sisters that pull, that pull the soul from the
body as it's dying. They fly. They fly to you within a moment. Nobody's faster than these kitties,
right? Nobody's faster. They fly to you at the moment of your death, particularly violent death.
Right? We're not talking due to falls asleep in his bed or, you know, we're talking about
a person who loses it, who has their life taken. Yeah. This is what Rea, this is what Rea gives us.
Now, welcome to the mystery. What did, what did it say in the, what did it say in Enoch that
they were teaching them? I'm sorry. I just want to, I just want to say this. Oh, they were teaching
them drugs, epodes. Oh, Sophia's wisdom, words of wisdom, cleansings of these demons. Astroscopia,
looking at the, looking at the stars and determining fate from stars. That's nice. Astrologia,
right? The eighth one. What did they teach me? Oh, that eighth person. Here's a clue for anybody
who's paying attention to the clues. Fish, there's your eighth person, the eighth that is spoken of
in the book of the apocalypse. The eighth is there within the right. And what is that eighth doing?
Yeah. They are teaching the iroscopy, the observation of the things that take place in the air.
Do you have that ability to see the signs? It says they taught them signs about the sun and the moon
and drawing down the moon. And then the very last line, I don't mean to keep you. I'm sorry,
I'm keeping you so long, is they teach them the hand down, the mystery to their children,
the hand down, the mystery to their children. Yeah. And they, it's at this time, says your author.
That these giants started eating human flesh.
They were eaters of human flesh. And I know if you're a Greek, an ancient Greek,
it pains you to bring up the past that you don't like to talk about. But you know that you can
drink a woman's abortion. You know that you can. And you know the power that it conveys.
Because you're part of the Titan culture. You are those bow people. You are those
strainers who find that tension and run around with your songs and your drugs.
Yeah. Do you see these people? Get off the Nephilim. Get off the Nephilim. That's fairytale world.
This is a Greek text talking about good old fashioned anthropology and history.
Let's pull our heads out of it. That's what we're trying to do is pull our heads out of this
and see the world. It's fantastic to be able to work with you. And it's a real pleasure.
I want to just play Rhea one more time. I want to play Rhea one more time.
And then we'll call it out. And I want you to look for those giants and Titans now.
Her mate Prometheus the great vulture herself eats out his liver. We come to Cronus the Promethean
and we say one more time. What is that golden age?
Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Ours to me on Sunday. It's gonna break her heart not knowing what.
