and comfort that you have a national vagina month. This is national sex and vagina month.
Women's health, 101. Think of that. How wonderful that is. You don't get there. And I can hear you,
evangelicals, though. I heard you through the screen. I heard one of you say something about
demons and drugs. Yes, that's where we're going. We're going to drink and we're going to drink
and abort affections out of aborted fetus drizzling out of the priestess. Yeah, sometimes it's just
the fusal stage, right? So it's just like punch. Do you see why are they fearing these titans?
They are bringing this technology. They are bringing it to the people. They are bringing
it specifically to the women and the women are taking it over. Who are these Nephilim? You thought
they were, oh, I'm a big giant angel, dude. I'm going to go have sex with some women.
That's what you thought it was. And Jehovah steps up. That's right, Jehovah. That's one for you.
One big one right on the place that it's going to hurt most. What does Cronus do the titan?
Cuts off those testicles. Cuts off those testicles. Fantastic. Love it. Let's keep going.
More text, right? People say, you need the text. You need the proof. This is all this is. Text.
We're drowning in the text. I want to take you to Enoch. I want to take you to Enoch.
And by the way, I've got a show coming up where I'm taking on. I'm going to look at one history
channel, history channel documentary. Having said before I say this, let me tell you,
history channel approached me and through a production team and said, we want to do
documentary based on your book, Chemical Muse. Fantastic job was done because I advised them
to get profs who had access to these texts, particularly the medical stuff, who know the
drug texts. I told them, you've got to get this hardcore stuff. You've got to get. And so it was
a great documentary. Yeah, history channel. Wonderful. But this video, this recent documentary
came out a couple of months ago has every has every player lined up, giving you the line of
squat that's going to stain your lips with poop that comes out of Michael's rear. That's what
it's going to do. You say Michael doesn't have a rear. He's a he's an angel. He doesn't have any
parts either. He doesn't have any parts. Yeah, well, you don't know about what it smells like
to be around the devil. Yeah, and it smells like that. Right. This is cult we're talking about
people. This is real stuff. This is not a joke. This is not a prank. This is real textual work.
We've got to see what's going on. These are sexual cults. And I'm going to bring you now through
Enoch. I just want to read you a little bit. I know I've mentioned Enoch before. And all I'm going to
do is yeah, all I'm going to do is translate here. I've got these are from the geese. This is from
the geese of fragments, right? And so this is a copy of the text. And what I'm going to do is
there are two registers. I'm going to use them both because I'm going to go from both translations
just to get as well around that it hit on as I can. But our first comes. I'm just going to read it
to you. And yeah, they took to themselves women. Each man, right, got his own female and entered
into this way of living and that included staining, staining himself, staining himself. Huh. That's
kind of odd. Well, let's just, okay, let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. How else are we going
to defile ourselves? Yeah. And they taught each other the use of drugs. That's what it says.
They taught each other epodes. You remember that sexual singing meant to excite that I told you
about? Guess what's there? They're teaching this with the drugs. With the drugs, these are the giants
that are produced from this generation. These are the giants. Fantastic. You mean they're not,
they're not Anguloid? Actually, they are Anguloid, but they're human Anguloid, human messengers.
Yes, human messengers. That word Anguloid, the dude with the wings and the flappy flap flap,
okay, within the symbols. That is only there to convey the progression of the language. They're
always about the language. Remember Hermes? He's the chief. Your messenger has to be the one
who can do the hermeneutics, the hermeneutics. Do you hear Hermes in it? The translation. Isn't
that nice? The meth hermeneutics, the translation. That's, that's incredible. I love this stuff.
Okay, one more text from Enoch and I want to tell you what else are they teaching them? He says
