You know, those guys are all out there in the caves with their scrolls. You know what they're doing? They're copying Greek texts in the Hebrew. And when they do so, they mess things up because the Hebrew cannot capture with its limited vocabulary, the extensive vocabulary of the ancient Greek.
So you lose things. This is one of the things that got lost. And I'm so glad to be able to restore it to you. What is what the, it's a paradise of true faith. What is true faith? Give it to me. Give it to me.
Look at this softness, delicacy, daintiness, laboriousness, luxuriousness, excuse me. And then we get one wanton, wantoness. What is that which is wanton? Can somebody tell me what is wanton? I know we've mentioned wanton before.
I want you to see the Oxford definition. That's the dated definition, but that's the one we're talking about for, you know, because nobody used this in order, right? Nobody waxes wanton anymore. It's a shame. Nobody waxes wanton. But here we go. Wax on and wax off, right?
Sexually unrestrained or having many casual sex relationships. Okay. Okay, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait, just leave that up there chewy for a second, because I want this to absorb in the people's brains. Are you ready?
The Garden of Edim is a paradise of sexual promiscuity. Wait, what? When I came in here, I thought it was poop poop poop. God points things go poop and out comes this man woman poop poop. Now you're telling me it's a dirty dirty place.
You're going to end up naked and eyes open, naked and eyes open. You may meet the devil. Interesting. Interesting. Wow. Next one before we lose him chewy. This has to penetrate quickly. That's the set. I want a specific timer.
Look, here's the, you know, you can be luxurious, you know, effeminate, licentious, you know, to be that reveling. This is the description of the Bakant, right? This is what the mean ads do. Why do you think it is effeminate? Because they are performing as mean.
They are entering that state. Paradise, my friends, is a place for mean ads. Paradise is a place for mean ads. Check out all of the oracular sources. Check all of the oracular symbols that you find in works like
The Argonautica, the one by the Roman flakas. Check out that source and you'll see this laid out beautifully. This is Bakit Kolt. People don't realize if you say mystery, you're saying Bakas. People and you, what? How is that? How is that? Shut up.
There is one mystery. One Bronze Age mystery. And from that mystery comes all of the others. From that comes the death and resurrection mystery. From that comes the one who is the child of God through the Virgin.
This thing that we are looking at, this book of Genesis with this garden, this was a place where a God, where a Curios established his own worship.
It was an oracular religion where the Ewa, who was Zoe, would bring the man to the place of initiation, where their eyes would be opened. There's only one problem. There's only one problem.
He pulled out. Devil got in the way. Had to do with the dying thing and the technical truth of the matter. Poor devil. Poor devil. When your Curios is a lying sack, it's all you can get. It's all you can get. A third of the angels, people. A third of the angels.
Think about that for a minute. One out of three said God can take it and stick it. One out of three angels. Wow. Think about that for a minute.
Think about it. You think you're smarter than they are, don't you? The watchers know that. They know that. They watch you. It's the fuzz in the air that they get. You think you know better. You don't. You don't. You don't know this quantum physics.
