waf waf
I wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in
Fences created by such evil men then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in
Maybe we could walk together again
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon Wednesday Night Bible Studies and that's some pleasant Zayn Campbell. Thank you Zayn for the music. So outstanding.
Tonight, tonight, put your seats in their upright positions. I am going to do something here that we have not done. I am going to break the seal on a book that has been concealed for centuries.
And then after that we're going to spend some time with the junkie Saint Paul and we are going to look at him doing his thing with his drugs on Lady Babylon.
As we get started here, I want to clear the air a little bit.
I want to remind you that as you watch this, nobody will be paid from it. And I want you to focus on that which is sacred. I don't want your money. I don't want to sell you a hat.
I just want you here to see the opening the unsealing of a hidden book. We're going to penetrate that inner sanctuary tonight. We're going to enter in. I'm going to give it to you.
It is my gift to you. We are taking back that Greek text tonight. Oh, love it. Are you ready? Are you ready for this? Let's cleanse this place. Let's get it completely cleaned up. Let's honor tonight, Hephaestus.
Let's get it completely cleaned up.
That fire burns within our bodies. That element, that desire that drives that light bringer. That's what we're looking at tonight. I'm going to bring you a couple of texts. I'm going to present to you something that you have seen before.
Maybe once or twice, maybe when you went to church, maybe when you went to synagogue, maybe when you were in a religion class in college, you've seen this sometime.
Now I'm going to show it to you with the eyes of one who sees. We're going to open the seal, bring forward the ion and show you God. Tonight God is drugging Adam. Let's go to the place immediately and see where he's drugging Adam.
Let's take our Bacchic trek there tonight. Chewie, hit us with the first star system, please. I got this later for Saint Paul. Fantastic.
