Now you know. Oh God. Love it. Okay. Well, another text. Another text. Look at here. Look at here. What did I get? Displacement standing inside. Where was the, I can't see the top entry.
The ecstasy. Good. So what is this when you, they're telling you from right from the top. Remember I said people that verbs go to the verbs and always see what the verbs are that comes from and it's ecstasy me here.
So it's kind of to stand out of and people will say this. Preachers will say this all the time. They'll be like, oh, and you know, this is a take, take the word apart literally and see, well, it's a little more sophisticated than that.
A little more sophisticated. The jump in meaning is not as simple as you'd think. Yeah. This means to stand outside. To stand outside now. Do you blow it up? And let me see the, let me see the drift on this one.
Look, standing aside. Number two. Number two. Distraction of the mind from terror and astonishment. Right. So this is not necessarily your, your daddy, your mommy's ecstasy. Right.
This is not their ecstasy. This is the stuff that you can get from terror. You mean you can be in terror and ecstatic at the same time. You mean you can be astonished, confused, confounded.
We're about to see Paul in this drugged out, confounded state of ecstasy. Yeah, they're not talking about ecstasy like we do. Right. They're not talking about bliss. They're talking about a place. Have you been to that place where you can produce the face of Pam?
Can you produce the face of Pam? I know many of you have.
Wait. Please. I know many of you have. Many of you have. You may not have seen it. Yeah. Have your lover hold up a mirror and show you the face of Pam. If you so have it.
Being possessed by that pan, by that spirit is a place that you can only go, that you can only go through the orgasmon. These are the orgia. These are the rights. These are the rights.
You can produce that face.
You are calling. Do you see how the sexuality is a part of the ancient cult? I was saying before you prescribing to these, to these cult, you know, mystery cult 101 and see. Yeah, you're only going to get so deep.
Sorry, but you I'm bringing the sources to, right? Because you people are special and I recognize that and I'm valuing your time, valuing your time. Give me the, give me the text. Next one, please.
Yeah. Watch what happens though. It becomes distraction of mind, right? Keep going. Keep going. Next one.
Oh, Monique.
Whoops. Are we back? Chewie. Watch the star cluster.
