And I promised you, I was going to show you the drugging, right? Okay. So we're at the party. We're at the Baachic party in the Paradise sex garden, right? And Adam is lonely. He's sitting there all by himself. And there's animals. You hear the music.
There's animals there. Why? Yeah. Yeah. No, this one, no, doesn't do it. Doesn't do it for me. What does he need? A Boethos. What is that? It's something very specific in Greek, which again, the Hebrew is unable to capture. It is that individual.
It is that individual who comes to your side with that shield. Do you know what Athena carries around? Who is the Wirago of all Wiragos? Athena, Minerva. If you look at that definition for Wirago up there, you're going to see Minerva's name next to it.
She's the one with that shield. You see that? You see that Minerva there? Uh-huh. There's a reason. Look at the Amazon at the bottom. This is what you talk about with Amazonian women.
They can be one of these Boethos. They can be that one who comes up on your side in battle and the two of you will conquer. Why? Because her shield, take it down. Her shield is protecting you. You run with Minerva. Isn't that nice?
Fantastic. That's Eve. She wouldn't have a title on her name. Unless she was that Bacchic Minad. And these Bacchic Minads, I must remind you, and many of you were buying courses and you're looking at things online about mystery, religions, mystery, and somebody's going to make some profit off of you.
You're walking up to people on the street. You know what you are? Let's do mirror time. This is mirror time, Chewie. Mirror time. Let's mark this. You're walking. You know what you're doing? You're walking in the street. There's a dude or a dudeette sitting there. And they've got a deck of cards. They're going to tell you your future for $25. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? Yeah. Do you know what should happen? Do you know what should happen?
We should all find out what happens to those people on the other side when they get to those places that possess those powers that were so pure that they exposed for the sake of prostitution because that's what they're doing. They're prostituting themselves. Prostitution.
Okay. Yeah. It disappoints me. But that's not what we're here for, right? You and I, we don't want that. We don't want this street show and that. We want the reality. We want that ether, that quantum physics that lies behind what they're doing. Let's see the next tech. Let's keep opening it up. Yeah. Yeah. So what happens here? He needs this.
Weirago. He needs this. Minerva. And so what does God do to him? Look it. Here it is. Look at line 21.
What is God's solution to finding the one for Adam, right? Which is funny because can anybody smell, can anybody smell the Argonauts, can anybody smell the captive women?
Can anybody smell the sorceress? Why can't this dude Adam do his stuff on his own? There's nowhere you'll notice in the text so far that it has said that it has said Adam is the first man.
There's nowhere in the text. Yeah. Yeah. That there were no other human beings around here. No, no, no. Do you see what's happening? This is not about your God speaking things into existence.
This is the book of the generation of Gaia and Uranos. Yeah. And your God has his place. Look at us people. We're taking, we're ripping that Bible right out of their hands.
I have that Bible holding it right in my hands. There's not a Christian that can touch it. There's not a Christian that can touch that thing.
Whoo. Whoo. I don't mean any of them. Not a single one of them. We have the text now that gives us the freedom. That's the Ba'ak power. Now you know why Ba'ak worship always centers around the muse.
