It's the Alexeterra, and what is that?
What is that?
That's Yobacos, yes, that's who we're talking about,
but it's his horn that we're talking about.
Wait, get to his horn.
Oh my goodness.
Oh, it's not.
Oh, it's coming up.
Wait, wait, it's coming up.
It's coming up, and you won't believe me here.
I'm gonna search it out.
I'm gonna search it out.
I don't care.
Give me the Alexeterra.
Here.
Oh, it's not the, no, no.
Thank you.
Oh, look, people, here it is in the Greek.
Wait, here it is in the Greek.
It's probably the next one.
Here it is in the Greek.
Now listen to me, people.
This is why Greek, ancient Greek, is so superior.
And ancient Greek and modern Greek are the same thing.
Ancient Greek has the capacity for the person
who is living to make new words for you
to describe your environment in a way
that has not been expressed.
This word in the middle, it's words like this,
that our author has made up, and people of a society
our author has made up, and people have assumed
because classicists are stupid.
They have assumed that this is because
these words don't exist in other texts.
No, no, no.
What the Greek is doing that is different from Latin
and every other language that got wiped out.
What it's doing that's different is it is giving
the user the capacity to create.
And you don't have that otherwise.
English uses Greek in order to achieve this, right?
Our Anglo-Saxon, oh God, where's that Anglo-Saxon?
Where's that Anglo-Saxon guy?
Come here.
His name's probably Fred or something, come here.
Friedrich, oh God, bro, your language.
Ow, it's awful.
Your language is awful, right?
So what is the elecce tera?
What is the elecce tera?
And I'm gonna say this before, before I show you
and you're gonna cry at me, and you're gonna say,
no, this is not drugs.
This guy is crazy.
I'm gonna tell you right now, the elecce tera
is the antidote.
It is what keeps the poison of Medusa non-lethal.
We hold up the serpent.
Now, those of you who are sitting there are gonna say,
no, look, he's making Christing stuff about drugs again.
It absolutely cannot be.
Are you ready?
Here we go, pull up these Victorians.
Oh God, what is the elecce tereos?
It's something that's able to keep off or defend or help,
especially as an epithet for the gods.
Isn't that nice?
It's your defense for your salvation.
You know the gospel.
Look at number two, Alexetarian.
What does it say right under it?
Pharmacon, drug, it's a remedy or a medicine or a charm.
See, to us, those three things sound totally different.
You know what I mean?
Like I can see how remedy goes with medicine, but charm?
Yes, they are not different.
Magic is medicine.
It is magic and antiquity for me to give you a drug
that will cause you satiriasis.
So that for six long days and nights,
we will chase you through the forest.
And we hope that you get away
and that your priapism relents.
This is a chemical salvation, people.
Your savior was a chemical savior.
And the only way he was gonna succeed
was if he got the antidote through that boy.
And he didn't.
Poor kid ran off.
Mark 1451 and 52, for those of you who are getting it.
Okay, let's, we're almost to the conclusion here.
Ba-ba-ba, let's go to the next one.
Boom, hit me with that one.
What am I giving you tonight?
What are we watching?
We are watching the Parthenon.
Who are the Parthenon?
Wait, it wasn't Mary, right?
Dan will say, or the theologian will say,
oh, wasn't it Mary, mother?
The Blessed Mother Mary, yes.
The Blessed Mother Mary, who in the Apocrypha
was fed angel food in the temple
and had her fingers stained purple
because she worked with a purple.
One day a midwife came in,
palpated her to see if she was pregnant
and burned her fingers because of the purple.
What is going on in the temple?
I am telling you, there are virgins, Parthenoi,
and what comes from their agri-anathon?
