Look at the very bottom line.
Who is she on the top, first of all, for those of you who want to know Malinoway, Malinoway
is the Chthonian numphae.
What is that numphae?
It is that stage, immediately preceding marriage, Chthonian.
She's not just any numphae.
She's the Chthonian numphae, right?
She is that Chthonian nymph.
And um, where was she born and who was she born to?
Persephone.
Excuse me.
You're not supposed to say that.
You're supposed to say Korra or Korwa, if you're coming from the Mycenaean side.
You're never supposed to pronounce her name.
Yes, interesting.
Um, look at the last line in that very same, him right there.
Look at this.
Um, this is caused, I usually don't bring up translators, personal translator, because
they try, they try to do their job, but this time I'm going to bring up the most excellent
translator of the Orphic hymns, who is Athanasakis.
And he does a fantastic job, typically, except here in this last line, Thumoi, Persephone
is the translation here.
He translated the somatons dual-bodied or double-fleshed, which would be great if it
was this plus omaton, but we know the root soma is in there.
So the prefix really here is D, not this, this means twice.
But D, as lactantius tells us, is the beginning of the word si bule, si bule.
Who is the si bule with the si bines?
She is the one who brings the bule, the council, the rule of the si or, as we're told, D, through
an Etruscan loop, we get to the sea.
Wait a minute, are we in Northern Italy?
Yes.
Are we in modern-day Turkey?
Yes.
Are we in Ukraine?
Yes.
Yeah.
Wow.
Wow.
Remember, I've warned you about getting taken out back, a lot of the stuff that they have
in academics is meant to kind of come here, come here, little person, and one of those
big things that's used as a lure, big candy for the kitties, is the Indo-European and
the Indo-European, the Proto-Indo-European, that do not exist, tend to obscure our understanding
of the linguistics of antiquity.
What do we know from the Greeks that there is this group, there's this ethnic group,
the Polaskians, and there's some of the old, old, old generation that comes, that is part
of these Bronze Age migrations.
