Now what you're doing, come here Gilgamesh
Is you're interviewing a third grader
Gilgamesh, take some of this
Here we go, bring it up
Bring it up, people, don't tell me
This is just because of the translation
Are you ready?
They placed food in front of him, comma
They placed beer in front of him
What was that, tell me
What happened at the party, tell me
Can you tell me one more time?
Anki do what? Anki do nothing about eating bread
For food, for food, really?
And if drinking beer, he had not been taught
I get it Tommy, okay just tell me what happened
The harlot, Tommy, don't use language like that
The harlot spoke to Anki do sing
Eat the food Anki do
Do you remember when you had a second grade reader
Ride and it was like, you know
Almost 666, not quite
When you had your second grade reader
And it was Jack and Jill
And they're going up the hill
Why, it's a fetch a pail of water
Ride and all that kind of stuff
And you're following blah blah blah
What kind of school instruction booklet
Would this be, probably about third grade
Eat the food Anki do
It is the way one lives, drink the beer
It's custom of the land, go to the next one
Go to the next one, seriously they call this epic
There's no wonder, you've got to know
That ancient Greeks stood around
And bragged about how good their language was
And how happy they were that they were not barbarians
And what was a barbarian?
Anybody, blah blah blah, whose language was not Greek
And Greek, historically, sucked them all up
Just devastated them all
What does this say?
The city, oh we're talking about Nineveh
Watch this people, more BS
The city was said to be devoted to the goddess Anana of Nineveh
Cool, and Nina was one of the Sumerian
And Assyrian names for that goddess
Cool, the Assyrian cuneiform for Nina
Which is a fish
Wait what?
Wait, what did Tommy do?
He was trying to draw Nina
And he put a fish in a house
What the hell does that mean?
What is that, I'm serious
This may have looked, they don't even know
They're like, look, this kid is, you know, he's a little bit slow
This may have simply intended place of fish
Huh, you sure it's not just the word for like fish market or something?
Or may have indicated a goddess?
Probably, possibly, Hurrian
Possibly Hurrian, oh god
Wonderful scholarship people
That's just a salad of guessery
Give me the next one, give me the next one
Nineveh was one of the oldest and greatest cities
It's two mounds, two lumps of dirt, people
Tax from the Hellenistic period
Look, notice it's tax from the Hellenistic period
Right, what do you think?
Because they're the ones who are writing
They're the educated people
And then what is the Book of Genesis
Notice then they quote the Book of Genesis
You know where the Book of Genesis is from?
It's Hellenistic
What do you think?
This is just another of the five gazillion ways
That you'd have to be completely stoned
To think that the Septuagint was originally in Hebrew
Those monist Jewish scriptures are written at a time
When that stuff doesn't exist, it's a movement
Against polytheistic Jews
Who have completely embraced Hellenism
They're perfectly happy going to synagogues with Ion
That's what they put on the God-Ion
With the zodiac around them
They're perfectly happy with that
Which is a Greek word
Synagogue
Okay, there is no Hebrew
Hebrew, ancient Hebrew was the invention
Of a monist sect that wanted to break away
From Jewish polytheism
Your ancestors were way cooler than you thought
That's what that means
Now, swallow the monism
Maybe they'll figure it out in court
Settlements
Give me the next one
Isn't it fun?
It's fun to encourage people
Let's see some of the art that these frigging geniuses came up with
Nineveh, which is two mounds of dirt
Look at this
Now look, people, I'm just saying
I could pretty much see exactly how this thing was planned out
You know, there was a dude, and he was like,
Oh, man, look at that stone
That shit is flat
You know what we're going to do?
We're going to make some figures
And then another dude said, put some sheep
Put a row sheep
And then another dude came in
And he was like, what are you guys doing?
And they're like, we're going to make some art
And he was like, you know what, put me there
And put a giant hat on me
And make everybody bring these shape to me
Make them all bring them to me
And then put some guy on the top with some holy wand
And he's like, do that
And look, look, okay
This is the culture
Whose language is not advanced enough
To come up with forms
To come up with forms that are things that
And let me show you for example
Now people say, look, here's another one
Oh, this genius, who put this together?
Giant block?
It's a giant block and we're going to make
And I know people are saying, oh, what is he doing?
That's priceless
Priceless from the dynasty
Yeah, yeah
And it's got that funny thing like at a museum
You walk around the front and you can see the different legs
Because you notice it's got one too many legs
Did you notice that?
Right, but they did manage to get
They did manage to get some belly out of it
You know why?
Because they don't have the language to go
Where I'm about to show you
What is that? Is that more?
Do we have to read it?
The majority of the tablet corpus
