Professor Hogg
Attempted to translate it the seal he claims
That the words are
Scholars are already guessing
This is some proto-Greek stuff
Going on here
By the way
People are
Trying to shut this shit down
The mainstream
Consensus is like, no way
No way, no way, no way
Some of these philologists are saying
What else can it be
And so there's a huge debate going on
About this
I'm not going to sit here and say it's Greek
But that's what people are saying
In 1994
Dr. Lewis Goder
Published the inscriptions
He identified the script as linear A
Which is we know is proto-Greek
He's saying it's at least
And I looked into it, it's at least part of this family
Of what me and Amun would call
The Pulaskian alphabet
Pre-alphabet
They're similar
Linear A
Look at linear B
Is linear B comfortable in your A?
I don't really know
I can't tell you on that
But there's a lot of stuff being written about this stuff
The picture is not there yet
There's still so much work to be done
Alright
So
There's no way
Highly unlikely
So people are not liking this at all
But here's the thing
What does it date to? That's what I want to know
The archaeological analysis
The inscriptions of the Trojan script
Date to the third millennium BCE
2200
This is over
A thousand years
Before the Phoenician alphabet
Now
It's possible
That this form of script
Could have some influence on
I'm thinking
If it's the Phoenicians
I don't really care if it's the Phoenicians
Cadmus really invented the alphabet
But whatever the story is
I don't really care
I'm looking at the evidence and I'm saying
This looks like there could be some
Precedent here
For the alphabet coming from this part of the world
Alright
The next thing I want to do now
I'm going to be careful not to kick myself off again
I promise
I want to show something real quick
We're not the Stele
I'm not going to kick it off
We're not the Stele
This is the weirdest shit ever
As we've already discussed
At length
Nobody is talking about Israel
Until the Hellenistic era
Persian period Hellenistic
It's just not really
In the sources
Barely
Is there a kingdom there?
Is there a nation?
Is it a city-state?
So this is the consensus
In the Bible scholar world
This is the oldest inscription of Israel
Everyone just accepts this
Straight up
It doesn't fit
With the data
There are no other
Inscriptions anywhere
In all the Egyptian hieroglyphs
Of mentioning the word Israel
In fact the word Israel
Doesn't even show up in Egyptian hieroglyphics
It only shows up in
The later hierotic
Demotic scripts that come
After
King Bacchorus, by the way
After 700 BC
So before that
During the age of the hieroglyphs
The word Israel is just not in there
So they find this random
And the story behind it is so funny
So I've got to read this
First of all, let me show you what it says
Apparently the translation is
The prince is our prostrate
Peace, no one raises his head among the nine bows
Desolation is for
Jehanu
Hati is pacified
Plundered is the Canaan
With every evil
Wait, we already have Canaan in here?
I thought Bible scholar says
Canaan and Israel are synonymous
That's weird, why would Israel and Canaan both be in here?
Right?
But okay, what does it actually say though?
If you actually look at the hieroglyphs
It doesn't say Israel
It says Yisiririr
I mean, why is there
Assuming this is Israel? I have no idea
No clue why
People just assume this is Israel
Why can't it be Syria?
In fact, some people have said
If you look down here
There's three citations here
There's actually more than that
If you look into it
But Wikipedia gives three citations
To scholars who say
That this is Jezreel
This isn't Israel, this is Jezreel
Israel doesn't exist yet
Some people seem to have thought this is左
But the bottom line is this
It doesn't say Israel
It says Yisiriririririririr they just assume it's Israel
When you find something like this
It's
A needle in a haystack
As far as the evidence goes
If there was a bunch of other inscriptions
that mentioned Israel. I would have no reason to doubt this, but the fact that it's just sitting by
itself and then the next the next time in the sources Israel is mentioned is all the way down in
the 800s B.C. or 8th century B.C. or something. So we're talking 500 year gap from the first time
Israel is mentioned to the second time it's mentioned ever in the sources. That's just doesn't
that should be a red flag, but I just you got to hear this story. So here's the story. This is
this is reference from this is reference from a journal article from a drawer in 1995 called
Blinders Petrie A Life in Archaeology. I should read this yourself. It's from the University of
Wisconsin Press. This is what he reports. It's almost like a transcript of what happened when
they found this. And it says Petrie called upon Wilhelm Spielberg, a German philologist in his
archaeological team to translate the inscription. By the way, these people were looking for Israel.
They weren't they went out to find Israel in Egyptian sources. They weren't like looking for
something else stumbled on this. Their goal was to find Israel in the sources. Why? Because
Copenhagen International, people who writes, I'll talk about Copenhagen International,
they're called Biblical Minimalist. It's a whole entire academic group, completely at odds with
SPL types, seminarian types. They're and they're all just saying that the whole Bible is just
fairytale. It doesn't match up with history at all. So these people started to really they were
starting to really win in these debate circles. As far as the evidence, as far as they were,
they're showing, look, there's Persian loanwords, there's Hellenistic loanwords. These texts are
written later. That's what these people have been saying this for 100 years. This is not new.
Well, I'm not bringing anything new here. Neither am I. This has been being discussed for 100 years
now. You just don't hear about it a lot. You can look into it, look into the Copenhagen International
Bible Society. You'll see a lot of shit that we're saying right now. So anyways, the point is,
they're starting to win in in these academic debates. So now people need to find out,
they need to find evidence so we can clap back at these people. So here's the story. Spiegelberg
was puzzled by one symbol towards the end, that a people or a tribe whom Merneptah
had victoriously smitten, I S I E S R R. Petrie quickly suggested that it reads Israel. It's
Israel just assumes it. Spiegelberg agreed that this translation must be correct.
Won't the reverends be pleased? Won't the reverends be pleased? I'm going to be rich.
I'm going to be rich. Remark Petrie at the dinner that evening. Petrie, who realized the importance
of this find says, this stele will be better known in the world than anything else I have found.
The news of a discovery made headlines when it reached English papers. Now, let's just be,
these are common sense now. You have incentives to go and find this shit. And look how they just
find something close enough. It's in the general location. Ignore that canons already on that
list. Just don't tell anybody about that part. But it's Israel. It's Yerebeer. It's Yerebeer.
It's Israel. Yes, it must be. Won't the reverends be pleased? Probably got rich off that. Rich.
For the rest of the, that was the greatest discovery that person will ever make. They had
every incentive. So I'm just saying, look, maybe it is Israel. I'm keeping an open mind here,
but I'm just saying, why is it accepted? So people who, there's scholars right now,
I'm not going to call out names anymore. I'm not going to do that. We did that a few times,
but you guys know who I'm talking about, who are winning awards from the SPL, winning the greatest,
if you're the greatest scholar of the year award, people who are just literally going on TikTok,
telling people that this is real and the scholarly consensus is 100% agrees that this is real,
which is not true. There is a bunch of debate about the Merneptis Deli. It's not accepted
by every scholar. In fact, I think the evidence shows that this was kind of like bullshit. All
right. So I want to talk about one more thing, and then I'm done. That's, that's what I wanted.
I wanted to talk about that alphabet. But the next thing I want to discuss real quick is,
this is, this is a big one. So let me, I'm going to share my screen one more time. I promise I won't
get kicked off this time. So that was really bad. All right. This is going to be crazy. So
you always hear this, the Hellenistic period, right? What's the Hellenistic period? The Hellenistic
period is from the time Alexander the Great conquered the East. So 333, so 332 or whatever,
till the time of Rome. All right. So you almost, you get this dogma in academics and Bible scholar
world, where it's impossible that any Greek influence could happen on anything before the
Hellenistic period. The Greeks were nobodies before the Hellenistic period. That is bullshit.
And the evidence proves this. So I got a couple sources, and I'm almost done, I promise. But
this will be cool. You'll like this. So I'm going back to my screen again. And see this coin right
here. That's yellow. As you can see, Yod, Aleph, Vav. It's not four letters, it's three letters.
It's from the fourth century BC. And guess what? It's from the Persian period.
But it's obvious. And by the way, every scholar who's identified this coin
said it's influenced by Hellenistic imagery of Zeus holding the eagle. That is an image of Zeus.
There is no other, you can't say that's Ahura Mazda. You can't say that's
some Indian, no, look this up for yourself. Don't listen to me. That is Zeus in the being called
Yahweh. That means Hellenism was in Hellenism, not in the sense of the age. Hellenism in the sense of
Greek like was already influencing the East way before Alexander the Great. Well, I wouldn't say
way before, but a century before at least. This coin proves this. And by the way, there's more.
Look, here's another one. That's Yahweh. Let's Zeus, but it says Yahweh on it. It's a Persian period
coin. Here's another one. That's clearly Zeus with his eagle. Totally Jupiter Zeus, whatever you
want to call them. That's, this is a Persian period coin. And it says Yahweh on it. Okay.
Now, there's actually, there's, what's, so what's going on here? How are the Greeks influencing
the East if they're not ruling Babylon? That's, that's what a Bible scholar would say and to
clap back at me. And I'll just say, well, if you don't know the sources then, because Herodotus
tells us all about what's going, by the way, Diodorus of Sicily mentions that Yahweh is the
God of Moses. He spells it Y-I-A-O. And he says that this is like some synchronistic,
synchronistic God of the like, basically it's like all these gods rolled into one.
And Macrobius mentions this too. So people know about Yahweh. In fact, Chaldean oracles say it's
the name of Bacchus. And I've showed you guys that before. That's a whole, I didn't bring that with
me, but I want to show something about Herodotus and then Alexander the Great and then I'm done.
Herodotus actually discusses something in this one right here. So Herodotus says
where is it? Here we go. This is cool. Now Herodotus is away before Alexander the Great.
He says that when the Persians came to Cyrene, the country of Cyrene, which is the highest part
of Libya, which the nomads inhabit, has the marvelous boon of three harvest seasons. He
talks about them for a little bit. So who are the Cyrenes, right? I'm just going to share another
screen real quick. I have to show you guys this. Cyrene. All right. So Barca. Barca is this ancient
city, right? And it's a Greek city. It's like you look at the history. Barco appears to be a
Libyan tribe. By the way, this is where Medea was from too. The Greek settlers of Cyrene colonized it.
It shows that the Greeks were there all the way back in the 7th century BC. Herodotus places
the foundation of the city or whatever. So there's all this stuff about this Hellenistic city. Look
it. There's Amon right there. So you can see there's an obvious Hellenistic Greek influence.
That's from 475 BC during the Occamended period. Persian period, guys. Why is there Greek gods
on Persian period stuff? Because the Greeks are influencing shit way before Alexander the Great.
These are people who are very influential. Plato, Aristotle, Socrates, Thales. These are brilliant
minds. So the reason why I brought this up is because I have one more thing I want to show you.
During the Persian period, according to Herodotus,
he says, Herodotus says that the Persians, I'll just tell you it's in here. He says it's in book
four or a book, yeah, book four. He says the Persians went to this Greek city,
took all the Greeks out of there and Ionians too. So he took Ionians. Persians are conquering Ionia
and Egypt. They tried to conquer Greece and they lost. Everyone knows this famous battle between
the Persians and the Greeks. There's a few battles, but they did conquer the Egyptians and they conquered
the Ionians. All these people who are Hellen already influenced by the Greeks.
He says that they sent them all to Greco-Bactria. Now, where's that? This is my last thing I want
to show you guys. This is just like tying it all together. So Bactria, if we look at the
Achaemenid period, right? See all the way over here, all the way on the top left, can you see my
mouse? I don't know if you can see my mouse, but all the way up here where it says Sakaas,
Sogdenia, Bactria. So it turns out, if you fact check me on this, these were Greek cities
before Alexander the Great even got there because Cyrus relocated Greeks from Ionia and Cyrene
and set them up in these cities all the way in modern day Afghanistan. So before Alexander the
Great got to Bactria, there was already Greek cities there and that's why they call him a
liberator. A lot of people will say, oh, they only call him a liberator because the victor is
writing the history. Now, that could be true in some cases, but in this case, it's not. In this
case, Alexander the Great was seen as a liberator. When he came to Bactria and came to these cities,
they were like, finally, the Greeks are here. Great. And he built Alexandria the farthest,
which is all the way in modern day Afghanistan. It actually was the last Hellenistic city in the
world, last Greek kingdom to exist in the world. So when Rome conquered Greece, when the Seleucids
fell and the Ptolemies fell to Rome, there was a kingdom all the way in Afghanistan. It was still
Greek and it lasted all the way to like 200 AD and no one ever talks about it. All right.
Last thing I want to show you guys is a cool passage from Alexander the Great and
from Arian about Alexander the Great. This is so cool. And it just kind of highlights
how far this Bacchic Empire reached. We talked about Medea. And by the way, Herodotus, when he
talks about the start of the Trojan War, this is in Book 1, Chapter 1 of Herodotus. He says
that the reason why the Trojan War happened is because Yo was kidnapped. And then in retaliation
of Yo being kidnapped, the Greeks captured Medea, brought her to Athens. And then the Trojans came
in and retaliated to the Greeks and captured Helen. So there's three princesses being captured.
And that's why this war started. And it's almost, it's very strange that these three
faces, Medea, Helen of Troy, and Yo, very influential, almost deified goddesses in many
ways with their way they're written about in these texts. And they're all living in the same time
period according to Herodotus. And they're the reason why this war has happened. They're the
reason why we have civilization. And so when Alexander finally goes west, or I mean east,
this is what Arian says about this. This is a cool text. Where is it? Maybe I didn't bring that one.
All right, whatever. So yeah, Alexander, I'll just tell you the story. It's an Arian. Alexander the
Great travels all the way to Bactria. And he says that they were in these mountains that they
thought was Nisa, the city of Nisa of Dionysus. And they found wild ivy growing on the mountains.
So Alexander, in his compatriots, took the ivy off, donned him as Rhys, and started having a
Bacchic, they went into a Bacchic frenzy immediately. That's what Arian says. Cool story, by the way.
And I'm just going to leave you with this last thing that I want to show you guys.
So there's the earliest sources about, I'm always talking about the earliest mentions of any of these
texts, or anyone mentioning Moses, anyone mentioning Abraham. When you look at when these texts start
showing up, or when these people start getting mentioned in the sources, the first time it's
mentioned is Hecateus of Abdera. And then you get Menatho, then you get Alexander Polly, his
store, you start getting, and it's all in the Hellenistic period. And they're all Greek writers
writing about Moses, that the stories don't match up with the Bible. They're all happening later
times. Abraham is like, the stories are different. The Jews living in Elephantine, who left Israel
around in the 500s, go down in Egypt, and they have thousands of papyri that they
discovered in these cities. And thousands of Aramaic papyries and inscriptions in this
Egyptian city. And these are Jews. These are Jewish. They're writing in Aramaic, but they're Jews.
They never mentioned Abraham. They never mentioned Moses. They never mentioned David.
They never mentioned Noah. They don't mention anybody in the Bible. And we're talking
400s, 480 BCE. That's not an argument from silence. That's an argument of no evidence.
That's not an argument from silence. That's an argument of no evidence.
All right. And that's the last thing I want to show you guys. I keep saying that, but this is
really it. This character, Museus of Athens. No one ever talks about this, but Museus of Athens was,
supposedly, he was the son of Orpheus. And he composed these texts called the Crespoi, the
Oracles. And they're like Bible stories, basically. They're prophetic wisdom.
They're songs like the Psalms. Psalmoi means songs. The word Psalmoi means songs written
for a harpist. That's what the word Psalmoi means in Greek. It's a Greek. Psalms are Greek.
It's a very Orphic concept. In fact, they're in the Septuagint. I have it over here somewhere.
My handy-dandy Septuagint. Check this out. There's a Psalm. It's called Psalm 151,
but it's not, it's before the Christian Bibles started numbering stuff. So it's actually just at
the end of, it's at the end of Psalms. So it's actually technically part of Psalm 150. And if
you read it, it's like, it's about, it's about King David playing his lyre and calming all the animals
