Right? But which we know is originally a Greek text, which was then later back translated. It's why the guys, like take it down and then put it back in a second. It's why the guys with the fragments, they're always finding Greek with them, right? It wasn't Hebrew that they were translated into Greek, right?
They didn't need to do that. The Greek was already there. It was Greek that they tried to translate into Hebrew. And when they did, they made all sorts of mistakes. What kind of mistakes you say are the evidence that we can trace?
Those mistakes are the technical mistakes. It's like a fingerprint. They left their own fingerprint on the text as they back translated them. This is fantastic. You're going to love this.
Go to the next one. So look at this cosmos here. It's a microcosm. Okay, inhabited world. Look at the number five. It's the Pythagorean name for the Hexad. Cosmos is the Pythagorean name for the Hexad. And what you say you ask is that?
How could we possibly bring that to you? Let me just suck up real close here mentally. Let me just suck right up to Pythagoras through some of his students and just kind of pull that Hexad back in.
Pull that Hexad back in. It's an invisible letter. Did you know the Hexad is an invisible letter? Isn't that neat? You already know. You already have a knowledge of the names, right?
Now listen to this. Listen to this. They also called it the Hexad, the hurler of missiles, presider over the crossroads, and measure of time in twos.
Hurler of missiles from it being generated by the triad, which of course the Hexad is generated by the triad. Does any of us take math? I hope so. Not this kind though. See, we didn't have the good stuff. We had that basic Euclid.
This is a little bit more complex. This is the stuff that the people who are figuring out A squared plus B squared equals C squared, those nerds. This is their stuff. And by the way, a shout out to Robin Waterfield for this translation, because this is highly technical Greek.
Robin had to know a ton of mathematics to be able to write this, to be able to translate this. Nice job. Doc Waterfield. That's a light in the midst of a generation that is dark. Fantastic.
Presiding over the crossroads, perhaps from the nature of the goddess that is Hecate, with that moon coming in between the sun, you know, and its capacity of shedding light, right? Whenever the eclipse takes place, the moon and the sun are in combat with each other.
And we on the earth are the ones who suffer the switch. We suffer the switch. Don't be surprised if the dolphins, if the dolphins come up and live in the forest and all of those predators that live in the mountains, don't be surprised if they go live in the waters.
Nothing could be less natural than this switch. But it's a reality of quantum physics, apparently, according to the magi, at least. So the event, remember the event tomorrow and events like it, they're more like waypoints.
They're for a voice, for a sentient voice that sings existence. They are like waypoints. We don't get lost because of them. And the oracles find these waypoints and they then use them.
Right. And so it's guiding us. It's guiding us. Let me just finish this with the Hexad.
And each movement is twofold, being bounded on both sides by boundaries, right? The Hexad is the first to acquire the three movements of the dimensions.
These nerds, I tell you, as soon as they start this, I'm like, whatever.
Yeah. What is it mostly?
Since what is the Hexad? Give me the heart of what it is, Pythagoras. Just spill it to me. You know, your math is blowing my mind. It's just, you know, whatever.
Since there are seven celestial movements.
Okay. Those are the vowels. I know that if we're talking about the singing oracle. Okay. I'm with you so far.
Since there are seven celestial movements apart from the movement of the fixed stars, which is eight, but complex.
And since by their hurtling, they produce the same number of notes, then their intervals and as it were, means are necessarily six.
You mean the cosmos, the organization of everything that is, is under the control of the Hexad? Yeah. Yeah.
Interesting. Interesting.
That's quite a crazy arithmetic conclusion that you people have come to who are sitting there telling us about the future and operating this Bronze Age religion that ultimately would produce Judaism and Christianity and Islam from it.
My brothers and sisters in Christ or in Moses or in Allah, I have news for you.
Your gods are all the gods of the pagans of the Bronze Age.
Your ancestors worshiped Bacchus and Aphrodite. Let me say that one more time. Let me say that one more time.
My brothers and sisters who are Jews, Muslims and Christians, our ancestors worshiped Dionysus and Aphrodite long, long, long before your gods ever showed up.
Fantastic. Fantastic. Can you feel it near? It's the only power that permeates every, every sort of belief can be penetrated by this.
It's the power of love, baby. It's the power of arrows. Yeah.
