Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere, strong winds blowing,
God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
If I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
I'd wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Lady Babylon, this is Satanic initiation and tonight I want to bring you to the place of the Hexad.
I want to shatter that reality that is the fairy tale around us and I want you to see into the eclipse.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Tonight before we cleanse the place, I want to do something special.
I want to bring to you just a little bit of the past, the past that will show us the present and the future as one entity.
These are three sides of the triangle.
I'm going to take us to the crossways tonight.
Tonight we're going to go into that eclipse.
We're going to see with the eyes of our Achillicus.
We're going to watch as Zeus covers that sun's power and through the moon brings us those moments of darkness when the kingdom of darkness has its sway.
Welcome to Lady Babylon's Friday the 13th edition.
What I'm going to do right off the bat before we grab the sulfur and cleanse this place is I want to bring to you Chuck.
Chuck Baudelaire. Chuck has written something for us, you say.
Well, of course he did. He's a prolific author.
No, no, that's not what I'm talking about.
Charles Baudelaire has written something for us.
You see tonight it comes off the page.
Let's go Chuck.
I'm going to read to you from the Oxford world's classics.
Charles Baudelaire, the flowers of evil, a new translation.
Yes, fantastic.
Just for you. Just for you, the congregation. It was just for you. You're going to thank me for it.
Don't worry, it's just connections. That's all.
Tonight examination, the clock chimes the midnight in and ironically gives us the charge to remember the fleeting day.
What usage we made of our time today, that fateful day, Friday the 13th.
