Let's go see right now for the first time what this is saying. Go to the next one. The next one.
Soon etelets desan. Here's our verb. What does it mean to do this thing? Next one.
Well, look, it comes from teletow. Teletow, right? And here are all the meanings for teletow. For teletow. To finish, right? To finish.
Look down here to fulfill, right? To bring the completion. People, I just want to sit for a minute. I want you to look at this thing and I want you to notice all of this blue.
Does everybody see all of that blue? Do you know what those are? Those are texts. Those are other Greeks who were writing before anybody else has even thought about genres of literature.
Yeah. Yeah. Very fair. Look at these sources. Do you see all of these blue things are sources? Look at how big the ancient Greek linguistic umph is.
Look at how big it is. This is the first page for this one verb that is the core of the verb that you and I are looking at.
My God, is it complex or what? Watch. Watch how the Hebrews unable to capture it. And I'll show you a linguistic trick that shows that the Hebrew is actually an attempt to back translate the Greek.
Fantastic. Fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Uh huh. Next one. Wherever we. Yeah. Yeah. Here is the verb in Hebrew. Are you ready?
Yeah. To what? To be complete, to be an in, to be finished, to be accomplished or to be spent. To be spent. Okay. To be finished or accomplished.
How did the, how, where were we in the translation? Cause that's pretty simple. To be finished or completed. I get that. There's no complexity. I feel good. The raft is not moving.
But look, there's a wave coming up. Where was that second one? And that verb to let, oh, guess what? It's got a whole nother page of meanings on it.
It's got a whole nother page of meanings on it. Look at these people. Look at these people. To bring to an end, to finish. Right. To come to an end, to fulfill. Right. To pay what one owes.
Okay. Wait a minute. It's drifting a little bit. It's drifting a little bit. Let's see how the movement of the word goes through time. This is the history of this word, people. This is the history of a highly complex Greek concept.
Give me the next one. Watch this. You're going to love this. Look at halfway. Look at, oh, look at how, to initiate in the mysteries. Wait a minute. You mean this word? Leave it up. This word is part of, is used for initiating into the mysteries.
Yes. Yes, it is. Does it fit the context of Genesis? Well, yes, it fits it perfectly. Fantastic. The Greek mind behind the Bible. And you have to realize what I am telling you tonight. Let it be announced. Let it be announced.
And by the way, speaking of announcements, I'll be on a radio program on the East Coast in New York, WABC, The Frank Morano Show, this Sunday. So on that program, I would love to be able to show people, to just very, very vividly demonstrate to people how their Bible,
their God, their religion is based upon something entirely different than what they think it is. Did you see that word to initiate? It's also used in magic. You know what you can do when you make something tell awesome magic? And when I say magic, I mean the stuff Moses and Jesus were both heavily using magic.
What can you do? What can you do with this magic? You can endow things. You can make them complete. Did you know you can endow something with a spirit, with a diamond? Did you know you can energize something? It's all quantum. You can do it. Fantastic.
You know what a good time to do all that stuff is? When you're at the crossroads. Yeah. You look in the three ways. Let's get to the Hexab. I love this. Okay, people. Hold on. Buckle up. Get back in the bus. We're leaving the 10th century. I don't know. Maybe we should beat it up a little bit more. The 10th century. Go ahead. Hit that one too. Oh, look, it's just more people. It's just a ton of more meaning that I just cannot keep pouring this into your brain.
Keep going. Next one. That's the to land to finish something right now. What about this cosmos? There was a cosmos in this verse that the that the King James missed because the King James relied on that 10th century Hebrew, Masoretic text.
Right, which we're going to show in just a second is a translation of the Greek. It's so cute the way this works out. It's like, dude, this is irrefutable. This is irrefutable. Put me into a room with some of the leading linguists, some of the leading philologists and Semitic studies people.
And let me show them this, please, please let me show them this. Okay, tonight you get to preview it, right? This is before we go to trial. You and I are just, by the way, shout out to everybody in the gallery tonight, who's been faithfully watching and who's had lots of great input and anything you want to say.
Say it. You know what I mean? Love it. Hail Satan, guys. Give me some Hail Satan's in that day. Okay, here we go. Let's get back to it.
Okay, call us up to the next tags, please. We're looking at cosmos. We didn't see it. How do they translate cosmos into Saba, right? Saba, which is like an army war or warfare. Okay, I see how those are combined together.
Saba sounds pretty straightforward, doesn't it? Is that what a cosmos is? Like, that is not even the furthest thing from a cosmos, but I'll show you why they use this word. Okay, just keep this word in mind.
Saba is an army for cosmos. What does the Greeks say? What does the Greeks say?
Nope. There we go. Blow that up. You're good. You're good. Back, back. Blow it up. Thank you, Chewie. Order, order. What is cosmos? Order, order. How about number two? Good order, good behavior, form or fashion?
Oh, interesting. Form or fashion, I kind of see. Look who's under form or fashion. Oh, God, I want to, I just want to nuzzle up close to this, to this gorgeous, gorgeous entry. Look at number three, form or fashion. They give you par amenities, right? Oh, God, you're going to see how this word transforms over time.
Give you the next page because there's more cosmos out there. What else is cosmos? What else is cosmos? Look at this one. Look at this one. Honor or credit? Yeah, yeah. Ruler, ruler or regulator. Ruler, regulator. Why? Well, it's all about order. It's all about order.
And look at number four. World order. Every day is talking about world order. What's a world order? There's going to be one world order. They don't realize they're talking about cosmos, but they do. And this doesn't exist. If there's another one, give me the other one. I want to see that one too.
And this doesn't exist. Yeah. Yeah, no, that. Oh yeah, leave it up for a second. And this doesn't exist in the world of the Hebrew, right? This one concept, cosmos, has a history that's a thousand years older than this Hebrew text that is supposedly translated in the third century.
