They just didn't have the vocabulary. It's just the development of language, how much time they had and what the influences were.
The Greeks are sitting around these islands, baby. Have you been to the palaces from the Mycenaeans?
Man, they had a good. And they developed a very sophisticated language for writing and for composing and for bringing things to life like drama.
They were the ones doing this and they did it through Bacchus. They did it through Bacchus. Do you know people?
I want to show you on the night before the eclipse on this Friday, the 13th. Thank you, Universe.
Thank you for this organization, for this cosmos that we can bring this Bacchic reality to life.
If you are Jewish, religiously, right? Because most of the people that I worked with in Israel were like, no, right?
They're concerned about democracy. That's what they were concerned about, surviving.
A lot of them didn't want to be doing what they were doing or thought their career could go this way or that way.
They didn't care about the religion. But for the people who do, I want to reach out to you and say, your religions are all Bacchic.
They're all based in Bacchic worship. And this is a drunken, enthusiastic, maniacal mystery that initiates you into death and to rebirth that brings you.
Why does it do all that? For the same reason that Moses built that temple, that tavernacle, excuse me, that tent in the wilderness
so that God could speak to him directly. Isn't that nice?
He made a locality, a telestarian, so that this God that we've just been reading about could communicate.
This is the one that messed up the garden, right? He could communicate through the magic with the power of the cosmos.
This is the magic book of the generation of Uranos and Gaia. Let's go on, Chewie. Let's go on.
We need to finish on a somber note. Yeah, just how about that one?
Yeah, I want to bring up because Paul was here. I was expecting this. Paul!
Yup, sermon position he got. He knows. Paul knows. He goes right away.
I'm in position, buddy. You know how it is. Give me this.
What did you tell me there, Paul? What did you tell me there? Who is the acorn?
Who is the acorn? The image, reflection. That is a reflection, people. It's not an image like you would see carved.
This is a reflection. Did you know the Greeks differentiated between the image that is the image and the image that is the reflection?
We call them both images. Yeah, yeah. But this acorn is the reflection.
Who is Jesus? Tell me. I have such a burden for those of you who are evangelicals and who are under that slavery of greed that is Christianity.
It is a slavery, a perpetual slavery to greed. You guys know if you didn't have...
We're talking about Jesus Christ who was arrested in public park with a naked boy.
If he didn't promise you an Ionic life, because he didn't promise you eternal life, he promised you Ionic life.
Look it up. If he hadn't promised you that, would you have followed him?
If you're going to ask yourself that, it's the same question the devil. Did you hear the devil? I heard the devil.
Chewie, the devil came. It's the same question the devil asked. Job only honors you because you give him things.
So this genius who destroyed the garden situation because he couldn't see that Lucifer, the hottest creature ever on my dad, would screw things up with Eve in the garden.
