He couldn't see that coming. So he messed up the whole thing. He messed up the whole thing.
That guy comes along and he's giving us this system. Bring back up Paul. He's giving us this system to work with.
Jesus is the image of God.
Who? Of Thayu. Who? Thayu, the one who is unseen.
Wait a minute. You mean Fannes? Okay. All of you have had a little bit of the Greek and you've been looking at the sources.
This is the unseen one. This is coming from the waters.
Coming from the waters. Do you feel Genesis now? You should. You should be starting to begin to understand the Genesis.
We sent this stuff here eons ago. It should be taking effect right about now.
Watch this. He's the Prototakos, that firstborn of all of that which is produced.
Everything that is material reality. He is that firstborn.
Now for those of you who are Orphics, you hear that and it makes perfect sense because this is who the Orphics worship from the beginning.
This invisible God. This unseen God. And Jesus is that firstborn from that entity.
The cosmos. You're looking at the mystery of the cosmos in the face. Why is Uranus both the son and husband of Gaia?
Ready? Paul? Paul? Can you give us this one, Paul? Come on. Come on, Paul. Wake up.
Because in Phrygia, when you're dealing with the worshipers of Sibley, you're dealing with a son who is also a lover.
Yes. When Jesus was arrested in the public park with a naked boy, there's a reason for it. A very strong historical reason for it.
So I would end with saying for those of you who are praying for me, whether it be for my destruction, which I've gotten some of those.
Those are always entertaining. Or whether it be for my blessing, my blessing. I would ask you all just to do one thing.
Tell me, what's he doing with the naked kid? I don't like fairy tales and I'm tired of the lies.
I want the garden back and I want the gods who won't mess things up. I want Lady Babylon.
The dolphins must come to the mountains and the beasts who hunt in the forest, they have to return to the water in order for us to switch the poles.
Thank you for tonight. And may we together see this new world, this reality. Hail Satan.
Maybe we could walk together again. Just maybe we could walk together again.
