We have, in spite of all that we know, behaved like a heretic.
We have blasphemed Jesus, the most incontestable of all gods, like a parasite at the feast of some monstrous profligate.
We have, to please the brute, that worthy vassal of hell insulted what we love and flattered the one we scorn.
Vile torturer.
Welcome. Welcome to the Friday the 13th. Tonight I want to bring you to the hexad.
So in order to do that, we have to cleanse this temple and we have to summon the spirits of the dead.
Please take us to the hexad, Chewie.
And just how do we go about finding this hexad?
How do we walk the steps? How do we follow the way?
In order to get there together tonight, we have to first partake of the blessed communion.
The blessed communion. Shall we get there? How are we going to get there? Is everybody ready?
I am going to show you a text in just a second. This first text that I'm going to show you is a text that 10 years ago I had to fight anybody on the planet
to read and understand. It's a text about drugs. It's several. It's several about drugs and about the communion and about the wine of Bacchus.
And I remember. I remember this is so important because the whole idea 10 years ago of the communion being a compound drug, people were laughing.
Yes, they were. Somebody came to me and author came to me and I consulted with them and there you have it.
I want you to see it tonight. I want you to see the communion. Let's pull it up, Chewie. Let's go to the first start chart.
People, look at this.
You know what? The guy started speaking. I'm translating. The guy started speaking. He was totally in awe.
This sweet, sweet, sweet potion that he's drinking so much so the next line down, he starts.
He starts. Hallelujah. He's screaming. Hallelujah. Are you screaming? Hallelujah. You ever had a drink that made you scream? Hallelujah.
You probably haven't been to the mystery yet. If you haven't. If you haven't.
He screams. Hallelujah. And what comes out of his mouth, this song, this agrarian song, this earthy nature song.
Okay, let's give me some more of that waiter. Can I have another one of what he's having? Please. Thank you.
Agronomoi. Who are these guys, the agronomoi? These are the farmers. These are the guys who are out in the countryside, right?
What do they do? They're very greedily filling up their cups. Why? Look at that second line, people in Greek.
Look at that second word in. Right from Bacheo. Oh my goodness. They're causing their minds to be what? To be. How are they doing it?
With this mind with shattering wine, with this mind shattering wine, this wine that's going to make you lose your mind.
Have you been to communion? My brothers and sisters, have you been to communion?
Somebody wrote in and they said, I wish you could know about the peace of Jesus Christ and what it is to be filled with the spirit.
I thought, my brother or sister? Yeah, I forget which one it was now. My brother or sister, I thought to myself, I thought, I know exactly what you're talking about.
Exactly. And with that power of Christ, I brought people to salvation. I changed lives.
I watched people get up off of the very bottom and try to get back on their way up through the power and love of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
