What happens also?
You can give it and turn a man into someone who's desirable to a woman.
You can control desire with this thing.
And what else can you do?
Well, it also protects against Egyptian cobras.
Yeah, the venoms that are coming from the cobra that we're using.
These madmen junkies are using who are telling us the future and telling us where to set
our colonies down and directing us to kill tyrants.
These people who are running an empire that stretches from Babylon all the way to the
west side of Europe.
Yeah, yeah, these people, these very same people.
Let's go to one more text.
I'm hitting it, but I just wanted you to see Adam.
I'm going to throw this up there for a little mystery because everybody likes mystery and
you guys like solving things and then telling me what the solutions are.
But I told you we were taking back Eve as she who is a wadzo, right?
And she who is the one entering the Bacchic worship, she whose eyes are being opened.
And Adam, who is Adam?
Who is Adam?
Adam's that guy without whom you're never going to get to the second to last line.
How do they use Adamas?
How do you use Adamas?
Adamas is hard.
Adamas is hard.
How do you use Adamas?
There's a few people here I could ask.
And I know that those people would have very, very good descriptions of what we could do with Adamas.
Yes, but it turns out in antiquity, what do you do with Adam?
You perform magic, which is why the Sibyls said Adam is north, south, east, west.
North, south, east, west.
Do you mean the Sibyls, the pagan Sibyls have Adam?
Yes, they do.
Adam is there before the proto-Hebrew by 800 years.
It's in linear B.
Yes.
Isn't that gorgeous?
To heal and to kill all at the same time.
To heal and to kill with the technical, these Greeks and their technical prowess.
Oh my God, what happened?
What happened to that power?
That power.
Gorgeous.
Love it, love it.
And I think that's, this is our last, right?
We have a, go ahead and flash that.
Go ahead and flash that up there.
Look, I just want you to see a little.
We'll go to this one first, actually.
Look at this.
This is the unconquerable, right?
Adam, the adamao, the one that can't be overcome, the one that can't be overcome.
Isn't that nice?
But if you go to him in Latin, just for the fun of it, it really just means to love.
It really just means to love.
And as Avid shows us there at the bottom, this is the kind of love, take it off.
This is the kind of love that is unlawful.
This is the unlawful love, the unlawful love.
Hmm.
Okay.
Okay.
Did they mean to get the weird Ago and the Septuagint?
Cause they stuck that in there.
The Greeks who wrote the Old Testament stuck it in there.
A reference to an old Etruscan term.
Why?
Because these Greeks and Alexandria were both studying and emulating the same junkies
that you and I are researching now.
When Jesus is doing his thing in the garden with the boy,
screaming, I'm not a child trafficker when the authorities show up in the raid,
when all of that goes down, he is not creating a new world.
Ex nihilo.
He is borrowing from a working tradition of mystery.
Otherwise, Jesus Christ would not have been arrested in a public park at 4 a.m.
with a naked boy.
Okay.
More drugs.
I know you guys are putting up with a lot of drugs.
Just constant bombardment with the drugs.
We're getting to the end of the season.
And what I'd like to do is I'd like to be able to wrap the season in a nice bow and package
just so it all comes together.
People can breathe in a, ah, that will be Wednesday's Bible study.
I appreciate the fact that you are all here participating in this in a way that honors the museum.
We're here because this is the new library for us to find these things.
I promise you, I will not profit off of this.
I will give you the best that I can.
It's free of that rotten greed.
Long live Lady Justice and Hail Satan.
They bring no flowers to me on Sunday.
It's gonna break her heart.
