Love it.
That's what Epithi is yelling at Paul.
Let's keep going.
They don't care.
The folks at the religious institute, they don't care.
Yeah.
So this is more of it.
Yeah.
So that's, this is, you see that Pailon is in there.
He made that.
What did he do with the Pailon that is online too?
The first, the first word in line three, Epichrisen.
He did what?
He Christed my eyes, baby.
He Christed your eyes.
Yeah.
He Christed your eyes.
Notice, they're not sitting there because you who were part, I'm talking to the guy
at Berkeley.
I think it was Stankett Harvard or Priest.
I can't remember which one.
Harvard, I think it was Harvard.
Who's the guy at Berkeley?
I don't know.
It doesn't matter.
Dr. Doolittle, thanks, Chewie.
What you've got here, people, when you use the term Christ, you think in the Bible institutes
and the Bible colleges, you think in the Bible departments, that this is like a special term
that was used, came out of Jesus' mouth, and everybody was like, huh, yeah, right, we'll
adopt that term.
Now, Christianity comes through the Hellenistic world.
It doesn't exist in a vacuum.
It is there because of the Greek culture, it's there because of the Greek religion, and they're
using a term that the doctors are also using, right?
It's the technical application.
I told you guys that everybody says, huh, Messiah, and it has nothing to do with that.
It is the application of a drug.
Jesus is the Christos.
He's the one who has the Christing.
That's why we want him to spit in our mouths and our eyes.
I want him to spit wherever he wants, right?
If I'm going to be a good Christian, if this guy who promised us tonight.
You saw it, I think it was priests who said it.
One of these guys said, it's okay, one of these guys said, hey, if it's that way and
ultimately we're going to find it, it's stank from Harvard.
If it's that way and ultimately we're going to have to embrace it.
Guess what?
Stank, you're going to have to embrace it a lot deeper in your side of you than you
thought.
Yeah, you're going to have to, yeah, yeah, he's going to spit.
Because that exchange of the drug is absolutely paramount to the practice.
It is what is the mystery.
You don't get a mystery without complex combos of drugs produced by people who can do the
Christing.
Remember Medea?
She's the first recorded incident that I've found.
The first recorded incident of Christing.
Yeah, so this is a Bronze Age development, right?
Maybe she created it herself.
I would tend to think because they explain the fumigations as her specific creation and
producing that Bacchic in theotic state.
You would think logically that because she's the one who's using those drugs that the Christing
has to come through those specific drugs, so probably more likely than not, she's the
source, right?
She's the one who develops that treatment.
It wasn't always around.
It didn't hang from the trees, right?
It's evolution and biology, right?
So yeah, there we are.
There we are.
This is what I wanted to bring you tonight.
I wanted to bring you a little bit of the present, and I wanted to pull in so that we
can see the future in the past.
I wanted to kind of sit and dwell in that present bubble.
I want to, people say don't do that because it dates you, but in the Iota, we have to
set that center point.
I want to bring in the Theon.
I want to bring in the sulfur to purge this place again, right?
Which Jesus had in his mouth.
Yeah, that guy was extreme, bro.
And I want to bring back the sulfur purge.
Watch this.
Let's do it one more time.
This is our present bubble.
Focus from the throne.
Hit it, Chewie.
The only question is, is God going to allow our nation to enter a time of judgment for
our collective sins, which is mercy and grace of God back for some time, or is He going to
give us one more chance to restore the foundation, to return to Him, so we will not be able to
do it without the Lord's help, because there's so, the flesh is, and the mistrust in the
sin and everything is so great here, that we, this is going to have to bring people
to their knees.
And look, I believe God is about to do something, faith in our institutions is the slowest
that's ever been in the history of our nation.
The culture is so dark and depraved that it almost seems irredeemable at this point.
You know, where the church attendance in America dropped below 50% the first time in our history
since it began to measure the data 60 years ago, and the number of people who do not believe
in absolute truth is now above the majority for the first time.
So one in three teen girls contemplated suicide last year, one in four high school students
identifies as something other than straight, we're losing the country.
It's dark.
It's dark.
I can feel your sin.
I can feel it.
I can feel those decisions that you make and those, the things you contemplate, I can feel.
I can feel those feelings that you have that you're part of this darkness that is spreading.
And this is the foundation that the third, okay, just so people know, if President Biden
falls down the stairs or something, and Kamala Harris, you know, ends up, I don't know, going
off and doing something else.
This gentleman will be the master holding the torch of democracy for the world.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This cleansing that you can smell from him, right?
This cleansing that you can smell, you smell the sulfur on his breath, you smell it.
It's your sin.
It's your sin.
If you even, if you even look, keep your eyes closed.
Because if you even look, you're guilty.
You're guilty.
This darkness, right, that sits in the foremost place of our brains, this storm, this darkness,
this fury, this is the kind of thing that if you don't purge it, you're going to end up
spitting a luge into somebody's mouth.
Yeah.
People, this is all the same history.
It's all the same person through time.
Yeah.
Reflecting that power.
What happened tonight?
We didn't see the, we didn't see the world receive the knowledge, right?
We didn't see it.
We see a church that's very upset about bashing and we see a refusal to look at the sources.
Tonight on Lady Babylon, we establish the source.
I have provided it for you.
You people at Harvard, I've provided it for you.
Yeah.
If you are the least bit competent, which I don't, I'm not confident of.
If you're the least bit competent, you'll take these sources and you'll run with them
and you'll honor the muse.
But I know what's in your shorts.
I know when you go to bed tonight, how it's going to feel.
I know because once you've been there for the sake of gain, once you sell your soul,
the devil knows you're impure.
Yeah.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Hey, why did you ever change your name?
Hey.
