and throw it together.
That's what happened with the chemical muse.
Professor from Brown told me,
it's gonna take him 10 years to catch up with you.
I was like, I don't have the time, bro.
Yeah, I'm going ahead.
So I got a good head start here.
And I'm bringing to you the revelation tonight
that Judaism and Christianity are mystery religions
that were originally based in the worship of Satan.
Yeah, fantastic, fantastic.
Now, what about this name?
What does it mean?
We're only halfway there, right?
I mean, we're more than halfway there,
but we're only halfway there on the name.
Okay, I see how it's Greek, older, Mycenaean,
predating the Hebrew by nearly a thousand years.
Love it.
Now you know why the Greeks have the name Adam,
and it doesn't surprise you.
And it doesn't mean what you've been told it means
because you have been lied to for a thousand years,
a thousand years, one splinter in the museum.
Boom, everything's corrupt.
Wow.
It's like, you know, people ask me,
what about magic?
What about magic?
And what about this?
If you want real magic, go back to the source, right?
You know, what do you mean go back to the source?
Well, as we know, we sons and daughters of Venus know,
these languages came to us
through the hands of the witches.
Yeah, isn't that neat?
And then you say, wait a minute, wait a minute,
I'm starting to smell Rome in Lady Babylon.
I'm starting to smell Rome in Lady Babylon.
Does anybody else smell Rome?
For those of you who've been so patient,
well, I've beaten Paul the Apostle's ghost.
I want to say thank you.
And for those of you who've asked, I'll give him one more.
I'll find one more example to give him a good one.
But I don't know why people like that one so much.
Is it, I don't know, it kind of feels good.
It's cathartic, you know, yeah, yeah, my droogs.
If you could be that Roman soldier, would you?
Right, right, excellent.
Okay, let's keep it going.
I want to go back to the text, let's,
so we have our word here.
I just want you to see this one, so here it is
with the row and bring it down to the definition
in Alice and I just want you to guys to see here.
This saturas is a lewd Godish fellow.
What?
A lewd Godish fellow.
I don't use the word lewd anymore.
At least nobody's been lewd to us.
Anybody, Jewy, anybody been lewd to you?
No, I don't think anybody's ever been lewd to me,
at least lately, right?
So what is a lewd?
Go back to that definition.
Watch these people, never have been in the science.
Don't believe me because I'm wearing something on my head.
Maybe I've got a beard.
Maybe I've got some staff of magic power.
You know, maybe I've got, I'm bald, you know,
with a bunch of other bald guys who wear in the same color.
I don't know, fuchsia, I don't know, is that a color?
Maybe we're all wearing that.
Don't believe me for those reasons.
Go down to the science, right?
We're not here because we're gullible.
Look at number four on saturus.
Hey, entasis, do you know what entasis is?
Tension.
A stretching.
A straining, a force of compulsion.
