Or if time's blotted out your memory
As I listen to the breeze
Whisper gently through the trees
I always cherish what you meant to me
High on a mountain, wind blowing free
Thinking about the days that used to be
High on a mountain standing all alone
I'm wondering where the years of my life have flown
Yeah, well I'm wondering where the years of my life have flown
So we're looking for Satan
And tonight you know where we're going to start
Did you see, did somebody as they opened the door
You didn't see who it hit, right?
We're going to go to Donka Lane Pagels
Let's go to the very first, yep, there you go
Look, this is etymological definition, right?
We're trying to find out, what is Satan?
It's a proper name, right?
Of the supreme evil spirit
I'll take that with sour cream please
And great adversary of humanity and Christianity
Right away, okay, I thought it was just a Greek word
I'm just looking for that area
Old English Satan, well you guys are not going back far enough, right?
Late Latin, Satan, right?
Vulgate and the Old Testament only
From Greek Satanas
From Hebrew Satan
Adversary
Wait, wait, wait, what do we do?
We skip from Hebrew into Greek into Latin into English
And into what you and I are talking about right now
How do we get on this pathway?
Guys, I'm sorry, I didn't talk to the tour guide
I'm going to write this down
Because I don't like being here anymore than you do
Okay, from the Hebrew, really?
Give me that quote up again
Maybe we can find out who's behind this tour
Oh look, it's Elaine Pagels
On the origin of Satan, let me guess
There's a book, there's an article, there's something
Something, bring me back
Something that involves the exchange of currency
Whether it's money
Or whether it's fame
Or whether it's academic bragging rights
Yes, some kind of currency is being exchanged
Give us Elaine's wisdom
In biblical sources
The Hebrew term, the Satan, describes an adversarial role
It is not the name of a particular character
Although Hebrew storytellers as early as the 6th century BCE
Occasionally introduced a supernatural character
Whom they called Satan
Okay, now wait a minute
Oh, so Elaine, you have 6th century Hebrew sources
Wait, wait, wait, what's that?
Wait, where's...
Can you feel this?
Can you feel that?
Tell me, your sources, right?
I'd love to see them
Oh, you don't have any
Wait, what?
You mean everything that you're going to refer to
Is going to be coming through the Septuagint
An Alexandrian source
An Alexandrian source
That is our oldest source
That the Maserites
Yeah, diverted the river from
When they made their version
Oh, over a thousand years later
So where the heck are we?
We need to stick to the science
Remember, I told you the cave is dark
Let's stick to the science
Let's just look at the name
Look at the name
This name was existing before
Long before there's any written Hebrew
