Now, what's funny is they played against each other, right?
Because the Christians are like,
you know the Muslims and the Jews are getting it, right?
Right, right?
Muslims are like, oh, the Christians and Jews are wrong.
They're getting it, right?
He's gonna show up, whoever he is,
I guarantee you he's got testicles though.
He's gonna show up and there's gonna be blood
up to the horse, right?
We all know that.
Look, I'm not gonna, let me not waste any of your time.
Let's go right back, let's go right back to some texts.
Chewie, pull up that very next text.
Mm-hmm, go ahead.
Yeah, okay, we saw that.
I had the English there for you guys.
You know, if you wanna see that commission,
just so you know, I'm not making it up.
They say if they drink any deadly thing,
this is King James, but what King James translators
didn't do was read ancient medicine.
And if they had, they would know
that word thalassemo there,
is used for a drug that induces a death state.
It's a whole class of drugs.
You can induce a death state.
I can give you something and walk back in in 15 minutes
and you will appear to be a corpse.
Isn't that nice?
Death inducing drugs, death inducing drugs.
Some of them they use in surgery.
Yeah, makes sense, doesn't it?
Wake up, catch up, come on man, we're way behind.
Our people are way behind on this one.
Watchers are like, I don't know,
you may be able to make it, but it's closing quick.
Get those people over there, right?
Oh God, reason, reason, we gotta push the reason.
Okay, so here we are, here we are with Celsus.
Now, I wanna get us our next text.
Yeah, Satan, we're looking at Satan.
There was a day when the sons of God
came to present themselves.
Everybody knows what this is, it's Job 1.6.
They came to present themselves before Lord and Satan
also came among them, take it down.
That's not there.
You see, what, what?
Oh, it is in the version that was made
in the 10th century, it is there.
But in the original that everybody's quoting,
it's not there.
Is Satan's not there?
Nope, not there.
Okay, so let's keep looking for Satan then.
Okay, here's where you see, you wanna see Satan?
I'll give you Satan.
People say the only place we have this
is the Septuagint, right?
The Old Testament, I am a Bible scholar.
Right, yes, watch what happens to the name.
Let's do some philology, shall we?
Here's the Septuagint, this is,
I think it's 1st Kings 11, and this is verse 14
that I'm looking at, and I just want you to see
in verse 14,
yeah, and the Lord, Kurios, you can take it down,
the Lord, which is Kurios, which the 10th century
translators who were back translating this Greek
turned into Yahweh.
Wait, you're telling me Yahweh is a linguistic invention?
I'm telling you, hang on, let me get it.
Yahweh is just another way of saying yee-haw.
It's an invention, they're using the word Kurios,
which is a very, very old pre-Hebrew Greek term.
It goes back 800 years before the very first scratches
of Hebrew show up.
So when you tell me Satan is from a Hebrew word
that's over 800 years after the fact,
I'm gonna tell you, you've been reading that Bible
that is based on a translation
