that is over 1,000 years after the fact.
Good job.
Could you not do one thing right?
Linguistics, get that right, get it right.
So where is Satan coming from?
Bring up Satan in all his minions here.
We don't need that one here, I want you to give me,
I want you to give me this one now.
Okay, yeah, here we've got, so you ask yourself,
if this Satan is a Greek translation of something,
surely it's root can't be found anywhere else.
Oh no, oh no, look at this list.
Saturiake, saturiasis, saturiasmos, saturiao,
saturidion, saturikos, saturion.
That's a good one, that's my personal favorite.
I'm gonna show you, that's a drug.
So is the saturiake, that's an antidote.
See the one on the top, the saturiake, that's an antidote.
Okay, and let's come back to this,
but I wanna show you, I wanna just take a break
and I wanna tell you, all my students,
let's get that down, all of my students, you know,
in unit seven of the intensive Greek course,
you find in the notes, on the vocabulary,
yeah, vocabulary, the vocabulary notes.
You find a little section on aretor, right,
on their word for rhetorician, right, speaker.
What does he tell us?
That word speaker is cognate with the English word.
And you say, really?
The word and aretor are from the same word.
They developed from the very same root?
Yes, they did.
And you say, wait a minute,
where's the W come from in word?
What, what?
It's a diagramma, it's a diagramma.
Oh my goodness, it's a diagramma
and it's hiding in the row.
You hear, there's an aspiration at the beginning
of the word aretor, it really is W-R.
It's really how you say it.
But by the time we get it out of Greek,
it's represented by just an aspirate, an aspiration.
Rough breathing, so what does all that mean?
I wanna show you a little bit of grammar.
I know, you people love this,
cause you're like, you're very nerdy
and like sexy nerdy, you know what I mean?
So I like that, I like that.
Can you bring up this one?
This is from a Greek grammar.
This is from a Greek grammar.
And I just want you to notice,
blow that up big Chewie.
I just want you to notice under section 129
and your dissimulation.
Now don't, right, right?
Don't get too, like don't get too wound up, right?
Show yourself control here, cause we're going in, right?
Going in deep.
Look at B, a consonant usually row,
usually row, sometimes disappears.
Okay, just stop there.
Take it down.
You mean you can have a consonant,
which is almost always row, disappear.
Yes, you can.
So satanus and satanus are the same word.
Yes, they are.
And we even have proof that these words are linked
because the diagram stays on the Roman side.
You see the diagram in the U, satanus.
Yes.
Isn't that nice?
Satwanas.
Satwanas in its oldest form became satanus, right?
Became satanus.
And that is the origin of Satan.
That has not been proposed.
You will not find that in any peer reviewed journal article,
perhaps in 10 years, they might get wise
