Get this stuff ready.
The preparations of, look at that second line, Greek students.
Make preparation of what?
The sacred drink of the dipsass.
The sacred drink of the what?
The sacred drink of the dipsass.
It's a, don't worry.
It's a snake.
It's a snake.
Yes.
It's a snake.
It's because you know Jesus is rocking on the juice when he's sitting on the cross yelling,
I'm so thirsty because the thirst is the name for the snake that stuff boosts you into
the third heaven, raw.
And he is wasted on it.
Well, he knows how to make it good.
The big G the gangster G knows how to make the purple.
Oh, God. Yeah. Now you think. Why does he need that boy?
You know, it's purple. You're gonna have the boy. Let's go back to the text.
Yeah. What does he do here in the end? I just want you to look at these last words.
He cries out that barcic shout of the wine victory, the voice that brings the victory
with the wine, the voice that brings the ecstasy. What is Jesus doing? He just made purple juice
that gets people high and now he's screaming like a madman using the very same cult epithets
that are used for Heracles. For Heracles? Yes. Check the Orphic Fragments. You'll find that
these same epithets that are used for Jesus are used for Heracles with respect to his love of the
purple and the boy cult. You see, Highless, don't forget Highless. That's one thing I realized in
my career. I am Ammon. That's one thing I realized in my career. Don't forget that boy. Don't forget
him. I had one. I had that boy. I had Highless. Who is Highless? He's the one that serves the
nectar. And just so you don't think this is all symbolic, you can talk about drinking out of
Highless's rectum. Yeah, they do in the priepayic poetry. That's Zeus's cup. Yeah, it's the nectar,
bro. It's the nectar that gives those immortals immortality. If you were born again, you would
know that. But you're not. And that's why Jesus Christ is arrested in a public park with a naked
kid. Because he knows. He knows. Love it. Let's go to the next one. So Jesus is High. High as he can
be. Now, and all of a sudden, I'm going to throw you the biggest curveball that you've ever seen
in your life. Are you ready for this? At least it is for me. It is for me. I'm sorry. Curveball.
I'm admitting. Look at this. Parthenique. Christoio. Look at that genitive. Look at that genitive.
That's not a typical genitive, right? But we are using a cult meter, right? Christoio.
And you read that and you think it's a typical person, classically trained person,
philologist would read that and say, yeah, that's an eventful. It's about the mother of Christ,
who is she who brings the God. Yeah, she's the virgin, Parthenique, right? And she's the one who
brings the God. He could tell she came with him. She accompanied, you know, she showed up.
Yeah, so it's not hard to translate, but I want to show you something. Look at the third word.
If you go Wikipedia right now, Theotokos, you're going to find this is a title used for the one
who bears God, right? And the Orthodox Church, they will adhere to this. The Greeks, they will
adhere to this. And there's a big controversy among the Christians after they kill the educational
system. They get together these morons who debate about whether or not the Virgin Mary was still a
virgin and was holy and all this kind of controversy. Nestorian and the theologians and the religious
historians, they like to sit around and touch themselves in intellectual ways. You thought I
was going to say something else, didn't you? This is family programming. They touch themselves
intellectually. Yeah, they stimulate themselves with this image, this controversy, Theotokos.
Is she still a virgin? What? You don't recognize that cult so you don't know what's going on.
Look at this word. It's got a secret. I'm going to show it to you. I'm revealing this to the world.
Are you ready? Here's the big reveal. Get the slides ready, Chewie. We're going to cut this
and put it on. So I'm going to set this one up. This is going to be a short or something. Are you
ready? It's feminine. She bears the goddess. Oh, Jesus is a goddess. Oh, it makes way more sense.
You've got Highless staring you at the face now, just like I did. He came to me after a talk I gave
and he said, you grab that power that was in the eyes of my rapist priest. You grabbed it.
You're on to it. You know it. And he's crying while he does so, streaming tears down his eyes.
Do you know it's more delicious than representing that boy that was with Jesus when he was arrested?
Nothing. Nothing is sweeter than the trans dimensional authority chasing a child
rapist through dimensions and time. Nothing. Nothing is better.
Yeah. Yeah. Let's get one. Oh, I'm so heated up. I feel like it's a little anticlimactic to come
down. I need some ice cream or something nice, you know, some kind of dessert before we in the
date, which I love. I love this. It's gorgeous. Okay, let's go. Look at this. Just look at the
second sentence. And I want you to notice the ATL costs on the bottom of the second line. The ATL
costs. Once again, it's not a mistake. It's not a mistake. And you can have an academic discussion
of, well, they're doing it to try to fit in meter. You need a long valve there. And the Omicron is not
going to work it. So you need to fit the convention of the Dactylic examiner. I'd love to have that
debate, but people won't even look at these materials, right? For a sophisticated debate.
Um, the fact is, it still says that Mary is the one who produces the she Jesus,
the she Jesus, the she God. Oh, Jesus is that why you're with the boy Jesus because they did to
you what you're doing to him. Is that why that's what the Egyptian priest taught you, isn't it?
Yeah. Yeah. Jesus. I'm sorry that I have to do this, but I need you to tell me. I need you to
tell me, Jesus, what you did to that naked kid in the garden. I've got 70 Jesus.
No, a little bit louder. A little bit louder, Jesus.
Highless.
That's his name. What's the name of the naked kid that floats the mystery of Christ?
Highless. That's his name. Yeah. Let's go to the last quote. I just want to show you because,
you know, some people were watching recently and I was, I was dealing with the
work I can only describe as, you know, a gang of a gang of people from the middle ages,
whose interest is not in the science, their interest is in burning witches.
Yeah. And they've made a world. They've made a world that doesn't exist.
It was our job in satanic initiation to take back the texts. It was our job. We're guardians.
That's what dragons do. Don't get in the way. When a dragon is guarding the relic,
this is the field of Mars. There is a standard that the muse has. And don't you ever stand,
present yourself as a veteran, unless you have been in that discipline, unless you
have sweat and blood poured into it. Don't, don't be a pretender. Yeah. You're God. I'm sorry.
Sorry. That small organ was cut off.
That child castrated. That boy that was with Jesus was the same operation they did to him.
You take on the form of the goddess.
Yeah. Is it safe to say that the maniac that was screaming
magic from across, is it safe to say that he was a castrated boy?
Yeah. It is. It is. Praise Jesus. It is. And this is only for those of you who have ears to hear.
Right? This is only for you. Fantastic. What I want is to bring you those texts. I don't want
