you not to have them. It's been everything about my career. People ask me. People ask me.
What is your pathway? You know, what have you learned? What have you learned to text people?
It's all that matters. Nothing that I say. Nothing. No ideas of mine. Nothing that has a price tag on
it. None of that stuff matters. The actuality matters. And the actuality is that Jesus Christ
was arrested with a naked boy that was using a medicated bandage just like the ones that they
use with the burning purple. And that when an author like Jonas writes about this
purple staining substance that the Baptists, the diaries are using.
Yeah. We can't turn away from it. We can't turn away from it. Jesus Christ was arrested with a
naked boy. Our civilization people, I'm sorry, but is built upon a child rapist. The love and grace
that you feel of Jesus, the love and grace that you feel is the love and grace generated by the
mind, magic of a dude who was arrested in a public park with a naked boy.
And don't think that Moses
isn't also mentioned in the indictment.
You've got to go to that poll with the serpent in order to get there. We need Amazonian women
to bring us back to balance, to bring us justice and nemesis. I want to say thank you for coming
along with me in this journey. I have two more seasons to pack everything in so that your
initiation is complete. And I'm going to start season six with my translation of the dirtiest
most critical look at the sources of Jesus that we've seen. We're going to look into the dirt
with a new gospel. This is the gospel of John. What magic am I talking about? The gospel of John
has been transformed. Thanks to known us, the great bridge is now available between what you have
read about Jesus and what Jesus was doing. That bridge is available for the first time in this
dead guy known us. And you will be surprised when you see what they were doing. You'll be surprised
and it will make sense and you will say, oh my god, the wedding of Cana. Did you know that that
was a religious ritual? Oh, wait a minute. Wait a minute. She, Jesus. Yes. Love it. I look forward
to it next season. I do. And I just wanted to make this opportunity possible in order for
us to be able to say, hey, who is this guy that, you know, well, you know, whatever, say what you
want. But now you know a little bit of the background. And now I want to go to comments. I want to do
something that I don't normally do. And I'll be showing up at the discord in just a bit
after a quick break. But I want to look at some comments. Chewie, can you, I know I didn't
prep, we didn't prep for this, but can you bring up a few comments so people can,
you know, interact something? Oh, yeah. Well, so Satanist, yeah. Yeah, right. Anybody,
anybody bring it if you bring something. Anybody right now, anybody right now who wants to ask
something about almond, feel happy, you know, feel, feel free, feel free to do so.
Or if you just want to add a comment, feel free to do so. I want to include the audience because
I think you get short shrift. You know what I mean? You guys have been here the whole time.
Look, how many people came today? 128 people just gave me an hour of their time.
Right. What kind of dirt bag would I be if I didn't ask you for input? Does anybody have any input
on anything that has to do with, oh, let's say, I don't know,
Kip, no, let's not come on. Don't make jokes. That's not funny. That's not funny. Don't do.
I saw that in the comment earlier. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. But we need to leave,
you know, that in the gymnasium, right? We leave that. We professionally
bring people nemesis. We don't, we don't, you know, we're not wolves. We're not wolves that
eat chunks of meat. Not all of us anyway. Yeah. Okay. Can you bring that up, Chewie? Is there any?
What was the prophecy you were given by your roommates who were insane at the archaeological
dig? Okay. Go ahead and leave it up there. What was the prophecy? It was of what would happen to me
over the course of my lifetime. And it was specifically stated. This is what I thought was
really neat, right? Was that the two were somehow able to say the same message. And it was that
the first thing they opened up with was you are surrounded by the powers of Lucifer. And I was like,
the first time I was like, God, this guy, what are they giving these people around here, right?
It was something. But you're surrounded by the powers of Satan. And there was a number of
legions. And to be honest, I don't remember what it was. And something about you can be
access this, right? These are the helpers, right? So when the second person, the second night,
started saying the same thing, that's when I, you know, I put on my, you know, trust me,
people, I'm wearing my skeptics hat, right? But I'm also a devotee of the muse. And by that time,
by that time I had gotten to know, I had a little bit of wisdom and I started to feel okay.
I started to feel okay with it. And then the second night, boom. And I just had some,
again, I listened a little bit more carefully, but it was about the future from the garden of
Jezebel. Yeah. And I will always treasure, I will always treasure that, that place to me is sacred.
I don't know if you people have been there in Ron Jezreel, but it's, it's absolutely sacred ground.
I totally understand why this, somebody following the Phoenician way would be empowering this kind of
demonic activity. Now, for those of you who are Christians,
yeah, the only way to describe this physics are what were being used by your guy, right? He's,
he knows the same magic and he's, and he's using it. Let's get another one.
Lady Babylon, can you speak more about the muse and how he speaks? Yeah, no, that's great.
Um, you know, all truth on the table. I am Amman, right? I just, I discovered by reading, I was
discovered the sortes and the sortes are just a random, you know, you randomize your experiment,
right? You just put in a throw in the element of randomness. What's wrong with your scientific
experiment? You have no compensation for chance. That's the problem. You have to throw in random
and the random like gravity will pull and curve, create a curve, love it. Anywho, randomize your
text, ask the muse, right? You just ask her, Hey, where can I find X? Who, you know, you approach
with serious, you approach with very, you know, a serious and respectful intent. That's the part
of the saba that I was learning from the Greek text, this reverence, this recognition of divinity.
So where's the purple anus, right? Show me the purple anus. That was the, you know, show me the
purple anus and then you randomize the text, take the text off and you read the text within
as an answer to the question, right? And somebody said, Well, how do you, somebody asked me once,
how do you use this with respect to seeing the future? Well, you can ask questions about the
future. It's oracular necromantic craft, right? You can ask about the future. And if you can,
if you can get accurate predictions as a scientist, you can't walk away. You can't walk away from that.
You know, there's some kind of quantum, something going on with those texts. Now, why am I doing this?
Because they're doing it in antiquity, right? And I'm reading about all these great people who
were doing it. And I'm reading about this one great muse who goes millennium to millennium doing it.
And yeah, that's what brought me. So is it accurate? I will report. And I will swear on the throne of
Satan, right? I'll swear on the throne of Satan. The accuracy is what is, is what shows you my
inability being filled with that quantum ability of the muse, right? I couldn't find this. My scores
are not that high, right? I couldn't do this. But for that source to be able to do it, show me the
purple anus, right? And I did this once publicly for a librarian who asked me to, you know,
do my thing. And I did it and showed them that the text can, can answer questions. The text can
answer questions directly. So accurately. I love this. Okay, I got to tell this story. There was a,
there was a man. Okay, this is personal. I'm on and I'll tell this. I'm sorry. There was a man
that I was working with. And I was for some reason, then upset with this gentleman. And
I asked the muse what, you know, because I did this, what, you know, it's going to happen. And she
said, you're going to pull his beard out, right? Beautiful, perfect classical Latin. You will pull
his beard out. And I found myself that day pulling his beard out long story short, some caulking from
insulation going on his beard. He was panicking and they asked me to pull it out and I pulled his
