Welcome to Lady Babylon.
I am Amun.
Tonight, I want to give you a few things just for us to roll around in and for us to enjoy.
You know, I've got the goodies for you.
You know, I wouldn't come unless I had brought the goodies to you.
I've got them tonight, some things that are going to make you feel unsettled, unsettled.
We're going to take some people and we're going to make them sacrifices.
We're going to make them sacrifices.
This is the eulogy for those we mourn.
I love it.
Thank you for coming tonight.
And I want to start this moment by purifying this space with a hymn, a hymn.
Another one from Mike.
And remember that Mike is right, right deep in that mystery cult.
Loving it.
Hit it, Chewie.
Hit it, Chewie.
Welcome to prison.
It's nice to be here with you.
I want to just throw out a couple of little tidbits for you to push around and push through
your brains and bring out here in this discussion of I am Amun.
I want to start with you with a young man.
I want to start with a 10 year old boy.
I want to start with a 10 year old boy and a boy who turned to a girl and that girl promised
him she would always stay with him if he would protect her from the men who wanted to defile
her.
And that boy made a promise at 10 years old, I will always be with you.
I will always be with you.
Yeah.
Her name was Sophia and he was smitten.
Not in the way that you'd be smitten by your son bathing stepmother, but in a way that
is pure, a way that is holy, a way that you can go to sleep at night comfortable without
hearing what's going to happen in the church.
Yes.
What happened?
I sold out.
I sold out to that delicious, delicate taste of bringing some dead person to life.
I looked into the eyes from the mission.
I looked into the eyes of the dead drunks, those dead drunks.
I looked into their eyes and I brought them hope.
I brought them hope to see a man born again, you know, to see a teenager in a Bible class
open up, have their eyes open.
This is a marvelous thing.
But there's one thing in my life that tastes even better than the newborn.
And that is the nemesis of the blood, to take down the arrogant and haughty, to bring them
to their knees, to show the world their emptiness.
There is no ambrosia that you can drink that will more sustain you than this.
Remember that.
Remember that when you are in that cold, dark place and you're starving and your bones are
aching.
Yeah, remember, servants of nemesis.
That's where justice is.
We bring down the haughty, love it.
Tonight I wanted to show a couple of clips just to illustrate who David Charles Amen Hillman is.
Yes, many of you know already, blah, blah, blah, resume, CV, blah, blah, blah.
PhD, classics, MS, bacteriology, MA, classics, BA.
Yes, book writer, author, PhD student in trouble for saying those in antiquity who were in the
know knew about the drugs, you know, you start to expose the parties and you love that here,
don't you?
I've got some stuff.
It's so sexy tonight.
And I mean that in a metaphorical way, people.
It is so incredibly erotic.
It is the eros that drives the magic.
I found that magic sitting in the vineyard of a witch queen.
Listening to my roommate speak in wolf tongue for lack of a better descriptor spoke to me my future.
Sitting in this great queen's garden, yeah, it's been excavated.
We were working at Tel Megido and up he sat in his bed and spoke in some kind of forced dog language.
He told me the future.
He told me what would happen.
He told me the names that would be on my head.
As then he ran off the next day, police, Israeli police caught up with him on the next night of the dig.
When we were uncovering the floor of a Canaanite temple.
Gorgeous.
Gorgeous.
So gorgeous to know those dancing feet.
I can see them.
I can see those dancing feet on that altar of life.
I love it.
I love it.
The next night.
New recruit.
Same thing sits up in bed tells me this is your future.
The very same terms.
This place I said.
This is a marvelous place.
It was the vineyard of an ancient witch.
Part of a people who used a drug.
A drug that I'm going to show you Jesus mixing into the wine.
Do I have a text?
You know me.
You know me kids always bring it to you.
I always bring it to you.
Here it is.
