Yeah, all you opus day guys. You guys who want the Latin mass
By the way, the the wetest Latina is older than that is older than the any of those
Heber texts that we got right there were later
Right manufactured
Isn't that a surprise?
Yeah, no look at the language of the book of Genesis and you'll find out
Who the influences were linguistically and it's not what you think. It's not what you think
Take the text back right take the text this great belongs to us. It belongs to us
We have to take care of it. We serve the muse
Right, what cult do you have? We've got the cult of the muse gone
Right, it's gorgeous. I want to read to you a couple of verses, right?
I'll read to you a couple of verses while chewy flashes of things that are meant for your
programming
Behold
Edo God he met I call you
Hey, look, what's coming? It's coming the day of the Lord
Yeah, I need a toss. Oh
My
What's coming the passion is coming his destruction is coming right is over again
It's coming. What is he gonna do? He's gonna turn the Oicumin into a Ramon
a Ramon
He's going to bring back
Moses and every evangelist just got so happy
They just got so happy
Behold the land the day of the Lord you all die you all die
Yes
Love it. It's that great flocks right that great flocks. What? Oh, I'm sorry
That's an ancient mystery term. It's in the text that you don't know how to translate
So you don't know blah blah blah. That's what you get for having scholars that suck
Right, so say the watchers
It's having my conversation the other day with the watchers again. I'm like, dude, you know, I don't know
If they really do we are we going all the way or you know, it's like well, they're teachers, man
Look what kind of teachers they've got
Look what kind of teachers they've got
Go on Wikipedia. Look up the Septuagint. Look at what kind of teachers you've got
Look at what the scholars come to the biblical scholars those great biblical scholars that haven't I
was trying to
Was working with a potential new student
Yeah, letting them know that I wasn't going to teach him New Testament unless he read everything around it unless he had an
Attic stream to drink from unless he could bring Homer, which is being taught in the first century unless he could bring Homer
Right, I think it was overwhelming for him
Right, you got to know the level of commitment you have to your sources. We're investigators, man. This is not a game
Do you see me?
Do you see me selling t-shirts? I'm not here to sell t-shirts
All right, it's not a game. This is the initiation
Get back on that throne love it. Okay. I want to read to you a little bit more
Of my versology. Yeah, behold the day of the lord, right?
Right, right. He's gonna destroy you all right
for the stars of uranos
