So here we are back to that verse. We've got the ono kintaro
And you know, they're gonna have a good time with him, you know what I mean go hit it
Hmm ecce katoi case scene. Yes kite nosa poyesus in a he noi
These a he noi. So there's these a he noi that are setting up there
So
There's some a he noi. Let's go back to the ecce. What is the ecce?
Hmm this one this one gets the treatment, you know, and people are hilarious with this one people are hilarious because
They don't want to
Bother with the scientific stuff. Do you see the first reference that's up here? It's n i c
That's necanders. Guess what th stands for that's his theriac
So if you're going to penetrate this you better know about priests and you better know about drugs
Yeah, this is fantastic. You see that viper sitting there. You see that viper sitting there
You know how they normally translate this
You know some kind of spine
animal with you know hedgehog
Oh my god, what are the who are the ecce noi? Anyway, you know who the ecce noi are in the greek
Those people from the ionian sea
All right, did you guys forget we were in history? No, you didn't
All right, fantastic. We're in history. The bible scholars do
They forget because you know, they got their mind in fairy tale world
jumping up and down
Right, i'll see an air make
Right go home go home. This is ours and here they are
Here they are
Lovely so you see we've got those satyrs
We've got those satyrs no satyrs and those sirens. Have you ever heard a siren sing?
She will bewitch you with her voice
You will not return
From her concert
Yeah, you will not return from her concert. You think everybody goes home
Uh-uh not when you go see the siren
Yeah sirens
Sirens and satyrs
Lots of rites bringing the orge
Bringing that rat. He's gonna destroy him just like he did saw them
Just like he did saw them
when you see
the abomination of
desolation
eremosis
When you see it in the temple
Run to the hills run to the hills
Thank you for coming tonight. We will have a
Time a little time tonight that we're going to
On discord we're going to do
You know what can only be described as a form of initiation
We are going to resurrect
the ghost
of lord Byron
