Love it. Love it. Look at right before verse 22 orchey sonta. What are they doing?
They're a daimonia there
Did you know they weren't daimonia? There's no you thought you were in a zoo with ostriches
I just want to can I relish take that down bring we're bringing back up and say
I just want to relish in this for one second right over all of you pastors
over all of you priests
Over all of you teachers bible scholars brilliant people following the traditions
You mononomials and trinomials and
and fart blasts and
Fantastics you guys are you guys are all part of the sex that are the best
Right and you guys bring it and none of you
None of you even knew that your zoo
Was a creation thrown in front of your face
None of you knew that you were living in a simulation you pastors have stood up there in those pulpits
And you braced the holy word of god to cleanse
By the blood of christ the sins of humanity
You've brought them forward and you've watched them born again
And none of you know that the rights were rights of sirens
You thought you were going to a zoo full of ostriches
I hear the jackal exhibit is nice if you'd like to go there
Yeah
Yeah, welcome to the real
Welcome to the real let's see what else we've got there besides the chorus. There's a chorus. Does anybody see there's a chorus?
Oh my goodness. That's what's causing that echo
Can you hear it? We're there at the right now shut up if you don't
No, the sacred kramata
if you don't
silence
Silence silence good. Let's go back to 21 22. Let's finish it off
Oh my god, look at 22. There's ono kintaro right there
Yeah, you know what that is the ono there is the
ass
the ass
donkey
donkey
donkey
Is what zekel tells us is the shape of their private parts
The ones the girl wants
Oula and uuleba
Right, here we are
Do you want to get involved in this right? You know when you dedicate your donor to the temple, right?
All those requests that she's had bring out henry campville
Right bring him out. It's okay. It's okay. We made him a eunuch
Right
He's yeah, he's how does he spend his days in a dress. It's lingerie and the rules still stand
We come this way
To satanic initiation through lingerie
And a platinum wig
Love it. Absolutely. Love it. There's a reason there's a reason
