Watch the mystery. Watch the mystery. Give us another translation. Who is this one by? Oh
This is the new living but desert creatures will lie down there
Wait, is this does this God work for organ or something? I don't understand and their houses will be full of owls
Ostriches will live there shaggy goats like they've got the same animals. What's going on? Give me the next one
Who is that next one by? It's this one. Yes
Mm-hmm and the wild beast of the island shall cry in their desolate house and
Dragons in their pleasant places and their time is near come wait. We've got dragons keep going keep going give me some of these
Give me some maybe we can oh here's one look. This is the international children's Bible
Shirley this one will give us oh
Ostriches
Ostriches hyenas
Hyenas bring it bring it down. It's starting to I'm starting to get queasy. This is Isaiah
I'm asking you Isaiah for the 13th time. I'm asking you to give me the information
Where'd you get these ostriches buddy? Where'd you get it? What what wait here comes here comes?
10th century it was what I didn't could you say a little bit louder for the jury 10th century
10th
10th century that's when all those idiots go back to the Aleppo codex
You see we dodge that they go back to the Aleppo codex. They're like
Right no, no, no, let's just go back to the Greek the Greek has the sirens
The Greek has the sirens and Sodom and Gomorrah. Oh
Love it love it. That's good stuff. We don't want we want to go there. Yeah, that's right
That's for you next
It's all bad cops tonight, right? We don't have to have a good cop around when it involves the text
We get the information out that we need
Right, can we go to another couple translations here? We have a couple more at the ending. Yeah. Oh
Here but desert creatures will lie down there in a house with full of owls
It's the same zoo that we've been going to anybody else desert creatures a lot of jackals owls
You know, it just depends on which are you going to enter the north side of the zoo?
You're gonna end of this north gate of the south gate take that down north gate of south
They look ostriches shaggy goats and hyenas these guys are everywhere
Where do we get these things come up to the look?
You know that I never ever bring up Hebrew because it has nothing to do with the Greek text that we're working with
Right, right. Okay. Wait kiddies. Wait kiddies pull it down and we'll put it back up. I forgot
This is the part I like best, right? Hey kiddies
This is how it worked. Yeah
There were all of these books
These scrolls and they all had Hebrew on them. It was something called the books of Moses
And we translated those
magically
Magically under the
Alexandrian influence the Ptolemy's we translate those we got 72 guys
We got a couple from each tribe. We send them into rooms and rabbis were like do it
And all of a sudden each of them
Wrote out a perfect exactly the same translation and that's what the Septuagint is
And
You don't believe that right because you don't believe in fairy tales
Right. We're classical philologists here. I don't care what the theology of that is. It's a bunch of crap
Yes, this text this is originally Greek text. Let's go back to it
That's 10th century stuff, right the Mazarets came along the Mazarets like dude if we don't establish
