Carmina says through Evander, right? Um, by the way, they set up all the laws around them too, right?
This family they're kind of like they they're credited also with bringing the alphabet that the hot
Sorry Romans in all their glory at this time. We're living in huts
Which is not if that makes me sound like it's I'm discriminating against huts
I suppose but if the Romans from the first century could see the Romans then they could look at each other and look at each
other's buildings the old Romans hot dwellers would be
Quite impressed with the achievements that their ancestors were able to do by the way if anybody knows the sacred name of Rome
Now's the time to bring it up. None of you know none of you know nobody let's go
Okay
No, let's go to the eight forces the eight forces or what let's just look what he says here poor who door gain
Fire water earth. Um, what's after that?
Uranon
Uranus is one of those powers Selene is one of those powers the moon Helios the sun is one of those powers
Nookta night is one of those powers. And what's the one I skipped over?
Mitran
Mitran who is Mitra?
Mitra
Who is Mitra?
Kalevus in a surio now the Assyrians at this time this is written
It's not referring geographically to what you and I might say is Assyrian. It's referring to Chaldean
Stop referring to Chaldean blow it up for me
Boom and so the Chaldeans or the Magi they call Aphrodite
Mulita
the
Arabioi the Arabians
call Aphrodite
La Latte
right and
What are the Persians they call her Mitra?
Mitra
Mitra
This is who is
One of the eight powers. Do you understand what they're doing at the?
Oracle of Amon
Okay, let's go. There's a lot of
Clues in that one. Okay, you've indulged me. Let's let's give you exactly your times are the next one
boom and so I'm gonna take you back to revelation and I'm just I want us to know that we're still in the temple
We're still in the temple remember when is the end when the abomination of desolation?
It's a very specific abomination
when that
Functions in the temple when you and I specifically the text says when you and I see
the abomination of desolation in
The temple then we know okay. I'm gonna this is the welcome abomination of desolation
Applause look what happens went out to the angel he said to him give me the give me a little bookie
The little bookie the scrollie scroll. You know what I'm talking about because who are the draw?
I forgot okay people if we're at this party take it down if we're at this party in antiquity and we want drugs
Who's gonna be giving us the drugs?
Right, it's not the guy at the top. You don't go to the guy at the top for the drugs you go to the distributors
Those who carry out the kingdom and who are these
Call them angels
Angeloid it's always the angels getting people high. Do you know why nobody understands the apocalypse or the revelation until
today
Because nobody looks at it like a scientist nobody looks it just says hey
What is all it? What are all these drug references?
You know those wheels that are Greek words the trojas in revelation. Those are not wheels
Those are drugs
It's a pill you can put it in your rectum or you can put it in a cup of wine and
dissolve it either way
Right up or down
They're purging up and down all the time if you have a thing about that. I'm sorry, but it's ancient medicine
Let's go to the text. Bring him the text love it. Yes. Just hit us
Yeah, and so he's goes to this angel. He says give me that little book
Do you know why you can put a scroll in your mouth and antiquity and get high?
Do you know why because the dyes that they're using are high?
Dyes, they're dyes that we have
Formula for we have formula for and
They're dyes that are meant to be used in the case of inducing visions. So it's a compound
Right, it's a compound again. They're using a psychotropic compound. You can lick
The scroll you put it in your mouth
You ever put a scroll in your mouth that was covered with psychotropic dyes. Oh
Wow not seeing the dye with psychotropic. I'm saying they developed a psychotropic compound and then used it as a dye
Yes, of course, if it's got the purple on it
All right, you're in good shape. Look those letters right off the page put it into your mouth and the angels like come here, son
Come here
here
mmm
Break those seals. You know what it means to break a seal it means to put it in your rectum
Where's the whip now we don't have time for the whip go to the go to the next
Quick we've got a hurry. It's already the hour past devil's gonna be very upset
And so he took it from the hand of that drug dealing messenger
Right and he ate it and what happened when it was mouth when it was in his mouth. It was all sweet
Right, but after he ate it when he swallowed it down. What happened? It made his bowels
Move
Some people will say it's made them bitter
Yeah, this is the time the Victorians don't help
Yeah, so look people the drugs they're using they'll get you going
They'll get you going and what John's gonna have all his vision, right? He's gonna have all his vision from what's gonna happen
Angel tell me let me see it here. I'm sitting look almond
You brought me to tonight to this awful party at the temple of Jerusalem. Look what's gonna happen
There's what a third of the people they died
From the plagues
They died and
Where did I from egg to burros from the smoke and took up new from I'm sorry from the fire and from the cop
No from the smoke and from the say you
from the
Grimstone the sulfur do you remember what Jesus had in his mouth when he was all licky licky tonguey tonguey
Spitty spitty in your mouth. Do you remember what he's what it smelled like?
What was his breath like were you there with Jesus when you smelled his breath?
Yes, you were and it smelled like sulfur
Which was a pergative they're using it all the time
Dude is on so much. You don't know
Right, this guy is so stoned
Right, this dude is forever
Permanently altered into somebody who can see
Into the beyond I'm talking. He's a son of God. You're not gonna get anywhere close no matter how much you chase him
Right. Oh
God, do you know when the midwife came in to marry the mother of Jesus? She stuck her two fingers
Inside of her to palpate
Because she's midwife. That's their job and
