They spread things in order to
Propagate agendas
It's dangerous, man. That's dangerous. Let's look at some fragments here. I want you to tell me is we're gonna play a game
Jesus or Zeus
Jehovah or Heracles whose son and whose father
Okay, are you ready for this? Look at this. This is some
An Iraq an oracle, right?
Sibylane oracle if you'd like and I want you to notice
There is one God a
Monarch
Ineffable
living in the ether
Self-generated unseen
But seeing all
That was
That was take it down. That was a free flow of translation of that
Now tell me who am I talking about?
Now that we're in the temple and you've seen what was there waiting for us and what Jesus is gonna
Turn the place into
Yeah
Yeah, now, you know, we got to kill him
We got to crucify him dude. We got to hit the Romans to do it
Right, it was his thing and he knew it. He kept calling it saying they're gonna come after me. They're gonna get me
All right
So it's a game. He played his game and it went to where it did
ironically
ironically
He's getting the drugs even on the cross
Amazing amazing what those people did here's another fragment. This is that one God right and he rules alone
Right, and I just want you to a second line. Just jump down the second line. Do you see Ponto Krat or there?
Just wait a minute. Are we talking about Jesus and Moses?
wait
Jehovah
Hercules Zeus
Jesus
Right, we're talking about sons of God man. Just hang bare with me. We're talking about sons of God here
This material that I'm reading to you is Orphic
Yeah
Orphic
And although it sounds exactly like Christianity it predates Christianity
By hundreds of years hundreds of years
Yeah, let's go
Let's go to the next one
Here's here's a little fragment. I wanted you to see three lines down there on wood they say what again, right?
Oh my god, who is he? He's the monogamous. We also own a stone coupon
he's the
one
Begotten the one genus
Yeah, the one who is being a stone coupon wait in the corpus
In the colpus?
Yes, look at the parentheses these German scholars came up with in the early 1900s
Walks mystica. Oh, that was Dietrich's. I think it was Dietrich's
Yeah
Yeah
That wasn't current current goes with the Vox Orphica, right? But it's the same thing
It's the same thing
Into your colpus. Can you feel it?
Can you feel that being in your colpus?
You know
They are not saying
What you think they're saying but for those of you who are very faithfully watched through all this through all of this
You you have those ears to hear you're hearing these things so you know what that means
Right that dark harbor. Have you gone there? Have you been there to the dark harbor?
Yeah
Yeah, don't you want to go?
Don't you want to go people? Do you know what we have to offer?
We can take you into this temple. We can put you into a death state
using an erotic drug right and
Then we can bring you out
And when you come out you will not be the same you will have gone to the furthest reaches
You will have gone through the dark star
Yeah, that's the physics
To the actuality of which we are the reflection. That's how they referred to it not me and I know the guys that
at
MIT are saying
Something similar now
Right that we're the reflection through the event horizon
Cool
Cool
Cool, right whatever the physics and how you describe them
This is what I can offer you people who wants
to join
the mystery
We don't care what your philosophy is beforehand
Nope, doesn't matter. We don't care what you studied or haven't studied. We don't care about any of that
All right, all you've got to do is
Walk through the initiation
We'll get you there and you will be born again
You will be born again
The only way we're gonna get there is through her
Because you have to have the water of life. Do you understand you have to have the aqua we tie if you do not
You cannot bring somebody back from the dead
You say well here I am in the temple
Here I am with the doves
Who were administering the oracular rights?
Here I am with them. What do I do now?
What do I do now?
You've got to have access to the water of life
You know and that water of life will bring you back
Bring it'll resurrect you
You know and if you don't you'll die and remember Jesus is always telling people
All right
What's the Great Commission? I'm gonna give you the power. I'm gonna give you the power
To take up those drugs and not to die
Do you know why?
We chase away death
You Christian so-called you weaklings you are not even a fragment of
What your ancestors were
You're just that is what a shame
