I've told you guys about these orgia.
What is Jesus doing with the boy
when he's teaching him the mystery, right?
Which the text just said he was doing.
Blow this up, Chewie.
I want to be able to read to people.
These are the secret rites,
the secret worship practiced by the initiated
used of the worship of Demeter at Lucis
of the rites of the Cabeiri and Demeter Acaya
and of Orpheus, of Umapus, of Sibley.
But I like this little touch at the end,
most frequently of the rites of Dionysus.
And then look under Roman numeral number two
in the second line, orgia mouson.
Isn't that nice in the frogs?
Brekekeke, coax, coax, say the frogs, right?
As you're sitting on the throne,
exercising the deep things of Satan.
Right, these are the mysteries.
These are the mysteries
and we're about to find Aphrodite.
Isn't that nice?
Orgia, let's go to the next one, please.
Now, this is the Greek blown up.
Wrapped, you know, he wrapped that scene
on the kid, wrapped that scene on the bandage
on his privates.
Now, look at it in Mark, right?
One is secret Mark, purportedly Mark, right?
Where he's not giving away the mysteries.
Yeah, signifying with these words.
Things for those with ears to hear.
If you know what a garden is, let me just give you this.
I'm gonna speak a little Vox Orphaca.
Are you ready?
This is a language that has been trapped in Greek
for millennia.
Yeah, as a parasite.
A parasite within the blood.
Yeah, love it.
Love it.
What is a garden?
What is a garden?
It's a place where you have, you know,
maybe some soft ground with plushy growth.
Yeah, and do, tell me ancient Greek,
what else do you have in your garden?
You've got do, your capon,
you've got do in your garden.
Would you be surprised if the Greeks said that garden,
that paradise is the pudinda mulebra?
That is the garden of Edom.
Yes, what is Edom backwards?
Medwa.
Yeah, it was an Etruscan thing.
They do it the magic.
You didn't know that you may have backwards incantations.
Yeah, love it.
Fantastic, fantastic.
Buckle in for the magic.
There's a little bit more to come,
little bit more drugs, little bit more kids,
little bit more Jesus,
having become the Christos, which he admits.
Wait, you mean the title of pimp came before Jesus?
Yep, it did, right?
The fact that he is assuming the title of the molester
doesn't mean that it can't be used against him
in a court of law, trans-dimensionally speaking.
Love it, love it.
I think I got that right, all those steps, I don't know.
Sometimes I just wanna go outside and breathe some fresh air.
But I won't waste your time, let's get back to it.
Chewie, bring me up, these people are good people
who are giving me all their time.
Look, that's what the last one was
and the next one is from Mark, right?
Look at this, it uses the same expression, right?
Whoops, the one before that, there we go.
Look, it uses the same expression, people.
Yeah, peri beble meno, sindona epi gumnu.
Yeah, he's putting, this is what you could call
one of Mark's expressions.
Puttin' his penile bandage on.
Be, okay, now can you smell those boy prostitutes
from antiquity?
Can you smell them?
You know what they have in that bandage?
It has to do with their prostitution.
Okay, okay, we're getting closer to the history.
Thank you for hanging in there
and preventing any sort of prurient interest.
This is straight history, we gotta go tax people.
