Drankin' whiskey, when that whiskey's burnin'
Do my veins, Indians go crazy and the Scots men must not bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've gotcha sellin' and you gotcha
Drankin' whiskey, oh yeah
Drankin' whiskey, oh yeah
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation
It's good to have you, tonight we are full packed
We're going to have a lot of input from the outside
And ultimately we're going in deep, deep, deep, deep
More drugs, more drugs, warning, more drugs
We're going to be talking about more drugs for antiquity
Yeah, a little more right
And we get to bring back one of my favorites, Pendar
Pendar, tonight on Lady Babylon
Tonight I want to start off with a couple of new sections
I want to talk about input from you guys
So can we have a new, can we have the display of our first segment
Called viewer input
Dramatic, dramatic indeed, dramatic indeed
Let's pull up a couple of comments there
I want you people to see what you are saying
What do we have tonight?
Let me just read that one out
The word from Mark is for robber
Not, quote unquote, child trafficker, right?
Doesn't Josephus use the word for the rebels often?
Wouldn't that make much more contextual sense?
Cow, right at the start, right at the start
Get that down, Jeremiah, thank you
But you know that every time somebody brings up Josephus
That an angel cracks one right in your face
No, and you're not right
We're going to look at the word and we're going to look at that child trafficker
As part of our time together tonight
So perfectly relevant, thanks Jay
Well, who do we have next?
Amen, my brother, this was on top
This was top grade hallucinogenic
And then wow, a whole bunch of this stuff going on there
Fantastic, Dr. Bitterbrains
I can't agree with you more, Dr. Bitterbrains
If I can intoxicate you
If we can work on this together back and forth
Don't think that I'm not loving it
Don't think that it doesn't do me
You know what I mean?
This is the way that you get there
Love it
And finally we have one more, I think
This is from Misty
It's one month ago, but I think it deserves our note here
Not sure how I got here
Intrigued, may my awakening continue
And you know you're in the right place
You know you're in the right place when people are intrigued
Talk about awakening, as soon as somebody talks about awakening
I'm there, right, love that
Anytime those eyes can be open
Right, it's a good thing
Reason is a good, good thing
Fantastic
Tonight I also want to bring you a question
And in order to do that
We are going to have a new approach
A new approach, I know I'm throwing a lot of new things at you there
But I want you to have a variety
So I'm going to answer a question
This is a new segment we're doing
And we're going to employ both good cop and bad cop
Hit it Chewie
Yeah, questions of the day
Questions of the day
Very dramatic
Okay, so our question for today
Take it down Chewie
Question for today is
Did Jesus exist?
Yeah
Did Jesus exist?
Good cop, what do you think?
I think, Your Honor
That Jesus was only as real
As the naked boy with whom he was arrested
Yeah, bad cop, you want to say?
Yeah, I do want to say
Hey Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, Yale
You failed, you failed miserably
You've got a group of people asking questions
Did he exist?
Did Julius Caesar exist?
Do I care about your questions, academia?
You have a whole, you have a whole debate right now
They give themselves names
Because this is what academics have time for
Clowning, mythicists, I'm a mythicist
You're nothing, you're nothing
Is that too much, a little too much bad cop?
Yeah, you know, is Jesus real?
Does it matter? Does it matter?
To that naked kid he was arrested with, it doesn't matter
Right? Yeah, yeah
We want to see who is there
And we are seeing through the text
And that's what I want you to have are the texts
So I want to ease us in to the place that we're going tonight
Did you see how I already had the ship on?
We're already out there, you know what I mean?
And let's slide ourselves in with a little bit
Just a little bit of the breaking of the fairy tale
Just hang in there with me
Memory is a funny thing, plays tricks sometimes
And it lies out bright of the times
It'll tell you that bad times were good and good times were bad
It'll tell you that black was white
You can close the door on the ones you don't like
Change them around and make the wrong right
But you can't ever trust them to tell the truth
And sometimes I like them to lie
And so I remember you
Just the way I want to
Not the way you really were
And all
So, we're in that world
Coming to, here we are, everybody out, the ship's landed
Right, here we are, where did I take you today, right?
We're going to bring up Pindar
And you're going to see something that nobody else has ever seen
Let me just say that, I can assert that
