The Codex Walloani, you remember, it has the instructions for how to do this.
Also found from that British, anyway, yeah.
And what do you do when you chase him down and you put all the drugs in him?
You raise his body temperature and you bleed him and all that kind of stuff like that,
so that you can get the right blood, that hunger that hold me, that drive for that blood,
that drive is part of the Bacchic purgation.
And it does something.
It does something.
Wouldn't you love to have a brain scan on these Bacchants?
Now, sometimes it gets out of hand and we have a text that tells us, you know, King
Stone says daughters were into it and they're out doing it and they're uncontrollable.
Can't stop them.
They're not coming down.
They're supposed to do it and they're supposed to come down and they're not coming down.
They're just still doing it.
So somebody gets sent after, they round them up and they give them an antidote, compound
antidote.
Bring them back to their senses, right, and they're all like, oh, right, purgation, purgation.
You cannot have Athana.
You cannot have justice and democracy without Bacchic purgation.
It's how the system works.
It's the genius of Athana, the genius of Athens.
Oh, God, I love it.
It's so sexy.
It's so beautiful.
Oh, God.
Okay.
Hit me with the next one.
Look at this, people.
Pione is what?
Pharmaca Iatrica.
Now, I'm always telling people, these terms are drugs.
These terms are drugs.
Now, Hesechius is telling you these terms are drugs.
These terms are drugs.
But to him, it's not unusual.
It's only unusual to you because you have come through a modest fog of dark ages scum
from a pond full of human sewage, yes, modest human sewage.
What happened?
The reality of what Julian predicted has happened.
We are living in the society that he predicted, and we have moments of renaissance, and those
moments of renaissance are always brought to us by Mother Greek.
If you don't believe me, read Thomas Jefferson.
Yeah, his personal letters.
Take a look at him.
Go.
People should know that anyway, right?
It's on the reading list for Satanic congregation, right?
These are pharmacos.
These are drugs.
Pioneia.
When I am yelling in my ecstasy, hallelujah, what do I have?
What am I performing?
I'm performing rites.
And what are these rites involving?
They're involving farmaca iatrica, those doctoring drugs.
Remember, the worship of Apollo is the worship of the medical doctor.
This is all coming to us through the sun, the great sun, S-O-N, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Who is grandpa?
Grandpa is Helios, silly people.
Remember the daughters of Helios that we learned about?
Oh, God.
Those are the women who were keeping the chumps like Odysseus around as sex slaves.
You know what she did?
Cersei, after he went back to Penelope because he was crying on the beach all the time, she's
like, oh, just get out of here, right?
She went and hunted him down.
She went and hunted him down and killed him and raised him from the dead.
Isn't that cool?
Oh, God.
I want to meet this Bronze Age woman.
Where, Chewie, where is this Bronze Age woman?
She's no...
It's something.
It's something inside of the feminine core that can be brought out.
It's something inside.
Oh, God.
Love it.
Love it.
Go to the next.
Yet we're almost finished.
We've got a couple here.
I just want to tell you, I was mentioning the beast.
Just so you can see the connection.
Here's the Theros, that beast, and what are those beasts connected to?
They're connected to Satoriscus, those who were in that satiristic state who have the
satiriasis.
Do you know what that beast was?
The Medea Road.
The Medea Road.
Prometis.
Prometis.
Prometis.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That great eagle.
That great eagle.
She ate his liver.
She ate his liver and took a drug.
The drug of Prometheus.
Do you know the name Prometheus?
It doesn't mean what you think it means.
It doesn't mean what you think it means.
It comes from the Medwa.
It's that vision.
It's that vision that the Medwa possesses.
Isn't that gorgeous?
What happened to this world, these queens?
This is Lady Babylon, and this is the greatest threat.
She is the greatest threat of the apocalypse, Lady Babylon.
That medical access, that purity, that restoration, that purgation.
All of that medicine and genius, that's the enemy.
What came from a woman's mind is the enemy of the post-classical world.
This is the world that the monists took down.
They took it from us, and they destroyed it.
Look at the art that they produce.
Look at the art.
Oh, God.
What's wrong?
I think I need corneal surgery or something again.
Looking to my eyes.
Go to the next one.
We've got just one or two more, and then we're going to bring in Neil.
We're going to bring in Neil.
Oh, look a little bit.
Yep, it's for the raising of the dead.
No, we don't need that.
Give me the next one.
Look at the Saturiscos.
Here, I just wanted you to see the connection to Saturian.
It's the thing that makes you the sader.
That always gets my goat.
Hi, Penelope.
Penelope, how are you doing?
How are you doing?
Concentrate, everybody.
Concentrate.
Take this time.
We're coming around the corner.
How am I doing?
Let me see here.
Oh, my goodness.
I've got to give everybody the whole thing.
Now, let's go quickly.
Everybody, now that you've got Penelope squarely in your vision, let's run through these.
Are you ready?
Let's run through these definitions.
What are your orgies, baby?
They're that intense feeling that you get.
Did you know that religious right is that intense desire that you get, that intense
sexual desire?
Yeah, that's it.
The next one.
Boom.
Sorry.
That's them saying it.
What are we looking for?
We're looking for the Tahira.
Tahira.
Did we skip it?
I thought we skipped it.
These are the things that are involved with the musteria.
The mystery rights hit us with the next one.
What are these things?
They're katharderioi.
They are purificatory sacrifices.
When I say sacrifices, I don't mean sheep.
I don't mean sheep.
Listen, we've started following the way of Cain long before the Hellenistic Septuaget,
the Torah, the Bible was written.
Yeah.
Yeah.
When they say sacrifice, they're talking about fumigations.
Look at this number two there.
It says pharmakon, right?
Drug which affects katharsis.
It's a drug which causes you to purge or it's a drug that causes you to have locheon.
That's important because that's women.
That's what happens when you have a child.
Those are your locale movements.
Look at this next term, epimaneon.
That's your monthly women.
Did you know you have a monthly katharsis and wait a minute, you mean that thing that
happens, that mystery that happens is a healthy purgation?
Yes, it is.
Yes, it is.
If you knew how to use it properly, you'd be already going to the banquets, baby.
You'd be on that island.
That's where we all go, right?
It gives you wings.
That's what it says.
Gives you wings, the purple.
Give me some.
Sign me up for that stuff.
We're going to go quick.
We're going to go quick.
We've got to hurry up here.
What is the hira that we're looking for?
The serpent.
The serpent.
Are you kidding?
The name for many medicines in the Greek pharma, Kapia.
Go to the next one.
You can't get away from the drugs.
Now people, I'm going to give you a definition of a drug.
This definition of a drug, a pharmacon, is not from a dead Victorian.
It's breathful of stale flatus.
This is from antiquity.
Are you ready for this?
What is a drug?
A drug is a sediment.
Some people say it's a synthetic compound which promotes and guards the hira of the living.
Wait, wait, wait.
Say that again.
A drug is a synthetic.
It is a compound with which we, who use it, guard the hira of the living.
Okay, the hira, I see.
And we're looking for the serpents.
We're looking for the serpents.
Okay, you haven't been there.
You haven't been born again.
You know, the ultimate irony of history is that there are millions, millions and millions
of Christians who believe that they are born again.
These are real happenings.
This is not faith.
History is an actual operation.
The initiation causes you to be born again.
You can be Cicero and you can say, you know what, I'm Cicero.
And if you haven't been through this thing, you haven't lived.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's a place to send you, they bring you back, right?
It is the great eagle.
If you understood the sacred name of Rome, you would hear me divulging the mysteries,
but I'm only speaking to those of you who have ears to hear.
Brilliant, brilliant.
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Oh, pharma kiss.
What is that pharma kiss?
Well, it's just, you know, it's the female user of the drugs, right?
People translate as sorcerous, right?
That's why we try to show them midwives, right?
Go to the next one.
What do you do when you porphyric something, when you purple something?
You know what it does?
It causes a confusion and a self-examination and darkening.
That's what that says.
Hit the next one.
Well, what are porphyromata?
What are those things?
Those are the, what are the purplies?
The purplies are the little bits, you know, the little bits of the piggies that you give
to the goddesses and sacrifice.
Wait a minute.
What did you just say?
The purplies are the little bits of the piggies that you give and sacrifice to the goddesses.
Has anybody found that road to a leucis?
Yeah.
Has anybody found that?
Give me the, give me the next one.
By the way, those, if you look up that Hoyros, that thing that they're telling, those piggies
that they're telling you, don't tell me.
I didn't warn you.
I didn't warn you because the piggy is something else, right?
And if I were to tell you what the little piggy is, let's see, what's the most scientific
way I can have doing this?
Little pink piggy, sacrifice to the goddesses.
Okay.
That's enough.
Let's go to the next one.
Boom.
There's only so much.
Do you know why?
Because we're porforantes.
We are purpling.
We're the people who are purpling.
And that's what it says.
What does it say you're doing when you're purpling?
You are cacotec nuntes.
You're using the evil art.
You're using the evil art, right?
Medea is a witch who uses the evil art, and you can use that and get a whole group, a
