were idiots. And that's why he gave you that right to be able to do that. Right? And he finally
finishes up here in the end. He says, I'm saying to you, and whoever's going to put that her away,
whoever's going to divorce his wife, except for the case of porneia.
Except for the case of porneia. What is this person? He's a mojhoss. He's a mojhoss. You
know what a mojhoss was at the time? This is not a Jewish concept. Yeah, this is not.
A mojhoss is somebody who's going to freely, freely partake in it. You know what I mean?
You can't keep these people off. These people are nymphs, right? These people are satyrs.
They're not going to stop. So who's Jesus talking to? Well, he's talking to these Pharisees,
but his kids, his children, or his lamkins are still there with them and they're listening.
And they say that's not right, Jesus. Right? A group of kids says that's not right. Go to it.
Next one. Go to it. Yeah. Next one. Yeah. And so this is when they bring kids to them, right?
And they're saying, he's saying, allow them to come to me. I think I skipped one. Yeah. And so the
students, you know, the apostles say to them, you know, if this is the case for men with women,
look, if this is how it is for men and women, right? Now, and when I say when,
you could, for men there, you could also say purpose of people. You could also say people.
You know, and if this is how it is that we're going to end up dealing with women,
it's better not to get married. Right? That's, I'm going to read it to you again, just so
bring it back up. I'm going to read it to you again. Yeah. If this is the thing that happens to
the man with the woman, it doesn't help to get married. It's not advantageous to get married.
And Jesus said, oh, you're right, kiddies. I didn't mean to say that because I'm a follower of
Dobson and focus on the family. And I love, love, love the evangelical support of the family. This
is Jesus. Woo. No, he didn't say that. I wasn't translating. I was making that up. What does he
say in response? He doesn't deny it. He says to them something that's really creepy. So he says to
them, not everybody, not everybody can take in this thing, this Logos, except those to whom it's
given. Are you ready? And they're all looking at him like, huh? What? He says, listen, there are
eunuchs that come out of their mother already eunuchs. And there are eunuchs that are unicized
by other people. But little kiddies, are you listening? Right? I'm telling this to a friggin
12 year old. Are you ready? There are eunuchs who make themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven.
And whichever one of you is able to take this on, take it on.
Okay. So did Jesus just groom a bunch of boys to consider becoming eunuchs?
And you're sitting there thinking eunuch, eunuch, what? What? I don't know. In antiquity, they're
cutting off a lot more testicles than you're used to. Yeah, a lot of testicles, people,
animals. It's just a thing. It's just a thing. Do you know the doctors are into it? You think,
you think your medicine is advanced for cross gendering? No. No, it's not. It's developed.
Yeah, it's developed. But the stuff that's being used originally, oh God, let's take a look at it
for a little bit. Does he have a cross covering his privates? He should. That gets my goat that
we have to do that. Chewie, it really gets my goat that we have to do this. We have to cover up.
I want people to think of that sign of the cross whenever they're tempted to think about the naughty
parts, even if they're the naughty parts of the goat. Yeah, let's go back. Let's go back. That's
thank you to my audience that tried to get me in trouble and get me adult ratings, the same people
who wrote. That's funny. Now that we're coming to the end of satanic initiation, what's funny is the
same people. Okay, I'll just say it. The same religious groups that complain to YouTube about my
