That bears her up that brings you lady babelon
Stands partially in the water partially on the earth
Okay for those of you who have ears to hear
And you know water and earth
You know what the physics of that are
Right go get your boy
Go get your boy a necromancer
Yeah, necromancer
Right. Do you want to see the future?
Here we go. Let's do it
Yeah, and having uh next one
Yep
And he shouted right what what's
A lot of these shouts people you got to get used to this if you don't like shouting don't become a bockin
Don't become the savior
Right and he shouted out in this grace voice as if it was a lion
So if he was a lion
Bellowing mukata something like bellowing
Yeah
Bulls do this too by the way
And when he shouted
The seven
Thunders
Spoke
Their voices
The seven thunder okay wait finally it's working
Okay, mine's working
Let everybody know that it just kicked in and mine's working. How do you know?
When your cult drug kicks in in antiquity
When you can hear the seven
Thunderings
The voices
The voices can you hear the voices in the air? We just showed you how they're transmitted
Right
Okay, fantastic. You guys didn't know the apocalypse was all about drugs. You did you did
Let's go put the pedal down. What's that? Chewie's trying to tell me hit something
Do you want me to hit something?
With the whip are people requesting the whip? I've got maybe I've got this thing. I don't know what this is
Tonight we'll have a special
um, okay who bible scholars get with
Bible scholars get over here
Get over here you seminarians sit next to you sit there next to you
And you know what I'm going to give you you're going to tell me about Jesus or I'm going to give you this
Did you hear me? Did you hear me?
Oh, I love that look on your face
I love it
I need something to it still is not as gratifying. You know what I mean? It's not as gratifying even that cheer
Even that bible scholar purity
That leeches out of them
Even the complete disappearance of this with the
Assumption of fear panic
Even that
Even that is pleasing to the human
So, you know in the villa the mysteries where they illustrate the bucket rights you realize
It's people who are not wearing clothing who are being beaten
Yeah
Being beaten
They're winged women
Right, and there's beatings going on
Yeah
Why would you I knew there was a reason I knew there was a reason to the cut cut cutting
I knew there was
Right, it's a purgation
And they're picking it up in antiquity and they're helping people out mentally
They're mentally healing people with these
purgations that induce mania
Yeah
mania
Purge your system. How do you get rid of that depression?
All right, you purge your system
Yeah hit the restart button, baby
Love it
Let's go the next one anybody got any sulfur?
Yeah, and he's about to write down because he knows right what the prophets do
They have visions and they write them down
Look at how many texts do we have to have of this?
They have visions and they write them down, but then the voice
Tells them it says
And it's straight out of uranos
Straight out of uranos and it tells them hey you stop writing
Right don't write down stuff down
You can't you can't give what the voices are giving you
Right. Oh my god seriously. We're almost done and we come to
Revelation 9 20
Yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah
What's everybody gonna end up doing on the fourth line into the third line henna
May pros cunei susan
Oh, we're gonna end up pros kinesis sing
We're gonna end up bowing to the
Dimonia and to the adela to the demons and to the idols
those images
Those images that's what lady Babylon is gonna bring us
Right and remember the sceos
It's full of the stuff
The stuff that averts death
All right, that's what is in the sponge last one
Yeah, and there's the play of these I wanted you to see tonight
Go ahead and take it down. I wanted you guys to see tonight a really clear portrait
Of how the ancient mystery cult is harnessing
the power of
Drugs
The power of the pharma chaos the power of the magus
The power of the son of god the power of the savior
How we're harnessing
Those things through a sceos
Those baskets those holy baskets they're full of it
They're full of it
Okay, so
