Yeah, and what is he doing? He's prohibiting something and I'm about to show you and that's where we're getting into the drugs
Yeah, I can't wait. I don't mean to yet. Please go ahead
Matthew 21 11 and the crowd did what they said this guy's a prophet because people were silent making a big deal
Who's who is this? What there's a crowd friggin parade?
Who is he? He's a prophet. They say he's Jesus. Yeah, and he's from Nazareth
Up in the Galilee. I used to wake up if you don't mind me indulging in our last season
I used to wake up it
About 30 minutes before sunrise
Yeah
And would go out maybe collecting chickens
Right and watch the sunrise and we sat in an area that was kind of elevated
Hills and Jezreel
Just on the northern side of the West Bank and
We would I would look out at Nazareth off in the distance
Yeah, you got the gallery and
It's quite it's quite a beautiful. It's quite a beautiful place. I dodged rockets. They had rockets going over us, too
Right, this stuff going down
Right all the stuff going down there just keeps going down
Yeah, and so it was part part and parcel but I avoided it by riding a horse through the Jezreel Valley
That's what I did
To me that's the place because if you haven't been there if you don't know you don't know
Yeah, anyway, let's get back to the text here. We're back at the park. What's the thing Jesus is prohibiting?
Look what's having the crowd. They say this guy's a prophet. He's Jesus. He's from Galilee next one. Yeah, and
So, yeah, yeah
What did Jesus do?
He kicks out everybody who is selling and those who were buying
Right in the temple in the temple itself
And what does he do he overturns the places they got set up for people to make change
right and
You've seen this, you know this great episode. I'm sure we've got a bunch of pictures
Let me finish it though and what did he do he turned over the seats of those who were selling what?
Toss peris de las and we translate that as
Dove
Dove
And I want you to keep in mind give me the next one, please
I want you to keep in mind that those doves are not always doves to we go to the last go to the last
Boom, yeah, thanks
Appreciate it. Chewie look at these paleo this doves or
Priestesses at Dodona
These are Iraqi or priestesses and if you look down to that fourth line, you see a little clue to the whole puzzle
It's the gray stadium of Amon
It's the Oracle of Amon. Do you know where you find the doves?
You find the doves at the Oracle of Amon
Don't you like that those of you who pause it and go back and I know you do because you try to catch everything
Go and take a look at that and get the context of what's going on there
These are priestesses and known us in his brilliance
Known us in his brilliance. He brings us those priestesses. Oh
We know
We know why?
They've got the tats
What?
They've got the tats. Don't you know these priestesses have the tats
Yeah, you got a problem with that. It's on their limbs
Yeah
Why would you have this group inside a temple? Why would you have doves there for sacrifice?
Do you think they were keeping those pigeons out? Do you think that?
Do you think this is about pigeons people don't get crucified over pigeons?
Yeah, let's go back to the next text I forget where it was
Chewie will get us there. Thank you Chewie and so yeah, and so he threw all these guys out and turned over the places
The seats which is really the what's going on is it's a locality
Where something is exercised in this case your access?
To the priestesses and you say what there's new ways they're doing that in the temple of Jerusalem
Yeah, I got news for you. I'm about to show you the drugs they were using and
May I remind you?
you
Piety let me remind you that Mary
Mother of Jesus Christ
Was herself
well
When she was
lottoed off
to Joseph
Yeah, I know you want to talk about Pantera and all that right I
Don't want to
All I know is a pregnant 12 year old girl who gets fed in the temple
Becomes the mother of the son of God
Yeah
Wow, you didn't know the temple was integral to it did you
If it wasn't Jesus wouldn't have tried to take it back
All right, it's power
It's power. I'm about to let me let me let's keep going. Let's keep going people. It's just this is oh
It burns a little bit doesn't it it's like oh I can feel it you suck that air you smell that
Incense coming
It's just me or my breathing incense out. You know what I mean? That's what we're doing. I saw magic owed to
Mur today that would drive you all wild. It was gorgeous. It was absolutely owed to Mur
Mur you make me feel so
Sexy
Even when I don't want to
That's the ancient owed to Mur at least the first couple of lines
It's in the pgm. I don't care
Kailage, I'll choice gay grab tie
Yeah, it says isn't it written, you know my house of prayer you've turned it into a place for late stone
For the lace states, right? You're gonna cut what you've turned this place into the grotto
The grotto look at that word spay lion
The grotto man, you know what you do at a grotto
You worship pan
You worship pan
Uh-huh
Uh-huh, and you know what pan does
Pan gets my goat
Pan gets my goat. Yes, he does
Look at the sacred symbol and what it means
It's covering up the naughties
So enjoy
Thank you, Chewy
Let's go on to the next text this is fantastic is everybody in the right place and position
Oh, no, it's before that before that boom. Yeah, okay
So this is what it says in
Mark 1116 this is while he's there and the kids are running around everybody's like shut those kids up
