Biblical scholars may be correct in assuming a literal translation for head and feet, but it should be noted that those two specific body parts were also frequently used in Greek as euphemisms to connote male genitalia specifically.
And when the word tribo catch this, this is philology 900.
And when the verb tribo accompanies mooron in the context of feet, it conveys the idea of vigorous oil lubricated masturbation.
And the person bringing that to you is Jeffrey Henderson. Thank you, Jeffrey Henderson. Appreciate that. Good work. Good work.
Yes, congratulations. I like Jeffrey Henderson. He's a nice guy.
The Ancient World may also have read explicitly sexual references into the episode of Mary's use of the alabasterin.
For, Nonus wrote a summary of the Gospel of John in which he used explicitly sexual terminology to represent this scene.
Now, hold on. Hold on here. This is going to get rough, right? This is where we begin to see for the first time the reality, right?
Hold on. Challenging.
He said Mary used her sultry hair to wipe the thick body fluids off of Jesus as he burned with lust.
In fact, when Pope Gregory publicly affirmed that Mary was employing sex drugs on Jesus, he indirectly acknowledged that the church recognized the sexual nature of what she was doing.
Okay, so now we have a context. We have a cold context to what's to what's going on. We have a profile of Mary and we have a cold context of what's going on.
I want to, with the rest of our time, I'm going to limit myself because the information that I want to give you has to be processed and I think we're doing it best with a shorter format like this, right? Keep it interesting.
There's one quote that I want to bring up on the screen here and read to you and I want you to go ahead. We're going to talk about the Syrian Nard.
We can talk about what it was that was in it and in the drug compound that Mary's using and in doing so we have to turn to the pharmacological sources and the pharmacological sources.
We have the recipes for it, right? So we can actually talk to you about the formula and how it was adulterated. It was extremely expensive and it was oftentimes adulterated or cut and sold in the marketplace for high cash value.
You know, they're adding their baby powder to their cocaine, right? So, yeah, and so her drug, if you look at a lot of the different parts, a lot of different plants that they're including within this compound mixture, there are abortifations in it.
There are drugs that are used against venereal disease in it, which is nice because it fits the context of how it's being used very beautifully.
And there are references to the reason it's called what it's called. I mean, this, the mooron, you have to realize is so common that you can just say I'm going to a place to buy drugs and call it the mooron, right?
It's a catch all for this larger group of drugs that's so commonly used. And as diasquarties tells us, it's, for example, one of the opal balsamum is used as a for chafing in on the labia.
Labial chafing is treated with the drug. And so let's just take a look at the source. Let's take a look at diasquarties.
I just want you to see. We only have time for this tonight. Yeah, here it is. I'm going to read it.
It's the big quote, Chewy. There we go. Thank you very much.
Being one of the strongest heating drugs opal balsamum has profound effects on the body.
Using it to clean the vagina of young girls dedicated to the gods, it heats the area surrounding the cervix when applied with rose oil unguent.
It expels the fetus and associated fluids. And when rubbed in, it loosens inhibitions.
So you can see that the pharmacological and medical knowledge is so important to reconstructing our crime scene.
So when we're looking at that naked boy and we're trying to find him, why he's there and answer the question in the mystery of why Jesus is arrested with a naked boy, we have to go back to these clues that we've got to establish the context.
Why did this happen? What's the motive? What is the tool that is used in the process? Right?
Right. It's gorgeousness. And why are they all so drowsy during the whole affair? Anyway, we will continue. I would like to introduce you to this great Bakian blasphemy.
And it's exactly what it is, is blasphemy, extreme blasphemy, to know the history and to know what they were doing is dangerous.
When the chemical muse, which I wrote, was first reviewed by Brynmar classical review, it said, this book is dangerous.
It shouldn't be read on college campuses. You know, and there's a reason, there's a reason, refute the evidence, right?
Say, no, the evidence isn't there. Darryl Bach didn't, told me I was wasting my time, not because I had sources in actual history, but for another reason that he wasn't expressing.
And it's the same reason my, the head of my department during my dissertation defense expressed when she said, why do you want to say that the founders of Western civilization were using drugs?
Why do you want to talk about their drug use? Yeah. Yeah.
If it's reality, we need to talk about it. And as you can see from just diascorities, one pharmacologist, this is a reality.
And there is a reason that Jesus was arrested at 4am in a public park with a naked boy.
Now we'll welcome Rob. I summon Rob. Rob, would you mind coming into the conversation and just giving us a quick chat? Let's see, Rob, where's Rob?
Bring Rob into this.
Rob, do you have any, do you have any comments from the gallery?
I'm going to, I'm going to hush up here for a minute and I'm going to let you fill me in on all the details. Why don't you give me some of the goodies, what you've got?
You said Professor Rock was coming on. What? Okay, okay, I'm ready.
He did, didn't you see him? Didn't you see Professor Rock? He was there.
He said Professor, didn't that get me?
Yeah, I'm going to get you one of these times and I'm going to bring you in a clip.
Yeah.
