whole group of sex slaves.
Let's see them.
Let's see them.
We're going to keep going.
We're going to keep going.
What?
Oh, God.
I'm going to dialogue with myself.
Right?
Well, I'm purpling.
Keep going.
I'm going to have some troubling experiences in my head.
Don't worry.
And I'm going to experience the purple death porfure os sanatos.
How many of you want to know what the purple death is?
And that's what the entry says, the purple death.
Oh, God.
It's that blackness.
It's that depth.
It's that place where your mind becomes scrambled.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Purple death.
Are you ready to go?
Are you ready to go?
I want.
I want to find the purple death.
It's all over the language.
Let's go to the next term, phoenix, phoenix, phoenix.
What?
I don't want to go back to Arizona.
Celia.
Celia.
That's the funny word that we're identifying with phoenix.
What is phoenix?
It's the purple people.
It is the purple.
You talk about Phoenicians only because of this Greek word for purple.
Keep going.
Keep going.
Once again, it's impregnated cloth with the purple.
That's the way we go about it.
That's why it's in the imperial families, people.
We found it.
We found it.
We just dug it up.
Bring it.
It was in the bathhouse.
You know why?
Because there's a place you put the purple.
Let's go to the next one.
Go to the next one.
Hit me.
Oh, we're on fire.
We're on fire.
We only got a couple more.
We're done.
We have you.
Just a few things that nobody has ever seen, cover on, cover the dirt.
Guga.
Guga.
Who is Guga?
Guga is Athena, Enhorios.
Enhorios.
Who is she?
She's a rustic Athena, the rustic immortal girl.
Odysseus washes up on this island, falls asleep.
And he's woken up by a pack of young girls who are leading their mistress around, their
princess mistress.
And she is ready, getting ready for marriage on that age.
So she's 13, 14-ish, and here's Odysseus laying on the beach, right?
And she saves him because he stands up and tells her, oh, my God, you must be a divinity.
Which divinity?
Do we have standing here in front of us?
Right?
He's covering himself with a branch.
Right?
And she's bold.
She's bold because that's how they were.
She was bold.
And she lets him know.
Let's him know.
Yeah.
That's nice.
Thanks for the compliment.
And then guides him to safety.
And who is it that sent that 14-year-old girl?
Who is it that sent her?
Another 14-year-old girl named Athena.
Wait, she's divine?
Yeah.
And she follows Odysseus around the whole time.
She follows him around, whether he's suffering, whether he's being shielded by powerful Bronze
Age women on islands who are involved in the purple, yeah, or whether he ends up back
at home and one of them is using the purple death to bring him to a place and pull him
out of it to open up his mind.
I wish they had some brain scans on Odysseus.
When Cersei did that to him, I'd love to see what it was doing to his brain.
Oh, God.
Hit me with the next one.
Let's keep going.
That was Athena.
And I want to give you an unusual now.
Title for Dionysus, Bracias.
Bracias.
Now, the contest is, you figure out where that comes from.
Is it Laconian?
What is it?
Is it Dorian?
Is it some kind of regional thing?
Is it Pulaski?
Is that Pulaski in roots?
That's the kind of stuff we can find out.
Look at this.
Who is the Lae-i-anera?
She is the one.
Now, notice the root for Leistace is right here in the beginning, Lae-i-anera.
And what does she do?
She makes the men to engage their desire for intercourse with the women.
That's what that says.
That's what that says.
Who is she?
Who is the Lae-i-anera?
She is the procurus.
She is the one in this trade of the Leistai.
She's the one who sets up, gets the action going, get those aphrodisiacs.
Who do you think knows about all the aphrodisiacs?
It's the Lae-i-anera who knows that stuff.
Once you've been Christed and you're out there with your Gleine, and who knows what
his name is?
It could be Matthew.
It could be Luke.
Who knows?
It could be all sorts of different things.
It could be Peter.
It could just be a kid, you know what I mean?
Once you're out there with your Gleine, and that Gleine is producing you the communion
that is both the Theriac and the antidote, yeah, you better watch out.
You better watch out.
That stuff will bring you to a place where your brain will open up and you'll understand
what everything is, the being.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
And it's developed by a woman using a woman's body.
Using a woman's body.
Isn't that gorgeous?
Give me the next one.
That's the people we should be worshiping.
You know what I mean?
What is that Saikoi?
It's a place where the aphebes get knackered, get naked, and exercise, right?
Don't be embarrassed.
The way it is, yeah, teenage wrestling naked children, right?
It's a part.
It's a part of a society that ultimately produced a dude who was crucified after getting arrested
in a public park with a naked boy, screaming, I'm not one of these lace days.
And that's your reality.
Welcome to it.
We got one last slide.
Oh, what did I get?
What's this?
Do we do that one?
Holy mackerel.
Yeah.
No, this is the place where they put, they were going to put Odysseus in there too.
They put all those men in there, right?
And they got them all naked.
How many of those guys got castrated?
I don't know.
I don't know.
It's the Bronze Age.
Now, what I'm going to tell you before I bring on Gnostic is I want you to know that
Gnostic is going to be, yeah, it's going to be doing an interview.
I don't think he would mind.
I should have asked him before, but I wanted to bring up Danny Jones.
I wanted to bring up Danny Jones because Danny Jones interviewed me and he's going
to have that.
It's going to be released.
And I want people to be able to tell me what they, you know, engage in dialogue and I want
them to see it.
So Neil is going to get his chance as well.
Neil is going to get his chance as well.
Now I want to ask Neil, looking at this dictionary, go ahead, bring him in.
Bring him first.
Let's bring him in.
Say, say hello.
Go ahead.
Do you hear me?
Yeah.
I got you.
I got you.
So Neil, I just want to tell you, I know you're prepping and you're getting ready to go and
you're being inundated with sources.
Can you just tell these, can you just tell this satanic congregation?
Can you tell them ever since you got the Loeb classical library with all of these authors?
How have you opened up?
I mean, you're just, there's a ton of sources.
Tell us about, you don't have to tell us particulars, but is it just me or are there not like an
uncountable number of incredible sources out there in ancient Greek?
You know, when I was younger, I always used to think that the Bible was so huge, all these
books in the Bible, there's so many Old Testament books, there's so many New Testament books,
there's even the Apocryphal books, there's so many, there's hundreds.
And then I thought like, for some reason, this is like, I don't know if I was taught
this or was it, I was in the impression I was under that on the classical side, it's
just Homer, it's maybe Hesiod, maybe some Ovid, Virgil, it's probably like 10 or 15
classics.
And then you start to learn throughout the years that the Bible books is not even a
drop in the bucket compared to the amount of Greek and Latin classics that exist.
Only within a couple hundred years, we'll say 500 BC up until second century, the third
century, the common era, even if you just took that little era.
We're talking thousands of times more text, thousands of times more text than what we
have in the Bible.
So that's just trying to, if you want to wrap your head around how deep it goes, how much
stuff is untranslated, how many mundane texts, how many medical texts, how many poems, you
got epods, you got echologues, you have poetry, you have hymns, you have orphic fragments,
you have philosophical treatises, epistles, anything you can name, there's just so much.
You can't even explain it, it's hard to even wrap your head around, it's like trying to
compare the sun to the earth, it's like you can't even wrap your head around how small
the earth is compared to the sun, you have to like look at it with a model to understand
it, it's just crazy.
Where are you going?
Tell us what you're working on right now, please, because you're a documentarian and
you're causing a stir.
I heard you got banned from somebody's ex, tell us where you're going with your research
and stuff.
Look, somebody made a video and they said in their video that they were refuting some
tiktokers video comparing Jesus to other dying and rising gods and this person who's
an award-winning SBL scholar came along and said, this is complete and utter nonsense,
none of this is true.
So all I did, I didn't even say anything, all I did was post a couple sources.
Hey, look, Plutarch says that herpocrates was born around the winter solstice.
This person says, Epiphanius says that Ion is born by a virgin on January 6th.
He also says Deutera, and I just gave a couple sources.
That's all I did.
Blocked.
Done.
Get away from me.
Blocked.
No worries.
This is a public-facing, this is a person who's winning awards for public-facing scholarship
and as soon as you throw something back at him that he doesn't like, you're blocked.
True story.
I have the screenshots.
I'll talk more about it later, but let's just leave it at that for now.
Okay.
Let's leave it at that.
Now, where is your research going?
What frontier are you uncovering?
Well, I have some slides and you know how we do this.
Whenever you have me on, we don't plan this out.
I don't even know what you're going to talk about.
And I just sit here during this hour and as you talk, I just go, oh, here reminded me
of this source.
I'm going to pull up the source.
And by the time the 45 minutes to an hour is up, I have a whole slideshow ready to go.
All of this is stuff that I gathered in the last 45 minutes, but I think the way to answer
that question is if we go through this because it has to do with what you were talking about
with the Promethea and the Soteria.
So if you allow me, if you want me to continue just a couple slides and we can get back to
the question.
Is that cool?
Do your thing.
Do your thing.
Go back and listen.
All right.
Cool.
So here's my slides.
By the way, first thing I want to say off the rip, I'm on mention that there was the
ancient mysteries that was everything to these ancients.
Salvation came from being initiated and taking the drugs called Kaikyan or Promethea, which
I'll get into in a minute.
And after you had your experience or psychedelic awakening, you no longer fear death.
This was a reality of the ancient world.
This is the model that the Christian Universalist Church was trying to replace.
So what we have here is an image dug up here in Herculaneum, one of the new ones, I think,
and it's Demeter Isis hyphenated, Demeter Isis hyphenated, the central Soteria of the Ellusinian
Mysteries.
If you don't know what the Ellusinian Mysteries are, these are the biggest mystery religion
of the ancient world where people would just like how Muslims from India or Bangladesh
will travel all the way in pilgrimage to Mecca to see the Holy Mosque that Kaaba.
That's how the ancients were for the Ellusinian Mysteries.
