Let's blast off!
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a star coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to the final season of Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation.
It's nice to have you back again tonight.
I've got some great material for you.
I can just tell you what I've got.
And then we're going to jump right into it.
We're not going to waste anybody's time tonight.
We're going to have a little bit of purification.
And then we're going to continue on.
So what do we have tonight on the docket for you?
Oh, we have Jesus and drugs and crucifixion.
All in one act of masochistic sacrifice.
Masochistic drugged sacrifice.
Oh, God.
It's an image to worship tonight on Lady Babylon.
I want you to enjoy the image of Jesus crucified.
I want us to look as closely as we can at Jesus
in the moment of crucifixion because there are drugs there.
You say, huh?
Yes, there are drugs there.
You thought the crucifixion was all about your fairy tale.
You thought the crucifixion was all about your fairy tale,
like this guy we've brought tonight.
Look at him and the glory.
Can you see the wind in his?
How did he put that on him?
He didn't have anything covering that.
But you can see the glory of it.
I want to turn from the story.
The fairy tale world that is pulled over your eyes.
And I want to look at the text and we're going to jump into the bowels
of an ancient source.
Notice how?
And I'm going to bring you some of his own translation of John.
Just so you can see the drugs and say, it's not just this guy.
This man is crazy.
Chewie, you know, I'm crazy.
I'm saying crazy things.
No, that's why I bring all the sources so you don't sit there and say,
this man is crazy.
I'm still not selling you anything.
Yeah, you and I, we have a good relationship, by the way,
for the person who wrote and said, I make them high with my words.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That is the finest compliment.
I appreciate that.
Tonight, let us cleanse the temple.
This is the place sacred, sacred.
This is the museum.
We honor her here.
We purify that place.
I'm calling in Lady Skuta.
Lady Skuta hit it.
Who's this dead guy?
Hit it, Chewie.
Thank you.
Thank you, Alexander, for those of you who would try to impede.
Those are his words.
This is a channel of education.
And if you can't hack it, you better step out.
Because we are about to hit what I like to call the dirty.
Let's do it.
Let's take a look at Jesus on the cross.
Chewie, bring us up.
Start charts.
Hit the first one.
Why is he doing this, Mommy?
It's because of Ada, children, tonight.
Amen's episode is brought to you by Ada.
This is the seventh letter in the alphabet.
And it stands for the number eight.
It is the Ogdoad.
Oh, Ada. Fantastic.
Where are we?
We're with the eighth man tonight.
We're with the eighth.
Do you remember what the beast does?
Beast brings Lady Babylon.
We are with the eighth.
He was.
He isn't now, but he will be.
And when he is, I'm going to show you a cure for cancer tonight.
And you say, how dare you say that?
No, I'm showing you stuff from antiquity, people.
You can't.
You can't blame me.
I mean, here, somebody called the Institute.
Let's go to the source.
Next one.
Boom.
Bring this up.
I wanted you guys to see this.
This is a little bit of the Bible.
I'm just going to read it quickly.
You know, and after this, Jesus knew that everything was done.
Right?
In order that, you know, it might be fulfilled.
Yeah.
What, what could possibly be fulfilled?
You know, that which was written.
Yeah.
So what did he say?
He says deep soul.
I am thirsty because he had to.
That was his cue, right?
There's a certain, there's a certain amount of performance in the mystery.
People, didn't you know that we're going to see it tonight.
We're back here with Jesus.
And there was this pot there and it's full of the oxus.
And I'm going to tell you, I'm not going to translate that word tonight.
You can say oxus or you can say oxos.
So there he is.
You know, I'm thirsty and there was this pot there and somebody came along and dipped a sponge.
Remember, there's a whole bunch of women around the cross.
Right?
Somebody came along and dipped in that sponge, you know, using, applying some hyssop.
And they put it up and gave it to him, right at his mouth.
And when he took that oxos, Jesus said, it's done.
And he leaned back his head.
He leaned back his head and he gave out his breath.
He gave out his breath.
Take it down.
That's how the ancient Greeks said, you die.
You die.
What is that Jesus doing?
He's hanging there on the cross and he is dying and he drinks something that they give him.
Now, what I'm going to do with you now is I'm going to take you, bring that lovely crucifix up there.
We need to see that except we should be able to see his privates.
We should have covered Jesus's privates with cross.
Wouldn't that be funny?
You could cover Jesus's privates instead of with a little towel with a cross with another little Jesus nailed to the cross.
And what was on Jesus who was nailed across?
What was on his privates?
Another little Jesus nailed to a cross.
You see, and then we'll never make it on time.
Let's just, people, can we just, okay, look what I'm doing.
I'm buying time because I'm sucking up the ghost of knownness.
