Right, he was too old
Right
The picture is dark. Do you wonder why in jesus?
The crowd was like this guy deserves it
This guy deserves it. He deserves what he's getting
Isn't it funny that history took the biggest villain the greatest villain
and turned him
into a king
and a prophet
and a
christ
He turned him into that glory
Jesus christ
Jesus christ jesus christ you got your crosses all over the place. It gets my goat those crosses get my goat
Where's my goat joy? That's the cue
Yeah, those crosses get my goat. They're all over the place every time
You look at a cross
Every time you look at a cross you see history's biggest villain
turned into
history's
savior
Yeah, history's savior
The real jesus is what we're after. Okay. Thank you miss goat. That was beautiful. Okay. Give us the next one
I'm gonna give you some text now. Just sit there
I just want you to see the first word in the first line in this one yasun
You see that you see that it might as well be yasus
Yeah, and then look at the end of the line second the last word
Wait a minute. You mean this text says jesus and
Something about a christing all in the same passage. Yeah, and then look on the line underneath that fada makoi
With a drug
With a drug. Is this talking about jesus with the drugs? This is talking about christing
And it's an yasun who's doing it and he is doing it at the instructions
of the medea
The medwa go to the next one
Hmm
Love it people look at the top line, you know, you got you see jason again
And look at the second line d dosen. That's a nice me verb for the people who are out there
Practice with it, right? D dosi dosi dosi. Yeah
D dosi and what does she give him? She gave him the fada makon
Right with what she's gonna be able to yoke those bowls and chrisis. She told him
Get out say she commanded him. I want you to I want you to take note of that
I want you to take note
She told him
What do you got to do? You got a christ your ospita your shield your daughter your spear and your soma
Your body
Your body, I want you to christ your body the yasun
Is the christ and everybody knows look at um underneath the bottom
What happens medea when you christ yourself? This is by the way, this is uh, paula doris
Look from the second line from the bottom. He says what happened for one day
This is what she tells him for one day
You'll be immune from fire
Yeah, wait, what? Yeah, you'll be immune from fire. Thanks. That's fantastic immune from fire and you can't be injured by
By an implement of iron
Yeah, by a weapon no injuring
You won't feel a thing
This stuff will take away your pain and you can go go go
You can go go go just like the guy just like guy. Where are you guy?
Where's our naked guy?
Bring him out. Do we have a picture of that guy who was in the tombs and in the mountains who's crying out to jesus?
That's not naked. Is that naked?
Is that him?
um, okay
He's let's let's bring him back guy
I want to ask you guy. What happens when you put that stuff all over you
Um after you've made all those slits after you've made all those slits
I'm going to show you guys a linguistic connection
Right now. I'm going to show you a linguistic connection. That's what they're doing
With the drug they're putting it into the cuts that they're intentionally making in their flesh
All right, you can push the thorn like paul does and become immune to the venom
Or you can make the cuts
You can make the cuts
