Test it if you want test it if you want to where's all that stuff coming from it's that hunting clan stuff
Right. Oh god. This is Diana. Oh god. It has Diana all over it
Do you know who makes the best teenagers the ones that can kill all the other ones?
Isn't that strange
Yeah, well, that's the context that we're in
So let's go back to our
Bacchic animals. Who's the lion there for? What's the lion?
We've got lions people. Please remember please when I say we're in a Bacchic ritual remember
Rhea is the nurse of
Bacchus and what does she do? What does she do? What do you think she does?
She rears him and teaches him everything
Isn't that cool and what's so special about real? I don't know
She's the flow of the universe. They call her but she's got lions, man
She's got lions and if you ever go to see Rhea
You're gonna end up with it sitting in front of lions and do you know how intimidating that is?
If she were Cersei she would then cut off your genitalia
Yeah, just your testicles, you know, because the other thing can be used
Yes, I love it. It's gorgeous. Isn't it? Let's go. Let's go to the next the source
Did you find there's and finally what happens what happens to this Bacchic leopard
bearing up
Bacchus what happens?
the dragon
gave to him
the power
He gave him the throne and
He gave him that great exsusia
that efficacy
that ability to bring the salvation
Am I in the book of the apocalypse? Yeah, yeah the Therion
the beast
is
the antidote
to the death inducer
Jesus is actively involved in this cult
There's only two times he ever gets angry
One when he's fighting with other lace days other traffickers and two
When somebody turns on them, I want to group the young boys get awfully upset
because he's what
We'll find out in a second
Let's keep going boom next one. I mean end of this prophecy. Here we go
Oh, and what happens the dragon? What does this say? It says that look with dragon gave the power
Right and the throne on you know what the throne on is. That's that position that the pharma con takes
Sit on the throne
You have the power when you sit on the throne
Yeah, Polo Thronos is many drugs
Yeah throne drug
Fantastic, they're looking at it from how the drug functions, right? Boom. It's like I don't know what you'd call it
Some kind of quantum stuff. I know these brainiacs. I never understand it completely and look at verse three
And what else one of the heads one of the heads was dead
One of the heads was dead
one of those principles brought death and
In the midst of this what happened the plague of death
Was healed
The person the person had the death inducer and came back
Do you know how incredible this is?
We are right in the mystery
We are right in the mystery. What do the people do the people were astonished
Everybody was astonished and
What did they do they gave the proper honor to the dragon?
Why why?
Because he endowed that drug
With the cure
He's brought you back to life from the state of death. That's why they bowed to the snake
And what'd they say nothing's more powerful, baby
Nothing is more powerful. I saw that dude dropped into death and
Resurrected and we came back. He said I saw all sorts of stuff
And he's a new creation
He's become born again
Wow
Did you know you could do that with a child?
Did you know you could do that with a child does that bother anyone?
Let's see
Go give me the next one. This is where we're gonna take a turn for the south people hold on hold on
No, we're done. Go next one. Boom. I just wanted you to see the definition of exosia. That's okay
That's not you can slow that down later and take a look at it
Another guy's coming in the room. Okay another angel's coming in the room. He's pouring out that drug container
And what is he doing? He's pouring at a stain gain now the Christians will always
The monist I should say we'll always portray this as you know, the angel pouring out this file onto the earth
Because that's what it says earth
But if anybody's paying attention to any other literature
Earth are a way of talking about drugs the Limnian earth that I just spoke about two weeks ago
What do you think they call it the earth? What is Galen doing?
He's going to limb us to get these pills to give you
Right as a manner of salvation. It's your health
It's your what we would call your mental health your physical health
Give me some urine a little taste of it and I can tell you what you need
take this pill
dissolve it and wine or
Stick it into your rectum
Yeah
Okay, that's the world you're in so if you're a little bit squeamish get ready because we're gonna shift it down
We're really go against the grain. Are you ready?
boom
First guy comes out he pours out that vial into the earth
What do they do with that combination of the earth like the Limnian earth?
It provides a base for a plaster
Provides a base for a plaster and all of these plasters have magical names
Isn't that nice the semen of Helios who who what do you need? I need the semen of Helios
I need the Sunseed, baby
What is that called? It's not
It's not perfume
Here we go, and what happens he's pouring it out what happens. Oh, no, I
Have a Hellkos cocoon. What's that? Did somebody burn you?
This did you have an ex do you have an exposed spot? That's
Did somebody burn you
Who me who me who who's being burned you idiot? You're the one with the haragma. You're the one with the
tattoos
the tattoos oh
God
