I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Hello and welcome back to the Lady Babylon Bible Study.
We've got a great cannabis Bible study tonight.
And we're going on the way to the fields of cannabis.
We're going to go through Jesus, the sorcerer.
And we're going to bring ourselves out the other end of this tunnel.
And we're going to stand in the presence of Luke Othea.
Luke Othea, welcome tonight to Lady Babylon.
Excellent. Let's not waste time.
Let's pull up a couple of comments and see.
I take your comments very seriously.
Let's get some answers from these.
Chewie, give us a comment right off the bat here.
This is from Mark Warren's Prasim.
Yeah, Mark, thanks.
Five minutes and 15 seconds felt like an eternity.
Yes, yes.
It took that long for me to mention Jesus was arrested with a naked kid in a public park at 4 a.m.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
Why don't we go comment number two?
This is our shortest comment ever.
Oh, no.
This isn't the next one is awesome.
Dr. Helen, those Greeks really did know they're sent themselves.
You're making them known to us.
Opening ourselves.
I like that.
It's a lot of knowing of yourself, which is what you see on the temple of Apollo as you walk in.
Right.
Everybody sees it.
We all walk in.
We know ourselves.
At least we're supposed to be excellent.
And this, this tiny, tiny comment that we've got here.
Go ahead.
Oh, who is this from?
Can you blow that up?
Oh, this is from this is the ladies.
Oh, the elect, the elect ladies for Christ.
Otherwise known as the sisterhood of the eternal frustration.
Let's see what happened.
I'm not going to read this all, but I'll read a couple of sentences just to give people a voice.
This is why when Jesus was hanging on the cross, he said, forgive them.
Father is about halfway in.
He said, forgive them.
Father, they know not what they do.
He said that after he was arrested in the public park with the naked boy, right?
And he was screaming.
He was like, oh, father, before God was born on this earth.
Wait a minute.
Oh, I skipped a line.
A little bit confused there.
No, therefore, he was the only person that can accomplish being a sinless sacrifice for us all after he was arrested in a public park with a naked boy at 4am screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
Yes, that's exactly right.
Oh, oh, order of frustration.
Yes, those who seek fine knock and the door will be opened.
Let's cut to the heart.
Let's cut to the heart.
I love it.
By the way, I love it when people quote the Bible to me.
It really, really turns me on because I read it so much.
I read it so much.
Pull up that last.
Pull up that last.
Now I pray you wake up and get saved in Jesus name in Jesus name.
Oh, head sister of the order of frustration.
I appreciate your prayers.
I appreciate the prayers of the evangelicals.
I appreciate the Bible.
The very same Bible that I use to bring the souls of drunkards, the souls of drunkards and prostitute attending thieves to convert them, the very same Bible, the very same Bible.
That's what we're here for.
And that's why you're welcome to be here because we look at the text.
We want to know what was Jesus doing with that naked kid at four in the morning screaming about being a pirate.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's jump in.
Let's jump in tonight.
Tonight I want to take you to an article.
People have been discussing cannabis and its use in antiquity.
And you and I have seen, for those who weren't here for the first season, you and I have seen that cannabis was represented by the street name Asterian, the star, right?
The star.
Isn't that beautiful?
And so we're going to look at cannabis because there is an accusation flying around it.
That somebody is getting stoned and that these people who are getting stoned are very famous people.
Like good old Moses in his tent with a smoke thing and we're told that that something's going on.
Let's see.
Okay.
Right.
What do we do though?
On our way back to reality.
Let's make sure and stick with the evidence because everything else is garbage.
Thank you, Harvard and Yale.
Okay.
Go ahead and put up that first.
Number one, hit it.
Lightspeed.
Love it.
1450 BC.
Book of Exodus references holy anointing oil made from cannabis.
And you and I look at each other and we're like, huh?
