Right and yeah, and he's like kicking the money's flying
Right, and he's like this is my place
Right, he just goes all out. He goes all out
Hey, I would do it and his kids are taking order and some of those kids are teenagers late teenagers
You know things could get
Thanks to get rough. We know one of them carries a friggin sword around every time you say the name st. Peter
He's the sword carrying punk of Jesus
Yeah
Yeah, he's gets all swingy and he's not a good trained guy, right? He's not a good. It's not like a good
You know if they're mafia, he wouldn't be like a you know, he
And he wouldn't make it through the ranks because all he did was cut the guy's ear off
Can you imagine that he's just kind of you're supposed to protect me you kind of dudes ear off
Let's keep going. It's lovely. Yep. Let's know that last that last
Verse from the Bible mark 1160. Yeah, and he didn't allow for the situation to come about
That someone could
Bring a scare was
Through the temple
All of your translations all of them
Will translate this scale losses merchandise, but if further
for the chronic satanic
Initiation people you know
What a scale losses it was what was it Jesus's feet?
when they dipped a sponge in it and
Gave Jesus an antidote
To the death drug that he had taken
Death drug you mean he's going and he's going to the grotto
He's going to the grotto. You know what else they called a grotto
They called that place where the kid was being kept in the tomb. He's crying on Jesus is like he ain't dead
This kid is coming back to life
Ha
Right welcome to the world of drugs. What is the scale?
They can't be allowed in the temple. Jesus says we're not going to do that here
No more
No more. What is it bring me up to definition? This is gorgeous people. You're gonna love this and I'll need this one blown up
Fantastic. Oh God look at this. Yeah, so a vessel
But look, it's also an implement, right? It's an implement
Okay, I see farming implements sacred vassals. Uh-oh look about four lines in a druggist's
stores
emphasis on stores
All right a druggist stores
The things that you use within your craft and what do you think the divine?
Son of God healer Christ Christ is a pharmaceutical term. What do you think that Christ is using?
He's got a supply or a store
Right and what does he order them to do?
To take it out take it down to you to take it out
All right
The first thing he does is lay down whose juice gets the service
It's establishing his territory. That's the kind of stuff that'll get you killed
Yeah, and you wonder why why do these people plot against him?
All right
You thought he was going in there. You thought he was going in there being all altruistic and you know
Anti-greed and whatnot. Didn't you?
No, he's setting the stage
you
Translated that scare was along with King James. I can feel you you translated that scare was along with King James is
merchandise, but as
Alice just told you that's only in the plural
So you mean in the singular it is that container of
the thing that's being used for the
whatever the
Building is doing in this case the holy temple where we commune with God and give drugs to little girls and
then lottery them off
To carry the son of God
That's crazy stuff man, I wonder if all that gold Jesus was given had something to do with that
right a wonder a
Wonder do you start an enterprise when you're given a bunch of gold as a trust fund from a bunch of druggies?
We call magi. Do you start a trust fund?
What do you do you come into town and you take over? It's big time. He's playing Jerusalem
Right. There's a lot of people there. It's backwater and a dump compared to Rome
But you know, hey, he's playing it. He's playing it
This is his time goes in town
Goes in town and does this thing Hosanna who's singing Hosanna? I want to show you the kitties
Let's go the next one. Make sure you show me the kitties. Yeah, and
And he said isn't it written? Yeah, you've made my house. Anyway, this is just the laystone back to laystone
Yeah, there we go, and I wanted to go with this to the third bottom line
I just want you to look at the word pinot. Oh, excuse me pinot toys
Hitah Roycy
Those hittai Roy's companions. That's how it's referring to his apostles
Right his companions and we know that those can be
Prostitutes they can be or they can be what you and I would call escort
Something like that something in that range
but notice he uses an action an adjective here pinot toys and
That really means some with discretion
These are companions
These are call boys
Who act with discretion?
Yeah, okay
Thanks, I appreciate that. Um, can we go into just a little bit of I mean I can feel it
We need a little bit of peppy
Thank go to the next one, please. Yeah
Go to the next one. I just want you to see a couple of fragments here because some people were quoting from the Bible
It really got my goat today
Some people were quoting from the Bible big people on YouTube and they had the gumption
To talk about this gets my goat so much to talk about their knowledge of the Greek and all they had to do
All they had to do is say predicate and they lost their audience
Then they're at a point where they can say whatever they want
They can say whatever they want uncontrolled and we
Congregation Satan are up completely unprotected
All right, unless we arm ourselves
With the tools that it takes
This is what omnia will offer
Arming ourselves with the tools that it takes not to be lied to
But to cut to that purest of streams to keep that muse sacred
That's what we're doing
Can you bring up the next I?
Just want to take us do a little fragment here to wash that
Terrible biblical scholar stuff out of my brain
They're awful people. It's deceptive. It's worse than you think people think. Oh well those poor knuckleheads
They just don't have the training. That's true, but
