If there's any reason that naked boy is in that garden with Jesus, it's because of Mary Magdalene.
She is somehow facilitating this. She is facilitating this.
And we know that she is because she gets pardoned. She gets pardoned eventually by Gregory.
I'll show you him in a minute.
Here's what I want to do. I want to subject you to some images as I work through this very scripted approach to Mary Magdalene's dildo, sex, drugs, priestesses, and Jesus.
If I were to present this at a conference, that would be the title that I used.
Christianity develops in the cultural milieu of the ancient Mediterranean where it was directly influenced by numerous pagan mystery religions.
Greco-Roman priestesses, oracles, and magicians helped shape the image of the early church and ultimately assisted in defining Christian social identity.
The Gospels report that a number of women, including Mary Magdalene, assisted Jesus and his disciples with support derived from their own personal resources.
Mary, Joanna, and Susanna must have been fairly well-to-do patrons of the apostles.
The Gospels report that Mary possessed expensive drugs frequently used by ancient priestesses and at least one valuable dildo-shaped drug applicator called an alabasterin.
Like the Magi, the group of sorcerer priests who gave Jesus parents an undetermined amount of gold, along with two widely used pharmaceuticals, these women were instrumental in funding his ministry as a miraculous healer and exorcist.
Mary's use of the drug containing alabasterin has been a source of consternation for the church from its inception.
Pope Gregory the Great condemned Mary's use of sex drugs in the process of anointing Jesus.
He also attempted to identify the naked boy as a cousin.
This is from Homily 33 for those of you who want to read some dirty, dirty stuff.
Mary's use of the drug containing alabasterin has been a source of consternation.
Why? It's due to the fact that the very same drugs were used by women in orgiastic rites performed with the mystery religions that celebrated gods like Aphrodite, whose temples promoted ritual prostitution, and Bacchus, whose entheogenic wines were laced with vision-inducing botanicals and animal venoms.
Mary's drugs were also prescribed by midwives and physicians to facilitate sexual arousal and to induce abortion.
The use of these drugs in their distinctive paraphernalia implicate Mary Magdalene in the performance of necromantic rituals meant to manipulate demons and resurrect the dead.
So now you see kind of a work up of the psychological work up of this person who is a co-conspirator with Jesus.
That's what we're looking at her potentially as a co-conspirator, was she involved in this naked boy in the Garden of Gethsemane.
So that's a look at her personally and where she is. That's her profile. What are we going to look at now? We're going to look at a weapon.
We're going to look at a weapon. It's something she carries. The alabasterin.
The canonical gospels all record the same encounter of Jesus with Mary Magdalene at a meal at the home of Simon of Bethany.
Matthew's version succinctly states that Mary showed up with an expensive perfume carried in a unique ointment container that was readily recognizable.
Now when Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the Lepper, a woman came to him with an alabaster vial, a very costly perfume, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at the table.
That's the new American standard right there. In antiquity the alabasterin was a short cylindrical stone container that held ointments applied to the genitals and anus.
It was shaped like a phallus, as you can see, and was roughly the same size as an erect male sexual organ.
Aristophanes famously mocked the alabasterin in his Lysus Strata, when one of the characters, a sexually frustrated man named Canesius, was offered an alabasterin by his wife Merini,
but refused to accept it on the grounds that he didn't need it because he already had his own, meaning his painfully obvious erection.
In other words, Aristophanes played to his audience by noting a similarity of the alabasterin and an erect penis.
In addition, Canesius, whose name means banger, he who bangs, was offered the dildo shaped container from his wife, whose name means lubricated or juicy, and her name happens to contain the linguistic root for the type of drug contained in the alabasterin, namely Muron.
Not only does Merini's name refer to a specific sex-dron, but she offers the very same substance to her husband and provides the famous dildo shaped container in which it was traditionally capped.
When Mary Magdalene brought the alabasterin to Jesus, it was no surprise that it contained very expensive ointment.
The luxurious nature of the Muron it contained was attested by the reaction of the apostles who vehemently complained that the ointment should have been sold in order to use funds to support and poor.
However, new testament translators, and here's the catch, are frequently tripped up when trying to translate the alabasterin passages.
Quote, here they are doing their best, while he was in Bethany at the home of Simon the Lepper and reclining at the table, there came a woman with an alabaster vial, a very costly perfume of purinard, and she broke the vial and poured it over his head.
Now, oftentimes the alabasterin is morphed by translators into a box rather than our dildo shaped vial, and Mary is described as breaking the container in order to open it, which makes no sense.
Scholars fudge the translation of the alabasterin passages because the alternative to an accurate translation is terrible.
What is the alternative?
When describing Mary's action on the alabasterin, gospel writers use a form of the verb tribo, which denotes rubbing as a means of preparing or applying a drug to either an alabasterin or human genitalia.
Rubbing drugs like this onto a surface in antiquity was a way of preparing augments for application.
The process would quote unquote warm the drug and therefore ready it for use, especially when applied to the penis, where its rigorous rubbing would facilitate its aphrodisiac qualities.
As Jeffrey Henderson notes in his work on obscene language in attic comedy, the verb tribane was used to rub or chafe sexual organs in preparation for intercourse.
Mary's rubbing of the oil on the alabasterin and on Jesus fits the ancient pharmacological context on the use of sex drugs. It fits it very well, and it's an actual step with the ancient methods.
Mary is said to have rubbed the oil onto several body parts of Jesus, including his head and his feet.
