Speaking of Hilaria and Addis, at Herculaneum,
they found a giant, not well, a pretty big decent size
statue of Addis sitting on a throne
where the wreath on his head holding a pomegranate.
And this is right where they're digging right now.
So my hope is they find some good sources in that regard.
And this can give us some more context
of what's going on for this time of the year
and why this was the celebration.
They've got a whole nother vault.
They've got a whole nother vault
that they're just opening now, right?
They haven't opened it yet,
but they're talking about opening it.
And it could have another 1,000 scrolls in it.
And this is that, you know, it's March for a reason, right?
Because of Mars, right?
You talked about Maw Wars, that older form.
Oh God, that stuff, it's the lupa.
It's the lupa, the wolf priestess.
The wolf priestess who suckles those children
because they were the children of a priestess of Mars.
She's the one, he's the one who got her, right?
And that vestal power, that vestal power
is coming through those wolves, the black wolf.
And they called it.
And yeah, suckling, suckling those young,
they called her lupa.
It was the word, it was the word
that was turned into prostitute.
But this is the month of Mars, baby.
And tomorrow, April, Aphrodite's month.
That's where the word April comes from,
it's from Aphrodite.
Don't you love it?
It makes sense, doesn't it?
It kind of makes sense.
It's the dog's erection.
Neil, why do you think it is, and then we'll go,
why do you think it is that people are so unwilling
to say, oh my God, look at the past,
look at where Christianity came from.
Look at where Judaism came from.
Because look, I just wanna say, I just wanna say,
I know that you occasionally get blamed
for me controlling your thoughts.
And you said that in the comments,
the comments, people think you write my scripts.
I took it as a compliment,
because that means that I'm showing myself
to have the knowledge of a great classicist
over time, so I'll take it.
Even though it's not true, you know, but.
It's an honor.
It insults you on some stuff as I'm writing it though.
So they are catching on a little bit.
As it's an honor, it's an honor, Neil,
to be associated with your work now,
because you're hitting hard.
You're hitting it hard and source-wise.
And I can be, I can honorably stand here and say,
with the people at our conference,
our classics conference, I can say, that's my student.
That's my student, you see.
Someday he'll be a master, you know what I mean?
And so we have to go through.
I think I'm getting pretty decent at Greek, right?
I'm getting there.
Yeah, you're getting there.
Hey, it's not that you get decent.
You're looking for Arnold Schwarzenegger.
You're looking for the one who's in that gym all the time.
That's the one, that's your personal goal.
And when you're doing that in Pumpin' Iron,
the Greek that you did tonight, absolutely fantastic.
I was proud you were reading it and I'm like, yeah.
I was getting all hot, you know what I mean?
Like mentally kind of worked up.
I was like, I was imagining, you know, maybe like a pastor,
you know what I mean?
And you giving it this way to have, oh God,
I know somebody out there is getting it, you know?
And Neil is giving it to you.
You're Hercules, that's what I wanna say.
Check out the Hercules.
Check out the source that I found regarding Pompeii.
Regarding Pompeii, I haven't pulled up right now.
So they found this, this is three months ago.
They found 13 sculptures appear to be tribute
to the cult goddess Kibeli, Sibeli, and Addis.
Let me just go back to what it says.
13 nativity, they call them nativity style.
What is she doing there?
She's pulling something out of there.
Anyways, 13 nativity style statuettes
have been found amid the ruins of Pompeii.
A discovery experts say it provides evidence
of pagan ritual traditions in the ancient Roman city.
Bam!
Pompeii archeologists said in a statement
that Christmas mangers were obviously not part
of the tradition in the pagan city,
which were wiped out, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But yes, this is what we're dealing with people.
This is what they're gonna find there.
I'm just trying to give people an example
of why it's such a big deal
that we dig in this part of the world.
This is what they were doing there.
Make sense?
Bravo, bravo, totally.
I don't think she was,
I don't know what she was doing there either,
but look at the influence.
Look at the influence.
Now, if you are a biblical scholar
and you're living in your biblical scholars bubble,
this is the kind of thing that has no meaning to you.
So can we really, I wanna liberate,
I wanna go in, Neil, and with just you and me,
Hercules, you're Hercules, and I wanna go in
and I wanna tear down that lie.
The one I hear so crazy
is not established by evidence.
Jerome in the fourth century wrote
that the nativity scene in Bethlehem,
where Jesus was supposedly born from Mary,
he says that site used to be the location
where a doneness was mourned over by Venus.
And they took over this site
and made it the nativity site.
Jerome is telling you this.
Do you wanna know what I,
so I wanted to know what Bible scholars say about this.
All of them across the board.
Jerome is wrong, Jerome is wrong.
This, there's nothing to see here, nothing to see here.
They all, there's a bunch of people,
they wrote articles about this thing, about this passage.
Basically telling their students,
just ignore this, Jerome is talking out of his ass.
Yeah, right.
This is the only time I trust Jerome.
I used to have a seminar called coffee with Jerome.
One of my favorite quotes of Jerome,
which I think puts his mind the most on display.
Here's the quote, are you ready?
There is nothing so incredibly ugly
as a naked pregnant woman.
That's what he said?
Yeah, yeah.
You saw, these people are diseased in the mind.
Yeah.
Is that the beautiful image, if you think about it?
That's the image.
Yeah, dude, you could, the sculptures, yeah.
That's the, you remember that chocolate-like
Kubaba statue they found in Eritrea, she's pregnant.
Yeah.
So that's, they are the exact opposite of how we think.
Yeah.
Look at the statues that you just pulled up, right?
This is the stuff that is abhorrent
when you commit to the God of child sacrifice.
This is what, now do you understand
where the Gnostics were giving them such a hard time?
Because they were like, bruh,
this dude is not all that good, you know what I mean?
Not for Abraham either, there's a passage in Judges,
Book of Judges.
By the way, Judges is the worst book ever.
There's a, there's a Jeff, Jeff Japheth.
Japheth, I don't know how to pronounce it.
Japheth, he sacrifices his daughter.
And the way the text is basically describing it is,
this man gave up his daughter, look how, look how
he gave up the greatest thing in his life
because he believes in God that much.
That's sick.
No, no God would ever make you do that.
They were reflecting the Jewish authors of the Septuagint
who were writing in Greek.
They were reflecting that Alexandrian current literature.
Just sucking that in.
And that's one thing you do beautifully
that I think, you know, it's another thing
that makes me proud to be able to work with you
and to have you on Lady Babylon is that
you do your homework with those sources
and you bring that, you bring that thing forward
that they're not able to do on the biblical side.
And that's another example of it.
Your perspective, you're talking about
when the Septuagint is being written
and it's totally revolutionary what you're saying, right?
Nobody's gonna wanna, can you imagine?
Neil, what if that catches on
and people start checking it and starts saying,
wait a minute, you know, this may not be as silly
as it sounds that it looks like, you know,
and you'll have people who will step forward
who are Hellenistic experts.
That's all they do is Hellenistic work
and bringing in 10 classicists, that's all they do
is Hellenistic writing.
This guy right here, Gamerkin,
he shows that Plato's Tameis is the same concepts
being brought forth in Genesis creation.
Is there a plate?
The people writing the Old Testament were playing this
or straight up?
And he proves it.
Do you realize how that historically makes perfect sense,
right?
It's not a fairytale.
You have to, in order to believe that stuff,
it's a fairytale that you have to swallow.
It's like history's fairytale.
Do you want to believe it?
And you're gagging on it.
But if you want to go to heaven, brah,
or you want to justify taking this land and owning it,
you got to follow the, you got to swallow,
you know what I mean?
All right, I've kept you far too long.
Thank you everybody for coming tonight.
I want to, I'm going to give Neil the last word.
What's the word to end us to take us out tonight?
I got it, the perfect thing I want to say.
Just remember, don't let the holiday of the spring
be taken over by something that came way later.
Go to the sources and remember,
this is a special time for resurrection
and renewal of nature.
The plants are going to start growing soon.
The trees are going to start budding soon.
Flowers are going to start sprouting up soon.
And that's what we are celebrating.
That is the real resurrection.
All that other stuff came later
and it's just a fabrication and degradation
of what really was, what the real true Easter
yostra season is.
And to that, I say, Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Siphy and Arch is riding on warm back,
purple rain, shower, latex, the lawnmower man
with the plan, blazing the good stuff, twist stuff.
Let's go down the list with all the ingredients,
original sources, psychedelic potions,
double trouble, ridiculous, meanest,
the producer hung on the temple of high,
snake witch queen of the dragons,
throwing weed in the graveyard,
with kisses of poison for you.
Just come and see it tonight,
lick you with the dragon venom of the darkest time.
But the dragon queen, snake witch of the darkest time.
Come to you whispering, dance with the music.
But the dragon queen, snake witch of the darkest time.
Come to you whispering, dance with the music.
So cool, so cool, so cool, so cool, so cool, so cool, so cool, so cool, so cool, so cool.
