He's involved. Thank you. Thank you frogs or those the spirits. Oh
That makes me it's amazing frog talk
Uh, give me give me the next one. I want to show you people just so you know the donox
What is that donox? It's that reed shaking in the wind. Wait, this is starting to sound familiar
It's a bed of reeds. What what kind of anthropology do we have?
It's also the shaft of an arrow or a shepherds pipe or a fishing rod
Right or the bridge of a lyre
These are the kind of things that you have to take into consideration if you want to understand ancient cult
You have to understand it has basic building blocks
And those basic building blocks are reflected in christian mystery
Christian mystery is the same. Where's creepy jesus? Bring him up. It's the next one. I think
Bring him in. This is the jesus who likes this. Let's go. No under the lyre. That's okay. Give me the next one. Boom
Um here jesus. Tell me what you want
jesus
I want you to
I want you to feast on my flesh
And I want you to drink my
And I'll be in you and you'll be in me
Oh
Okay, well, wait a minute
Seriously long story short that trogo up front. It's not the word for eat. It's usually translated as eat
But it's a you it's a word that's used to pasture
I want you to pasture on me
Wait on your flesh. Yep
I want you to pasture off my flesh and drink my hyma now the origin
of hyma
Is vital essence which can be blood
And it can be semen
All right, remember we're into the fluids. I showed you the doctors. I showed you the
sweat and what sweat does
Hmm, if you don't know
You haven't been there
We're talking remember people. It's not odd
These societies are tasting urine for the sake of diagnosis
It's not odd for a suggestion of armpit licking during coitus to be any kind of you know
Thing but as you say what wait what?
Yeah, I don't know. It's the thing. It's got some chemicals in it. You know, I mean, I don't know if you haven't been there don't
Don't take the train hit me with the next one. Let's do it. Okay
Look
What what is this? This is the pasturing. We'll skip through this. Let's just get to the point
What is the sarks the flesh jesus?
What are you giving me?
brah the flesh
Is the real fodder
and the blood
Is the real potion
All right, the blood of jesus is the real potion
I want the blood of jesus. I want the blood. Why is his blood special?
This dude is a walking drug factory
This dude is high all the time
This dude is casting out demons and healing
This dude is part of the mystery
That's why spit in my mouth jesus. Give me some of your sweat. I'll drink your blood, baby
Give me the next one. Oh, there it is. There's the drink
Oh god, it's just a beverage. You're a draft, but wait a minute. What are we talking about hyma at the bottom again?
Oh god, what are these people doing?
Seriously, you're gonna give all the vampire enthusiasts some something to think about. Yeah
Here it is. Where's that?
Where's that thing that you're gonna give to us jesus? He's giving us his meat. He says
I'm jesus christ little boy, and I'm giving you my meat
That's what it says
This is what he's saying my process
Do you want some of my essence? You know what they call the semen?
They call it the love of god
Oh
My god, you perverts you perverts. What have you done to the mystery?
What have you done?
He was that canitis with jesus
Was that canitis with jesus when he was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. Scramon
I am not a child trafficker and standing next to him is a naked kid with a bandage on his
private parts
Through which jesus
Was consuming the beast
Father I don't want to do this
Shut up
Stumbly and take your drugs
Suck your cup dry
You're getting crucified
Let's go to it next one
Oh god
Um, yeah, that's what he oh god. No, no. Oh, this is good. Look. So those who eat whoever look whoever's gonna eat my meat
And drink my essence
That person has
Zoane ionian that person has
Ionic life
And you say wait a minute every christian. Yes, if you're a christian out there
Do you know every time you tell me jesus saves and gives me eternal life?
Do you know what you're doing? You're referring to me eating his meat and drinking his essence
And it's not eternal life. It's not the word for eternal
Right, this is not the word for eternal
There's corruption lexicon
Fantastic, what is it the word for give me the next one?
You know what jesus's essence and meat give you
Right gobble his meat
I want you to gobble my meat. You're a weirdo. Who goes seriously? How did you get 12 children?
In an upper room and you took off all your clothes
So you could wash their feet and every time you wash their feet
You took that little towel that was around your privates and you dried their feet with the towel jesus
Did you do that so they could see your privates you pervert?
Oh
My god, seriously, and he's yelling don't scandalize me rides you freak. What does it mean?
Look, um when you put people there's a long story short people when you put somebody into the death state
By giving them those death inducing drugs
They're gonna end up in what you call the eschaton
And all the anybody with a little bit of theology just went oh, he said eschaton
Yes, like eschatology
Oh, they get all shaky. You know what I mean? It's like are you gonna urinate on yourself?
Um, and that's where jesus sins people. It's where the death
Encounter takes place. Haven't you ever wondered why everybody's come to jesus? Look this little girl. She's in the state
