scream out in the tongue that nobody understands, except for those sorcerers who are like, wait,
what did he say? Right? Okay. Keep going. We're almost done. This is, this is, this is, we're
almost there. Go. Yep. That's okay. That's the one we just finished. Go. Next one. Yeah. Just look
at what a magoan is, right? This is a trickster or a farmacate, somebody who really understands
drugs, somebody who's bringing saba, right? Somebody that theologian, by theologian,
think more of a pre-socratic philosopher, theologian, that Orphic type, or priests, he says, right?
This is the Persians use it for that way anyway, just for their priests. Go down.
What do we have here? I wanted to finish up tonight with just, and I'm sorry I'm going so long,
but I wanted to finish up with a fragment just because Pete, look, people are sitting here,
leave that up. People are sitting here and they're saying, wait a minute. This is, you just told us
a way to, a way to read or what the Bible says and acts that nobody else has said. Yes, right?
Because we're lifting the text directly, not presenting to you an argument. I have sources
that classicists have that you're not going to find that seminarians don't know, right? That's
the whole point. Classical philology is guarding those texts. I have one that I'll just show you.
I'll just hold it up right here. Look, this is one volume of the oxyrhynchus papyri.
What are the oxyrhynchus papyri? They're papyri that were found in a garbage dump in Egypt,
in a place called oxyrhynchus, in late 1800s, and they were looted by the scholar thieves that,
and this stuff was taken back to Oxford and disseminated for people to put in museums
and stuff like that, right? Oh, fantastic, fantastic. So guess what? Right now they're up to 80-something,
volume 80-something. The one that I'm reading to you today from is volume 45,
45, published in like 1977. No translation, just fragments. And the one that I want to
show you today that has the spur, my grandfather's spur on it, is the, is an unknown. Some people
think it could possibly be Pindar, some people think it could be, they're always guessing though,
they don't know, there's no attributed author. But I want you to notice some of the words that are there.
At the very top, I want you to see, especially my Greek students, I want you to see Lukothea.
Do you see Lukothea there? Lukothea in that first line. And I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna start
translating it to you. The best I can, it's got holes in it. So I can just give you a vague,
a vague idea of where it is. Oh, and it's a Dorian dialect. So heavy on the vowel shift,
and we're gonna be substituting letters. Okay, what do you mean? And we're gonna see that
digama frequently as well, by the way. Yeah, Lukothea, Eratan Timinos. Welcome to the Timinos,
the holy sacred grove of Lukothea. Remember that savior, that sotera that we had in the clip,
she is called the savior repeatedly. This is 900 years before Jesus is ever calling himself anything.
We are calling Lukothea the savior. She is the nurse of Bacchus. She is the nurse,
the transformed nurse of Bacchus. Yeah, love it. And in this fragment, I'm just gonna read it to you.
Yeah, where do we end up? We end up with the pomegranate, with this juicy, sweet pomegranate.
And you say, what? I got a pomegranate? Okay, I got a pomegranate. What else do I have? I got
some rivers. You mean, I'm in this holy grove of Eve, excuse me, of the white goddess or the bright
goddess? Lukothea. That s a translation. That lelk root can be white, but it s more like shining,
brilliant. The brilliant goddess, the shining goddess. What do we have? We got a pomegranate
with her. We have a pomegranate. What are we waiting for? We re waiting next to those rivers.
We re waiting next to those rivers with Eve. And what are we doing with Eve? We re gonna enter
into that gammon, that sacred gammon, that thing which all mortals suffer, both men and women,
it says. Yes. And what are we gonna do? We re gonna have the tike. We re gonna be able to enter
into the chance reality of union with the Korah. Union with the Korah. Wait a minute, are we in
Elucis? Where is this the, have we turned into Balkans? Yeah. We never left. Same Saturnian or
Satanic cult. And what I just read to you was a fragment that none of your, none of your biblical
studying friends or the sisterhood of the traveling, traveling frustration, none of them
will have access to this because they really don t care what the text says. Or one of them
would answer my question. What was Jesus doing with a naked boy in a public park at 4 a.m.,
screaming to the authorities that he was not a child, trafficker.
What s he doing? Yeah, I would love it. Great order of the sister of frustration. Please,
please sisterhood, give me an answer to that. Let s finish up. We ve got one more I want. Yeah.
Oh, wait here. Actually, go up there. Go up there. Yeah, this is the pomegranate. And I just want
you to notice that if you look down at definition number two, that pomegranate is the same as
Numphia. And you want to say, well, what is the Numphia? That is the Madonna.
Madonna, yellow water lily, and the name of Ariadne.
Yeah. What? Can you feel the cult? Can you feel the mandrake? Is it finally kicking in?
You know what I mean? Oh my God, it s gorgeous. Lastly, let s end on this, then I m gonna
go to Gnostic and form it real quick. What is a muse? What is a muse?
This is Hesechius. We listen to them for data about their own language. Eroticae.
Eroticae what? Oidae. Yeah. Oh, I did the adic. Sorry. Oidae. Yeah. This is the a oidae song.
We also get ep oidae from this, that epotic or magic song, right? We don t have a word for this
in English. Take a song, the concept of singing, and wet it to the performance of magic that alters
the universe around you. And you get an epode. You get an epode and you begin to understand what
a muse is. So what are the muses? They re the erotic epode. Keep going. What else are they?
Some people say they re inigmata. Yeah, inigmata. We get enigma from that. This is a dark riddle,
a dark puzzle to be figured out. Isn t that nice? The muses are a dark riddle. And what
else are they? Technos, right? They re skilled. They have the skills. The muses have the skills.
So if you want to ask me, what is a muse? There s you use the classical definition,
the ancient definition, say the muse is she who is the erotic singer,
who sings with skill the enigma of existence. Oh, isn t that sexy? That s sexy, right?
And what do we know that Sappho calls them, thanks to the fragment we discovered in 2005,
it was released in 2005. What do we know they call those muses?
They call them io colpoi. Those who have that ios, that burning purple poison, that violet poison,
in the groin, the purple medicine groined singers of erotic desire.
Oh, you mean that made the universe? Yeah, that made the universe. Isn t it nice?
Yeah, love Aphrodite. Love that stuff. Welcome to Cyprus. Welcome to Cyprus, bar Jesus.
Right? There she is. There s the great queen. Welcome. Let s get Gnostic and forward on here
for some last, some last minute. I m sorry, Gnostic, for taking so long. How are you doing?
Never rushed. That was good. I was enjoying the whole time. Good stuff.
Good. Good. What do you have in your brain, since you re such a powerful artist,
what do you have in your brain with the Medea project? I know you re working on it.
Yeah, without Medea. I was thinking about what you were just saying just now,
and you mentioned this Bacchic empire that existed at some point. When we look at the sources,
we put two and two together. What Diodorus is saying, what Herodotus is saying, what Homer is
saying, you get this picture of some sort of cultural empire that existed, stretching from
beyond Babylon Eastern and all the way to, you know, past where the Truscans are at. You got
in the Truscans, like the Vosses you were showing, you have Medea, Metiah in the Truscans,
and then you have the Medes claiming to call themselves Medes based on Medea.
So there's some sort of cultural empire existing somewhere at the end of the Bronze Age,
and Diodorus relates that it comes from this pharaoh who, you know, goes to war against the
Syrians, and he leaves this, he plans this kingdom up in the north in Colchis, and then the Egyptians
pull out, but that kingdom stays, and I'm thinking to myself, hmm, that's interesting,
because Medea is so culturally important to all these places. Why? And then I'm looking at the
first chapter, well it's chapter two, actually, book one of Herodotus' histories, chapter two
to chapter four. The first thing he writes about is the the Trojan War. He's talking about how
Helos came to be. Of course, he's going to talk about the Trojan War, but I didn't realize this
until until last night. Before Helen gets captured, well actually the question is,
why did Helen get captured? Well because she was so beautiful, not really. According to Herodotus,
people say it was a retaliation of the Helans going to Colchis and capturing Medea first,
and they captured Medea, brought her to Argos, and then in retaliation the Trojans captured Helen.
So like, whoa, that changes the whole story. Medea is the cause of the Trojan War now,
and that's like the beginning of it. You can't talk about Western civilization without the
Trojan War being in the beginning. That's our genesis right there, and so Medea is so important
