You mentioned the vowels aren't overly important.
Does this infer the early forms of Britain Greek was or came from the abjad alphabet?
This would make sense as neighbouring civilizations such as the Etruscans seem to use more runic style alphabet.
Another fascinating presentation.
Nice question.
They're all great questions.
What about the vowels?
All I can say with any sort of expertise is being a guy who reads this stuff every day for the last 30 years.
All I can tell you from my expertise is not what that original alphabet was.
It's nice though that you're looking at the Etruscan and asking those questions.
I can tell you that within the root system that is used in ancient Greek, within its root system, vowels are attunements.
They are an attempt to take that root concept and finally tune it so that it can be shown as distinguished as two different concepts that are spring from the same root.
That's what the vowels are there for.
They're there for attunement.
That's about the best, just from somebody who reads the stuff.
Once you understand with the STR root, for example,
once you understand where that Ionian form goes,
in the different dialects in Greek they use different vowels and different lengthenings.
You can say, Ied, it means kill or Ied, it means spare or have mercy on.
The vowels are doing something musical that is fine tuning.
I've often wondered within the magic when they're performing the incantations.
One of the best texts you can read is there's an addition of all, at least the ones that they found, fragments, incantations, both in Greek and in Latin.
In that there is something that the vowels are doing to attune.
Even in the PGM, you'll have where the incantation will stop from any Greek that we can translate and recognize.
It will bust into not just the woe case magikai, the magical voices,
but it will burst into this vowel thing where it goes I, I, you, I, Iow.
Iow is the, it's like a calf on the DNA.
It's like a message, a codon that tells you stop translating here.
This is where you cut the DNA.
It's very molecular that way. The vowels are doing that.
They're composing commands, entry commands and exit commands within the incantation, freaky stuff.
But remember, you know, they're all on drugs.
So, yeah, it's hard to, I guess you got to go there in order to understand.
Any other questions, Rob?
I mean, let's take one more question.
I don't want, I don't want to keep people forever because I'm targeting.
I'm targeting, you know, your attention because, you know.
Well, I'm going to move on because Nancy had asked about the inferences through the language and whether we can,
whether we take it the wrong way sometimes and make the wrong inference.
And she wondered about the gadfly and why isn't, why isn't it a hornet?
Why don't we refer to it as a hornet?
It was like to do with the references.
I'm going to move on because I want to try to get, I've got Chthonius.
And he wants to know if Dionysus, you think Dionysus is going to come back?
I like that question, I do, because I thought it himself, that do, in a sense.
And he actually thinks that Dionysus might have already come back in the form of Christ.
Isn't that nice?
