Did something get your goat chewy? Something got chewy's go put it up that got chewy's good. This one's for you
Chew I dedicate this goat look into the cross
Look into the cross people
And emblazoned that cross
Into your brain emblazoned it. Okay. Sorry. Let's let's go to the last okay
Um, what happens here? He was killed by medea this guardian
Right. Oh, you don't need to know his name. Just like you don't need to know guy's name who was in the tomb
Right. Okay. He has one. I'm not going to give it to you. How do you like them apples?
What happens to him medea kills him and how does she do it?
Look at the third line horseman anyway, as some people legacy as some people say she did a
Diafarmacon through the drugs she induced mania
Right by applying it as you would to his wounds
And what happens, you know, some people say well, you know, she came along you can take it down
She came along and you know, there were these offers of mortality and immortality medea is
Medea is essentially
paving the way for these clowns
To be able to succeed in their bs
And she's doing it with her drugs. She induces mania
Apollodorus tells us about a group of young women
Who refuse to accept
Bacchus are they using the drugs? Yes. Are they applying them the same way?
Damn straight, but they didn't accept the god and what happens when you don't accept the god
You got to call up some auger who's going to come out to you and he's going to say
I'll round him up for you and that's what he does. He gets a party of people together
They round up these baccant women who are insane and they treat them
To bring back their insanity by purging them
By purging them
Yeah
You see at the time
From the Bronze Age forward
We know people are using drugs to induce mental states
When that naked guy stumbles out of the tombs
All cut up
All naked
Nobody screams
Jesus just steps up
And the naked guy steps up to Jesus
And bam
miraculously
He's able to affect a cure
through
his magic
It's the mystery we are standing squarely looking at the christian mystery
I want you I want to say one extra thing tonight
And I want you to think of this
I normally don't ask people to think about anything
But I'm requesting
I'm requesting the vision
To take everything that we know about this right
And to put this right into practice
To begin to start sending once again
Souls
From the living to the dead
And bringing them back
We
Have the ability
To resurrect
Jesus
We have the ability to put the person into the state that will cause them to be born again
We have the ability to go to that frontier
Perhaps
Perhaps in an upcoming
finale of this
Venture perhaps we'll see the way to do that together
Thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate your time. It is valuable to me
Hail Satan
Oh
You
