You gave me hope when it seemed hopeless You put a song in my heart
Showed me a road not often taken You gave me a start all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Hello and welcome back to the Lady Babylon. This is Wednesday night Bible study.
And what I have for you tonight is something absolutely delicious.
I'm going to introduce you. I'm going to introduce you to the tomb man.
I'm talking about a guy. I'm talking about a guy that we don't really know in this modern era.
But he lives in the tombs. He lives in the tombs and he follows that prescription.
He has that authority and power. You know, tomb guy. Tonight on Lady Babylon.
So here we are. We need to purify this temple. I know that you're ready to do so and you want to get going on.
So put your seat back in the upright position. Store your tray table because it's time for us to take off.
I want us to be able to take full advantage of that store and I want us to be sitting on that throne.
If we are to understand the mystery of Anamiah, then we have to be positioned on that throne.
I'm going to bring you some texts tonight. I'm going to bring you a stranger.
A stranger just like the one we met that took Jesus's 12 children up to the upper room.
Shady guy without a name. Our guy tonight is another guy without a name.
And I want to bring him to you and I want you to show him. We saw last time we saw about the drugs that are being used on the cross.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to look in. We're going to look in into that shady guy and what he is, what he does.
We're going to see Jesus in action. We're going to follow the lace-taste tonight.
We're going to watch him. You and I are going to get to sit back. We're going to get to watch him work.
But before we do, we're going to purify. We're going to bring that catharsis.
Head at your end.
Thank you, Alex for bringing us back and for setting our mood. We need this purgation. We need it.
Tonight I'm going to bring it to you and I'm very, very serious because it's quite a privilege to be there looking over the shoulder of Jesus.
It's sacred ground. It's sacred ground. I want us to go there tonight and I'm going to open up.
I'm just going to bring Jesus right to you. Open up, Chewie. We need to start off.
Hit it. First star chart. Beautiful. Blow it up. Oh, this is going to be good. Can you feel it?
Oh, yeah. So what does he do? This is a character sketch of Jesus.
He's the dude who talks to everybody in parables, right?
He's the one who gives them only as much as they can hear without parables. He doesn't speak except when he's on his own with his kids.
And then he explains to them, okay, I get it, Jesus. I get it. Somebody was saying the other day, what about the apostles?
One of them's got to be over 18 or any of them over 18. One of them was a tax collector.
Here's the funny thing about the tax collector side. Matthew was sitting there at the tax collector booth.
Doesn't mean he was a tax collector. So even Matthew can be put into that same category of boys that Jesus goes randomly around picking up because that's how the ministry of the man we're following tonight begins.
Hail Satan. Yeah, we've got to stick with the truth, right? We've got to remind ourselves every once in a while to stick with the truth.
What is the truth? Tell me, pilot. How's it look? Let's go to the next one, Chewie. Fantastic.
Yeah, and so what are the kids doing? I just want you to see the attitude of the kids. Jesus gets on his boat because he started his ministry.
He's on a boat in the Sea of Galilee with a bunch of young children. And what's he doing? He's sleeping because these poor kids, these poor kids, they don't know what they're doing.
You know what I mean? The boys of Galilee don't know. Those of you who feel sympathy for the lost boys and for what they've had to endure for the kingdom of heaven.
Do you feel it? Do you feel that that unique energy? Do you feel that unique energy? Yeah, this is not that unique energy. This is something that society has generated an image for you to behold that is Disney.
It is not, when I say Disney, I'm talking about Mickey Mouse. I'm talking about the most incompetent portrayal. That's what I'm talking about. It is a Mickey Mouse portrayal.
Show us the children. Let us see the children. Let's go. Let's see the same one. Look. So they had this big storm and Jesus is sleeping down in the bowels of this boat.
And he's got his cushion with him, it even says. That guy's no dummy. He brought a cushion with him. By the way, all the kids are running around afraid.
And they come to Jesus and they wake him up. Right? Right? Right? And what does he do? He gets up and he's mad. He commands the winds to stop.
Oh my God. And what are the kids doing? They're afraid. They're afraid. And they say to one or what kind of guy is this? What kind of guy?
Look even the wind and the sea. They respond to him. They respond to him. Do you see the position those children are in? Good. This is going to be important later.
Let's come through the squall. And now we're going to find Tomb Guy. I've got all my apostles. I've got all my children. And now I'm going to go see. It's a lace day.
So I'm going to see Tomb Guy. Tomb Guy. Fantastic. This doesn't bode well. For those of you who are afraid, please, please think about the children.
Think about them and their welfare around Jesus. Give us the next one. This is, I'm sorry, people. It has to be stark. You know, it doesn't. The sting doesn't feel good going in, but it's got to be stark.
Here's Mark 437. Yeah. There was this great lilops. There was this great storm that came along. Jesus, you know, he did his thing, calmed everything down.
It was going to, he was going to swamp. What is this saying? It sins a wave over the boat. And it's going to swamp the boat, right?
Look, it's going to happen. And what happens? He himself, he's sleeping. I told you, he was down there on his cushion sleeping. And the kids woke him up. And what did they say to him? Ready, people?
Okay, for every one of you. Chewie, I'm sorry. Take that down. Take that down. For every one of you who has ever doubted my sincerity. For every one of you that includes scholars, non-scholars, stoics, philosophers, pimples, cantaloupe, salad.
It includes everyone. Watch what is happening. They call him teacher. You don't walk around and call a 30 year old man teacher unless you're a student, unless you're a child.
Didoscalos, grown men don't walk around calling each other that. You know who uses that term? It's a term used in education by the students of the master. The disciples are students of the master.
Good. Between 10 and 18. Hit the next one. Let's go. Let's go. It's going to get dark people. Just wait. I know you really want to see it. I know you really want to.
So they get over the storm. He calms it down and everything. I just want you to see in 5-2 and mark 5-2 what happens. Yeah, so they end up in this place where this dude comes out.
He comes out, rushes out to him. And he's a dude from the tombs. And look at those last three words. Look at those last three words.
He is an acathartic spirit. And right away, you and I drop off and have no clue about what that means. Watch the translations. An unclean spirit. What is an unclean spirit? I'm about to show you.
And I want to show you the verb that's being used above. Should I get it back for me? Look at the verb that's being used above that says Jesus. No, back up to the one we had before. Fantastic.
Look at Hupendason. What is that? What does the guy do when they arrive? What does the guy do? He comes up to Jesus. Give me the next one. He doesn't just come up normal. What does he do?
He comes up because they could have used here in the Greek, erchimai. They could have just used regular, any old verb for conveying oneself. They could have even used some form of planet to wander around.
They could have used anything. What did they use specifically? What did the author of this Gospel of Mark? What did he, she, it use?
Look, they used a word that means to come for the sake of a meeting. To come for the sake of a meeting. And it can be to meet a friend or it can be to meet another soldier in combat. But it's an engagement.
The guy from the tombs comes out to meet Jesus. Now let's look at this guy. Give me the next one. Let's look at this guy and see what.
