You people know me, you know how true I am to the science and the reason
If it doesn't fit, the reason, there's no reason to have it
Yeah, so that's our measure, this is the museum, right?
And tonight I'm going to bring you the name of Jesus
I'm going to bring you the name of Jesus, I am
And we are also going to do something maybe that you haven't ever seen before
We're going to take a look
At this Lady Babylon
Professionally, we're going to bring you her song
We're going to bring you her song, so what am I doing?
Oh, here it comes, can you feel it?
It comes Pindar, come here buddy, have a seat
I have a seat, what I need from you
Are some verses, I need some verses, some kind of song Pindar
I need some verses and I need to put those together
Like this Roman woman showed me, this Roman woman showed me how to do this
Put these verses together in order to complete the song that is hidden within
It's a religious thing, yeah
And if you're into codes, it's a beautiful way to fly
On your orphic wings, love it
So we've got another video here for you
And I want you to realize that these are Pindaric verse
This is my translation that follows in English
And we are looking to resurrect Lady Babylon
Let's take a look at her, chewy
Pindar
Pindar
Pindar
Pindar
Pindar
Pindar, that was the fourth Pythian Ode
The fourth Pythian Ode is a record
A record of the prophecy of Medea
Yeah
And we're going to look at a couple of lines of it, I know we've talked before and we've had Pindar here
Everybody loves Pindar, right?
There's no reason not to
And what I'd like to do is I'd like to show you, to take you in kind of focus
Why don't you bring up that Greek text? Just let people appreciate it
I'm going to be reading and translating to you
As we go along
Yes
I want you to notice that we are talking about the Medea
Whose words were fulfilled in the 17th generation
What is that daughter of the one who possesses the fleece, Aedes
Yes, the one who possesses the fleece
What does that fleece have?
I've never known the fleece or seen the fleece, it has a song written on it
And we're about to get acquainted with that song
Thank you, Zayn, by the way
Thank you, Zayn, for the great songs
And just a little tidbit for you, by the way
Kudos to Zayn for getting kicked out of being asked not to come back to an establishment in New York
That, you know, maybe didn't appreciate songs about crystal math, you know
But he's writing for us a song about Jesus and an naked boy
Jesus and an naked boy, love it, thank you Zayn
We're back, we're back to Pender
And I want to remind you all that from that mouth
From that divine mouth, that Stoma
Comes that song that ultimately is written
Is written on the skin of Ram
Yeah, yeah, it's got a golden fringe
It's got a golden fringe, we're going to look at it and what all of that means
We're going back to the initial, we're going back to the initial mystery
Right, we are squarely, where are we dimensionally?
Dimensionally we're in Libya, at Siwa, right
We're receiving that oracle
Where are we at in time?
Where are we at in time?
Yeah, we're right there when it was decided that it would be given to him
Yeah, it would be given to him, and how do we get there?
We have to get there with some kind of force and energy
And as everybody knows that is what, that is what runs the universe
That's how magic works, right?
There's a reason that we go to Cyprus
There's a reason, because if you don't go to Cyprus
If you don't go to Aphrodite
None of your, none of what you're doing will get off the ground
Yeah, gorgeous
So, Pindar takes us there through this oracle, right?
Of the Medwa, through her oracle
And what, who does she talk about?
She talks about, I'm going to translate a couple of lines to you here
So they ended up going to the Fossus River
This is in Caucus, right?
Some of the major places, right?
Medea's kingdom
Medea's kingdom, right?
Father's ruling, fantastic
And what happens when they go there?
Now, Potnia, the Aksotaton, Beleon, Foichilan,
Junga, Tetra, Namon, from Olympus
What's happening?
Erigenea, who has the sharpest arrows
You like that?
Sharpest arrows
Remember we're in bow cultures, right?
She has the sharpest arrows
And what does she do?
She offers up a, a what?
A dappled rhineck, it's a bird
It's called a yonks, it's called a yonks
And what is this thing?
You know the story of the yonks, the story of the yonks
Who is yonks?
Daughter of Echo Pan
Yeah, and what does she do?
She sings
And the witches, the witches would tie a yonks
To a four-cornered circle
Yeah, hoop
And then play the rhineck
Play the bird
Do you know what sound the rhineck makes?
We're told it sounds like a single fluted pipe
Not the double, but the single
Yeah, isn't that nice?
Isn't that nice?
And what do you make music like this for?
What do you, what do you think Aphrodite?
Do you think there's some Aphrodisiacs involved in this process?
Well, I told you there were more drugs coming, right?
What do you, what do you do with this?
What do you do with this?
You make that sound, that instrument
Isn't that neat?
They played, by the way,
if you didn't notice the Greeks played animals
As musical instruments
Nice
