to everything. Like I mentioned, the Etruscans are putting her up as like a goddess almost,
and then I found this out too, talking about Bacchic Empire, the grapevine, and I have a screen
ready to share if you want to pop that up real quick. It's just a Wikipedia article for grape,
right? But grapes are imported and planted. They didn't grow wild. They only grew wild
in one place, and guess where that is? Georgia. So the grapevine grows wild where Medea's kingdom
is. So we're talking about this Bacchic Empire. Grapes are grown, grapes are native to this place,
which means Bacchus is native to this place. You have Bacchus and Medea both coming from this area,
and the marriage, and then we get this marriage of Bacchus and Ariadne. You were just talking
about Ariadne as the Madonna. Well, what is that? That sounds like the formulation of Caikian mix,
the grape and the Madonna. So it's just fascinating when you put it all together like that.
Yeah, isn't it? And the very fact that Medea could be that Bacchic voice, it shouldn't surprise us.
The very fact that she's formulating Bacchic practice, it shouldn't surprise us that in order to
enter into that ecstasy, of course, the wine has to be full of something. It has to have that essence
of the God. And it only makes sense that this sorceress who knows so much about medicine and
drugs, that she's the one who's kind of pushing this, why? I gotta ask you this, Neil, and this
always bothers me. Why do we overlook that they were abducting her for a reason? You don't
sail halfway across the world and pick up a strange person and steal them for no reason.
Yeah, you don't waste resources. You don't throw your navy out there and risk them getting killed,
going to a foreign land just to cash your random princess. No, no, no. She was valuable.
She has knowledge. She has resources. She is famous. Think about Cleopatra's fame
when they capture Cleopatra and they brought her back to Rome and they were going to kill her.
And all the Roman citizens were like, no, no, don't kill her. We will revolt. If you kill Cleopatra,
we're going to revolt. All of you will be dead. They're like, oh, shit, we can't kill this woman.
Let her go. Think about that, but I would say times 10 with Medea. Because Cleopatra,
yeah, she's very prominent and she has kingdoms, even Syria and I think southern Turkey, she had
one of her sons planted over there. But Medea's influence goes the entire known world at the
time. The entire Bronze Age seems to be connected to Medea in some way. So I would say Medea is
like Cleopatra times 10. And that's another thing you mentioned, the knowledge of the drugs.
That's probably more valuable than gold. Well, and remember that drug knowledge is
an arc of evolution within the warfare as well. She harnesses the power, the explosive power,
petroleum. Yeah. And she ends up a lot of petroleum in Georgia, making the fire of Uranus,
right? And the Greeks take this and turn it into a very formidable naval weapon.
Right. And they're very unwilling to talk about what is the secret. We know that the
suitor tells us that was Medea's fire, that Greek naval weapon is originally Medea's fire.
And she's making things explode. She makes a princess burst into flames in public. Do you know
they heard about that all over the world? They heard about that all over the world, that vase
that's in Atreuria. That's in Chevetary. It was the Corinthians who colonized Chevetary.
And so they, of course, brought with them the disaster that happened when their king and their
king's daughter got emulated. And the suitor even says that when the Greeks, when the,
it was the Byzantines at the time, when the Byzantines were trying to find a way to defend
themselves against these invaders, they went to the ancient text and found some sort of fire
processed. And like you mentioned, they let you know this is an ancient thing. This isn't
like a new thing. They were going back to the ancient sources to find this stuff.
So, and like, for someone to get captured, it started an entire war that echoes all the way
across centuries. And it becomes the central foundation story of an entire,
of an entire world, basically. Something's going on there. Something is important about that.
Yeah. And may the classicists hear our voice today, because we don't think that
Bacchic worship is anything but Greek, right? And you say, well, it's very oriental. It's very
strange. Yeah. It was founded by a woman who lived up to the east of where the Greeks did. You
got that much, right? Orientalizing. Yeah. The mysteries come out of there and out of
Thrace, right? Work their way down. So, yeah, it's fantastic. I love the people don't reckon the
influence that Medea had upon the world. They don't understand. All of that mystery is coming
from one woman. Why do you think the Christians take that figure and say, this is the one that
Jezu, when he comes down and his golden bra is going to slaughter before he slaughters the rest of us
and the blood is up to his horses, right? Lovely. You want to know why I think about that? I'm so
glad you brought that up, because it's sort of a, it's an inverse of the Argonautica where the
Jason, there's, you have two Jason's now, Jesus, Jason, and we know it's the same name. One of
them is Greek, one of them is Semitic, whatever you want, like different, it's the same name. It's
Jason. It comes from, and so the Jason in the Argonautica goes to Medea with the golden fleece
and the Jesus, and he gets saved by Medea. The other story is the Jason with the golden,
whatever, the golden, wearing the golden robe, going to slaughter her, and now she's a witch,
now she's evil, now it's Lady Babylon. So it's like a flipping of the poles happening,
they're reversing everything, and that's why you get Kelsus, that's why you get Kelsus saying that
this is a degradation of the of the mysteries, is what he calls Christianity. And I think it's
why Christianity is so brutally hard on drug use, why they crack down, and they start by telling
their own people, it's one of the oldest Christian references we've got, and it says you've got to
take the botane out of the communion, you can't have any drugs in the communion, we've got to
just go for the straight wine. And they use that to break the Roman world's mystery cults,
just the drugs themselves. And why is that fear of reconstructing the right there? Because they
know it can be done, they know that they can enter into this mystery yet again.
Yeah, when people's minds are being expanded by these drugs, all of a sudden you're opening yourself
up to people that are going to revolt against you because it's easier to keep people enslaved
mentally and emotionally if everybody's sober and everybody believes in the same thing.
So and that's that that was the goal and that and you have to admit they were successful at it
for like 1000 years. All of Europe and Italy and Greece was basically just following Christianity
for 1000 years. Nobody, like, nobody, there was nothing else going on unless you were Jewish or
Muslim. But that's it. Well, there are a lot of wars. Yeah, and they all hated each other if they
weren't, if you weren't, if you weren't Christian, then you were hated. So yeah, there wasn't any,
I've always, I've always wanted to ask, let's let's anger or some of our viewers now and say,
why wasn't there a pox catholica? There's a pox romana where they brought the Romans brought
civilization and people were saying, yeah, I want to become vote our people in to become, you know,
Romans and they're spreading civilization and things are going great. Right. So we declare
this is a pox romana. This is a great golden age. Why don't we have a pox catholica? Why don't we have
the Christian church ever achieving a pox? There's nothing like that. In fact, if you're going to,
if I was to argue, if I had to pick, it would be when they start going back to the Greek mythology,
the Renaissance, when they start painting Venus again, that's when certain things start to get
better. Isn't that weird? When things start to get better is when they start going back to the
ancient myths again, start painting Venus and Bacchus and putting them up on in nice buildings
with nice, when they start getting into the art again, all of a sudden the world starts to change,
you get better. Isn't that something? What does that tell you about the world? What does that tell
you? It tells you a lot. And eventually that Renaissance gives birth to democracy coming back
to the terrestrial plane. Democracy coming back. And now we have the democracy, right? And now we're
fighting to keep it, right? We're fighting to keep it. What if, I'm just gonna ask you this, what if
it is not true that Christianity is the source of democracy? What if it's true instead that
Christianity was what killed democracy? Absolutely. It brought back the monarchy, you bring back the
monarchy, something that hasn't been seen since the 30 tyrants were slayed by the Athenians when
they replaced it with a 500-head Senate. They called it the Bule. That was the end of tyranny
for a long time after that. And it wasn't until Christianity comes along where they
replaced all that with another monarchy, you know what I mean? Like, I'll say this, the Roman
imperial way was sort of led into that, don't get me wrong, but Christianity, the one God and one
pope and one emperor, that's that mentality, that patriarchal mentality. That's dark. That's a dark
world that everybody has to play a part. You play your role. You have to, if you're a man, you have
to do this. If you're a woman, you have to do this. And women stay home and do that. And men, you go
do this. That's a dark world. That's like a, like, it's like, that's like the, what do you think of
