Darrell Bach, you're the senior research professor of New Testament studies.
If anybody should know these sources, you should know these sources.
Dallas Theological Seminary.
Executive director for cultural engagement from the Hendricks Center, DTS Dallas Theological Seminary.
In case you didn't pick that up before.
Yeah, these sources I can assure you are historical.
They exist and they're real and that's what we're looking at.
So there you can see.
Can you feel the ceiling of where the mind can't go?
There's a limit.
There's a mental limit there.
Now that was the bad example of scholarly interaction.
The good example is Dr. Carl Ruck.
Dr. Carl Ruck.
And I know that most of you will know Dr. Carl Ruck.
What do I think you should know about him besides the fact that he's a genius who is a skilled master at the highest level of the ancient Greek.
And has jumped into the deep, deep depths of the ancient sources.
And knows he's forgotten more Greek than any seminary in this country has learned.
I can guarantee you that.
Anyway, Dr. Ruck, I want to run a couple of clips of Dr. Ruck.
Now what I did was I asked him the same difficult types of questions, but he has studied the ancient cult.
So he's not following the fairy tale, right?
Where we were not allowed to.
This is our jungle gym and this is where we play, right?
Everything set up nicely.
No, he's able to say, well, you know, what are the sources say and where can we go?
You know, he might get accused of being a Satanist because he follows reason.
And so let's just go ahead and run on asking some difficult difficult questions.
Carl Ruck, would you?
Would you give us some answers of the beauty of the world?
Go ahead, run Carl.
What I think is most important about my work and what I find most interesting is uncovering the.
The pattern of metaphors that describe the sacred.
Sacrament.
And once you have uncovered that it's really quite simple and quite obvious why these metaphors existed.
But since they are metaphors, they've been interpreted in a totally different way by people who are unaware of the fact that the ancients were into altered consciousness by the use of metaphors.
Of a psychoactive sacrament or antheogen mythology is filled with cows and bulls.
But not ordinary cows and bulls because they're bulls that deduct maidens and maidens that have a passion for bulls.
And so it has nothing to do with the fact that, well, everyone likes to steak dinner or they did herd animals.
We're talking about sexual encounter with bulls, which is not an ordinary, expectable experience.
Bulls do not want to copulate with women and women do not want to have sex with bulls.
So sex with bulls and yes, it's not difficult then to jump to the looking at the mysteries and pedophilia then, is it?
No, Carl Rock is not afraid to discuss the background.
Let's see another bit.
And staring us in the face all along is the fact that the bowline is metaphor for the mushroom.
It shouldn't be, has there been something that we didn't know for such a long time.
So it's very clearly in the mythical tradition.
