Depending on where you lived, you lived in Egypt, you lived in Gaul, you lived in Syria.
If you wanted to be saved by the Soteria, the Saviouress, you had to go to Ellusis and
get initiated.
And everyone wanted to do this.
There's a story about a man from India.
Actually, you know, it was eight men from India, and only three of them made it.
They traveled all the way from India to get some Athens to get initiated, and a bunch
of them died on the way, but three of them made it there.
The one dude, after he got initiated, he was so blown away by his experience, by the spiritual
awakening that he had, that he no longer feared death, he jumped into a fire and killed himself
and did his life.
So that's how powerful this whatever was going on there was.
So I just want to point out something about this goddess right here.
Notice she has this crescent moon on her head with a star Venus inside of it.
She's holding a cystrom and a cornucopia.
She's got the world on her feet.
And you know, obviously some of this might remind you of how they portrayed the image
of Lady Babylon in Revelation with the moon at her feet.
And she's also clothing golden.
You might argue that she's clothed with the sun right there, right?
But that's the second century Soteria, and this is actually before the second century.
This is 79 AD or older.
Anyways, I just wanted to show you guys this because it's going to matter for what I'm
about to get into.
The next slide I have is an inscription of Sabaeus all the way down in Egypt.
What the hell is he doing down there?
Isn't Sabaeus a Thracian God?
Well, I'm trying to highlight because when people try to tell me that there's no way
Sabaeus can influence Yahweh, he's a Thracian God.
And I'm telling you, look, down in Egypt, there are inscriptions of Dionysus Sabaeus
also identified with Isiaca Isis, a male version of Isis.
And it says, they called him the Epecus, the listening to prayer, which is one of his titles,
Zeus Helios, Megas Curios Sabaeus, having authority over Lord and Master and Guardian.
All right?
So just trying to show you how important Sabaeus was to people in the ancient world.
As we continue, I want to show you something here.
Now, ignore the text.
If I can cover it, I will.
Actually, I could.
I just want you to look at this.
This is from the oldest copy of the Septuagint that's physically alive today.
Now, what do I mean by that?
Well, the Septuagint, apparently, according to the story, was created around 270 BC, something
like that.
But that doesn't mean we have physical copies from 270.
We lost all that.
This is from the first century BC.
I think it's like dated to like 100 BC, 90 BC, something like that.
Very old, very hard to preserve text out of that old.
But what do you see in this text?
Because in the copy that I have, in the Breton's, the Breton copy of the Septuagint, there is
no, yeah, oh, it's, it's a Curios, Curios, Curios, Curios, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord.
Well, turns out that the versions that we have in our possession are, in fact, late Christian
Bibles, so they sort of edit the text over time and they unify them.
So any, they want to change any differences between manuscripts, they unify them into
one coherent church text, which is, you get the codex synodicus, the codex Aleksandrakus
and the codex Vaticanus.
Those are the three oldest from the fourth century or later.
We don't have any Bibles before that, by the way.
But this, this manuscript, you can see Iota, Alpha, Omega.
Yeah, oh, what, what?
Yeah, oh, the Yahweh.
Well, this is what they think.
All right, I'm just going to read this, but don't, don't, let me just read this for you.
Play it, it says the Paleo-Hebrew divine name Yahweh, rendered in Koine Greek as Yah-oh.
That's, that's, that's the consensus, right?
Well, wait a minute, though, is it really, is that really what happened?
Is that really the case?
Because the Chaldean oracles says that Dionysus or Bacchus was called by the
Chaldeans, Yah-oh.
Phinephinesian tongue, frequently called Sabaoth, Sabaoth, the seven poles, the
demiarchos.
So wait a minute, now we have conflicting stories.
This is the translation, or is this really the name of the God?
Is, so let's just continue.
Let's just, I'm not even saying, I'm no theories yet.
Did I even say that I didn't even make an argument?
All I'm doing is I'm just showing you stuff, right?
I'm letting you decide.
Here we go.
We have Diodorus of Sicily.
All right.
The Diodorus has this interesting passage that I want to read to you guys.
And he says, I'm just going to read a couple of the words from the Greek where he
says, Arianios, there is, there are two stories to an Agathon demon.
And then he says, down here, he says, Zelemaxan, who is Staios?
Ten coin and Hestian, Musaenton, Yah-oh.
It's down here.
My, my mouse is on a different spot.
Yah-oh.
Huh?
What is that?
What is he talking about?
Well, here's what it says in English.
It says, Among the Arianes, Zarathustra claimed that the good spirit gave him his
laws, and among the Getai, who represent themselves to be immortal.
Zelemaxis asserted the same thing.
By the way, Zelemaxis means Xemile's son.
Xemile's son, look this up.
Don't, just don't take my word for it.
The, the etymology of the word Zelemaxis is Dionysus.
All right.
Then it says, nice.
I like that image.
Then it says, Among the Jews, it says, Among the Eudaios, right over here, Among
the Eudaios, Musaenton, Yah-oh.
It says, Among the Jews, Moses referred to this laws as the God invoked as Yah-oh.
There's no, there's only three letters there.
So now we, now we're looking at, we got Diodorus comparing Dionysus to Yah-oh.
We got the Chaldean oracles comparing Dionysus to Yah-oh.
We have Sabaeus, who is Dionysus, all the way down in Egypt.
Let's keep going.
Let's see what else we got.
Here's from, this is from, this is from Microbius.
And he says in the same verse, the Orphians, the Orphics, called Eubolia of good council,
point to this God as having been provided for the plans of the mind of born of conception.
The authors think that the mind of the world is the sun, for which the principal understanding
flows into men.
They believe that the sun stood before the merit of good plan.
Orpheus clearly pronounces the sun in this verse.
Helios and Dionysus are the same God.
One Zeus, one 80s, one Helios, one Dionysus.
And this is what they call this God, Yah-oh.
So, whoa, now the evidence is starting to tilt in another direction.
You know what I mean?
We got this God called Yah-oh, who's linked with both Dionysus and Apollo.
What else do we got?
Let's continue.
Now, this is the, I'm going to take a little detour, but I'm going to go back to, to that
Svesi stuff.
This is called the Met, because while Ammon was talking, he mentioned the Promethea drug.
Sometimes I, when you, if you're watching him and you don't know him like I do, he, he's,
in his mind, he thinks you understood what he said there, but you might not have understood
what he said.
I'm going to bring the sources just to back him up for a second.
This is real.
This has not just made up shit.
Apollonius of Rhodes in the third century BC says that Medea took a magic ointment
from her box.
This salve was named after Prometheus, a man only to smear it on his body after
propitiating the only begotten maiden, Hecate, with a midnight offering to become
invulnerable by sword or fire.
And for that day to surpass himself and strengthen Derrick, it first appeared in a
plant that sprang from the blood-like ecore of Prometheus in his torment, which
the flesh-eating eagle had dropped on the spurs of Caucasus.
The flowers which grew into twin stalks on Cupid High were the colors Corkian
Saffron, while the root, rootcutters, DMT heads out there.
You guys know exactly what I'm talking about now.
While the root looked like the flesh that did just bad have been cut.
By the way, anyone who knows anything about DMT knows that the roots that you
have to buy to make DMT are always dark red purple, like flesh.
So this is, everything's lining up for me right here.
This is mind-blowing shit right here.
To make the ointment, Medea, it says, and then the juice, dark sap like
mountain oak, to make the ointment, Medea, clothed in black in the gloom of night,
had drawn off this juice in a Caspian shell after bathing in several perennial
streams and calling seven times on brimo, Hecate, nurse of youth, brimo, night
wanderer of the underworld, queen of the dead, the dark earth shook and rumbled
underneath the titan when it was cut.
And Prometheus himself grown in anguish of his soul.
By the way, Propitius, Propitius in Latin in the first century BC also
cites this magical herb sprung from the blood of Prometheus.
And then there's two more sources, Seneca in his text called Medea talks
about this magical herb.
All right, you could read this for yourself.
Pause the screen at any time you like.
Come back to this video later, but I'm not going to read the whole thing.
And then Valerius flakus, flakus in the first century AD also talks about this drug.
We have four primary sources that all corroborate each other.
And it reminds me, it reminds me of the obsession, the middle ages, the dark ages
of people finding the holy grail.
We've got to find the holy grail with the blood of Christ in it.
This was already a thing people were doing before Christianity was even a
thought in anyone's mind.
People were looking for the blood and the cup of Prometheus by Medea.
This is a real thing.
I just proved it by four primary sources stretching 400 years, all talking
about this magic cup that Medea produced with the blood of Prometheus.
By the way, he was killed in the Caucasus, right where Medea lived.
Here we go.
Dionysus and his alter ego.
I'm going back to the Sabazian concept.
Dionysus with his alter ego, the child Yacos.
All right.
So I'm going to change my script.
Well, actually, let me think.
I don't want to do this.
I'm going to hold this thought for now.
I want you to keep this, put a little tab on this.
I'm going to come back to this.
There's Dionysus as the father and the son rolled into one.
That's what we have to take away from this.
Dionysus and Yacos.
Yacos is always the name of the divine child.
Sometimes it's called Zagreus, but Yacos is another name for that.
Let's just put that aside for now.
Prometheus standing among the satyrs.
See this?
What is going on here?
Wait a minute.
I thought Dionysus is the one who stands among the satyrs.
This is probably just a one-off thing, right?
This doesn't happen that often, right?
Here's another one.
Prometheus holding the fire, standing with his satyrs.
What?
Another one.
Prometheus, 5th century BCE, standing amongst the satyrs.
Again, another one.
Which one is this?
I don't know what date this.
3rd century BCE, I'm not really sure.
There he is again with the satyrs.
What's going on?
Why is Prometheus with the satyrs?
What?
So something to think about.
Here's Prometheus standing between Heracles and Caster.
This is a Truscan you can tell.
Anyone who knows a Truscan you can tell.
By the way, that's Ivy and berries.
That's a Dionysian symbol.
No, Ivy and berries, Dionysus all day long.
There's no other god that has Ivy and berry.
That's Prometheus.
Look how Christ-like he looks in this picture.
Look, where's his cup?
Look at, he's got his arms wide open and everything.
He's dying for everybody.
He's being pecked.
He's being, what do you call it?
He's being, what does it say in Isaiah?
You know what I'm talking about, where they stab him.
Pierce, he's being pierced.
They pierced the Lord.
They pierced the Lord to the concept.
He's being orylated.
Yes, the magic cup is being created.
That's the drug, man.
All right, here's another one.
Another Truscan image of the god Prometheus looking all Christ-like.
With his arms up, dying and his blood is being basically taken.
By the way, this is the poppy goddess.
And you might be thinking, that's a rare occurrence.
Well, no, all over the Minoan world, all over the Mycenaean world.
And in Eleusis, we find this image of this goddess holding poppy plants.
Sometimes they're on her head.
As we can see, this is from the Mycenaean period.
This is Bronze Age, baby.
Look it, there's your Stour Venus.
There's your Crescent Moon.
That's Demeter, baby.
It's the goddess I started off with on purpose.
So I wanted you to see the same symbols in the Bronze Age are all the way in the
Roman period, the same goddess, Isis Demeter, the savior, the Soteteria,
which is a woman, as Amon pointed out.
He's right.
Here's more.
There's a whole bunch of these poppy goddesses popping up.
Poppy goddesses, drugs, guys.
I'm telling you, you guys think this is all crazy.
This was normal shit in the ancient world.
Here's another one.
It's the poppy goddess with poppy on her head.
Now, one more thing I want to show you guys before I'm done.
I'm going to stop sharing this.
I'm going to share one more thing.
Because Clement of Alexandria talks about this.
This is what he says.
Clement of Alexandria, in the exhortation of the Greeks, says the following.
He says, I'm just going to read the highlighted part right here, where it says
Svesion, Goon, Musterion, Sumbalon, Toys, Mumenios, Odia, Colpu, Theos.
Dracon de estin utos, translates to, for the God who passes through the bosom is
the symbol of the mysteries of the Svesians to those being initiated in the dragon.
Let me repeat that again.
The God who passes through the bosom, he's talking about Svesius.
Svesius, also called Yaho, you got to get that imprinted into your brain.
Svesius, hyphenated Yaho, is the God who passes through the bosom is the symbol of
the mysteries of the Svesians to those being initiated into the dragon.
All right, let's keep going.
The next thing I want to show you guys is, in the Thracian religion, there is a God,
by the way, this is where Svesius is from, Svesius and Zelmoxis.
And there's another title for this God, Svesius, Zelmoxis.
