What a shame
Can you bring back the dead?
Can you raise the dead?
Can you enter that snake?
Can you get that plague and come back?
No, you can't you can't
Your master did he was busy doing it all over the place with his troop of boys
Now
Let's go the text
This is sobering. It's very sobering. Here's a couple of little ditties. I just wanted to show you
I just want to look at line two. I'm the head man. I am God
Amy chaos
Rani Oscosmos Jeff foley the Iranian take it down the Iranian organization
The Iranian
Organization I am the God father and the
Iranian organization is my head
Can you say child trafficking pirate
Yeah
Imagine that a
mystery
built around the creation of
the she
The she who produces who is the medusa
Who produces the water of life that brings us back? I I can't
I had somebody send me a
Response to a request for an interview
That said look it's great stuff, but can you turn it down? I
Can not tone down
The fact that the Bible says Jesus Christ
Was arrested in a public park with a naked boy
At around 4 a.m. Yeah, I
Cannot tone
Down you guys don't want to tone down. Why would I start toning down stuff?
You know what they had a tone up for me
That's what ought to happen. Let's go
Tone up. You know who you are tone up. Yeah, okay. Yeah
What is this the nymphs of the water the fire is a Festus?
The grain is demeanor
Right, and what is the war is Aries? Yeah. Yeah, the great sea that is Poseidon
You know and what is I just wanted to see after detail at the end. What is she? She's it ain't it?
She's what?
She's peace
Take it down
peace be unto you
you
But originally it wasn't your priest who is also
Getting in trouble for things they're doing it's not that peace
It's that peace that you can only get from Aphrodite
Yeah, it's why you marry
Aphrodite and Aries
Because if you didn't nothing would exist
You know
It's a
Ancient ancient religion people. That's what you get when you worship the gods ideas like that
All right, a little bit too scientific, but whatever. Let's go the next one here people would love and it's coming to it
It's coming to a
Conclusion I'm Zeus. Yeah, he's the God of all
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and what is he got? He's keras days
He's horned
He's horned you mean the hoop see stays is horned. Yeah, that God on the high places is horned
So when you read that in step two isn't don't be surprised don't be surprised
Right, and what is he doing? He's breathing out that
Spearities whistling that spirit into the world in those voices
Those voices that are in the air
Oh
God
Seriously, this is a little bit. You want to see the Holy Spirit, right? That Holy Spirit can whisper in your ear
Without you even without you even being aware of his presence
You know like sending a thought imagine if I had a machine how much who would come to
Omnia if I had a machine there that could send your thoughts into another person's mind
You know now you understand the mania and why it's there
There's a radiation a maddening
Radiation that takes place during the operation of the mystery of on Omnia
That mystery of lawlessness
Yeah
Yeah, it's a purgation people
It's a purgation. Let's go see that. Let's go see the last couple more here
Oh, you know what? We're gonna swear a bunch of O's and I just wanted you to see that Donis was in this whole group
I just wanted to see I on let's keep going. Let's keep going people are getting tired
It's Thanksgiving tomorrow people are gonna have a great time
I bring you the words of Evander
Evander said and who's he? Oh?
He's the dude whose mother was Carmina. She was married to Hermes
You say wait leave it. You say she was married to Hermes
How does that happen?
What'd you think would you think priestesses do?
Why do you think we we pick them the way that we do?
All right, it's the attraction. We're just using the same magic of the universe to against them
Against those invisible powers those authorities. That's all that's all and look Carmina
She attracted Hermes
She attracted Hermes. She drew him down
She drew down that star
Isn't that lovely?
He's the interpreter for everyone
For everyone. That's what it says in the text. You gotta love that hermeneutics love it bring up
Yeah, and what is Evander whose mother is?
Carmina the muse of the Romans
he's setting up a place on the Palatine Hill and
Establishing the Luper Kale you that great festival where we take every 13 to 16 year old
Mail strip him nude give him a whip and make him run through the city in a pack and any time they come across
somebody
whom they desire
They hit him with that strap
They hit him with that strap. Isn't that nice they hit him with that strap the fact that we never do this gets my goat
It does it gets my goat. Let's bring it back
Let's bring it back. Are you kidding me? Yes, yet. No, I'm not
Right who wants to join does anybody want to join?
Okay, everyone's got to be initiated. Who are the who are the?
Forces of the universe who control everything Evander says
