These are these sacred texts, the Sibyl,
the Sibylene books, and they would read these texts
and get oracles through them.
By the way, Christianity, and I put this in one
of my earlier videos recently,
it's called, they lied about the first 100 years
of Christianity, where I argue that the gospel text
and revelation and some of the early Christian stuff
seems to be coming out of the same genre
as the Sibylene oracles is.
Very similar where Nero is the 666, the Antichrist,
you get a lot of, there's a lot of overlap happening,
but in this text, they were told to go and get the mother,
great mother of Caibele from Phrygia,
bring her to Rome, and when they did that,
they ended, they were getting crushed by Hannibal
in 204 BCE, after they bring her over,
all of a sudden Hannibal is defeated,
but not only that, they take over the whole entire
Mediterranean within the next 50 years.
So that's where you get your religion from,
and this is where you get the institution of the holidays
that we're in right now.
The holiday that they set up was specifically set up,
it was a week long, where you have,
they bring out a tree, a pine tree that represents
the God Addis, and they lay it down and bury it,
as if they're burying a body,
and then they richly mourn for this God,
then they bring out the new initiates, the golly,
and these people were getting in the streets,
they were getting whipped, like in the gospels,
like Jesus carrying his cross,
and they're being whipped in the streets,
this is part of the initiation.
There's all this stuff lining up,
then there's a two-day period in between the day of mourning
and the day of rejoicing,
where they start to rejoice the resurrection of Addis.
If this was celebrated,
but they'd also performed this in Roman-occupied Egypt,
and you know the Egyptians, they love Osiris,
so they didn't make them worship Osiris,
they performed the same rites for Osiris.
That's a big deal, because now we're looking at,
we're looking at the gospels, and we're like,
is this just another sort of flip of this idea,
where you have the Adonia for Adonis,
you have in Eleusis, the Great Dionysia Festival,
same exact week, you can look this up.
The month's called Aleph Lebolia,
it's the month, it means like, it's a title of Artemis,
it means like Hunter, Artemis the Hunter, Aleph Lebolia.
And so during this exact same week,
they're performing plays in honor of the dismemberment
of Zagreus and resurrection of Dionysus.
There's so much lining up here,
during this day that we're on right now of Easter,
that the fact that Easter comes in this day,
and by the way, scholars will say,
this is the only thing we know for sure about Jesus,
everything else we don't know,
but the only thing we know for sure about his life
is that he went down to Jerusalem during the Passover.
How, how do you know that?
That's a coincidence, that's a miracle,
that's almost a miracle in itself,
that he does this on the same week
as all the other dying and rising festivals.
Last thing I wanna show, his mother Mary,
I got one more screen that I wanna show, and then I'm done.
His mother, all right, let's see, here it is.
Now, if you look at the oldest depictions of Mary
that exist, you always see she has the star on her head,
and she'll have two stars on her shoulders,
and it's the eight-pointed star Venus,
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
This is, if you guys could check me on this,
go and find the oldest picture of Mary in Jesus
that you can find.
I don't know if it's fourth century or third century
or what, just go and look them all, get them all,
put them all in one folder and just compare them all.
You'll see the majority of them have this sort of design,
usually she's wearing a blue garb,
star on the forehead, star on the shoulders.
Once again, this is a job for the classicists,
because if you pull up Eratosthenes,
or I'm sorry, this is not Eratosthenes, this is Higanus.
Higanus has a description of the maiden, the virgin.
He says the virgin, or the maiden, the quarry,
is located under the feet of Oxford.
She touches the hind part of the line with her head
and the equator with her right hand,
and the lower part of the body can be seen
with the water snake.
On her head, there is one faint star,
and one star on each of her shoulders,
and two on each wing.
Boom.
Think that's a coincidence too?
I doubt it.
So all I'm saying is, when you look at the New Testament
and the Gospels through the lens of a classicist,
all of them make sense.
It's a Greek text.
It's Greek culture.
It's written in Greek.
They don't have any Hebrew Gospels.
If you've even had one Hebrew Gospel,
I would say, okay, maybe you should look at it
through the Hebrew lens.
You don't.
You have four major Gospels,
plus a whole bunch of other Gospels
that aren't considered canon.
All of them Greek, and then a few Coptic ones,
no Hebrew ones.
None of this is a, this is a Hellenistic mystery religion,
in my opinion.
Caller Ruck even says that too.
It just, everything lines up.
Do you think someone who only studies Hebrew
would know about Hagianus' passage
about looking up, trying to find the stars
on the forehead of the Virgin?
She's the, it's the Virgin Mary.
So I'm just saying, like, all this stuff
seems to line up pretty good, but that's what I got.
Gorgeous.
Oh my God, I can't tell you how impressed I am.
My video may be screwed up,
but I gotta say, Gnostic Informa,
that is impenetrable, baby.
You brought out a, you know, if you and I
were going to a professional talk,
and we're both graduate students, we're doing our thing.
I'm proud.
I'm proud.
When you put that kind of evidence out there
and blow the heck out of people, right?
That's the way you do it, man.
I mean, you never plan these out.
Every time, every time I've come on here,
what happens is he'll start the show.
I'll just sit here and watch.
And as he's going, I'll start looking up sources
and pulling them up, and I'll,
and I just respond to what you said.
Every time, this is what we do, every time.
Look at how your facility with the sources is getting
to the point that you're quoting the actual Greek now
and you're working through the Greek.
You know when your skill is down and the dirt like that,
that's the kind of doctor you want.
You want somebody who knows the turf.
And good job.
I can't, now, the only thing that I would add
to all of that is, what do we do then?
Because you know there's a whole bunch of sources
out there, a whole bunch of people.
You can talk about it just about YouTube if you want,
but you can also talk podcasts and all sorts of stuff.
What do you do to get that information to them
that the Bible scholars, the incompetent Bible scholars
have been obscuring for the last 1800 years?
How do you get that,
how do you break through that ceiling, is all I'm saying?
I would say if it was 200 years ago, it would be very hard,
but now we're in the age of information and digital age
where anybody can access these texts.
Anybody can find a tutor for Greek through wizint.
200 years ago, you had to know somebody in your local town
that can teach you Greek.
So now we don't have any, it's almost like,
the way I want to answer that question is like,
what are the excuses to not be doing it?
We have every tool we need right now to just say,
forget about academia.
If they're in this dogmatic bubble anyway, who gives a shit?
Let them circle jerk each other with their citations
and write their books for their libraries
that no one's gonna read.
You're gonna write some academic book
that no one's gonna buy,
but you're gonna sell 500 copies
to all these different universities
and they're just gonna sit and get dusty.
Go ahead and have fun with that, knock yourselves out.
But there's a growing population of people like you and me
who wanna know what these texts really mean
and don't wanna be gaslit into nothing to see here.
There's nothing to see here, anybody.
Don't look at Halaria Festival, it means nothing.
Don't look at it.
Close your eyes.
I think the way forward is coming in the form of this library
because I just wanna stress one more time,
if people haven't caught this,
the library at Herculaneum,
it was covered with a pyroclastic flow,
perfectly charred those scrolls.
We've got 800 of them that they just finished scanning
and we'll be able now to translate and provide
to the community as a public library.
Now, the professors that are involved will tell you,
this is gonna change the way that we understand history.
You don't understand, this is the only library,
complete library that we have ever found.
And guess what, it's not filtered
through Eusebius' fourth century.
By the way, you know how much text we lost?
If you read like Plutarch,
it's early second century historian slash philosopher
and he's citing all these texts that he had access to
that somehow we've lost after Eusebius.
And the only stuff that was preserved
is what the Christians wanted to preserve.
And so, and by the way, and they edit texts
and they interpolate texts and they forge texts
and they basically in the fourth century,
history got rewritten.
And then you start getting all these history books
where they just take Josephus
and stick it in front of Xenophon and Herodotus
and pretend that that's the history.
No, it's never been the history.
Josephus has made up fairy tale about Moses and King David.
No one knew about that shit until like the fourth century.
I'm talking like most people didn't,
that wasn't part of like the history of like,
you read the sources from the Roman side and the Greek side,
they don't say anything about King Moses or Abraham or Noah.
That just doesn't exist at all.
And all of a sudden in the fourth century,
history gets rewritten and they take Josephus history
and stick it in front of Xenophon and Herodotus
and Thucydides and make it look like
that's what everyone's been,
everyone's always agreed to this the whole time.
No, it's not, that's not the case.
So, yeah.
It's bad, it's bad scholarship.
It's really more appropriation than scholarship.
But the lazy scholars of today need to get a kick in the pants
and to say, look, what do we have here?
By the way, this library that's coming out,
this library that's coming out,
it is people need to know that they suspect, okay,
now I'm gonna leave this to the archeologists, right?
They're the ones who figure I was on a dig myself at Megiddo.
I know how complex and how careful
and scientific classical archeologists are.
So more power to them, but they suspect,
they don't suspect, they're claiming
that this is the Julian Library.
So it is one of the families
that is attached to the Imperium, right?
Guys like Claudius or guys who are trying
to grow the Imperial Library, right?
Grow the Imperial Library.
Nero is sending out people to get scrolls
that are about certain things.
They're growing.
This library will have Sappho.
It will.
A Julian Library will have Sappho.
This thing will have works.
It'll have women that you have never heard of complete.
Complete.
