I kind of like to school.
I love this.
This is from Euripides.
This is Fidra talking, right?
And what is she saying?
She's asking a question to her nurse.
She's saying, what type of drug is this?
A Christ or a potable?
Is this one of those drugs that you take and you rub into your skin?
Or is this one of those drugs that you take in the rectum?
Is this one that a priestess is going to blow up my nose?
Is this one that's going to come out of somebody's body?
And I'm going to swallow in communion within the mystery?
What kind of, what kind is it?
Put the next slide up.
Why is he, why is he, why is she asking Fidra?
Why is Fidra asking, hey, what kind of drug you got?
A Christ or a drinkable?
Why did she say that?
It said Christon, right?
I'm just using the words.
Why did she say that?
Because she wanted a sex drug.
She wanted a sex drug.
Well, it's kind of a sex drug.
She want, yeah, leave it up, this is a text.
She wanted a drug that was a filtra.
It was a filtra that was Thelkteria erotos.
This is a drug that is going to change the way that you think.
And it's going to bend your mind to erotic desire.
And she loved that.
It's going to bend your mind to erotic desire.
And the reason she's Fidra is trying to get one of those drugs
is because she wants to sleep with her stepson.
Because he, the politist, is amazingly hot.
Mostly for the fact that he refuses to have anything to do with women.
Because he is a servant to the Virgin.
That makes sense.
But you see what happens when there's something about that priestly caller
that just calls.
It just calls for some sort of deliverance, you know what I mean?
Those of you who are not part of the order of frustration
probably understand the power of seduction
and why it is so devastating, right?
You can cut that off and put a caller on.
You can marry a Baptist preacher.
Or you can embrace it and build a temple to Aphrodite.
It's up to you, right?
You're purging the people.
The whole purpose of the mystery is to purge the people.
To keep your citizens clean so that you maintain your democracy.
Makes sense, doesn't it?
Makes sense.
Love it.
Let's go to the next line.
I don't want to keep Gnostic too long.
Sitting over there like, go ahead.
No, I want to get these screenshots in.
By the way, we're talking about sex drugs.
Look what's going on here with Medea and Jason, right?
There's a great article written by a professor in Georgia.
She's writing about Medea and the prominence of Medea in Etruscan art
and why it is that she would...
You mean Medea's got a following all the way over in northern Italy?
Yeah, yeah.
Black Sea Babylon, right?
Which is how she's the ruler of Babylon.
Fantastic.
So this is a huge Bacchic empire, right?
We don't call the Medes for any reason, right?
Let's jump...
Oh, I just wanted to show you though.
You see what's going on in that picture with Jason?
Look what she's doing.
Look what she's doing.
The scholar who wrote about this, she's great too.
I wish I could remember her name.
She...
I'll post it or something.
She was talking about what's in this thing, this offering dish
that they're holding up to his mouth and why does he look like he's half conscious
and why is he naked?
They are naked.
The holy virgin in the middle isn't naked, right?
Medea is not naked.
Why is he?
What's going on?
Is there something, something, you know, undercover?
Yeah, let's go to the next.
Hit it.
Yeah.
This is...
Why don't we just look at what the ancients said about cannabis
and what it is and where to find it?
Skuthikon thumiyama ho toyau tenehe dunam.
He says this is a Scythian thumiyama.
Which is...
What is the thumiyama?
That's something that you're burning to offer
or to enter into a state of dialogue with the gods.
Right?
Isn't that nice?
Something that you burn to enter into dialogue with the gods.
That's what the Scythians use it for.
