like the worst communistic, whatever, like the worst, like, you know, Nazi Germany, that's even
worse than that. Like you mentioned, when we start, when people started to wake up again, when
people started to look back at the ancient myths of Venus and Bacchus and started getting the art
and the Renaissance and the Enlightenment, all of a sudden democracy comes back, all of a sudden the
world gets better. What is that? I mean, like, it's really that simple. I really, you can look at
history that way. I do. Yeah. Yeah, no. And that's Thomas, you and me and Thomas Jefferson, baby.
Thomas Payne, too. Let's, let's all Thomas Payne. You want to invite him? Let's have a,
let's have a lunch. You and me, promise me this, promise me this, Neil. After death, you and me,
Payne and Jefferson, one lunch, couple bottles of wine, and just the best debate conversation.
And I'm, you and I are going to sit there and be, you know, amazed. But it, you know, I think they
wouldn't be, I think they wouldn't be too upset if we, if we did that, you know what I mean? I mean,
everybody's going to be, there's going to be a whole bunch of people with 70 virgins and there's
going to be people, right? No, no, no. Yeah. Let's go sit around. Let's find Sappho. We got to bring
Sappho though. Promise me we'll bring Sappho. Just imagine, just imagine being on the island of Lesbos
and you got Sappho there and she's playing her, her liar. She's telling the stories of Venus.
She's telling the stories of Bacchus and, and, and Medea too. Like just imagine that site.
You know, imagine that, that world. Why would you want to eradicate that from society and, and put
them, put women as nuns and, you know, homemakers and like, why would you want to eradicate that from
society? I don't, it's crazy. It is. Notice that you have to, you have to eradicate Venus so you
don't get that Taliban. You don't get that orthodoxy. You don't get that fundamentalism.
Venus becomes loose, the symbol of Lucifer. Yeah. Isn't that something? What is, I mean, like,
it's, it's so backwards. Yeah. Where the love and beauty and fertility, those, those things that
are become evil and wicked and gross and abominations, those are the central things of life.
Those are what we were, that's what, that's what we're like, it's coded in our DNA to do.
Like, there's nothing else to live for besides love and fertility. Why would you want to make that
as the source of all evil? You know? Why would you want to subject one gender to the other? Why
would you want to say women, obey your husband as the church should be? That's exactly what Paul
Romans, women obey your husbands and then women should not speak in churches either.
That's Paul, man. He was, he was harsh. Yeah. Don't educate him either, right? If they're not
getting educated, they can't be speaking anyway. So you know what I mean? Yeah. What is that, Neil?
Last question. You tell me, is that an imbalance in the universe when you try to construct a
religion and a God and a mystery around misogyny, around taking one group of people and just
subjugating them? You know, whether it be according to their color or their gender, whatever.
Is that just unnatural and just drives us towards self-destruction? That's what I'm
going to say. What do you say? Yeah, yes, but the reason why those types of
worlds come about is because they, they work for, for a small group of people, a priestly class,
for example, in this situation, becomes extremely powerful. And I'll just like throw an example
out there. Like when Rome was being, when all of Italy was being sacked by the French in the 16th
century and Rome, like all of Italy is being subdued by France. Italy became part of France.
But Rome, the, the Vatican, they lived right through it. They were spared because that's
the Holy See. You can't touch the Holy See. You, now you, politically, you could control the Holy
See and, but you're not going to kill them. They're going to stay billionaires. They're
going to stay in their mansions. You're going to conquer everything around them. All the poor
people that live around them are all dead, but the Holy See lives through everything. They're
still around today. Like there's, they, they created something and put themselves above
civilization. So it's very, very hard to get rid of something like that once it starts. Very hard.
I think the right woman, I think the right woman could do it. And I think bringing back Lady Babylon,
bringing back that history, I think that's the only way to forge forward is to say,
what was it? I know it sounds stupid, Neil, but what was it in the Bronze Age that was such,
created such a renaissance? It created such a movement forward in knowledge and research
and in technological development. What was it that caused that push forward? Could it be
because of a group? Could it be because of an individual? We know that thought revolutions,
that industrial revolutions are always brought about by a group or an individual, right? It's
scientists who are individuals who bring up the new Galileo. Oh my God. How did you, well, he's
Copernicus and whatnot, but it takes those individuals to push forward and history is proof
of that. We wouldn't have, we wouldn't have those Romans without Julius Caesar, the great
child of Aphrodite. We wouldn't have those things. Right. See how even someone like Caesar,
who's a conqueror, still has to say, I'm the son of Venus. You have to have that. And you think of
Athens with Athena in the Parthenon, the giant statue of golden. And what's that white material
that they use? Ivory. Ivory and gold, Athena sitting there. The giant, and everybody that
lives in Athens knows about this. They can see it. They can go and they can give off rent.
They all have that image that they represent. And people are, both fast, all the fastest
of society are represented in some way. They all have a God that they can look up to and relate to.
Rather than, instead of just having one fatherly God that only men can really say, oh, I'm like
this God. This God loves me because I'm like that God. But those people who don't look like this God,
they don't have representation. So they feel like they're less than. But in the Greek world,
in the Greco-Roman world, or even in the Indian, oh, going in the East, in the Indian Hindu pantheons,
you have gods that represent everybody. Everybody has something to look up to and
has some sort of hero to look up to. That makes your society drive forward.
And the drugs too, because you expand people's minds. When you have that festival,
that's another thing. We can't forget about this. When you go to that festival every month,
and maybe you had a terrible month. You lost all your money. Maybe some robbers came through and
stole all your chickens and your goats and your shuttle. But you go to that festival.
That's, you know, it's going to come every month. It's another festival, whether it's the festival
of Demeter or the festival of the Bacchanalia. Every month, you have a new festival to look
forward to. And you're going to go there and you're going to drink the Kaikyan. And you're
going to have a good time. You're going to expand your mind. You're going to forget about it. And
you're going to reset yourself. That part of society, we still need to bring back.
I think that people still, people have that option now, but I don't, I think it should be like
normalized. People go to festivals, music festivals that come back and change their lives. Oh my
God, I went to this music festival and I'll never forget it. It changed my life forever.
That type of mental, that type of spiritual awakening is a huge thing. And everybody in
Athens experienced that. All right. All right. Last question. I'm going to leave it to you, Neil.
Neil, you're working on a video about Medea. Just lead us out with that.
Yeah, that's coming out in the next two days, one or two days. Medea, narrated by you, edited by
me with music and visuals. We got some good visuals of not only ancient artworks that we
put together, but also some use of AI stuff. Not like in a corny way, like with people with
like three hands and four eyes, but like we really took our time and picked out the best ones,
the ones that really, that really, they really portrayed the essence of Medea. You know what
I mean? And we're going to have this AI, contrary to what people who are anti-AI,
contrary to the direction they're going, Neil, we're going to bring her forward.
Want to be cool? Look, if they can replace writers and they can replace certain artists,
then they can replace the Pope. You know what I mean? All right. Thanks for coming, Neil.
Everybody out there, thank you for attending. I'm sorry it takes so long, but it was a hell
of a lot of fun. How's it going, guys? How's it?
