Do you hear the voice of the people who cried out? Listen to it for a minute hear the voice of the people who cried out
crucify him
You only have two choices you can believe the reality or the fairy tale
The fairy tale is that those people were filled with the devil
You can go back to mel kipson mel Gibson capture the devil you saw it
He scanned the crowd of the people hating. Oh, there he is
You can follow that fairy tale or you can follow the reality that these were just
people
Normal every day people watching a child predator
Get what was coming to him
You know crucify him
crucify him
Let's go. We got a couple more texts and we'll we'll end for tonight
Um, I just wanted to see here that dea is making drugs and this is so important people
This links everything together. Look at that third to last line the third line from
Second line from the bottom dea pharma con that's how medea is working and what is she doing?
She's creating mani on look at that second to last word mani on
She's creating mania. She is creating a mental state of psychosis
A delusional psychotic trip bring it back to me a delusional psychotic trip and
What is she doing with the drug? She's embolusis. She's embolowing it
She's emboling and one of them man. Um, get get us the next one
Check this out people embolo. Oh, it's so nice and you can tell it's like a second heiress
Look at that second heiress. It doesn't have those alpha endings. It's got that. It's got everything looks like it's present
Don't you love it? You you didn't think
Language could be so sexy, but this is sexy language. Look at this. It means to throw in
Means to throw in what the heck is that? Um, let's go down to definition number seven for
Embolo and what does it mean? It means to put in it means to put in
A muhas and we see philumenus in his work on the drugs. Has anybody read this on this on the poisonous
Creatures, right? That's philumenus. He's writing about the poison. Does anybody read this from antiquity? No
Look at the last author that's online or bassius. Does anybody read or bassius? No
What does it mean? It means to apply something on a muhas and what do you get when you check out a muhas?
You get those scratches
You get skin wounds
Right, right. You see in medicine
scarification
Right, right amoxus. What is the amoxus from number two?
That is things that you do as a sign of sorrow when you scratch your breasts as a woman mourning
Adonis you cause them to bleed you bring yourself open wounds
Take it down. That's what he's doing
That's what he's doing and what do you do with these drugs that you christ
Put them through the wound
You bring them through the wound. Jesus knows exactly what this naked stranger is doing
in a cemetery
He knows
And he helps him
He helps him to be able to deal with the mystery to be able to find that king of heaven
And the people ask him to leave they're like get out, bro
You're causing some stuff here doing some strange stuff
There's a lot of drugs going on
Just get out
Right. Take your 12 kids with you. All right, especially that little one. Stop it. Get out of here
Right. Go go home. Go home when jesus picked up peter. He was on a boat
Um, just like james and john who were with their daddy. They were with their daddy
Yes
Yes, we did it. Let's go to the last source. This is it for tonight people. This is it. I just want to show you
What's gonna happen here, um, he was deceived. Who are we talking about take it down. We're talking about
A giant of a person a guardian
Who is causing trouble?
Who is causing trouble because of what they're guarding?
And what we have to do is figure out how to get rid of him
How to stop this guardian?
We're going to the highest and we want to stop the guardian to get there
We want full access
This guy won't let us in he won't let us in so what do we do?
What do we do?
We know we can use drugs to drive him mad
We know we can because we follow the medwa
We follow the medwa from edim
Right and so we know we know what the bachic
Ecstasy is we know what it is
Right. Okay. Go back to the text. Go back to the text
