What is it that you're trying to teach the students
that you believe institutions not necessarily set marries,
but just generally institutions find difficult?
Well, I'm not trying to teach them anything.
I want to give them Cicero.
I want to give them Herodotus.
I'm trying to teach them the authors.
I don't have an agenda except to give the students the materials
so that they can say, oh, this is what Cicero says
about government, or this is what Thucydides says about tyranny,
or this is what Euripides says about greed.
My job is not to teach a belief, or an ideal, or a philosophy.
I'm not a theologian.
My job is to open up Greek and Latin texts
and say, this is what they say.
You have an issue with corporate greed, correct?
I don't have an issue.
You don't like it?
I tend to parrot antiquities understanding
that greed is the one vice that will destroy civic society,
civil society, excuse me.
Do you believe that vice is penetrated
into the educational institutions?
Yes.
OK, that was enlightening.
A section, just a section of a seven and a half hour deposition
in which I was brought to a crescendo of a lawyer screaming
at me that whether or not asking me, are you pan repeatedly?
I'm laughing at this point.
I'm like, who?
Where's the?
Did somebody put the thing in the?
Is there a cop somewhere with something?
Is he passing out those cops again?
Oh, my goodness.
People are going nuts, right?
It's gorgeous.
It's gorgeousness and gorgeosity all wrapped up into one.
As you see the slavery, there are those
who have embedded themselves with us, says Jude.
They snuck in.
They have snuck in.
Yeah, fantastic, fantastic.
Next time on our look at the deposition,
we'll look at a young professor talking
about sacramental drugs and the opposition to such chatter.
Yes, fantastic, it's historical beauty.
The date is December 5th, 2018.
But it might as well be December 8th, 1313.
You know what I mean?
It's gorgeous and it gets intense.
So I don't want to make people, let me know, people.
If this is something, if you want more of this,
if you want more of this, fantastic, love it.
I absolutely love it.
Just an answer, by the way, for those of you who have asked,
I am not monetized.
Yes, somebody was saying, he wants your money.
I don't want your money, right?
For all the frustration.
For all the frustration of the wives.
The wives is the Protestant preachers.
Yes, for all their frustrations.
