Trying to get up.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Dark clouds rising.
Oh, there's no sunshine anywhere.
Strong winds blowing.
God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true.
I'd wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do.
Then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men.
Then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Boy, you don't know how good it is to be with you tonight.
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation.
Tonight, oh boy, we have something for you tonight.
We have the lace days.
We've got a whole world to step into.
We're not just going to talk.
We're not just going to talk as if we have some kind of authority.
We're not going to do that.
We're going to step into an entire text.
You're going to think I got into my ship and went back in time and wrote this.
Because what we have is we have the skin of a lace days.
We get to find out.
We get to walk around in that uniform.
We get to see what it's all about.
We get to bring that forward tonight in the Lady Babylon.
Then we get to have just a short little prophecy of the eclipse.
Wonderful.
Welcome to Lady Babylon.
Tonight, we're going in, but in order to cleanse this place,
we're going to have to call up a little bit of fury.
We're going to, as the machine is going and we're being transported to the past,
we're going to have to bring the sulfur that will cleanse this
and make it a sacred space.
And tonight, I want to do that with the darkness of the K'thon.
I want to do it with what is called Holy Saba.
Holy Saba.
So tonight, welcome the furies.
Let's go.
Holy Saba.
Holy Saba.
Let's bring the eye of justice through the fury.
Tonight, we're going to look at the lace days.
This is a two part series.
We're going to begin just from the ground level.
We're not going to talk definitions.
Well, we will.
I'll show you.
But we're not going to throw out ideas.
We're just going to give you the text and let you figure out who the lace days is.
And it just so happens that we have the lace days,
maximum, greatest, most raw.
Raw.
It tells us Lucian second century.
He's a Syrian.
He is a Syrian.
And he is writing some of the greatest, most beautiful Greek ever written.
Isn't he writing in Syrian?
No.
He's writing in Greek.
Fantastic.
Love it.
Okay.
Now that we have it out of the way,
we're going to begin with a Greek term tonight.
So I want to go back to the text.
See where it is.
Let's summon him.
Bring me number one.
Chewie hit it.
Oh, this is great.
This is Mark 1448.
I want to remind you that Jesus answered and said to them,
you know, you can't come out here against me with all your weapons.
Like I'm a lace days.
That's what he's saying before he gets arrested.
It's actually during his arrest, right?
If you had the chess cams of the cops that arrested Jesus in that public park
with that naked boy when he's like, oh my God, you know, I'm not a lace days.
So we have to see what is being denied.
Let's go to the, let's go to the next star system.
Shall we?
Oh God, you're going to love this.
You blow this up.
What am I bringing you tonight?
Are you, are you ready?
Somebody's got to write a life of the lace days.
Right.
We're going to do it.
See he's got, Lucian has got a problem in the opening of this work.
And by the way, this is Lucian's Alexander, the false prophet.
And Alexander was a real person just like Lucian.
They crossed paths.
And Alexander is writing for us.
He is writing for us an expose, an expose on a man, a man who was doing lots of tricky
nasty things to people, a man who was involved in the trade, a man who could do miracles,
a man who had received the knowledge through the apostleship of the one who knows the
Fatimaka.
Yeah.
This is great.
Let's go.
You're going to get into it tonight, guys.
We're looking at lace days right in the face, right in the face.
This, this thing is so big.
It is so big.
You can, you're going to love this.
Wrap your mind around.
All right.
Here's ships here.
Everybody out.
