No, one more time, the philema.
People, I just don't want you to forget the drugs.
Look, look, look.
So what is this symbol of Christian love?
Look at number two associated with cosmetics, you know?
In that environment, they're saying fortace.
It's a farmaco.
The most likely explanation is that those aren't like cosmetics that you and I think
of.
They are being applied the same ways, but they're more drug mixtures.
Yeah.
So pharmacone, classified as pharmacone, right?
So what is the association between the love stuff and the drugs?
It's all there, right?
And he gives Judas that bread with the drug in it.
That's the one that causes the oistress.
That's the one that causes the madness in order to enter that bachic sexual frenzy.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Cult wise, I'm saying.
You know what I mean?
It's pretty standard, though, and Lucian says that, right?
He says, he says, look, look, people, I got to be honest with you.
This guy, Alexander, he's a terrible human being, a terrible human being, yeah, yeah.
But I want to show him to you.
I want to show you in vivid detail.
He was responsible for a kid getting killed, right?
No, it was more than one.
It was several slaves getting killed because he thought that they had been reckless and
guy had died somehow and it was their fault, right?
It turns out the guy showed up later and then in order to cover his tracks when the kid showed
up in public and they were like, hey, dirtbag, look, your kid is here that you killed those
other slaves for.
He said, oh my God, pick up rocks and stone the little guy.
Can you believe that?
Can you believe that?
When you so want to cover up the reality that you are willing to act atrociously, this is
the motive of someone whose reality is breaking down.
You fight, you fight to push that scaffolding back up.
No, I've got all my ideas of who Jesus was and I can't support them anymore.
It's coming down.
You do whatever it takes, even if you've got to cover that kid in rocks and they almost
did stone him.
But fortunately, somebody stepped in, right?
Some big wig in the city stepped in and saved the kid, right?
This is a lace-dace.
This is a lace-dace, right?
Let's go to the next one.
This is depressing, but we're almost through chapter one.
I just want you guys to see, here's more.
Here's more.
So he gets involved, look, take it down, I actually got to, he goes through a couple
of partners and he eventually decides, what I have to do is I have to bring back a cult
that is telling oracles, some kind of shrine, I have to have it legitimized.
He goes through a whole bunch of stuff, ends up with a snake, right?
Ends up with a snake that because of his actions, people are thinking, oh my God, this snake
is a prophetic rebirth of Apollo, yeah, Asclepius, all the power of medicine funneled into physical
manifestation of a serpent.
So he's traveling around.
He's traveling around with a partner and some women who, you know, the solution is just
straight up, you know, they're looking for some sort of entertainment and, you know,
something, I don't, you know, okay, they're traveling or they're paying the bills, right?
These are, I forgot to mention, these are wealthy women, wealthy women who no longer
have husbands, right?
And, you know, perhaps they wish to cavort.
So he's cavorting on their dime, on their dime, Apuleus, the author, got prosecuted
for this.
It's called being a magus.
Yeah, okay.
So he ends up in Pella, in Macedon, yeah.
And what's, what does he find there?
Just tell us what he finds here, this lace, this, yeah.
And he finds there these great serpents, these serpents, I'm just going to translate it.
These serpents are there, they're being nourished by the women who are in this complex and they
actually sleep with the children, the serpents, they sleep with the children.
And look, you know what happens?
These things, and I'm going to give you my translation, right?
These things, these serpents, are the ones that they hold up.
These are the ones that they stroke.
And when they do, when they squeeze them, when they milk them, they are not hostile.
And they drink the milk from the teat.
They drink the milk from the teat, yes, that's what it says.
In the same fashion as little babies do.
Many, many people have been generated in this way.
Wait a minute, people keep listening up.
Many people have been generated this way.
And that's why they have that old myth of Olympias, the mother of Alexander.
Because when she conceived Alexander, she was with a snake.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, okay, when she was conceiving Alexander, do you know what serpents bring?
I'm going to, I'm going to, look, we're out here with real people from antiquity.
We're out here with the real people.
Do you know what serpents do?
They make you pregnant.
They are the masters of fecundity.
They are the ones who bring that womb, the life.
In the earth go the serpents.
Yeah.
In the earth go the serpents.
Do you know what drugs they're using in the midwife's side?
Yeah.
Guess what?
They're using the same ones that that dianic culture on the black sea used in delivering
children.
They use those aero poisons.
Fantastic.
The lace, you mean the lace stays?
The whole business of selling children on the slave market, prostituting children.
You mean the whole business of that is rooted in this drug use?
Yep.
Yeah.
