Do you know how valuable those drugs are?
Yeah.
You, now don't be surprised.
You can take a human being and turn them into a different creation with the right drugs.
You mean you can go boy to girl and girl to boy?
The snakes will show you how to go boy to girl and girl to boy.
You say I thought as a human being that this was the first time humanity has ever considered
switching genders.
No, no, no, no.
It is older than Jesus.
Yes.
And don't think that when Lucian tells us that from this legitimate doctor, he calls
him a public physician.
From this legitimate doctor, he was able to learn amazing drugs.
It was the drugs that he got the power of because those magi, those guys, that's how
they work is with the drugs.
That's how they work.
You can take a person, you can force them into a state.
We don't do this today.
Let's talk about it just for a second.
The magus, he does, you can take a person, you can even interrogate somebody under the
right drugs and get the answers out that you need to get out.
You don't have to beat them up.
You can put somebody into a state of psychic frenzy.
You can put somebody into a psychosis.
Imagine if there were a drug that I could give you that would cause you to be insanely
psychotic.
To point that, before we give you the drug, we're going to tie you down.
You mean, whoa, hold on, you guys at Hopkins who are doing the studies and stuff like that?
You're not even a third of the way there until you are tying down your patients, restraining
them.
You talk it, you just put them in the bed and you have a music source sign playing some
Vivaldi, seriously?
You think that you're going to replicate that true experience?
No, no, until you have them in a psychotic state.
After administering to them the drugs, rectally, through a medical probe, after inducing a
death state, and then a resurrection state, what do you think this person is going to
do?
They're going to serve the great mother for the rest of time.
That's right, they're going to be free.
They've been to that barricade place.
Have you been to that barricade place?
Have you been there?
Have you been filled with the spirit?
No, you haven't.
You thought being filled with the spirit was standing around a group and saying, hallelujah,
which is a great word.
You thought it was a Hebrew word.
You didn't even know where the heritage of your book was.
You people are pathetic and I'm talking to every Bible scholar out there.
I'm talking to every person who steps into the arena as a divinity or as a priest, yeah,
doctor of divinity.
Bring up the next text, Chewie.
That guy deserved that.
Okay, let's go to Luke 2.52, kiddies.
Here we go.
And Jesus, Jesus came to completion.
He matured in Sophia, in wisdom.
He auto, they paid a hell of a lot for his Egyptian education.
You got the new king, baby.
Yeah.
And anyway, what else did he grow in?
He grew in Helechia.
Helechia, what is Helechia?
Let's check that out with both men and God.
He grew in this thing.
What is this?
Blow this up, Chewie.
What a time of life for an age.
Oh, look at number two.
Prime of life.
Prime of life.
Oh, I see.
It is that point of having achieved that maturation.
See how you got to get back in their mind?
You can't think like we do.
You can't think like we do.
Yeah.
Now, where is he?
I want to show you him engaging in the slave trade.
Yeah.
Is it, go to the next one?
Here we are.
Yeah, these are all the drugs, people.
Drugs, drugs, drugs.
They're all using drugs.
Some of these drugs are really, they'll take you to Wonderland, right?
And some of these, whoa, some of these will darken you.
Oh, God, I love it.
You can become one who knows, who knows those things.
You can inherit that stuff.
You can inherit it.
It's a knowledge, people.
The drug stuff is just a knowledge.
When you can walk into a ...
The empire is jamming our signal.
The empire is jamming a signal.
Now, I know some of you thought perchance.
I know that Madam Mary of Screeddom is praying for a miracle.
Are you one of the children of Screeddom?
We are an affiliate.
We are an affiliate of the Sisters of Frustration.
Are you one of the Screeders?
Don't worry, people, it's almost, it's almost over.
Look what, you can become a teacher of this stuff and that's what he did as a laystace.
He had, excuse me, he had to enter into his magic power.
He had to be able to perfect his magadea.
You remember that stuff Philip was using?
Oh, guess what comes out of Alexander's mouth?
The same stuff that Philip said?
The same stuff that Philip said?
Oh, my God.
