You know what his father's name was, by the way?
Philip.
Interesting.
Interesting.
Of course, you know, it's a pretty common name, so don't get excited.
That's never going to hold up a court, right?
You might say, right, maybe he was really old and when you're associating with child
prostitutes, as these people are, you know, things happen.
So especially, now look at the, go to the next one, let's look at what Philip is selecting.
Okay, okay, are you ready for this?
This is fantastic and nobody, nobody should really blow that one up.
Okay, are you ready people?
This is the clincher.
This is what everybody's been waiting for.
I'm sorry, it's taken me so long to get there.
Are you ready?
Here we go.
So Alexander announced publicly that it was not right to have sex with children, that
it was actually impious, but he himself entered into a different direction, right, for to
the cities of Pontus and the cities of Paphlegonia.
He had it announced that he was one of them to send him the boys and not just any boys,
but it was necessary that they be examined and overseen to the point of containing only
boys that were eugenic, that were what?
You know what I'm talking about.
They got no flaws.
They got no flaws.
These are perfect boys.
What are the kind of boys does he want?
He wants the ones that are, right?
For those of you who think you know what a lace day says, no, you can't keep up, they
are the ones who have come to that most ripened stage, and they got to be known for their
beauty.
Yeah, they got to be known for their beauty.
And what did he do?
These particular boys that he got as tribute.
Now where do you think these Paphlegonians, where do you think these Paphlegonians and
these people who are living in Pontus, this is all along the southern coast of the Black
Sea, these are all the Scythian cultures, right?
Where do you think these people get children?
Their raiders, their raiders shoot.
We've seen the Thracians, right?
Thracians are openly into it, right?
Yeah, so what do you do?
You send the best of the best, the cream of the crop, to Alexander, you send the best
of the best.
This is what a lace day does.
This is the job of the lace days, right?
And somebody tells you that this word appears so many times and it only means this.
Do you see that when the scaffolding falls from the evidence, it's impossible to hold
it up.
It can only be, that is the most inaccurate, incorrect statement.
I feel bad.
I don't want you, my beloved audience, I don't want you, Congregation of Satan, to be fooled.
I don't want them to get you.
I don't want them to pull you into the back alley.
I don't want them to.
This is my public service to keep you from the depths, the depths of the person who finds
the reality to be too overwhelming to take.
The person who prefers to accept the fantasy, knowing that it is fallen, that it is a false
reality, right?
Somebody comes to you, my children, and says, all of the examples of this are not that.
Listen to what they say, all of the examples, it sounds to me.
It sounds to me like you don't know what you're doing with a linguistic sword.
So stop, everybody, stop, behold the lace stays.
Let's go to, we're almost, yes, yes, that one, yeah, that one.
Look, here's the Neonisco on the second line.
There's a young boy, you know, Oyeh Tente, so they were thinking that this young kid
as he was sailing was, was killed, yeah, or a, a on the second line, or they were thinking
that he was abducted by pirates.
It doesn't mean pirate, by the way, that's a joke.
He was abducted by lace stone.
Okay.
Why would this young, handsome, aristocratic kid be abducted?
They were robbers.
Do you hear, do you hear it yet?
People I'm telling you, there are those in this world who are meant to deceive you, they
are living in a prison, a prison of their own fallacy.
Oh my God.
But these lace stays are pretty cool.
You know, not because of what they do, but because of the incredible impact that it has
on the culture.
I mean, think about it, Jesus Christ was one of these, or at least he was denying that
he was one, crucified between two others.
Yeah.
I thought those guys were just stealing things.
No, no, no, you just cut people's hands off for that stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
These are the people who control the kid trade.
So when Jesus is with all of his children, and please, people, this is making somewhat
of an impact.
People are waking up to this fact that the apostles are all teenagers.
Some of them as young as maybe 10 to 12.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People are getting it.
People are getting it.
Maybe we have one more quote from the, from Lucian, and then I want to, yeah, oh no, this
is here.
Take it off.
Take it off.
I want to finish with this flourish, with this flourish.
We will have one more next time we will talk again.
It'll be part two of Lucian because I want to show you we've gotten just up to the point
of the snakes.
And we didn't finish translating the snake section together, but, but the, oh yeah, we
did.
We just didn't focus on the, on the point, on the fertility thing, people.
Please don't forget that.
Don't forget that.
And the whole medical cult, the fertility thing is so important, drugs, fertility, transformation.
It turns out the snake venoms of the thing, the hormone analogs, right?
