I'm back.
Look at that.
I feel recharged.
Shall we bring us up with the next source?
Let's just hit people.
People don't get scared.
It's about to get kind of scary.
Kind of, yeah, right.
Just remember, he pornated freely.
He entered into sexual relations.
Freely.
It's very important for you to realize that.
Okay.
When you start looking at the grooming process of the lay stays, you can see it in Jesus's
actions.
Realize it's all part of the game, right?
This is what a lay stays is.
Remember, he's raising his hand saying, I am not a lay stays when they arrest him.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Next one.
Next one.
This is going to get a little bit.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
People look, I want to take you somewhere where classes don't normally take people into the
kind of, into the most intimately real of the language that you can possibly get.
Let's look at this verse.
This is from the Bible, right?
The one who betrayed him, right?
This is Mark.
He betrayed him, right?
He gave a sign to the people and he said, look, the one whom I kiss, right?
This is the one you should seize, you know, grab him, grab him, and, you know, right away,
straight away, he just walks up to Jesus and he says, hey there, rabbi.
And what does he do?
He cataphelecens him.
He doesn't filacen him.
He cataphelecens him.
There's a difference.
Filacen would be, he kissed him, cataphelecen, he kissed him aggressively in a sexual manner.
Bring me up the next definition.
Do you know what Judas did?
He was making a point to his laystace, wasn't he?
He was making a point.
Those drugs that he had been giving him and everything?
Yup.
What do you think I identified him?
It was the way Judas kissed him, yeah.
And look at Jesus' reaction, yeah, okay.
Do what you're here to do, right, right?
He established that connection with his laystace master when he was doing it.
Give me that.
There we go.
Where's the, it's, yeah, a philemo.
What is a philemo?
Let's go to the one underneath that first.
Yeah, so cataphele, just because, you know, people say, oh, what are you saying, right?
And it's an outrageous thing to say.
You mean Judas was making out with Jesus, yeah.
And Judas is underage, yeah.
And he's on drugs that Jesus spiked before the, before he ran off into the night.
Oh my God, this is a crazy party, you know what I mean?
Get all the sheriff's officers here because what we're doing is, you know, we're getting
ready for that transdimensional arrest, right?
We've got enough information.
All we've got to do is get the grand jury.
That's all we need to do.
And that's what we're getting ready to ride the, the final episode.
Yes.
Fantastic.
Season seven is the ending by the way, right?
Everybody knows that.
Fantastic.
Let's go.
Let's go.
It's been such an honor to be able to bring you this information.
Go back to philemo though.
I actually want to show them that philemo.
You'll notice that, that word for kissing before was also, look at the bottom, especially
of an amorous kiss.
The cata there is an intensifier, really kissing him, right?
Judas walked straight up to him and really kissed him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
And what is a philemo?
Don't think that we haven't forgotten about the drugs.
What are the phile, the one above that?
Watch this people philema.
Oh God, what a beautiful word, right?
Kisses as prizes in a game as a symbol.
This becomes a symbol of Christian love.
It's in the first epistle to the Corinthians.
It's a symbol of the love fest.
You mean those love fest as the Romans are breaking up because they're all having sex
with each other?
Yes.
And what was the Roman excuse for breaking up?
You can't do that if it's mother and son.
Ew.
That was the Roman response.
They didn't care people were having orgies, right?
It was all the incest stuff that was going on with Christians.
That was the big problem.
Romans were like, look, you know, orgy away, but this is gross what you're doing, right?
Cool.
Cool.
Yeah.
Somebody got it, right?
Yeah.
Let's go to the philema.
