Isn't that gorgeous?
Figure out the right recipe and you can switch.
You can switch.
Oh my God.
We need to, we need to have this cult, right?
It's got, let's just do it right.
We've got to go to the right doctors, we've got to have the right knowledge, we've got
to proceed accordingly, right?
That's how the society is working.
All of that, all of that is influenced by this child trafficking, this child prostitution
antiquity.
Nobody, nobody wants to hear the words child prostitute.
Nobody wants to, except for a bunch of people in funny chat spaces, right?
In funny weird places, dark places, right?
Conspirators, right?
Conspiracy.
That's who wants to hear this is the people who believe in the conspiracies.
Yeah.
Look people, it just happens to be a fact that your idea is about the whole child, ritual
child rape.
Yeah, it's there and it comes through Jesus.
Yeah, he's one of them.
They crucified him for it with two others.
They took him out with the crowd yelling, no, no, no, do not release Jesus.
Crucify that one.
Isn't it be funny if all Mel Gibson's audience, all of his audience who are watching that
crucifixion and watching the people yell at Jesus, isn't it funny?
Those people are just the pro children people, right?
Those people are you, you modern Christians, you modern evangelicals, you have more in
common with the people who were insisting Jesus be crucified.
Yeah, the dude was arrested with a naked kid.
Are you going to stand with Jesus now?
Are you going to stand?
People want me to ask, are you going to stand with Jesus now?
Yeah, in all good conscience, no, no, right?
Hail Satan, yeah, Hail Satan.
You don't see Satan out there, do you?
You don't see him lay staying himself all over the place.
That's the Son of God doing that.
Yeah.
Okay, next time you give the devil any sort of trash.
That's what we got.
Let's go to that.
I'm going to give you a bonus.
Here it is, people.
Are you ready?
There's an eclipse coming up.
There's an eclipse coming up.
So I just thought I'd bring some eclipse Greek.
This take it.
Yeah.
This guy is from Archelechus, who is seventh century.
He's a lyric poet, right?
Seventh century.
He's creating hymns.
For those of you who want to find out the relevance, he's creating hymns to Bacchus,
Jobache, he addresses him as Jobache, right?
And Archelechus, very famous guy.
He made people commit suicide with his poetry.
That's how good he was, but he met his father one day, told him, hey, go out Archelechus
and get the cows.
He went out to get the cows, found a group of beautiful women, and they exchanged his
cows for a liar, a liar, right?
Isn't that nice?
So he took it home and he started playing music.
Anyway, he became one of the most famous musicians of his time, and he was called by the old
oracle, a servant of the muse, right?
And was acknowledged, right?
If you get acknowledged at the oracular level in the seventh century, that is a huge deal.
The only reason that you and I, take it down for one second, the only reason that you and
I have ever heard of Socrates, Plato, and I would argue Aristotle too, although Aristotle
may have made it on his own.
But Socrates and Plato, the only reason you have ever heard those names is because an
oracle said, he's the wisest guy in Athens, yeah, right?
He knows that he doesn't know.
He's the wisest guy in Athens, nobody, he would have never been famous.
So there are oracles that are doing, that are moving society forward like this, and
Archelechus is recognized, but, you know, let's see what he says about the eclipse.
I'll just translate it for you, Chewie, let's go on the hyperdrive here, boom, yeah.
So there is no longer anything that's unhoped for, unimaginable, there's no sort of wonder
since Zeus, the father of Olympus, made the sun dark in the middle of the day.
He hid that shining sun and now humanity is terrified.
Now we know that all things we trust in, in all of those things we hope in, those can
happen.
Don't let anyone of you who looks upon this eclipse, don't let anyone of you wonder when
the dolphins get up and go to the forest and the beasts of the field run into the sea.
Don't let anyone wonder.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Next time we're going to look in part two at the great serpent god, the great serpent
god.
We've seen the queen and we get to go through such a beautiful avenue, we get to go through
Olympus.
We get to go through that sacred woman doing a sacred act.
You're going to love it.
And when you see it, you're going to realize why Jesus was saying, I am not one of these.
Thank you for coming.
I'm going to call the evening and evening.
I'm not going to be able to go to a discord after this.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thank you so much for your time and I appreciate all of the input that everybody has and your
comments and I'm loving it.
I'm loving it.
Emails.
Love that stuff.
I'm not making a penny off of it.
Devil won't let me.
Thank you very much for coming.
Hail Satan.
