Adamantine freedom.
Yeah.
Comment, Neil.
Yeah, no, like I said, then this access to this information
will give people the freedom, like you said,
to choose to follow something that they were lied to about.
And, oh, and this doesn't necessarily
mean that religion will collapse.
It just means we need to restructure
what people think about religion.
And what was religion in the time of the Elysianian
mysteries like?
What can we bring that back?
What about the Samuels mysteries?
Or what the Phrygian mysteries?
What about the Roman imperial cult, the Mithraic mysteries?
What about all this other stuff that was going on
in this time period?
Give people those options again.
We got to, you know, the Romans had that cult of Diana
that named Nemi.
And the priest that was going to take over for Diana
would have to kill the outgoing priest.
And I think I see some wisdom in that.
Because if you leave Jesus in power,
if you leave him in power, if you just say,
well, we can reform this, you still
have a dude who was arrested at 4 AM with a naked kid.
You still have that guy leading the charge.
And I think that's what the church has done.
For many, many years, they've tried to kind of just plaster
over Jesus.
So he's nice.
You know, look at him.
That guy wouldn't hurt anyone, right?
He's always, whoo, right?
You didn't see the Jesus who was there, right?
God, I hope somebody can make it.
I was the one in Revelation.
My memory, you and I did a whole video on gangster Jesus.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that's a whole different Jesus
that people don't talk about, where he's coming with a sword.
And he's saying, what do you say about the girl in the bed
or something that he had?
Remember that part?
He said, I took the girl and put her in the bed.
Put her in the bed.
Yeah, oh, yeah.
I hope for those adulteries that she, you know what?
Yahoo's watching a sex tape, you know what I mean?
That he's constructing himself with his mind.
Seriously, who wants to follow this guy, right?
This is the guy who didn't know if you put
the best looking dude in the party with the drugs.
What do you think's gonna happen with Eve?
What do you think's gonna happen?
Bad idea.
The groom can never be better looking.
You cannot have a Henry Cavill standing next to you
when you're getting married, you know what I mean?
You can't.
It's just counterproductive, right?
You know, love gets sucked out, right?
Oh God, I love that.
Let's go to a couple of comments and then a couple more.
I won't keep you too long
because I didn't want to keep people that long.
Here's a guy who says blank spirituality,
which I didn't in a life of introspection,
which I didn't instead pursue some dirty word all day.
Oh, is that intercourse, probably?
And all day and blast your brain cells
with unrelenting stream of chemicals.
Naturally, the video responses are mostly hell yeah.
This guy's genius.
Oh, first of all, it sounds like somebody's little jelly.
Second of all, I don't say blast your brains.
Now look, look, I'm gonna have to tell people, right?
I'm gonna have to tell them there are ways in this world,
there are powers and don't think
that I don't harness those powers.
Do you understand?
But we follow a city and way, right?
Everybody, what are you followers of?
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I love that stream of chemicals.
Don't bombard your brain with a stream of chemicals.
Don't do that unless, you know,
those chemicals will help capacitate
and bring you to health and whatnot.
In that case, you know, bombard.
I want to pull up a verse real quick, if you don't mind.
I just want to point something out.
This is what I'm, so if anyone didn't know
what I meant by that, this is from the mouth
of Jesus himself.
He says, I have this against you.
You tolerate that woman, Jezebel,
who call herself a prophet.
By her teaching, she misleads my servants
into sexual immorality and the eating of food
sacrificed to idols.
I have given her time to repent of her immorality,
but she is unwilling.
So I will cast her on a bed of suffering
and I will make those who commit adultery
with her suffer intensely until, unless they are,
what the hell?
Where did Jesus, what happened to Jesus
letting the adulterer go?
What happened to that Jesus?
He's throwing out a bed of suffering.
So it's like, you know, those right-wing Christians,
they got a point, dude.
Jesus isn't the whole lovey-dovey guy
you all thought, you know what I mean?
There's a little bit of dissident, you know what I mean?
There's a little bit, and you can see that.
It manifests itself in the evangelical psyche.
Now we're drinking souls, baby, right?
The evangelical psyche, right?
Imagine, you get up in front of a group
and you tell them, hey, half of you, go home.
Okay, thanks, thanks.
Submit, my wife will submit to me.
It's that mentality.
It's the mentality of no more, show me mommy, you know?
It's that thing, right?
That was a color, what was that called?
Violet, something or other?
Yeah, you guys will pick it up.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's what we're facing is that kind of blue velvet.
Thank you, thank you.
Chewy, Chewy knows her cinema history.
Oh, that's from that one director.
Yeah, yeah, blue velvet.
Yeah, yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Yeah, that was a, was that a Scorsese?
I think it was a Scorsese.
Somebody correct us if we're wrong on that one.
But, you know, I'm just trying to invoke, you know...
No, David Lynch, that's what I thought.
I knew- Oh, was it David Lynch?
Okay, give me a couple more comments.
Neil, let's do these quick,
because I've put too many, don't do drugs, kids.
Nice, give me, I'm gonna give us a couple in a row.
Obviously the DNA of Dennis Hopper, there I am.
That's the blue velvet.
Yeah, and Stevo was combined in a laboratory.
The resultant organism attains its energy.
Not through ATP, but a crystal meth cycle.
Oh my God.
Listen, somebody said, I wanna ask Neil a serious question.
Okay, take down that, set a comment.
Take that down.
Neil, I wanna ask you, somebody said,
there were a lot of comments about my voice.
And somebody said I was doing things with it.
Somebody said that it was bothering them
and they just couldn't, it was just,
they had to leave the room.
Yeah, something about my voice that was,
you know, doing something, right?
What do you think?
Do you think it's, how do I?
I think the demon possession was getting to them.
I think like the, how you hovered in the room
and hovered over the, I think that was happening to them,
maybe.
Right, right.
Yeah, it's kind of.
I thought it was pretty normal in me,
so maybe that's just,
maybe they just have a different reaction than me.
Maybe I'm immune to the demons and they're not.
All right, wait, we're back to our thought experiment.
So if I am demon possessed,
I should have some kind of power, right?
And can we assume that being able to talk
and two different voices at once is a thing to go,
you know, you can speed it up and you can tell, right?
Who said I was an alien?
Seriously, did you see that?
There's a conspiracy going.
Couple of people said we're, you know,
that he's obviously one of those aliens.
And his earlier pictures is, his head is conical.
He's got alien accent even.
And by the way, for the people who said I was from England,
I'm not, not that that would be bad.
I just, I'm not.
I don't know how you could be more American in your accent
than what I've got going on.
So all of those comments, I'm wondering,
what do we do with those?
Because, you know, that's not content
and it doesn't matter, right?
It's just people who are, I don't know, you know, reacting.
The thing that I think we do with that, Neil,
is that we use it like radar.
Look at what the people out there are thinking, right?
Flash them with a little sonic wave
and it comes back to you and how do they react?
And you can see how some people react.
Some people, all people have programmed responses.
So when you are initiating,
so I'm addressing my satanic congregation now,
when you are initiating,
you will be dealing with very specific types.
When you try to wake somebody up to the reality of Jesus
with little kids, right?
You're gonna have certain cases, certain types of people.
Give me a couple more, let's look at,
we only have a couple more.
Look at what we've got.
How could, oh, watch this, okay.
Neil, this one I want,
I didn't get to ask you my personal question,
but I'll ask you in a second.
Look at this one, how could Marcus Aurelia
successfully campaign for most of his life
and then spend much of the rest writing about Stoicism
if he was high on the opium most of the time?
Wait a minute.
Wait, that didn't follow.
And you're on opium, you can be a Stoic all day long
because that's what it takes to be a Stoic.
You need to be calm and chill
and your heart rate's gotta be down.
