But then, then Galen comes along and he writes all these medical texts.
And then you had these two pillars of science, Galen, Aristotle, and it stays
that way all the way until basically the Enlightenment.
I mean, you talk about the sources that I'm reading, like Brumi and these guys
from Petrarch and these people from the 1300s and 1400s and around the time
of the fall of Constance and Opel, they're, they're citing Galen and Aristotle
still, as if it's, if it's if they're contemporaries, they didn't update that stuff.
It's just stays in the whole Arabic, the Arabic world, speaking world is
preserving all of the Galenic texts in Aristotle, too.
Yeah, because they're trying and they're making libraries and whatnot, too.
That's where the library came in.
Galen was talking about what his library got burned down or the storage area that,
you know, yes, by the 10th century.
After the 10th century, Plato was almost lost in the, in the Latin language.
He's only, he only, he only survives in Greek.
Then they start translating Plato into Latin in like the 13th, 14th century.
They don't, even Plato, they stop.
The Latin language was, it was just like dumbing down in the West, but the
Greeks were preserving everything.
It was very, we're very lucky to have that.
Yeah, medieval Latin blows.
People, I know most classes want to admit that.
Medieval Latin blows.
It's like a step down from a step down.
Amazing work on the interview.
I mean, it's absolutely amazing.
101 K views.
Yay.
I wish we had some kind of views and the info is coming out.
So proud of it.
Been a top by your achievement of the lifestyle.
Oh, that's fantastic people.
It's only the best thing.
Look, nobody paid.
Nobody paid for any of this, right?
Nobody, right?
You look, that's nice.
Something nice said to somebody else.
What's so wrong?
What's so wrong with this picture?
I don't think anything's wrong.
Give us a couple more comments and one more clip.
Actually, wait, what was my prediction to you?
Remember, I said to you before it went public, I said, this video is going to
have, well, I actually predicted within the first day, it'll have 45,000 views.
And then I said, within six months, it'll have 1.5 million views of my prediction.
I actually had to update that.
I think it's going to be more than that.
Because you already doubled my expectation for day one.
And now I have to double that.
I think you're going to, I think in six, seven months from now, we're going to be
looking at a video with multiple millions of views.
You know, you know, this, the sniper in me says, bring it on.
Yeah, love it.
I love that.
Um, I, I hope that your dream comes true and we can dance together.
Um, this is bucket people.
Do you notice?
Now let's get a couple of more, a couple more of these sayings that things people
are saying, because I want you to see the bucket initiation.
Go hit me a couple of comments.
Hit me a couple of comments.
Um, one of the most interesting podcasts I've listened to.
Okay.
Look, it's peaking interests.
What else?
Bill Burr.
Oh God.
Bill Burr and mushrooms.
No, it's not Bill Burr and I'm not on mushrooms.
Please, please stop with the madness.
Give me the next one.
This is why the cult of Christ is dying.
Okay.
People listen to this.
Listen to Odin.
This is why the cult of Christ is dying.
It's sick culture.
It takes a classicist with Dennis Hopper's personality to spread common sense.
I love that.
I love that.
Look, it's somebody who's standing back and taking a look at what I'm saying and
watching what's happening.
Right.
That's, that's self investigation.
Good for you, Odin.
That's I give Odin.
What do you think, Neil?
Hey, I couldn't agree more.
Fantastic.
Let's get some insults.
I need some insults because Odin's going to pump up my head if playing over 1,000
hours of fall out in New Vegas has taught me anything.
So this guy is 100 telling the truth about something.
I thought that was an interesting look.
You know, look, a lot of people slam video games, right?
A lot of people slam them, but aren't they just kind of a modern novel?
Yeah, I actually think there's, there's the possibility that the
muse can inspire video game creators.
Why not?
Yeah, exactly.
To interact with.
Exactly.
Love it.
It's the aid to allow the images.
Right.
Love it.
Thank you.
Thank you, Elijah Palmer.
Love it.
Give us the next one.
Oh, look at this one.
This guy is a living demon.
Do you think he's being serious there?
Maybe.
Maybe.
I mean, I'm surprised.
A lot of Christians think that people are infested with demons now.
Like they do think that.
I could be, you know, it's funny.
I could be.
Okay.
Let's just say, let's just put ourselves in the, you know, let's assume Christianity is true.
Right.
Then maybe you are a demon.
Okay.
Number one, number one, does it matter?
And if the answer was just assume it does, was just assume it does.
What do we do in this case?
Is there a way to tell?
I'm telling you the future because this is what they develop.
They develop a way to tell who you are when you're possessed by a demon.
I love this.
This is so medieval.
It's gorgeous.
Give me another one.
Last one and then we'll go to a clip.
Is I just put this one up there for my ego, right?
Is this the reborn hunter?
Can you believe somebody said that cable shame on you, Matthew?
Where's the whip?
Where's the whip shame on you, Matthew?
Oh, that was for me and Hunter Thompson.
Oh, genius.
Hunter Thompson is genius, right?
I'm definitely not.
Give me that.
That one, we are truly living in the end of this version of society.
When the wise, the genius, the fools, the crazy and the pious are all silenced.
And only the wicked and the warmongers are allowed to speak.
Hey, blitz me.
I'd blitz you.
That's fantastic.
That sounds like something.
I didn't you like that, Neil?
It sounded like poetry to me.
Is that's very that's very that's a muse.
That's the muse right there.
Yeah, love it, love it.
I love the fact that he talks about genius, and this is what is so hilarious.
You were talking about Plathon, who he and his wife got into the boat of
ancient Greek and sailed off to Brainville, right?
I can totally sympathize with this couple because, Neil, I got to be honest with you.
If I were to show you my SAT scores, you would not be impressed.
I am a person of average intelligence, average.
I wouldn't say I'm a dummy, but I'm a person of average intelligence.
And I can, how is it then?
How is it that so many comments about genius?
It's hilarious to watch it happen because it's not me.
It's the muse and she guides my work.
And if I need something, she opens it up right in front of me and finds it.
There's a reason that every ancient poet in this Greek ocean starts by invoking her.
There's a reason I want you to stop tonight, and I want you to think about
the physics of what I am talking about.
When I look into the reflection, I see her standing next to me.
That's the power of the muse, the power to reach out.
And that's what scares people.
It's not me. Look at me.
Come on, seriously, Dennis Hopper.
First of all, I don't look like Dennis Hopper.
You wouldn't be scared to be.
No one's going to see me coming and run, right?
It's silly. It's silly.
I don't know. Your thoughts.
Well, you, like you said, like Plathon and his wife, they're they're going to the text
and we're going to the thing that the what's the fabric, the medium.
It is the language.
That's how you that's how you express yourself.
So you can only we can only the matrix that we're operating in is only limited
to how we can express ourselves.
So you isn't.
Well, wait, listen to that.
Listen to that.
What the great Gnostic informant has said, because you just got informed.
Listen, it's the language that's doing it.
He understands exactly what they said.
The same thing.
It's that logos.
That's the power that drives the universe.
Mother Greek is sexy.
They knew the Gospels had to be in Greek.
They couldn't do it.
That wouldn't the logo has to be Greek.
But you know what I noticed is that you trying to explain
out all of this stuff to Danny in English is sort of where the problem lies.
That's where the mis that's where the mis misfiring is happening.
And you would you double double down on that, right?
You admit that's that's what it is.
It's hard to even explain it without sounding crazy.
Right. How do you talk about Jesus Christ
arrested in a public park at four and with an naked boy
without somebody going, oh, what, right?
I'm waiting.
I'm waiting for somebody to truly depict the scene of the garden
of Gethsemane.
I'm waiting for somebody to have Jesus and a Neoniskos.
And I want to see exactly what he's doing with that.
I wonder if the word in the PGM and the Greek is send on.
I think it is. Send.
Oh, that thing's used all over.
And I see none as well.
And whenever they say boosting on, that means it has the purple in it.
It's already embedded.
Isn't that funny?
A lot of people are seeing the purple stuff.
And they're like, oh, yeah, fantastic.
By the way, all boy just did a bit on the purple, short segment on the purple
because they found it in his backyard.
Was it in your backyard?
All boy, I don't think so.
I don't think so.
It was somewhere that he went to.
