He took a taxi, right?
OK, I got a message from Danny.
Oh, fantastic.
I'm going to send you a message on.
Actually, I can pull it up.
I can pull it up.
He said I can pull it up right now.
So it's a comment that he I didn't even read it yet.
I mean, we're going to both go into this blind.
All right. OK.
But you go ahead and talk while I pull this up.
OK, fantastic.
Yeah, what was the question that just came up?
It was a good one.
Ask about the sacred name of Rome.
I have said the sacred name of Rome so many times, so many times.
Right. I've said it.
I've said it like mines.
You'll hit it one of these times.
And when you do, you'll be like, oh,
and it'll give you like this feeling.
You'll understand.
It's that's how you use magic names, right?
That's how you use those sacred powers, right?
This is what the guys,
the priest, Neil, who know the exorcisms
will hear what I am telling to you.
And they will know that this is authentic.
That's real.
And that's why the guy saying, hey, Danny,
look out, Danny, you're going to let's see if Danny gets possessed.
I got the comment right here.
All right. So this is just by Danny just now.
He said from Kyle Glazier,
he says that the Dead Sea Scrolls were originally written in Greek,
but I can't find anything that corroborate that claim.
Most of the scrolls are written in Hebrew
with a smaller number of Aramaic in Aramaic or Greek.
Now, look what's going on.
Look what's going on.
OK, they found a pot with a bunch of stuff,
a bunch of scraps and in those scraps was some Greek
and in those scraps was some Hebrew.
Now, the question is, which is the original?
I can tell you for a fact, the original was the Greek.
I can tell you for a fact, do one reason alone,
the technicality is too high.
You know what's funny about that, too, is that
in the discrepancies between the Masoretic and the Septuagint,
the ones they found at Khumran actually lined up more with the Greek.
And even in the Greek, even in the Greek version,
you have that, yeah, old name.
So there's like, it shows that that was the oldest.
Or it's possibly that could have been an older, missing,
like whatever Septuagint we have today had to go through this.
You understand what I'm saying?
That makes sense.
You know what's hilarious is that first in the beginning,
God created the heavens and the earth,
and the earth was without form and void.
And the words without form and void and Hebrew are
Tohu wa bohu.
And Tohu and bohu sound like the exact same word
where you just flip the first consonant.
Yes, it's exactly what they are.
And they both mean empty.
Here's the bad thing.
Neither of the Greek words means empty, neither of them.
And they mean a much more sophisticated.
One's a scaffolding, imagine this.
The quantum scaffolding of the universe, right?
I'm talking 360 degrees, quantum scaffolding.
That's what the akata-skelosia that the Greek is talking about.
That level of technical achievement isn't in the Hebrew.
The Hebrew just says empty and empty.
Tohu wa bohu, right?
It's terrible.
And that's what I'm talking about.
People are going to catch up, I'm telling you.
People, the linguists will get into this.
We don't know.
When we find scraps, one of them in one language
and one of them in the other, we don't know.
We don't know which is which.
You assume it was the Hebrew.
Because in the second and third centuries on Odomini,
that is the narrative that was used to help prop up
the idea that the Jewish, Judeo-Christian God,
because the Christians were complicit in this.
What it is, people, is it's a lie of history.
It's a lie.
To say the original document was in Hebrew is a lie.
By the way, you made a really good argument
when we were talking with Derek and Kip the one time.
With the Theosabase as a technical religious term,
it can mean either religious awe, it can mean mania, frenzy,
it can mean superstition, Theosabase, God-inspired, right?
And you notice how that term shows up in the Septuagint
quite often.
But when you find it in the Hebrew side,
it breaks down into two words.
It will say, like, God-inspired or religious feeling,
which means this is a really good point you were making.
It would be hard to do where you take two words like that
and then define it and then make it into a technical term.
It's like you're going backwards instead
of taking a technical term and translating it
as God-inspired in the Hebrew.
That was a good point you made.
It's obvious that it's an attempt.
It's an attempt for the language that
is not powerful to grasp at the language that is powerful.
And it's just a matter of time before people see that,
and it kind of blows the whole myth.
Just like, oh, my god, you mean this is not how?
No, the earliest we have a Moses is the third century,
and it's in Greek, bro.
Just the way it is.
Embrace.
Embrace your Greek linguistic heritage, right?
Embrace it, right?
If you don't embrace your reality,
that's why I think Satanic initiation is so important.
I just want to say one thing about that.
That's a really good point you just said.
People don't realize this, OK?
Homer, when did Homer live?
I don't know, 8th century BC, something like that?
Well, guess what?
You can look this up for yourself.
Look up the cup of Nestor.
It's an archaeological find of a cup
that has Homer inscribed in it, quoting Homer.
Nestor is one of the characters of the Iliad.
His cup is part of the story.
There's a cup, and on the cup is writing from Homer.
And it's dated to exactly the time
where Homer's living in.
So Homer was famous, whatever.
They wrote that they made this cup.
Some probably Prince had it somewhere, who knows?
Whatever the story is.
The point is, we have archaeological evidence,
physical evidence that you could touch in your hand
that quotes Homer from the time that Homer lived.
Now, Moses, on the other hand, they
say he lived in like the 14th century BC.
Do you find any archaeological evidence mentioning Homer,
any Egyptian records mentioning Homer?
No.
The first time Homer is, or I'm sorry, not Homer, Moses.
First time Moses has ever mentioned in any sources
is in the 300s BC.
320-ish around there, right around the time
in Alexandria was being built, too, by hackataites of Abdera.
Before that, Moses has never mentioned,
and it's so bad that when you have the Jews living in Elephantine
down in Egypt, they fled there after the year 597,
and they stayed there all the way until the year 410.
That's when you stop seeing papyri from that period
in that city.
And in all that time from 597 to 410, no Moses, no Abraham,
no Noah, no David, nothing.
It's like the Torah never existed to them.
That makes no sense at all.
Right.
I had somebody today right in the note that said,
I asked chat GPT, which is kind of cool.
I'll give them that.
But chat GPT said, we have written Hebrew sources
from the 7th century of these sacred texts that are the Bible.
No, we don't.
No, we don't.
No, we don't.
That doesn't exist.
Chat GPT, let me go.
False, objectively false.
Chat GPT on your buttocks.
Oh, God, it feels good.
Whoever said that probably didn't understand what chat GPT
was saying.
They're probably talking about the Meshasteli.
The Meshasteli doesn't mention Moses or any of those
mentions the kings that lived in Israel.
No one's saying that they aren't real.
No, he was saying the books of Moses and stuff like that.
There's prophets.
They only back date like that because it
has to be earlier on than these documents are actually
coming from.
It's amazing to date the Septuagint.
Danny Jones asked me a good question.
He said, hey, can we confirm this stuff basically
is what he told you?
What he asked me, excuse me.
And my question, my answer is yes.
All you need are classicists.
All you need are people who are trained in Greek
to look at these texts.
That's all.
What's the style and what period is it?
They can date it for you.
And when they look at it and see what you and I have been
looking at, they'll catch up.
We're just a few years ahead.
That's all.
Let's get another clip.
Let's see.
Critique this clip, Neil.
Give me some insult.
Give it.
Most importantly, what I want to draw people to
is I bring these sources out there in Lady Babylon.
And yeah, it's my final portrait.
And I hope that people will be able to appreciate the museum
again, that people will worship and honor the muse.
Because that's what our society and our gorgeous democracy,
our gorgeous set democracy is built on that.
And I want to preserve that.
Do you think everyone knowing this stuff and basically,
I mean, if people accepted this truth that you claim,
do you think that that would be a benefit to humanity
to know this truth?
Yeah, just like I assume that practicing religions
would collapse, right?
Because who would want to?
If you knew that Jesus was a, oh, would you really go?
Right.
Would you want to be involved?
Would you want to give you a little bit?
How do you think it would benefit our society?
Freedom.
