Nobody is above your reason.
Nobody is above the mind that you've been given.
And that nature is your mom.
And the mystery brings you to a place
where you know who you are.
That's what it said on the Temple of Apollo.
It said, know yourself.
Know yourself, don't know yourself, right?
So yeah, I think there would be a renaissance.
And I would love it.
I would love it, but you couldn't worship Jesus anymore.
You couldn't take the communion.
Way to bring it back full circle
of what we've been saying this entire time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No communion, brother.
There's no communion anymore.
Because how can you, right?
I mean, think about your morality.
If you woke up tomorrow and you found out Jesus Christ
was basically history's kind of awful rotten criminal dude
who was turned into a power-moving, money-making institution
that influenced history and the development
of Western government.
You know what I mean?
Who was it?
Was it Machiavelli you were reading the other day, Neil,
that said Christianity screwed up classical civilization.
Who was that?
Machiavelli.
That's from Discourses on Livy.
You can go in there, read about what he thinks
about Christianity and Roman religion.
He thought Roman religion had a better understanding
of nature and stuff like that.
And it gave people something to look forward to every month.
Every month was a new festival.
The Hilaria Festival, the Floralia Festival,
all these different Apollo games came in the summertime.
Every month.
And then Christianity was like, oh, you have Easter
and we have Christmas.
And that's it.
And then you have to have lent.
You have to fast.
They're like, oh, there's no one to look forward to.
But the point was, look, you had Machiavelli points this out,
that religion is really the culture that keeps civilization,
gives it a purpose, gives it some glue to give everybody
something to be connected with.
And it wasn't just him either.
All these different Renaissance writers
were pointing this out.
They're saying, we live in a time where atheism is on the rise.
You don't believe in this religion anymore
because it's just pure dogma.
It's like forcing you to think.
Whereas the old mystery religion didn't really do that.
You kind of had to have your own path that you're on.
You got to be initiated or you're not initiated.
It didn't really matter.
There's nothing forcing you to do anything, you know?
Could you imagine opening your eyes to a reality
when you've been in this comatose state
and you thought what was going on was real
and suddenly you wake up to that reality?
That life-giving spark is what drove these ancient mysteries.
And bringing somebody to that awakening
was their ionic salvation.
It makes me wonder if we could understand
who Jesus actually was.
We were like, everybody just puts it down.
Yeah, it looks like there's too much evidence.
He's kind of a creep.
And he was involved in child prostitution and drug use,
drugging children and involving them in acts
that were of a cultic, of a sexual, cultic bent.
If we could all agree to that and come to that point,
Danny asked me this question, what happens?
What's the, is that a good thing?
And my answer to him was really inside of my head.
I didn't say it out very good.
But inside of my head, it was a resounding yes.
It's always better to pull toward reason.
It's always better to, those natural gifts that we have,
that logos that we have, should compel us toward reason
and not toward faith.
And you even see that dichotomy.
You see that struggle with Paul.
He's like, you Greeks, you're all about your science, right?
You got to be about faith, right?
The person's struggling to convince somebody
that what they're reasoning is wrong.
And they have to accept something that isn't natural, right?
That isn't natural.
Then the real judge for antiquity was what was natural, right?
All of these drugs and everything,
all of these acts that are going on, you know, sex is natural.
That's why they're using it in the right.
And yeah, it's a world that you don't even realize is there.
I was just reading two days, three days ago.
You know, Danny had to pull things, you know,
had to cover up certain acts and whatnot.
But it's just reading two days ago, people have asked me,
what about the virgin breast transformative drug?
And I just came across another example of it in Galen.
And the boy who's been unicized is there as well.
Treatment of that area after making boys unics for the sake of sacred worship.
When you brought up that source to Danny
about when they throw the testicles in the house
and then whatever house it lands in,
their job was to go and get some women's clothes to bring it to them.
That's actually so well documented
that even Christian sources write about that.
You had that in Firmacus.
You have that in a couple other sources I have.
That's a mad sources for that.
It was going on all the way into the fifth century until Theodosius.
Yeah, and notice they don't have any exemptions, right?
You cannot object to that for a kid thrown as testicles
into your living room.
It's okay.
It's time to get the women's clothes out.
The whole lot of action.
You don't see people sitting around saying,
wow, that's the most unnatural thing I've ever seen in the loop.
Well, you don't see any of that kind of thing.
And you think, oh my god, these are Romans and Greeks
and they're embracing this?
Yeah, they are.
In the Hilaria Festival, which was during that last week of March
when that went down,
was one of the biggest festivals in the entire Roman Empire
all the way down in Egypt, all the way in Rome,
all the way in Phrygia.
They were doing it everywhere.
So this was a huge event that everyone knew about.
It wasn't just some random one-off thing that happened one time.
This was a thing that happened for 200 or more than that,
started in 200 BC when they imported the Magna Mater.
And it goes all the way up until the fifth century
when the Christian authors are still writing about it.
So you have like 700 years of that going down
as part of the culture.
That's crazy.
That's a big deal.
It's foundational.
It's foundational.
Put the, let's go through the last of the comments.
I got a funny verse from Paul.
You mentioned Paul.
Pull this up real quick.
This just makes me laugh.
Paul is trying to sell Christianity
and he's in Athens, right?
And Paul is, now he's with the big boys now.
And it says Paul was waiting for them in Athens.
He was greatly distressed to the city.
He was full of idols.
So he reasoned in the synagogue
with both the Jews and the God-fearing Greeks
as well as in the marketplace.
And those happened to be there.
A group of Epicurean and Stoic philosophers
began to debate with him.
Some of them asked,
what is this babbler trying to say?
Others remarked,
he seems to be advocating foreign gods.
They said this because Paul was preaching
the good news about Jesus and the resurrection.
Then they brought him to a meeting of the Arapagus
where they said to him,
may we know what this teaching is that you're presenting?
You are bringing some strange notions to,
ideas to our, the other one says notions,
to our ears.
We would like to know what they mean.
And then it says,
all the Athenians and foreigners who live there,
spent their time doing nothing
but talking and listening to the ideas.
But it's what makes me laugh about that.
Can I just say,
look at that.
Look at that.
Can I just say,
he's in a place where the people,
not only do they have,
they have schools of philosophers,
but they have people who are willing
and ready to engage in discussions.
Oh God, that's what could be more beautiful
than that Athenian, you know, democratic air.
And it's funny as they're like,
what's this babbler talking about?
I was saying that it ends with this.
And this is hilarious.
When they heard about the resurrection,
that it's some of them sneered.
And the other says,
we want to hear you again on this subject.
Some of them followers,
some of them believed among was Dionysus.
So like basically he,
he just gets like shut down.
They're like, this is weird.
Like, all right, that's enough of that.
Bye.
It's like, it's just so funny how that,
I don't know,
that story makes me laugh when I hear it.
I don't know what to do.
Give me the line.
That sounds like the Athenians.
Let's go.
That sounds exactly what the Athenians would do.
They would go, huh, tell us about this.
What's, what's here.
And then they go, okay, that's enough of that.
Goodbye.
And notice that was at the Areopagus,
the hill of Mars,
where they conduct the,
the earliest Athenian court
was from the Areopagus.
And Paul quotes, right?
So he goes to that thing and he quotes
the Epiminides quote
that was originally given by Medea.
Paul quotes it, right?
Right there,
