Next, yeah, go ahead, let's talk about Alexi Kakoio
There it is, keeping off that mischief, right?
Nice, notice that it's an epithet of Heracles
Does that surprise you?
It shouldn't, read the Orphic hymn to Heracles sometimes
You'll be like, oh, this is Jesus, right?
This is the Christ, this is the Morning Star
Love it, let's go, keep going to the next one
Okay, people, this is the dirty one
Is everybody, let's just take a second
And I'm gonna end on this
Just take it down for one second
I need to ramp up for this
I'm going to be as literal as I possibly can
I'm gonna give you the technical terms
In as easily accessible and vivid way as I possibly can
I'm gonna try to paint for you the picture
Of what this amazing author is saying about Jesus
Okay, let's bring it up, let's bring it up
Hail Satan, let's do this
Are you ready?
I'm just gonna translate for you
And then I'm gonna go back and point out some words
Yeah, so Mary took up that Muron that we use in the rites
And this stuff was pure
She took, blow it up, she took, there we go
She took three measures of this stuff from the Nard
And what does she do?
She did what?
She engaged her Marmaron, her marble
She engaged the marble, you know what I mean?
Right?
She lifted back and forth the marble
I'm not kidding you, it's what it says
But it's gonna describe to you what kind of marble it is
It's Bebus Manon marble
It's the kind, are you ready?
It's the kind with which you plug the gaps
You put it in the holes, you plug the gaps
This is the marble that fills the hole
Yeah, and what does it do?
What does it do?
It's that vessel for the do
It's that vessel for the what?
For the do, there's our do again
There's our do again
Do you know who produces do?
If you do not know who produces do
You are not a devotee of the rites that keep this world going round and round and round
Yes, if you do know how the do is brought
And what is done with the do
You've been initiated, you're born again
You see it
This is an alabasteran
I want you to notice it can both contain fluid
And be used as a medical applicator
For which Aristophanes made fun of it
Yes, it is an ancient dildo
And that's the precise terminology
This history that we're doing contains the dildos
And the use of those dildos
Yeah, the marble
Now in antiquity dildos were made of several materials
Dildos were made of leather
The actors on the stage employed large leather dildos
They were made of polished stone
The marble is particularly user-friendly
When it comes to the applications of drugs to the rectum in antiquity
This is history about Jesus
Yeah
Remember the naked boy that was with Jesus when he got arrested
Let's keep putting this in the context that we can
If he and Mary are openly engaged in a mystery that involves drugs and sex
Well, let's see, what's she do?
What's she do with the whole plugging marble?
Let's see
That's her alabastern, by the way
That's a reference
The other Gospels talk about her alabastern, right?
Fantastic
So she takes this thing, this whole plugging thing
That becomes the carrier of the do
And she is that Eucomos
That one whose hair has been positioned for the sake of the performance of rights
Yes, yes
Love this, love this
And what does she do?
Oh, my goodness
Okay, here's where it gets a little bit rough
Here's where it gets a little bit rough
Elabe says so
She's gonna oil up the feet
He doesn't just say the feet of Jesus
He says the feet that are Thespacios
Those are the feet that are divine
Jesus' feet are oracular
What?
What?
Thespacios is up there, give me
I just want people to believe me
