It was Medea. We don't have this text, but it was Medea.
If there's one last thing that I could say to Anastasia, maybe directly.
It's, I know, I, I know of a Camarion symbol from the ancient world from Harkiv before it was a city.
Yeah, and that Camarion symbol with Greek blood.
She was known for her power.
For her tremendous power says, says the man who possessed her oracles.
She was known for her tremendous power, the power of her virginity, the power of her magic.
The maid of Harkiv is the Golden Dragon.
Yeah, gorgeous.
Anastasia, I hope that sometime you can come to Satanic initiation.
I will always reserve a place for that power.
Yeah, but those of us who are here, there's something that we can do.
And Gnostic Informant very wisely asked her, what can we do?
What can we do?
We're right at that point. Let's not just sit around.
Let's figure out how to support, how to support the beauty, how to defend the virgin, right?
That great Acropolis that gave us our democracy.
I would love for, for you to come on, maid of Harkiv and tell us the basics.
The basics of, you know, bring us to that world and give us your voice and show us the future.
Show us, bring us to the, to the place that we can be people of honor.
Yeah, we don't have anybody else around.
I meant to have Rob over from the UK to give us an update on the, on the intellect of the UK push within the club.
And also, we don't have our Canadian representative.
It's just me tonight. Everybody's on vacation.
Thank you for an excellent second season.
And thank you for the incredible work.
And those of you who are doing it know who I'm talking to, the incredible work that you are doing.
And this museum is, is building in strength.
And now let's, let's give it that miraculous voice.
Let's bring it back. Let's bring it back.
And to Doug Wilson, creepy, creepy stuff, brother.
Yeah, creepy stuff.
Oh, and by the way, your Jesus was arrested in a public park with a naked boy.
Looks like you're in the right business.
That horse called destiny. I think she ran on without me.
