And yeah, I sometimes say that Ukraine is like the phoenix, basically, bird, because it's just revised all the time.
This is just our history, you know?
I hope, I really hope that this time will be the last one, that this time will be the one that we will actually win,
and they will be forever seen as what we are, as Ukraine.
It's very meaningful, actually, because we have been not heard for many, many years.
So people did not hear us at all, our history, the way we see it, our struggle.
So they only heard the side of the conqueror.
Something like that, which is Russia, right?
And so for us to be heard and to be finally, I guess, accepted and admitted as people, as a country, is very important to us for sure,
because it's something that we really struggled with.
So her ancestors, the Khmerians, would bring her forward as a symbol to show you the future in the present through the past.
These are the people that were connected to those Thracians.
These are the Scythian tribes that were perpetuating the Oystrus, the Oystromania, that state of madness,
where their oracle, the Medwa, who was Queen of Georgia, where she would bring freedom.
How did she bring freedom? She brought freedom with her voice by burning a bride alive.
Yes, it has to go. We have to repel this.
People have to know. People have to know the murderers of the mothers and the daughters are doing.
You and I are sitting here tonight, right? I'm not worried about bombs coming in, right?
But I know we are on the verge of losing our republic and tearing ourselves apart.
I am proud that my government is fighting to defend Anastasia.
I'm proud. I'm proud there are Americans who are over there right now doing their thing.
And it's my hope. It's my hope that these men and women who stand up against the foulness of the creeps,
whose greed compels them to kill mothers and daughters and fathers.
Anastasia's father. As a father, Anastasia, I can tell you, I know your father is proud.
I know he's proud. Fantastic.
I had a quick passage for you from Nonus that I wanted to talk about.
I think we'll save it for next time. Fair enough to let you know it's she, the goddess, right?
The great mother who sows the universe.
She's, she's go ahead and put it up there. Let's just, let's just take a quick look at it.
Excuse me. Let's just take a quick look at it.
Yes.
You who are, you are the seed scatterer of the ion of the ionic of the ionic organization.
More physics, right? You mother of loves, mother of loves.
There's no, there's no leader of the cows that's bothering me, right?
There's no leader of the herd. There's no desire for sleep.
It's not the insanity of love that which Dawn shows.
That's not what I am bothered by, nor the, nor the love of Selene when she is with her beloved dreamer.
It's not these things.
It's my mourning for my father.
My father, Lias, the loosener, Bacchus.
Please stand beside your brother.
Stand beside your brother.
Yeah.
