we would start entering at 12, 13 years old.
14 were finished and we're getting married.
We've cycled normally for a year.
Everything's good.
We're getting married.
She's in that pre-stage but we've been giving her the drugs
that are turning her into something.
It causes her skin to become rough or harsh.
They call it scaly in Greek, scaly.
She loses sight during the day because of the brightness.
She's known to inhabit the caves.
We call her the half virgin, half viper or the echidna.
Yes, the echidna.
So let's look some more at the hymns.
Let's look some more as she emerges from the artist's hands.
This is like creation.
It's gorgeous.
Okay, the second, the first line again please from Pallas.
Yes, Pallas Monogines.
Chew is that only begotten daughter of God.
Yes, and by the way, there's another word that comes with Pallas
to be from.
It means to be from the great father,
from that great thundering father.
There is no word for the son only the daughter.
This is a female centered cult that is creating these terms that Jesus
is using somewhere between 500 to 900 years after the Greeks are performing their mysteries.
Right?
Their mysteries.
Excellent, excellent.
Let's read the line.
What is she?
She is the ekgonesimne, the holy product or offspring of great theos.
Zeus of great Zeus.
And when I say Zeus, I'm referring to Jupiter himself.
I'm referring to
the Jehovah.
Yes, the deus.
The deus.
Yes, the deus.
And we have her name on the second line because we're invoking here.
Dia.
Dia.
Do you see the dia on the front here?
Dia.
Now I'm going.
Rat King will love this because we were talking about this today,
but I will go ahead and not give you, not give you the secret name because Dia hides a secret name
that if you know how to use this secret name, if you know the name, you can then manipulate that force.
If you knew what Amon meant, you could control Amon.
The knowledge, the phronasus, is what brings you that ability from the throne.
Excellent, excellent.
The phronasus.
Good.
Macaira Thea she is, but I'm not going to give you a secret name from Dia.
I will let you know though that Dia is a female form that the
deus is taken from.
It's old, old, old, Mycenaean.
It's the dewa or the dewanasa.
Oh, love it.
This is gorgeous.
This is gorgeous.
That's why they walk around calling Medea the dewanasa.
Yeah, the diwanna.
Diwanna, isn't it nice?
The Diana.
Oh, love it because what comes out of Jehovah's head, people are surprised.
What comes out, she does.
Yes, beautiful, beautiful.
Polymoclonae, right?
Clonos is a disruption in your guts on the medical side that wind that you get on your inside,
that wind that comes up, that causes you to defecate.
Yes, the storm, that wind is the clonos.
And the pollen route here, it just means war.
She is the one who engages in the storm of war, the storm of war, the obrimothume.
She has brimos.
She has, that's from the word brimo in Greek.
And it means to thunder, to shake, to create that loud voice, that loud voice that stuns.
Obrimothume, it can also be the beat of the heart, the beat of the heart.
She has the thunderous heart.
Fantastic.
Remember, she's holding it.
She's holding the heart of Dionysus.
Good.
In the next line, next verses here that we have up, great.
Arete, rete.
Uh oh, we've got some magic going on for those of you who are keeping track now.
We're performing a magic little device here.
Watch what we're doing.
Arete, rete, the unspoken and the spoken, the unspoken and the spoken.
We're using both sides of the magic.
For those of you familiar with esoteric magical texts like the PGM, you'll understand what's
going on here.
We are using the opposites, it's poles, it's the manipulation of poles.
Arete, rete, arete, rete.
And remember, this is a song that you're singing into the ear of the one who is seated on the throne.
That one is bound.
And when you're entering into this meter, you're binding that one with your song.
They said in these mystery performances, the song was more important than even the drugs.
Right?
Even the communion.
The song was most important.
Yes.
