How does she affect history?
And when you follow the language through the Medwa,
right?
Medwa and Medusa are the same root.
They're the same root medicine where we get our word medicine.
It's the same root.
And you look at lexicographers and they'll argue about
maga and mada and where those ultimately come from.
And just long story short, the mada is the moistness.
It is the dew.
It is the manna that you reap from between her legs.
Yeah, they were using these chemicals.
They were using them in rights.
And if you are a Christian, you are not part of a mystery for any reason.
You are part of a mystery because that is the history that your religion and its
practices developed.
And Jesus stood there and said, I am the monogenes.
When he did that, when his apostles wrote that he was the monogenes,
they were claiming a right to a throne, to the throne of God.
And now you understand.
Now you understand.
Let's look at, let's look at the image.
Tell us a couple of words here.
Mateus, give us a couple of words about how you're feeling as you make,
as you bring to life.
What kind of, tell us about her that you're making for a couple of minutes.
Just, you know, free form.
Yeah, sure.
I kind of want her to be a little bit like she's doing some kind of interrogation.
So a lot of the times when I'm playing around with her, I'm sort of seeing
how like somebody, if she were huge, right, she were like six foot tall,
how she would look to somebody if they walked up to her.
Like if she's asking a question or if she's about to attack or something.
Because right now she's just standing there.
But I'm wondering like when somebody looks at her, how should they feel?
And I want to know that power of the thing that you're using there with the S-curve.
Tell us a little bit about that.
Oh, the S-curve.
Yeah.
So the S-curve is something that like,
it gives it a really like interesting shape.
It puts your hips forward, your shoulders back.
This is like what you'll see what models will do.
So they'll walk like this.
And it just elongates the body and it gives it a lot of like expression.
So it gives it a really sort of elegant expression to the body.
Instead of her just being standing regularly, she sort of loses a little bit of
the intensity of her body.
I noticed that you've captured the combination of her masculinity and femininity.
She's supposed to be female possessing masculine traits, which I think is a reflection of her
coric status.
And you have captured that.
You have really, you have really, bravo.
You've really captured that because I look at different parts of her and I'm trying to
identify masculine feminine age and I see that you've you've honed in.
You've honed in on that power of that of that perfect combination, right?
That perfect combination.
Yeah.
Why don't you tell me about, why don't you tell me about the snakes and yeah, that hand.
By the way, Mateus, look at that hand, everyone.
By the way, Mateus, look at that hand, everyone.
Look at that left hand.
I mean, wow.
I mean, that says a lot and it says different things from different angles.
I want to bring up.
I said before we're going to talk about Mr Ferrari et tori Ferrari, right?
Ferrari, right?
And his here he is.
Watch how he did the same thing.
Like when you look at her head, when you look at the angle that it is,
if you rotate the angle of her head, you'll see different positions of power.
You'll see different poses in her.
And for example, if we got under her head and we're looking at her from the ground up,
as if she is looking at us with, you see how as Mateus changes the shape,
all of a sudden the new emotion comes into the face.
Let's see.
Let's see if he's meeting up with his ancestor.
Let's see if you're an ancestor.
Let's see if we can call you the seed of Ferrari.
Can we show to your daughter, Bruno, who Ferrari made?
Yeah, you see that?
What about that?
What about that angle there?
Isn't that lovely?
Does that do anything for you that's that particular statue, Mateus?
Yeah, of course.
It's pretty interrogating you, right?
So you're looking up at him and he's looking down at you.
And I'm sure that the sun positions itself behind him,
so it's like he's backlit and it looks holy, you know?
You see?
And he's in this like dark hood.
He looks down at you.
He's sort of, it's almost like he's asking you a question.
He's interrogating you.
I really like that about this statue,
especially because I don't know much about your Bruno,
but I know he was a pretty intense guy.
So I think that this is like, it does a lot of like,
just in terms of the intensity of the pose and the intensity of the look
and the intensity of the angle that this statue is positioned
is like really speaking to his nature.
And where did Ferrari, he made the statue,
