That sounds cool to me.
Yeah.
And what's the very next part of that line?
Oestrusa.
I told you guys.
The Sigmatau Rhoru, the STR Oestrusa, right?
She's causing mania.
She's causing estrus.
Right?
What is she putting into estrus psychas?
The souls of men.
The souls of men.
And where is she taking them into mania site?
Mania, see, excuse me.
Into mania.
Into maniac states.
You didn't think Athena, the builder of the polis.
You didn't think that she was the architect of mania, did you?
She is.
She is the architect of mania.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Gorgeous.
One more.
One more line.
I want to get one more line in.
Gumnusa.
Sorry.
Gumnadus acorre.
Fricode sumon achusa.
Yeah.
Gumnadusa.
That's where we get the naked from the naked version.
What does that mean, the naked version?
It means the one who exercises naked.
Which is not on, you know, the concept of exercise and being naked
is welded together in the Greek.
So when I am exercising, I am doing it naked.
You know, when you run the Olympic events, you're running naked, right?
And they're doing it through Hera, the worship of Hera.
The women are doing it.
I would argue probably before.
I'll let the folks who write books about such things
make their declarations.
But probably before the male was the female version.
So this virgin who exercises naked is not, you know, the gymnast.
She is not necessarily an odd figure.
This is not strange for us to envision, right?
It's not strange for us to envision.
Good.
And she has that sumon.
Having that sumon that is our chest, her heart, her inner spirit.
Her inner spirit causes the quaking.
Causes the quaking.
OK, so we have a Korah.
We know that she's this hybrid.
She is the only born of the supreme ruler.
She alone shares his traits.
Yeah, it's gorgeous.
Let's give the scoop here on our image and just ask Mateus here.
Mateus, is there any, as you are working and as the art is coming through your hands,
is this like when you made the sculpture of the snake goddess as a younger, as a 13-year-old?
And you print coming up with the images in your mind and they're just kind of working themselves out organically.
Tell us what's going on here with this.
Is this inspiration that you're going through?
What is this?
Yeah, this is really fun, actually, now that you mentioned it.
Yeah, so a couple of things.
Like when you mentioned her having only a spear, I actually, I used the tool that I was sculpting with
and I put it in her hand and it almost went on pretty naturally.
It looks pretty good on her, too.
So it was like she was meant to be holding it.
And also, like...
Yeah, that's it, I think.
Yeah, she looks really good.
This is like a sketch, right?
This is like, you know, I'm not going for the finish here.
I'm just really going through this for the process for the presentation you're giving.
So I'm not worried about finishing it as much as I am worried about just like trying different things
and having fun with what I'm doing.
And yeah, I think it's pretty good.
You're remaining faithful to the image, aren't you?
And just as Athena is worshiped on Helicon, where the temple of the Muses is,
then we know that their worship is...
I mean, look at this artist working, right?
I had the privilege of watching Matthias produce from just the rough clay, just nothing.
It was like watching Michelangelo bring those images out of the stone.
And Matthias, could you do us one big favour?
And do you have the sketch that you made of the Athena first?
Could you show us the sketch?
Maybe hold that up to your camera?
Yeah, I do. This is her right here.
I have plenty of these sketches, really, if I had been better prepared,
I wouldn't have had a bunch of them.
But this is more or less what she's supposed to be looking like,
or what, you know, this is like the rough sketch of...
What she's supposed to look like.
Gorgeous, gorgeous.
And of course, Matthias is very humble about his work,
and it's just a sketch, right?
It's just a sketch.
Well, it's a pretty fantastic and talented sketch.
