but they placed it in a specific square.
Wasn't it the square where they burned him alive?
Yep, it's in Rome, so I'm not sure what the square is,
but yeah, it's the exact place.
And the Catholic church wasn't really happy about that,
but there wasn't much they could do.
And from what I hear, and from what I hear,
Port G. Bruno was called G. Bruno.
Port G. Bruno was brought up on some kind of impiety,
some kind of charge against the church.
He was, he was, who knows what it was actually for, right?
But he was saying things about planets, about other planets,
and about the life that was on those other planets out there.
And we know that angered the church because it throws off their cosmogony, right?
We don't, their cosmogony is suddenly incomplete.
And I'm not talking about the church's cosmogony isn't the Orphic cosmogony, right?
They have, that they created their own in the Middle Ages
because the Orphic cosmogony that started the mystery was pagan.
And they wanted to reassert some sort of, hey, now this is originally our days of creation
or our days of creation, right?
And even though we're starting with the earth and uranos, right?
We're going to give you a new impression of that cosmogony.
So it didn't fit, it didn't fit all the planets.
Those of you who are out there, and there are a lot of educated people on this channel.
And those of you who are educated and who know some Bruno,
and I know that there are those of you who are out there,
you may be able to appreciate this a little bit with, I don't know,
I may just throw out an ass, a golden ass to you.
And who knows, maybe the Ferrari, you think the Ferrari image was an ass,
a golden ass first?
What do you think, Matthias?
A golden ass first, the Ferrari image of what exactly?
Like the Giordano Bruno sculpture?
No, I'm talking about the horse on the golden background.
Yeah, the horse on the golden background with the modern Ferrari.
Yeah, is that?
The car, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a black horse on a golden field.
And I'm not exactly sure what the history of it is entirely,
but I do know, or if it's a legitimate, what's it called, a coat of arms,
but I do know that it used to be a donkey before.
So a black donkey on a golden field.
Nice, nice, perhaps, we don't know.
Perhaps they're using some of the same imagery.
Yeah, perhaps.
I'm talking, by the way, I'm talking about the logo, the Ferrari, the car,
the logo, right, the black stallion.
I also do know that one of the nicknames for Enzo Ferrari was a dragon,
so they used to call him the dragon.
Those old European families that preserve all of the old medieval symbols
that ultimately are derived from the roots of Hellenistic culture, from Greek culture.
That's gorgeous.
I love that, I love that.
Tonight has been outstanding.
I could sit here and look at her.
She's mesmerizing, and I can't thank you enough, Matthias.
For participating and for allowing us to be in a part of your process.
I think that we have the makings here of a real salon,
and it's an honor, Matthias, to be able to participate with you.
Yeah, thank you.
This has been really fun.
It's really fun, and it's really great to get to do stuff like this.
Also, it's good to do something like this while you're
you're reading, while you're making your presentation, it inspires.
So it's like, well, we can have multiple things happening together.
And I know I'm not the only one in the group who has artistic ability to some extent.
I'd be interested to see more people come out and do more artwork for the community.
I know a lot of people are writers also, which is
there's really great stuff on the Discord.
People have been writing, especially doing research.
So encouragement in the Templam, right?
Encouragement in the sacred space of Saturn for us to bring out this art.
Yeah, we'll do a pose for her.
She'll point at you like, I want you to.
Oh, fantastic.
Like an Uncle Sam thing, you know, like I want you to contribute.
Yeah, you're scaring me.
I don't know whether to be scared or to be excited.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Calling on all artists out there.
You see, the Virgin wants you.
The Virgin wants you.
And listing you for some dope artwork.
Yes.
Thank you, Mateus, and thank you everybody for coming tonight.
And we'll see you.
Thank you.
We'll see you Friday, Friday at Sabat.
And wow, I can't, I can't say.
Look at, look at, look at.
Just take one, one.
Yeah, give us one more hole.
Oh, just like that angle.
Look at that.
Look at that hand, people.
Oh my God.
Okay, I love it.
Hail Satan.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru
