Do you know why he deserves...
Jesus Christ deserves a striping on his buttocks?
Because he was arrested at 4 a.m.
with a naked kid.
Yes.
Don't you understand how much of antiquity, especially in the third century when this thing
is written, how much of antiquity is driven by the great mother.
The Balkans are all followers of the great mother.
Oh, God, it's a time of child protection.
Jesus is working against that current.
And it's all over.
It's all over.
It's all over his quotes.
It's all over everything he's touching.
Oh, God, let's get back to the text.
Was that a creepy portrait there?
Sometimes it scares me what you find.
Okay, let's go one more.
I just want to see this is generic serpent because I'm going to conjure the serpent now.
Are you ready?
Because, you know, there was a serpent involved with this meeting of coming out of the bush
with the angel.
Ah, smoke and it doesn't stop burning.
Vision.
What's the vision?
Oh, let's go bring it.
Give me that next one.
He says, what's in your hand?
This is Yahoo.
Yahoo turns to Moses and misses this fumigation.
And he says, hey, what's in your hand?
Moses says, I got the rob done.
And he says, okay, throw it on the ground.
And he throws it on the ground.
And then he says, watch what happens.
The thing becomes a serpent, becomes a what becomes a dracon, not one in general, one
very specific serpent.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And Moses says, yikes, runs away.
Right.
And Yahoo says, get back over here.
Grab it.
I want you to grab it by a part of its body.
What part of its body do you want me to grab it by?
Give me the next text.
Nope.
After that.
That's ultimately what the Hebrew says.
It uses the word for tail.
Grab it by the tail.
But I want you to see the kintros and what it is on the Greek side.
And here's the text, by the way, for, look, this angel came to him in this puri flogos.
Look, there he is.
He's coming out of the bush.
So I want you to see people.
I'm just giving you the text, right?
And what's happening?
The thing burns, but it doesn't, it doesn't get consumed.
Hit me with the next one.
Oh God, let's fly.
Let's fly.
Catch him up.
What is the thing that's making all this smoke that you and I, God, are sucking up?
It turns out it's this Bramble Bush, baby.
It turns out it's this Bramble Bush.
Somebody get me 10 of those.
We'll import those things to where we are.
I'll sit here and talk to God all day.
You know, when people ask me, I do the medical side.
And so it sounds funny to me when people say, do you think they really use drugs in antiquity?
Sounds funny to me.
And it sounds like we're simpletons, to be honest.
But this kind of stuff shouldn't be surprising by this point in the game, right?
These fumigations that are going on and all the medical stuff, the Christing, it's all part of the same package.
Give me that.
Well, after the bathhouse.
Yeah, give me that one.
What is, what is the flocks that we're looking for?
Remember people, we're in a cult.
No, don't take me seriously.
I told them we're in a cult.
So this is the atmosphere.
So when that messenger comes to you, right, where are they coming from?
That flame?
It's hard for us to translate that flame.
What kind of flame is this flame though?
It's that flame of lightning, that flame of the thunderstruck, right?
Take the word for this flame and you turn it into somebody who is thunderstruck.
How do you get to being thunderstruck?
Right?
To those of you who have gotten close to the throne of Satan and to those of you who have, who have taken your seat upon the throne of Satan.
Those of you who have the star in your hand, you understand, you understand the meaning.
You feel that meaning.
You feel it, right?
At the orgy, you understand.
Oh God, look at what kind of transmission is going on.
This is gorgeous.
Take a minute, take a minute.
Give me that text again.
Give me the next text.
As soon as there, it's too much time.
They're going to get it too fast.
Speak to me.
Yahoo, here it is.
Okay, everybody, everybody, this is brand new.
You've never seen this trick.
Are you ready?
I'm going to give it to you right now.
The words of God himself.
Are you ready?
