Show me the real Moses.
They sell you knock off Jesus, facsimile is a real mystery. Your poster boy pedophile drug addict was made by Rome to enslave all of you. Knock, knock. Can't you hear me? I'm at the door.
Christine Theory X, Black Waters, Black Bentham, Julius Caesar, Hung Medea's portrait on the Temple of Venus. The producer, Divine, Julian Library of the Renaissance.
Sibylene Brooks, so cold with the breezy, poisonous kisses. She sells seashells by the sea shore.
Christine Theory X, Black Waters, Black Bentham, Julius Caesar, Hung Medea's portrait on the Temple of Venus.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon initiating Apocalypse. Nice to see you back tonight. I'm going to show you something. I'm going to tell you right off the bat what we're going to be doing.
We're going straight to Moses. We're going to look at Moses and God, and we're going to watch them get completely high together.
We're going to see what it is in the original text. We're going to watch the beautiful interlacing of the drugs with the cult vision.
And we're going to see Moses at his best. Are you ready for this? You're not. You're not because this, this is the actual text.
You have not seen this. Nobody has seen this because of the big lie. The big lie is that this text was originally in Hebrew.
It was not tonight. We're peeling through that historical trauma and we're going right to the language. Why? Because we're scientists. That's what we do.
That's what we do tonight on Lady Babylon. We're going to look at Moses and Yahoo. The same time linguistically. This is going to be lovely.
You're going to, oh, it's, it's so scrumptious. I want to start tonight and say we've got a couple of people that I need to give shout outs to.
I gave a recent interview. Go ahead and bring it up. Yes, here we go on higher side chats, right?
And unfortunately, higher side was bombarded by people that were angry, angry audience talking about, I'm going to pull my subscription.
Take out my investment. I am going to march off in the distance in a huffy tirade.
And you know what? It didn't matter because higher side stayed the course.
You know, stayed the course for the sake of honor, for the sake of honor.
So what I would like to ask you to do is to show higher side exactly how much it means to toe the line of reality to us.
How much does that mean to Satanic congregation? It means a lot. It means a lot.
Well, sir, I've got a flash, another ally here. This is the curious man's podcast, curious man's podcast, right?
And look what we've got here. Oh, God speaks with Dr. Amen. That's Matt. Matt was fantastic.
I want everybody to know about Matt for the sake of the curious man's podcast.
I want you to know about that. Now, the other thing I want to say, take that down, Chewie.
The other thing I want to say is I'm going to be on Danny Jones, Danny Jones.
And I know can't wait for it. Can't wait. It's just going to be lovely.
And I love the fact that every time I give an interview, the response is usually somewhere between thank you very much.
This was fantastic. Now, if we can just figure out how to get it edited properly to get presentable to the audience.
It's that fiery. It is that. Oh, God, the material Danny just brought it out.
He brought it out. It was gorgeous. My commendations to Danny Jones. Fantastic.
We got in there into the material and I think you're going to like it.
So we're waiting on that. Okay. I want to take you in.
I want to take you in. Are you ready? Here we go. Boom. Give me that first source, Chewie.
All right. Let's go to this. I want you to see the real tonight.
I just want you to sit back and I want you to envision the real.
Now, where have we been up until this point in the story?
Go ahead and flash that first text up there. This is what we're going to be looking at.
But go ahead and take it down. But let me tell you what's happened before this.
You know what I mean? Moses, whose name is a third century construction of Museus.
Right? So the author of the Bible, who's writing in the third century,
they are pulling down the tradition that is the Orphic Mystery Tradition,
the Oracular Tradition, right? Coming through one woman, the Medua,
or as the Greeks called her, Medea, right? And these people are working.
They're working on getting things done.
Moses is out there in the, you know, doing his thing with his sheep.
And all of a sudden, what happens to Moses all of a sudden?
He finds that bush, that bush that burns, but it doesn't stop burning.
It doesn't get consumed. It just burns. Look, you can light it.
There it goes. Look, it comes back. It comes back. It's going to come back.
There it is. This, but we're going to look at this is where Moses has gotten to.
And tonight we are going to learn the name of Jehovah.
We're going to learn the name of Yahoo. We're going to learn it.
Are you ready? It's in the creek. It's in there in the creek.
Are you ready? And everybody will finally see it.
It's gorgeous. Now it is the sacred name of God.
So it is, it is with my utmost humble pleasure to be able to bring it to you.
It's gorgeous. Let's go. Hit me with this first text.
I'm just going to read it to you people.
Yeah. So he says, look, look, it's Moe and God.
And they're sitting there with the fumes of this thing, fumigating themselves.
And he says, look, nobody's going to believe me.
Nobody's going to believe me if I go back and tell him I spoke with God, right?
And then what am I going to do?
And so Curios turns to him and he says from the, you know, he's speaking.
Where is he speaking? By the way, he's speaking out of the smoke, baby.
Tito esti. You know, what's in your hand?
What's in your hand, brah? And he says a rabdos.
Moses says a rabdos is in my hand. Go to the next one.
Wait a minute. What's Moses walking around with?
What's he walking around with?
He put this thing up there and people don't understand.
Now, again, we're going to get into the fact that this is so complex and the Hebrew is so simple, right?
You're pulling out a layer of technicality, right?
When you have to translate the Greek to the Hebrew.
So that's what's happening here.
And what is this rabdo?
And look, it's a rod people.
Look at all the different types of things that it is.
We'll look at number one, the magic wand.
Look at the fishing rod.
Oh, yeah. Look at this.
This is gorgeous.
Yeah. Yeah. The rap.
So it carries this thing around.
Who's the rap?
So that's the singer.
That's the singer, brah.
You didn't think Psalm was a Hebrew word, did you?
It's a Greek word.
Um, um, yeah, fantastic.
So this rub done hit me with the next hit me with the next example.
What is this thing?
Moses is carrying.
Well, let's look at its early prototype right now.
This is the magic wand that's used by Cersei.
So when everybody's watching Harry Potter and they're like,
Oh, but Harry, you, you won baby.
Point your one point it right at Hermione.
Don't do that.
Don't do that.
Don't point that one.
Harry, stop.
Um, this is the one that Cersei is using.
And she is using it in an archaic, um, bronze age,
late bronze age form.
And what does this thing do?
This thing's a vehicle for her to transform a person from a
sentient to an in sentient.
Yes, a toy, if you will.
Isn't that neat?
That's bronze age stuff.
