Yes.
Yes.
Of course.
Of course.
Well, why is Aphrodite then the whole sexual desire thing?
Because everywhere she goes, desire goes with her.
She's that one that takes that desire.
Okay.
I'm beginning to see.
And this is important because remember, we're going to these gods for all my Muslim brother
and brothers and sisters out there.
Remember that your ancestors, if we were to appeal to your ancestors, we would appeal
to a civilization that followed Aphrodite.
And there's a little piece.
There's a little piece of that remnant that is held on a remnant inside the heart of
every beating human says, I feel it.
I feel that Aphrodite.
I feel her.
Yeah.
Isn't that gorgeous?
I love it.
Go to the next.
What else is happening with this dude?
Because this is what's going on with Jesus.
Apparently the boys, you know, like to be around Heracles as he tells us.
The boys like to be around Heracles.
All right.
He's got a naked kid with them, right?
Do you have a problem that Heracles has a naked kid with them?
Because if you don't, if you do, you're going to have to turn away from every classical
statue that you see because Hylas is always there.
He even stops his great expedition on the Argo, which is supposed to be one of, if not
the first ship.
And what does he do in the region at least?
What does he do?
Heracles, instead of staying on this great voyage that became the most popular epic
before the Iliadon Odyssey.
Yeah.
What did he do?
He left because Hylas, his boy, got left on one of the islands where they were.
Right?
You know what happened to Hylas?
You know what happened to Hylas?
He went to get a drink of water and he stuck his face, his beautiful, beautiful kid, and
he stuck his face over that well like that.
And the nymph in the water had to have him.
She had that hormone, that push, that drive.
You can induce this in someone with drugs.
Can you make someone really, really, really, really, really aroused with drugs?
Yeah.
And if you give them the right ones in antiquity, you can turn this person into a satyr, a lunatic,
a lunatic who's in a phase of psychosis.
Wow.
Wow.
Why would you want to do that?
Okay.
Let's go see.
What else is there?
Same passage.
I'm sorry, but this really needs to come across.
Go back.
No, one before that.
Go back.
Look here in the last two lines.
Who is also there?
