And so when you get when it gets translated from greek and hebrew and then in english or then in the latin then in english
I should say you lose all the context. We have no idea what these people were talking about when you go back
And so the the the greek side is where it gets crazy. Now if I can one last thing I want to do
I I heard what you said about the christos thing and the oister mania thing
And I pulled out some sources if anyone wants to see this is from ascolis
Prometheus bound
So i'm going to share three screens real quick and then and then that's it then i'm done
The first one. I want to show the greek. So here it is right here. This is the greek
You notice how this is from prometheus bound ascolis
uh
566 right it has there you got your chance in the beginning. Yeah, uh, uh
There is here's your first word kriya
kriya
And then there's your oistros
So i'm going to click on this word right here, right? This is their kriya
Now what does this mean? I'll check this out. This is going to blow your mind
Here's the real
Here's the real origins of what a christ is
okay
kriya
I clicked on that word. Here's what it gave me kriya
kriya now we click on the lsj
Rub anoint all that stuff. It's the anointed right, but what's this one down here with the gadfly?
That's odd
Well turns out if we go back to ascolis
This is where it comes from
So i'm going to share them this is the last screen i'm going to show and then i'll show the translation actually
so the uh
If we go back to the greek text
You see this word oistros kriyo
tis a me tan tali
talinan oistros
We click on this oistros and what do we get?
well, let's let's uh
Let's switch my screen over to that word right now. I'll show you what i'm got what i got here oistros
the gadfly
So what is this kriya gadfly phrase happening? What's happening here? Well, let's do it
Let's see what let's go to the english translation just to speed this up a little bit because we could translate it ourselves
Which we normally do but just for the sake of time. Let's just see what uh
Let's just see what ellis has is for the translation real quick
i'm going to go to the text back to the text reveal what this all means
and you get
oh
a gadfly
phantom of the earth born argus is stinging me again
To be stung by the gadfly is the kriyo
And this is the first time you see this show up where there's a christos or a kriyo in any text
It's a it's a title
And in this case prometheus is being is is is being stung by the gadfly. He's becoming a christos
There it is. I mean, we're just pulling out sources here. This is not our theories or what we think happened
This is the source so
I just wanted to bring that up
Notice notice neil that it's that gadfly sting that brings that madness or what they called the
Ostromania if you just take that oistris and you look up
Ostromania it'll tell you this is the state that you enter when you're prophesying under the influence of the oistris
They said the mania then that mania has that that term mania has to be in there, right?
It's for profits. It's for the profits. It's what they used
We have a reference in diodorus to the christasa
the
self christing
of medea
Right, so when she enters that frenzy in order to do her thing
It's not it's not odd to us
That somebody was claiming a title of the one who is christed
It's not it's not odd at all to us
And it it just makes great great sense that he's in the shape that he is screaming about is being thirsty and whatnot
It's the same presentation of symptoms
So, yeah, I wanted you I wanted people tonight neil. What did you think about?
Reaching back into abakum
Um, we you know, he does talk about the soter
You know abakum or Habakkuk
He talks about the soter
And he talks about the salvation and we skipped over it, but he talks about the one
Who is that bringer that that great?
It's the first one. Chewie bring that up real quick. I need to show people
He is the one look at that. Look at that paragraph
That second paragraph there, right? He's he's look at that first verb or geese face. This is what kuryos is doing
He's entering that orgy in the rivers. He's entering that that extreme
satiric phase that when your satarian is kicked in and you're standing there with your erection
