Right, let's make some harps
And
Pluck let's make some harps and pluck
Yeah, okay, so you can see where the mind is you're now
That caused you to have that satiriasis and for those of you didn't sit on the satyrs meeting
You won't get the right picture, but for those of you who are standing there satyrs with your priapus
You have that tension because of that pharmacon because of that toxic on
pharmacon
That bow poison gives you the tension
brings the music
I see
Okay, if nothing else these people are totally totally stoned
Right, okay, fine. I get it bring us bring us into the text. You're saying I want to know where I'm going
Right, let me show you where we're going. This is lovely. I thank you for your time tonight. Bring up that next text
Yeah
Yeah, oh, let's go to Job. Let's go to Job then right so we've got our we have our
jugs of
the wine of Sodom
We have our jugs and we're about to see what happens when you get these jugs
Jugs of wine, right? We kind of know because we saw the daughters. We saw the daughters there here. Here the here the girls
Right, let them do their thing
spare the gents
Yeah, fantastic. You know where we are. You know where we are good bring up that verse again
Yeah, yeah, what?
Okay, ready. We're not with the people you think we're with these
Ancient practitioners this these profit this profit
Fates
Yeah, here we go. Hey on a bay is run on out to the door
if a
Person's gifts
Ascend to the
Uranus
Yeah, and is focia the things that he burns in offering
Right if they're taken up
All right within the clouds
Within the clouds
Do you know what the clouds are?
The clouds are in reference to a cult ceremony. If I was given a paper, I'd be saying in re2
The clouds are referring to the fumigations
the fumigations
The fumigations fantastic. These are prayers
Don't you remember it when Abba kum just came into the room the one you guys will probably hear called
Habakkuk or Habakkuk if you're an evangelical evangelical
You ever been preached to about Habakkuk
Abakkuk
Can tell you
That the first thing offered is that prayer is that prayer
That prayer is that incense
in the nostrils of
Zeus
Yeah, those prayers go up. They're oftentimes pictured as
Um, beautiful young diamond eyes. Yeah, beautiful young demons
Beautiful young demons. Good name for a rock group. I think anyway
Let's get back to it bring me up some more great. Let's give them some more great because we got a picture going
Yeah, and you won't be a
Listen, you're not gonna be able to get any help
Right because there's this holy a speedos in your gut
When you're in the thick of it in the right and you're right there in the depth of it as the profetice as the prophet
You're not gonna be able to just step out of it you've got the poison on board
That's why you need the theriac
If you don't have the theriac
You're gonna end up screaming about being thirsty on a cross waiting to die from the toxin
Let's get back to it. Where's that naked boy? Wait, how long has it been? I got about 25 minutes this time before we got to the naked
Boy, thanks for keeping track
Everyone by the way, we're gonna have Neil come on here in just a minute
But let me wrap this all together. This is all the Bible. I've been reading to you all of it
Yeah, so you're not gonna be able to get any help when this thing is inside of you because it's you've got the poison
Right, that's the ass go to the next one. Chewie. That's the ass bright, but here's the entire passage
If you're so bent
Right on this evil
That is under your tongue
Right, right. You're gonna hide it
You're gonna hide it there
You're gonna hide this poison right under your tongue
Something that hides poison right under its tongue. We are square with the serpents these that are
Contest right you can be proud to the person who was commenting about
The order of the dragon and Vlad
right
Vlad I I see your Vlad and I raised you
