ombacoum
ombacoum
ombacoum
Now
ombacoum
Had his we'll get to that
Thank you. I'm Bacoum had his identity
Stolen
Fortunately his words weren't
We have them as evidence at this terrible linguistic crime scene
What is that Iacos
What is that Iacos pull that up Alice? What are you gonna tell me about Iacos?
Look, it's the mystic name of Dionysus. Remember ladies and gents Dionysus is found is early
as the linear be
Fantastic fantastic
Whoo, and look look at number just everybody take it take a little look at number two under a
It's a song in honor. Oh must the cost Iacos
Yes, that's that song and honor of
Dionysus
So somebody was asking somebody else about what are the shouts? I saw it on a
Saw it on an interview. I don't remember what show it was
YouTube
Right, and I saw it and they didn't know what the shouts were my
Goodness, if you don't know look people come on. I know you guys are all listening to these people
Right, it's not you. It's me too. We're all listening to these people
Can't take some of them serious because they're full of lies
Full of lies whenever they get unprofessional and they start throwing around their Harvard credentials
You got to know you're about to get stuff full of lies
this
Episodes brought to you by the folks
Who dislike Harvard and Yale for the fact that they have so let us down?
Yeah, you guys didn't read Arteas. Did you who's a cap Edocean dude? You should have read him
Fantastic, let's go back to the yajos. See what we've got there
Go down to oh here. This is the good part. I get to give Moses here, right?
This is the third century and it's the first time that we've heard of the guy, but okay, here we go
Moses
Moses I hear that you're a snake-loving guy. I hear you snake-loving guy Moses
Come forward
Oh
Bring him up. Oh, that makes me fills me with chills to do that bring it up
a guard on
Pellu so don't want
Hey, I'm bellows out on hi
Hey
Matis out on a
Gomorrah's
This is let me just read this to you guys. I'm just gonna stop turn on my translator
Right, right your our our
Ampelos our vine our grapevine is from the vine of Sodom
Yeah, our
Cultivated vine is grown
From by the Gomorrah's I was a little bit fancy there. I tried to give a the grape cluster
Right the grape cluster is a bunch of grapes filled with holey
Holey oh, it's biting. Look at verse three thirty-three
Thumostracon ton ho in us
What what is what is their wine? What is their wine? Their wine is the
Thumostracon ton
Bring it back up. It's the Thumostracon ton
The Thumos is that inner desire
Thumos is that breast that heart if you will and
that drive and
our drive
Our drive is the drive of the dragon
Our wine
Brings us the drive of the dragon
Look at look at the next line the same that same bring me that same text back
Chewy fantastic bring that one up good. And what is the next part of the verse say?
Caithumos a spirit and the drive
Aspeedon
the drive of the asps and then we get one little word dropped right there at the end Moses and you gave it to us so
kindly on
Iatos
It's from the alpha privative I plus yahoo to heal or yah, oh my to heal
To bring health to apply drugs to bring health. This is the drive that is the
Unhealable or untreatable poison of the asps
Yeah, what is take it down what is Moses get his words off there. What is Moses?
Telling us
What is Moses telling us? We're in a world. We're in a very strange world of snake venoms
You mean that?
