If you don't understand how you could take somebody you could trade children
You could trade drugs and you could promote
The religion
That drives your society then you don't understand how the bronze age is put together
Right. I mean, it's just uh, it's amazing. I hope people can see
I hope people can see the big picture neil. Was there anything else that stuck out tonight?
Did you want just to comment on?
yeah, the last thing I was going to say is um
What you what you're seeing happening in the final centuries leading up to the common era
time jesus
you're seeing
A bunch of nerds basically getting together and saying well, we have this uh, we had this
This empire, you know, whether it's the mastodonians or romans doesn't matter because they're both doing the same thing
They're both they're trying to create this universal package of religion
Where in the bronze age had an understanding or not even just the bronze age, you know, the uh
The age leading up, you know, the iron age leading up to alexander's time all that
But like they had an understanding that wherever you went
Location wise if you were in cyprus you honored aphrodite if you were in
um, I don't know Athens you honored Athena and you had this regional thing happening
Everything was the there was a balance there
Then as soon as you started getting all these nerds getting together trying to create these universal religions like christianity and judeism and islam
It just seems like everything falls out of order
You know, there's more chaos from this. It just seems like the the it's a failure to try that
You gotta you gotta let people have their own culture
in and and uh
It just seemed to work better that way
It makes you think that maybe when they talk about civilization
You know and the value maybe it was something that they saw that they were building
There's a freedom in having libraries for example
There's a freedom in having all sorts of temples where all sorts of religious practices can happen
Right the drive to make it the one
I mean, couldn't you put neil jesus and his apostles and that group of nerds that you're talking about? Yeah
So the drive to make it that one
Exclusive group tends to be explosive naturally explosive. Yeah
Love it. Love it. I wish that we can reclaim
In our in our searches. I hope that we can reclaim what that christus really was
If we did we could probably understand a lot better who jesus was
Why he was doing what he was doing and why most importantly he was arrested in a public park at 4am with a naked kid
Yeah, yeah
Neil, I'll give you the last word. Thanks for coming tonight
All right, I'll take the last word the last thing young one of the last things young says carl young
In his famous red book
It says you need to recognize the multiplicity of the gods
You cannot unite them into one being
I was thinking about that
You got to let you got to let there be a diverse culture
you're not just gonna
Are unify them into one thing that you want let let
Let there be separations let there be diversity, you know
Look at the man pulling out pulling out the great cursed red book of carl young. I love it
Where else can you guys get this neil? Thanks for coming and I do just want to say by the way that neil's
Working on more videos and I have to say the last one that I saw
I was quite impressed with neil. I mean you're rolling out
Blockbusters one after another and I hope I hope that yours is coming yours is coming soon, too
I'm almost I'm
Can you tell the group a little just a minute about what it's about we're working on a video
He did the audio and I'm doing the videos and editing and it's about medea
So we'll premiere it sometime we should get it out there sometime the next week within this week. Yeah
And it's a
It's an honor to have been able to to have been able to work with you on that
And I hope that we can bring bring lady babble on as forward as crisp as possible. You know what I mean
Chewie says thanks and thanks to everybody for all the great positive comments that she's given
And uh, you didn't know chewie was a female, did you?
Right
I knew I knew that
Okay
The audience didn't know
Yeah, now something's been revealed right okay fantastic now. It makes sense doesn't no anyway
Um, thank you for coming tonight guys and thank you for continuing to be a great audience and uh, hail satan
Hail satan
Can't bring no flowers
To me on sunday
It's gonna break her heart
Not knowing what became
