His thumos is in the waters
Right his what is that word?
Hormema
That's where you get hormones from that, right his impulse his sexual drives in that sea
Why do you think that that where do you think that power?
Reproduction comes from right and what's funny is the next line says
Right, this is all from your what you call the old testament. He says he gets up on his horses
And his horsemanship is his salvation stop if that's not a reference if that's not a reference
to the oyster maniac horse culture that is the
Kind of black sea civilian culture and there's one group in it, right?
But the group that produces that says hey, we're going to change our identity those arians and they change their identity to meads
This is that same horse culture that's spreading these drugs
and
It is working in concert in the tax with the purple trade as well
So we've got some we've got some things to start looking at if we can what do you think neil about?
I mean, this is an old testament prophet. What is how does all that strike you you mentioned because you mentioned how
There was a paradise and medea was the queen
And we can put it together through the primary sources and you can too because you you get medias venerated down in egypt
She's venerated over in italy. She's venerated and then you got the meads
Harada says that the meads own account of themselves that they used to be called arians
Until medea came and they changed her name to the meads because of her
That's like there's a there's a lot of sources to show that this stuff. There's historical layers happening here
It's not just fairy tale like this. This is some real bronze age history
That's being baked into these into these texts. Maybe that's how they tell the stories. I don't know what's going on here
But like there's so there's a layer of truth to this stuff
There's a there's an empire of the mind you and I have talked a little bit about
This there's an empire of the mind and I don't know which one of us first
Came up with the idea may have been you and I just called it the empire of the mind
But there is a spread of a mental culture
from from some people would say all the way from india to
The edge of europe right with the oracles up in britney
Some people would say it goes all the way that far when pindar
Trots out his oracle of medea and says that she was sitting
On thara the island as if she is governing the Mediterranean
She is telling people where their
Future generations will colonize. Isn't that weird? She's telling you in so many generations. You're descendant
Remind them will go should go off to north africa build a city called x
worship worship there someone they were saying that the um
The people that were living in the mass agatai
Which is probably another way to say
Magog or like the eastern sythians
Gog magog or mass agatai whatever there's probably different. There's probably a hundred different words to say it
But in this particular story
Cyrus is trying to go in there and say hey
Let let us marry your let me marry your queen
Which he already has a bunch of other queens that he's married to for political reasons
So so we can have their land basically so you can take their territory
Use it as a trading port whatever and this queen was like hit to it. She's like nah. We have no queen but medea
So then she ended up going to war with cyrus and she beat him the jewish messiah
Cyrus the only person in the whole old testament who gets called my messiah
Finds his end
From a queen in the middle of nowhere who has no wealth no no power
And she he goes out in there. I think he's just going to conquer everything
And she she ends up with his head in in her hand saying and then she takes his head. This is what she does
This is the truth. This is this is in her honor to us. She takes his head
puts it in a
Vass of blood
And then says now you'll never have to thirst for blood ever again
Whoa
That's and she said we have no queen but medea get out of my land
Like that's some like that's bad ass
This is who we're talking about we're talking about the world that no one ever talks about
But there's people there and they were they were brilliant people too, you know
Very good. Had very high culture and everything, you know, yeah lady babalon
It's something it's something of history that we just uh, it's better covered up
It makes us feel better
Uh, now that we're part of these offshoots judeism christianity as long it makes us feel better to kind of mop this up
I was jarring somebody's mind the other day. Tell me what you think about this neil with the whole pirate thing the lace days
Right with that second century pirate
queen, um
Yeah, the second century
pirate queen from across the
Um across the sea there on the east side of italy
Yeah, and she's uh tuta and she goes to war with the romans. She's like screw you
I don't want your you know, you're not going to come out here and tell me what to do. I'm the pirate queen
Well, they build a huge army like the biggest they have to that point went over there and you know and conquered
But people don't see that they're behind the oracles
Is a is a whole system of power
That is being exercised in antiquity and if you don't understand what a pirate queen is
