Marulis
Yes, and I say look at the hymns of Marulis
The mercenary poet who fought with Vlad
This is the impaler. This isn't the modern Vlad of shame. This is Vlad the impaler
The member of the order of dragons
Yeah, order the dragon, baby
Yeah
Look at Marulis. He has it in his hymns very same cult very same cult. Yeah, fantastic. Love that comment by the way
Go ahead. Yeah, bring us up. Let's see. Yeah, so you're gonna keep this thing in your mouth, right?
You're not gonna you're never gonna turn away from it
You're addicted to this stuff, right and you're gonna keep it there in the middle of your throat and
nothing is gonna help
Because that holy is
In there and what is that holy that holy keep going down? Let's go the next one. Whoops. I need to go down to here
I think we're the let's check out
No, let's go back up to Kole, please. Where's the holy?
Oh, where's there it is
Yeah, there it is. Look at this guys. Take a look. Take a look at number four
Serpents venom, right? Serpents venom and we get this reference to Job
We also get a reference in the polydorus. Notice by the way
At number three. LXX of course is a Septuaget, right? It's a seven
Right and look at look at how bad the maserids
Do things are you ready? Hebrew rush a poisonous plant
Variously called hemlock and poppy. Okay stuff right there
That's how you know this the trans the original is not Hebrew
Right variously translated as hemlock or poppy
Any ancient roman or greek?
Would laugh at that you know the difference between hemlock and poppy is like incredible if you were some monk
Or you were some dude who was in a religious order or if you were some dude who was part of an orthodox order
You know what you would do you wouldn't know the difference and so you would throw them together in some garbage translation
That's what you're getting from the maserids
This text is not Hebrew. It is a very specific greek
And they couldn't translate it, right?
Julius africanus is going up to the guys working on the Hebrew
And he says to him he says, what are you doing? And they you know, this is greek
You know what you're doing is back translating this the Hebrew text doesn't exist
Ask your scholars. He says a question
Ask your Hebrew scholars what this word means just like a cub was one of the common trees says they don't know
Future conversation they don't know
Right because they're speaking greek. Hebrew has been dead for 400 years
Yeah, and they don't have the vocabulary anymore. Why didn't write anything down?
They didn't write anything down
Wow, and you mean you thought this text everything that I'm quoting to you tonight. You thought was Hebrew
Look how screwed up your perception would be if you put either opium or hemlock in that little thing
Boy, it's a good thing. We're not magicians or we'd be poisoning ourselves
Fantastic, okay. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Let's just keep drilling. We've got a couple more and we're gonna jump jump to neil
Yeah, go ahead. The end of that translation the long one. I just want oh, there's no this is a good one
Take down the Bible so people can see this haughty theos theos
Up here ipsin. Oh, yeah. God totally bashed us right. He ripped us a new one
Yeah, and he forced us to drink the holey
He forced us to drink the holey
because we
we
failed
In just in front of him just in his presence. We failed
We failed
So what does he do?
He gives us the poison. What does Hercules do with this stuff?
What does Hercules do? Let's keep going. What does Hercules do?
Yeah
Oh, look at it. This is somebody else. Look people where this is from. We're going now from the Septuagint to the New Testament
Right, hold on you Bible scholars. I know hold on. I know you're not used to this because you're used to BSing the world
You're used to lying
Watch this
Edo con autoi pien oi non metaholes. What'd they do? They gave him wine to drink
with
holey
with holey and
mixed in
mixed in and
Yo, some minutes when he tasted it. Oh a thelesin
being
After he tasted it. He didn't want to drink it. He didn't want that wine. I saw him
He didn't want that
he's
Screaming I'm thirsty and in place of my for my thirst. They give me
the oxos
Now, thank goodness. There's a physician and a
medieval
