Dawn to you, to bring her. Wisdom is out in the street. She's crying out there saying,
if you take me in, I'll stay with you. Fantastic. So here we are with the dragon and the estrus,
the oistrus. So we're all engaging in something that is developed and supported by the images that
are being generated by women who are in this way. And these women can burn off your mortality.
You can enter into a state through a combination of music or song. They say the song is the most
important element. In combination with pharmaceuticals to interact with the risen form,
they call it, the risen form. And that's why we're all here in the apocalypse, right? What do you
think was being revealed? An apocalypse is a revelation. It's a revelation. And with that,
the stroke of 730 comes. And I just want to leave you with an impression. As we progress,
I want you to be able to sit on the throne. What does that mean? The throne of Satan.
What is the throne of Satan? You can watch a thousand shows. You can watch a thousand shows.
You can watch a thousand episodes on YouTube all about the throne of Satan. And none of them
are correct. None of them. Tonight, I offer you, shut up, Jung, I offer you the throne of Satan.
What is the throne of Satan? It is the place from which the satanic power is exercised.
It is the star. And if you draw down the star,
you can use the images provided by the dead to be born again.
You asked about magic last week and wanting to do the magic until you are sitting on that throne.
The physics are explained this way. When it gets in the physics, I get sort of lost. But the makeup
of the universe is such that there are compartments, no zones. And in these zones,
one of them is called the wilderness in Greek. That is where the power of the Saturnian reigns,
reigns in the wilderness. So anytime you see somebody pulled from Uranus,
which we see in the Apocalypse 12, pulled from Uranus and shot into the wilderness,
then you are seeing an explanation, an analog of how the physics work between two dimensions
that are overlapping. And I can't go there. But what I can do is tell you how they presented this
as accessible to you. Because we are all here, obviously if you are listening to me.
