So, so thank you, Travis.
We're talking about a rose and the order thereof.
Yeah, the order of the rose.
We're going to start and end up with in the same place.
And that place starts with a romance and it ends with Sappho on the island of Lesbos.
Yeah, and the power of this goddess that we just prayed to.
And and I wanted that to stick in your minds because that is a prayer that you wouldn't.
You wouldn't necessarily associate with today in the midst of our modern culture global, the whole thing.
So I want to shock you into the commonplace in antiquity where it doesn't seem odd that we have a female that we are recognizing as the divine power that guides us all.
Yes, the very author of life.
Beautiful stuff. Could you give your yellow roses now, Chewie?
This is the bright and wondrous sun.
Don't you feel so alive when you have undergone the wondrous present sun?
Yeah, yeah, the rose, babe.
Now you see the image of the budding rose and this image I am transferring to you so that you will be able to sit within the mind of our ancient audience, this budding, this swelling.
This is the orgy. This is the we're about to look at a passage. It's the orgy. It's the moment that we're all looking for. It's while we're all here, right?
And this moment is going to appear in the 12th chapter of the book of John's called the apocalypse.
Yes, I want to look at this section and I want to look at the dragon and you remember this is about the woman who's having the child and it's about the dragon and it's about this inner relationship and the chasing.
Yes, yes, let's look at the text. Shall we pull up the Greek, please?
Fantastic. I'm one step behind. Just give me a second and I'm going to move my chair over so you can see just the side of my face. You might as well.
Yeah, verse 13 here.
When the dragon saw that he's was thrown to the earth.
Yeah, Dioko to pursue to pursue to pursue. This is this is a good word because it can be for the sake of advances, a passion, a passion, a consuming passion, a pursuit. Good.
Good. Yeah.
I hate this etiquette on Arsena, the one that bore the child, like I told you, and it was given to her. What was given to her?
