I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back. It's the premiere of Season 5, Satanic Initiation.
And I am so glad to see you all. I have the most dank tonight that you can possibly get.
This is history's dank. We have to go in deep tonight.
Set your stomachs for queasy, because I am going to bring you a doctor.
And this doctor is going to describe to you what it's like to become a Bacchic initiate.
Lovely. That is coming tonight.
And we'll have a little bit of Chuck with us as well. Good old Baudelaire.
To bring us the theme of the Satyrs. Thank you. Thank you Chuck.
All tonight on Satanic Initiation, Lady Babylon.
Tonight I want to start us off with a little bit of an announcement.
I'm going to be working with Gnostic Informant on some video productions.
And I will bring to you a series about the great queen of the mystery, the great Lady Babylon.
I'll be bringing those to you thanks to the power of the new art and the school of the Neoterax.
That's right. We get to watch the Neoterax at work.
Can we bring up the image one more time? Can we bring that up, Chewie?
I love that image. This is striking and fantastic. I just want to wet your appetite.
Because you're about to find out about the lineage of Amon's Muse.
You're about to find out the lineage. Fantastic. Let's get tonight. We're going to get deep.
We're going to get dirty. Where's my whip?
I knew I had to bring you good stuff, right? So I've dug down deep. I've gone deep.
And we're going into the Saders. We're going to see exactly who they are and what they're doing.
And we have a little film for you. We have tightened. We have tightened the psychological screws.
And now you've got the perfect images. We are bringing this subliminal paradise tonight.
Chewie, set us a course for the first clip on the Saders. Let them out. Let out the Saders, please.
Who are they? I want to bring up right now. I just want us to get to our summoning.
We're necromancers. We love it today. I want us to bring in Aritaus, Cappadocia.
We're going to the second century, right? Set the clinometer for the second century.
We're bringing in a physician. Let me just say this before we get busy.
You cannot find this on YouTube today. You are getting exclusive material.
You're getting the real stuff. I'm going to bring them to you and bring that ghost.
And I'm going to shove that depiction of that Sader right in your face, right in your face.
I want you to be up close and personal. I want you to smell it.
I want you to be able to smell the foam on his lips.
You ever see a goat? You ever see a goat in that place of Santoriasis?
You ever see a goat in that place? They get a little bit of foam.
A little bit of foam. A little bit of foam.
And that foam, says the doctor from the second century, smells just like the stuff that's on the lips of the Saders, the Bacchans.
Yeah, those uncontrollable. Let's get, wait, we're going to the initiation.
Boom, boom, boom. You can hear it, right? In the distance. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
There we go. Yeah, let's go into it.
Bring up a doctor. Bring up a doctor. See what he tells us. Tell us, mad doctor.
I'll grab my text right here. This is the only place you can get this. You know why?
Because nobody wants to teach this. Nobody wants to talk about this. Nobody wants anything to do with it.
Because there's no, there's no scent of money on it, right? It's just a...
I put on my glasses, by the way. A lot of you like that.
Here we go. This is chapter 12 of his work on acute diseases, right?
Artaeus of Cappadocia. By the way, for my students, thank you all for coming back.
Look at the text here. This is heavy in the Ionian. Heavy in the Ionian. Really? It's got some Ionian stuff.
Really? It's a little bit of kind of strange combos. Okay, anyway, let's take a look at...
