people understand. Jesus Christ is standing in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy,
raising his hand saying, I'm not a lace-dace. No, no. They're concerned with robbers.
That's a clap-dace. This is a lace-dace. So Jesus is in a criminal organization.
One would think if he is screaming out, I'm not one of them, okay? Either that,
either that, there's only one other explanation.
It looks like he's a lace-dace. The cops who are the Roman soldiers are going to pin it
on something, right? When you are sitting there under lockdown in a jail,
you are there in the Roman system under a charge. Fantastic. The guy that they let out to pardon to
so Jesus can get crucified, the crowd, because at this point, the crowd,
he's just been arrested in a public park with a naked kid, and he's yelling out,
I'm not a child trafficker. I'm not a child trafficker, right? I'm not a child trafficker.
And now the crowd is yelling out. We have the Greek here, but the crowd is yelling out,
now don't give us some other person. We want him. We want him to get crucified.
There was a vehemence in the crowd. Now, the Christians would tell you it's because the
devil was there whipping up everybody, but we don't have, you know, we don't have the time or the
extra dimensional resources to go into the physics. We just want to see the history. We
just want to open up that little bit of history so we can see it. Let's press on. Press on.
I'm going to give you some fun, exciting stuff. Thank you for spending your Friday
evening with me, by the way. It's generous of everybody. Yeah, yeah. So at this time, you know,
Jesus said to the crowd, oh, you come after me right now. This one, this is Matthew or John,
I'll get Matthew. Okay. This one's kind of funny. It strikes me as funny because he's actually talking
to an oh, close, right? Which is like an unruly mob, unruly mob, right? But this unruly mob
is just imagine. It's not like people from all walks of society. It's full of Roman soldiers,
officers of the temple, and elders, right? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
It's a raid. It's a raid. And that netted Jesus and he gets thrown in
and crucified between two child traffickers. Isn't that funny? These are robbers. These are robbers.
Well, these are robbers at all. Wow. Right? So now that naked kid seems really relevant
to the whole equation. Let's bring up another one. That was another one. Yeah. Now this one,
I think, is Luke 22. Yeah. Yeah. And Jesus said, yeah, to those who were gathered out,
you know, the arch priests and the soldiers and the old and the, you know, elders. And he says,
you came out, you came out, you come out like you're all ready to take down a pirate.
Yeah. They were. They were, they had all the weapons. If they had chess cams, that's what,
do you see how different world history would be? If we had a chess cam of the officers who arrested
Jesus in a public park with a naked kid while he was screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
If we had that scene guaranteed, none of this, none of this would have done what it did.
Right? The accurate transmission of evidence. That's what we're looking for. Right out of his
mouth. Let's pull it out. Give us another bit of the Bible. Excellent. We're going to the good
stuff. Oh, look at this one. I like this one. Yeah. Here's, here's just to show you, just plain
as day. The word on the left, kleptase, that's your word for thief. The word on the right,
lace days. Right? That's the word. This is from John. That's the special word.
Yes. Now, Christians again, I know your instinct is to say, no, he meant thief. He meant insurrectionist.
He meant thief or insurrectionist. Yeah. Okay.
He should have used the word thief. He didn't. Jesus was not crucified between two
banditos. No, he wasn't. He was crucified with some people who were selling children.
Yeah. And if you'll notice, Barabbas, when they said, let Barabbas out, it said he was incarcerated.
