Mars needs women. Angry red women. Yeah. So you can see the cult and where the lace
taste is coming from. By the way, these, these Amazonian or Scythian tribes, the women would
abduct men, right? In groups. They're always working in groups, right? You see the criminal
conspiracies have to congeal around groups. And if they become cultural, where you just have
pirates, right, who answer to no laws, but the laws of one very strong, central
in the Bronze Ages, women. Yeah. Yeah. Kick ass. Brilliant women who finally figured out,
this is what I told the watchers, have finally figured out you don't need a man.
How long, how long did it take for some group to say, you know what, we could do better if we
called these males, right? And we just propagate a line of very intelligent advanced ruling women.
And people in the 20th century turned that incredible historical reality into a friggin comic book.
Yeah. You anthropologists out there, you need to, you need to go visit those people.
And maybe answer the question of why it is that Athena has this child of earth. Why the
virgin grows this child of earth? Aren't all of us Athenians at heart? Don't we aren't we infused?
That passage of Nicander, it says it's her tooth, the tooth of the echidna that imparts that power
that drives to sexual urge. You see why you need Aphrodite? You need her after all. It's fantastic.
Drives your society. You want to stay free? You better start worshiping Aphrodite.
And you better get comfortable with transition. You better get comfortable with somebody else.
Cutting off their testicles. Yeah. You better. You know why the Romans had no problem with that?
Man, that's old tradition for them. They're like, yeah, we respect the gods, dude. They're doing that
to honor DK. You can't argue with that. You can't. You think the world is divided up into beliefs.
It's not. It never has been. It's the fake lens that you and I have around us from Judeo-Christian
tradition. Monist tradition. Yeah. Fantastic. Okay. Thank you very much for all your time.
I think that was all the goodies that I wanted to give everybody. It's been an hour. Nobody should
be listened to for this long. Thank you. I value your time tonight. And I hope that we have cleared
up so that people in the comments and chat that they can finally rest at ease with who this
lace-dace is. Why Jesus was saying he wasn't one? That's for another day. As long as you can get a
picture of that Thracian childseller. Yeah. The market is there. Right? The market is there. And
the stuff travels around. The Romans are trying to stop it. Right? Always. Always. You know,
it's just the way it is. Okay? At least we're trying to push civilization. Right? Law. Civilization.
We're trying. Remember, Judea is backwater. It's backwater. It's uncivilized. Yeah. It's
uncivilized. Right? There's no, you're not talking about, I mean, plumbing people. Plumbing. Okay.
We need good plumbing. Yeah. We need good public access. That kind of stuff. Right? We need places
for those assemblies so all those politicians can make their decisions.
Now, you've caught me in the wrong place. Have a good night. Thank you very much to everybody.
And I just want to say thank you to Zang Canva once again for all the fine music. And I hope the
people are putting together the little riddles that are hidden everywhere around us. Have a nice
weekend. Hail Satan.
