They'll realize that this movement from male to female is a step up. Yeah. It's a nature thing.
Yeah. And thank goodness it is. You know what I mean? You know what I mean? Hail Satan. Great
mother is the great mother. What would you want? This planet, billions of you, worship the great
father who is not so great. Yeah. Kind of a misogynist douche.
Can I say that? Can I say God's a douche? Is that, is that okay with anybody?
Yahoo. Tell me in the comments. Can I say Yahoo's a douche? Can I do that? Jesus Christ is a
rapist of children, at very least making eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake.
That's what we're going to do. We're going to take his words. We're going to take his words,
and we're going to pin it on him. Remember, he said it. You can make eunuchs one way or another.
He was making eunuchs. Oh my God. This is great, right? All you need is the evidence. You don't
have to have theories. Theories are BS. Just look at the, look at this, the text. The texts are
always more interesting when I see him doing this stuff. Guys, let me just give you this,
since you've stuck with me so long tonight. Let me just give you this as a gift. Oh God,
there is, I've seen a place. I've seen a place, right? This is the ritual. This is the ritual.
Water of life. If you ask me, I can show you water of life.
If you drink it from her,
these Amazonian women that I've been talking about, yeah, imagine, imagine
the poison in the bow that they're all using
is a poison that they have incorporated into rights to bring you to a state of being born again.
And in order to receive that, you have to drink her blood, right? Her blood
with the essence, energizing it. It's a pneumatic power that she transfers. And in that power,
you can imagine it. The application of the drug induces psychosis, psychosis.
You know why Jesus didn't want to do it in the end, right?
The stuff drives you nuts. We're doing the same thing in the Middle Ages. It drives you nuts,
turns you into a satyr, tuned on the Greek side, turns you into a satyr, and that's what Abba
Koum is protesting. Yeah, imagine seven days, seven days. You have a slave for seven days who
can do nothing but maintain an erection and be in constant fear of you.
That is genius. That is the stroke of the mind of a genius woman. Okay. Now, I know many people
are going to say he's fine. He's finally built it. He stepped over the line.
That right, that mystery right that makes the root of your Christianity and your Judaism and your
Islam, that right was created by the woman, by a single woman, a mind in history, one person.
Yeah. You're all under her spell. You're all under her spell. Now, you see why Lady Babylon must
return, must return, right? Gorgeous. Oh, God, I love, I love this. Take me to the grotto, right?
Please, somebody, are you out there? Right? Are you out there?
Embodied within this mortal. Are you out there? Can you bring me to the grotto where I may partake
of the water of life? It's a purification. It's a purification. Remember the Thracians,
they don't care if their daughters have intercourse. That's their business.
And who would anyway? A lot of those tribes, those daughters, they have to kill three men before
they can get married. Yeah. And by marriage, I just mean, you know, making your, making your man do his
nourishing stuff and then kicking him out if you don't like him. Yeah. Oh, if it's a boy, by the way,
adoption. Imagine that ladies, who has, who has of all you women here, for all you women, anybody
who has the spirit of Aphrodite in them, that spirit of Hera. Yeah. Which, you know, if you
could do this, I mean, how much do you really need that man? Seriously? How much in that society? How
much? Not much. Yeah. You got to kill three. I can't imagine killing one. It makes us look
rather weak, doesn't it? It does. Imagine this woman, right? Perhaps the poet was right.
