the future, I'm going to remind you when you're telling me, oh my God, I thought you were just
being hyperbolic. I'm going to remind you that I told you. Are you ready? Let's see the future.
Are you ready? Watch this, people. Here it comes. Let's hit another ping. Oh, God, the ship is so
slow tonight. Here we go. I don't know if I can do a song and dance this long. Let's see if there's,
there we go. For no one is so audacious and so ignorant of the proceedings of the courts
as to thank himself more powerful than the law. Look at the argument that Libanius,
go ahead and change it now. Look at the argument that Libanius is having to present to the Christian
Emperor. He's having to present it to the Christian Emperor. Here, oh Emperor, I need freedom of
speak.
Here, I am again. Here, oh Emperor, I need freedom of speech. I need freedom of speech and a few more
NBPS, I think as well, but you guys love it. You know what I mean? It's kind of torturing. It's like
the Mastiks, by the way, Snappy and Deon are doing a show on the Mastiks, right? This is the
whip, right? So yeah, good stuff. Lots of good stuff coming out. There's all sorts of great stuff.
Anyway, what does he need? Go back to that one real quick. I want you to see, look,
you're going to get to a point in the future where you're going to have to argue your right
to a fair legal system, to a fair legal system. What they did in Rome is the Christians transferred
justice from the secular authorities who are polytheistic to themselves. They made their own
courts. As soon as you can overthrow Lady Justice, Athena is gone and your democracy is ruined.
That is what monism always gravitates toward. Fantastic. Now let's get the one, that one.
Boom. Fantastic. Look, we're getting better reception. That's fantastic. Tell me, good job flying,
Chewie. Tell me why this temple of fortune is safe. So Leibniz here starts to pull it out.
He's like, dude, why is the temple of fortune safe? Why Temple of Jupiter, Minerva, Bacchus?
It's because you would have them remain. No, but because no one has given you power over them,
which nevertheless you have assumed against those which you have destroyed. How then are you not
liable to punishment? Do you see what happens when you accept the love of a tyrant who promises
you wealth and prosperity? Do you see what happens? You create a box and all of the rest
of us who are outside the box lose everything. Praise Jesus Christ. Thank you, son of God.
Thank you. Thank you, Jesus Christ. Yeah, your little buttocks is red. You know why?
Oh, you know why Jesus? It's because you loved that man, Donald Trump, and you turned that bullet
just a little bit. And now the God is among us. The God is among us. Welcome your punishment.
Welcome. Now, if you are not looking directly into the mirror, if you aren't looking at it straight on,
you're deceiving yourself and you'll bring upon all of us the pain of the tyrant.
You're going to bring it on us all and we're going to watch. We're going to watch you do it.
We're going to watch you make America wealthy again.
Let's get the next one. Let's get the next one. I love this.
I love this. I tell you what, bring it on. Now, for my part, I envy the good fortune of any man
to whom the God has granted to inherit a body built of the seed of holy and inspired ancestors.
Are you people? Listen to this, dude. Are you people full of the seed of inspired ancestors?
Do you know what they thought in antiquity? Not everybody, right? You can't make any generalizations,
but you know what you can pull out of their cult tax? The concept that your ancestors are sitting
there right now watching you. Imagine this, America. Imagine Tom Jefferson is watching you right now.
It's a good thing that we have that seed within us. These are the treasures of wisdom.
That is not honest. It is not Christian. It is not Jewish. It is not Islamic.
It is polytheistic, a recognition that your ancestors are participating from a distance.
Isn't that nice? You can summon those people. You can bring up their writing and you can bring
them out and show people what was in their minds. Do you know the real origin of American democracy?
The real origin of American democracy is in Mother Greek. It's in the language.
You can go down. You don't have to believe any of the stories. That's not what classical philologists
do. Classical philologists just translate. But what is the benefit of that translation?
The benefit is you get to drink from that classical spring and it's delicious.
Tyrant after tyrant after tyrant. Show us what's going to happen to you. Take us to the future.
Are you ready? Two mankind. Athena gives the blessings of wisdom and intelligence and the
creative arts. Now, those of you who are out there who are saying to yourself, wait, is this
polytheism? It sounds so reasonable. Do you know what Athena is? She is that wisdom and
intelligence. Those creative arts. Do you love the creative arts? Do you love wisdom and intelligence?
Do you worship Athena? You better. You better because she sets up the justice system
and surely she dwells in the capitals of cities. Didn't you see she's in our capital? She dwells
there. The people who set this all up did not set it up on the basis of Christianity.
That is fake history. It is fake history that's being sold to you as propaganda and surely she
dwells in the capitals of cities because through her wisdom she has established the community
of the state. Go ahead. The community of the state. Do you know what your country is based on?
Your country is based on Athena and the worship of wisdom and the first words out there,
that first amendment says it all. You will not create a state religion. Nope. Not going to happen.
That is exactly what is being done through the power of the tyrant. A state sanctioned religion.
Yeah. It's cyclical people. It happens. It's a product of nature. It happens. What do we say?
I have still to say a few words about Aphrodite. Okay. What are the gods? Do we, those of us who
started democracy? What are the gods that we worship that help us to fight the tyrant?
I have still to say a few words about Aphrodite who as the wise men among the Phoenicians affirm
and as I believe assists Helios in the creative function. Wait a minute. Do you have a female
creator? Imagine that. Imagine that for a second. A female creator. Let that percolate through your
brain. She is in very truth a synthesis of the heavenly gods. What? And in their harmony,
