wave come back to you where you're sitting right now? You
see, get on your thrones. Get on your thrones. This is
exercising the throne of Satan. Are you ready? We bounce that
signal. It comes back to us and what do we get reflected? We
get a judicial system that is usurped by the monists. A
judicial system that is usurped. Their cases don't go to
secular courts. They go to religious courts and you know
how it is when you let those foxes police themselves. You
understand? Are you going to be surprised about what's how
it's going to turn society over as soon and you have to do
this with one person. You have to have a deified tyrant.
You must. How is that tyrant deified? That tyrant is deified
when God steps forward and crowns him by saying, hey, I'm
going to move this bullet a little bit. Just a little bit to
the side. You are fated to be the king. You're fated. We
love you. We love you Cyclops. We love you. We love your
power. This is the age that we're making wealth great
again. How are we going to do that? Because we're going to
make America wealthy because that is your core. That is your
core. Your greed stains your souls with a stench of ruin.
The only reason the devil gave me the authorization to reveal
to you the future is because it is our punishment.
Your greed stains your soul with a stench of ruin.
Make us wealthy again. Make us wealthy again. We love you. We
love you Lord. We love you. Hail Satan. We love you. Give me
the next one. Give me the next one. Make a we're going to
eat it tonight people. We're going to eat it. Now what?
People after Constantine. Now here's one. Constance just what
did he do? He declares a curse on those who perform the magic
arts and thereby jeopardize the lives of innocent persons.
Wait a minute. You mean the magic arts can jeopardize people's
lives and bamboozle their heads?
I think I'm beginning to see projectalos. Give me the next
one. Give me the next one. Boom. Right to the next
universe. Whoops. There we are. Here's a couple more
Constancias. Thank you. Anyone who consults the Seuss there on
account of curiosity of the future will suffer capital
punishment. Capital off with your heads. Now you're sitting
there and you're hearing these pings and you're feeling this
wave return of your future and you're saying oh my goodness
capital punishment. Capital punishment for witches bra.
Capital punishment for people who delve into areas they
shouldn't delve. Coming for you. It's coming for you.
Even a high ranking person convicted of wizardry
will face torture. Do you know why? Because the beast is
coming. The documents are obvious. The beast is coming.
You didn't realize you were being dragged toward apocalypse?
Who do you think is doing it? They're pumping their fists right in your face
right now and when they talk about Americans
they don't mean you and me. How? They mean themselves and all
those who worship the god man. Do you worship the god man? Do you love him?
Let me hear some love for the god man. Chewie throw me some love
in a minute with that fist. What is the fist of power
that is being raised? It's a symbol that is used throughout time
and it heralds violence. It does. It does. Give me the
give me the let's love. Let's love the lord and savior. Give it to me.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Where is the passion? Have you ever loved a politician?
Have you ever loved a leader? Have you ever wept when that leader
that leader was blessed by the almighty? That leader is here only because the
bullet missed by an inch. Do you know what that is?
That is providence. That is the hand of god. Tell me.
Tell me what it is. I'm not supposed to be here tonight.
I'm not supposed to be here.
Thank you. I stand before you in this arena only by the
grace of almighty god.
In watching the reports over the last few days many people
say it was a providential moment probably was.
There is one amendment that can stop all of this because this
is not politics. This is church. This is state church with its own god.
Wow. Do you see the tears? I've never seen an audience shed so much
