Watch this. Watch this, people. Here's a glorious one. For the Romans themselves,
not only belong to the Greek race. Wait, what? What? I sit here and I tell you guys,
Greek is the great language that is the most successful and the most highly formed human
language out there period that we have. Period, by far, by far. What happens? I tell you all the
time, the Romans, they're always trying to, well, Latin has some positive things to it too. You
know why they're doing it? Because everybody knows as they watch Greek take over and as the
emperors begin to write in Greek, because why would you write in Latin? They just can't confer
what the Greek can confer, right? Okay. For the Romans themselves, not only belong to the Greek
race, but also the sacred ordinances and the pious belief in the gods, which they have established
and maintained are from beginning to end Greek coming from the language, not the people, right?
Not the ethnicities coming from the language. And we know people walk around and say,
Jews and Gentiles, do you know that didn't exist? What did people say? Greeks and barbarians,
those are the two. They classified people on their language. Wow, what a monstrously powerful,
gorgeous lady mother Greek is. And beside this, they have established a constitution,
not inferior to that of any one of the best governed states. Do you think the Christians
were talking about constitutions? No, no. That's not how theocracy works. That's not how monism works.
If indeed it be not superior to all others that have ever been put into practice, for which reason?
I myself recognize, says Libanians, that our city is Greek, both in descent and in its constitution.
Let me tell you this today. America is Greek in descent. It is Greek in its constitution.
The people who formed it were breathing the ether of that classical source. They were breathing its
ether. Oh, God. It was that fifth element thing. The vapors of it were so freeing.
We're so freeing. Give me the next one, Chewie. Give me the next one. Now, I'm going to put some Greek
up here since I've been not putting up a lot of Greek tonight. Look what we're doing. Here's the
hymn to Helios. Here's the hymn to Helios. And I just want you to say, you know, in the beginning,
he's saying, hey, Calliope muse, you know, tell me, daughter of Zeus, tell me about Helios.
Him, right? Him, that guy, right? Who is born from so and so and so and so. And he talks about the
genealogy of Gaia and Uranus. And he talks about Hyperion as his father, right? The autocasignatene.
Who is who is Yuri Faisa, that glorious shining one who is the mother of Helios? Who is she?
Who is she? She is the cousin, the relation of Helios. Why is this? Because this is Saturnian
physics. It's Saturnian physics. Who did they produce? They produce the dawn.
All right. They produce the dawn. Are we dawn bringers in the Saturnian tradition?
Very much literally. And this Saturnian tradition, you can be proud. You can be proud as Americans
that your democracy came from this dawn bringer, came from this tradition. Oh, God,
give me the next one. Give me the next one. Now that the human race possesses its knowledge of
God by nature. Okay, where are we going back to? We're going back to Julian. We're going back to
Libanus. We're going back to the Pagans. We're going back to the Pagans who are being persecuted by
the red hatwares of their day, right? Who already have their emperor chosen and created. Oh, and he
was there. He's put there by God. Look how God blessed him. Oh, the tears in my eyes, right?
These are the people. And what is that generation of Pagans have to say to them?
Now that the race, the human race possesses its knowledge of God by nature and not from teaching
is proved to us, first of all, by the universal yearning for the divine that is in all people,
whether private or communities. What does the Pagan say in response to the monism? Your faith
is everything to you, says the Pagan, to the monist. Your faith is everything. But you know what?
Faith is something handed down from person to person. We go to the source. We go to nature.
We follow reason and nature via reason always brings us to that beautiful, beautiful lady.
Always brings us to her. She who creates. I got here by her. Didn't you? Didn't you get here?
I got here. Were you copulated into existence? I was. I was. There was a time when my
mother and my father, you know, put on some music, right? And there was something going on between
them. There's some kind of chemistry, some kind of power. Do you know who Athena protects? She protects
our ability to enter into that relationship. She gives us a safe haven where Aphrodite can be worshiped.
You say Athena leads the Aphrodite? Yes, she does. Check out the early kings of Athens and what she
does to them. Oh, God. Oh, I can't stand the beauty of this. It's overwhelming. It's totally
overwhelming. People out there. Wonderful. We're almost, let's get to this one. Look, we haven't
even gotten a talos yet. Shall I now go on to tell you how Helios took thought for the health and
safety of all men by getting asclepius to be the savior of the whole world. You know what happens?
God gave us his son to be the savior, the great physician. What have we made as Americans in
2024? We have made a savior. We have made a savior and the Christians will say, no, no. He is not
the savior. Jesus Christ is the savior. If you cannot see a person's love for their savior,
I'm sorry, but the love is there. You have your savior and his name is Donald Trump. Give me the
next one. Give me the next one. Tyranny. Tyranny of tyranny. Moreover, the founder of our city for
not only does Zeus, who's glorified as the father of all things, inhabit its citadel together with
Athena and Aphrodite, but Apollo also dwells on the Palatine hill right in Rome. Who are the Romans
worshiping? Who is the lady of the seven hills and who is being worshiped? The leader of the muse.
The leader of the muse. Apollo himself right on the Palatine hill. Why? Because we want the vision
of the future. We want to know and give it to us. He's about to give it to us. What is that vision
for the Romans? What was that vision of the future? Boom, boom, boom. Next one. Boom.
Those in the closed conjunction of Helios and Selene who share the empire of the, over the
visible world, even as it had caused his soul to descend to earth and like manner changed to mount
upwards. We're talking about resurrection, incarnation, the mortal body, part of his body.
So clearly did she who creates earthly matter, she's whose place is at the furthest point below
the sun. She received queerness when he was sent down to earth by Athena, goddess of forethought.
