the generation that fought on the beaches in Europe, we owe them. We owe them better. Give
me the next one. Give me the next one. Such shame. Such shame. What does our tradition say? Look,
tell me, Muse. Tell me who can do this all better. Tell me about that colky and girl. Tell me about
her. Who is she? She's the one who created the Christ. Give me the next one. She is the origin
of your honest mysteries. Your honest mysteries have a polytheistic origin. Are you ready for
this? They have their own tyrant and his name is Talos Jalqueos. Jalqueos means the bronze one.
This is Talos the bronze. Who is Talos the bronze?
I think you know him already. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. There's this guy Talos
and what does he do? He goes around Crete. He goes around Crete and he protects it and Jason
and his Greek buddies are in a ship and they have just abducted the queen, the princess,
the founder of the Magi after whom the Medes changed their name from Arian to Mede.
She is on the ship and they know that there's this dude, this guardian of bronze. He's a son of God.
He has been clarified. He has been shown to us to be of that generation,
to be of that greatness. He not only makes Crete great again, he is great.
And what does he do? What does this guy do? Give me that. I'm sorry. Oh, there. Yeah.
Look, he's waiting on the beach. He's waiting on the beach. What is he doing there? He's trying to
stop you from accessing the sand. He's trying to keep you off. It belongs to him. Everything
belongs to him. And what is he? He is the last remaining.
Hemithaile, you see one of those people who was hemithaotic, who was part God,
a very child of God, a descendant. When they talk about the sons of God and Greek,
they're talking about these giants, these giants. And who is he? He's the last one left, Talos.
And what happens? What happens? The Greeks are scared. The Greeks are scared right now.
God, what's he going to do? This half God thing. Look at this half God thing. Oh, man,
demigods, right? Demigod Trump. What about the giant? What about the giant? Three times
he goes around every day. He goes around Crete. This bronze menace. Give it to me. He's got his
rallies all over the place. Remember what she said? Oh, we love the rallies. We loved Hitler's
rallies. They were so inspiring. Excuse me. You know, and then what did you think after
you started hearing about what's happening in your population and people getting taken away?
Excuse me. Shame, eternal shame on those who support and prop up the tyrants.
Eternal shame. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who is the man with the bronze feet?
Right? Talos is the man with the bronze feet. And you say to yourself, wait a minute. Does that
mean anything? Well, here it is again in Revelation. Who has the bronze feet in Revelation? Who is the
son of God? Who is that Halkolibanoi? Right? Who is that one who has those bronze feet? He's the one
whose voice is the voice of many waters. Give me the next one. That is Jesus Christ. Do you see
what mystery we're in? Do you see what language we're using? To the angel of the church of Thyatira.
Write these things. The son of God speaks and he says the one who has the eyes.
Right? The one who has the eyes. Who is this one who speaks? He's the one who has the eyes.
What are his eyes like? They're like the flocks of food. They're like that flame.
They're like that brilliance of fire and his feet are the ones that are made of bronze. Do you know
whose feet are made of bronze? The tyrant with the flame in his eyes, the giant, the son of God,
the one who God reached into the life, the life of the whole planet and altered it just to save
his son. Just to save his son. An inch. Moving an inch. And all of a sudden, your stupid businessmen
whose greedy and lies all the time becomes a God in the eyes of the red hat wearing lovers of the
orange. Yeah, he becomes their God. Do you know what's more un-American? Give him some images,
Chewie. Give him some images. Do you know what's more un-American than the love of the tyrant?
Nothing. Nothing. If you follow a tyrant, you do not follow our ancestors. Where do you think
you're going to end up? Where do you think your soul is going to end up up here in this great
cosmos when all the shades are mixed together? What do you think? You think it's going to end up
with the people that hated tyrants? You think it's going to end up with Henry? Patrick Henry? I
don't think it's going to. I don't think it's going to. No. As a matter of fact, I think you're
going to end up with some people who were talking about making Germany great again. I think that's
what you're going to end up with. Turns out there's a lot. There's a lot who support the tyrant. You
ask yourself, why is it that the Nazis are always drawn? It has nothing to do with ideology. It has
everything to do with greed that stains your souls with the stench of ruin. And this existence
is your purification. We are going to show you exactly who you are, and we are going to make it
painful. When you look into that mirror and see yourself, you're going to be really,
really confused. But don't worry about that point. It'll be over. It'll be over. Your apocalypse is
coming. Oh, God. Did he use that properly? Your apocalypse is coming. Devil told me,
give me that one. Give me the next one. Quick. Hurry. We've got to get through these. We've
got to get through these. There's just a couple more. There's just a couple more people I wanted
to pull in, the Septuagint or the Bible, Old Testament, whatever you want to call it, because
we've got these bronze feet, and we're really talking about literature that's all coming from the
same time. This is second century, first century BC, and then first century AD, early second century.
Same. That's the period we're talking about, that this literature is coming from. What does he say?
Hmm. Hmm. Somebody's having visions. Who is it? It's Daniel, right? And he's having visions,
but his buddies aren't having the visions. They aren't having the visions. They're just running
around scared. They're just running around scared. What? What's going on? Right? What are we seeing?
We're seeing that lightning. We're seeing that brightness of the flame. Right? And our parts,
what are our parts? Our parts are that bronze. Who are we talking about? We're talking about a
God. We're talking about bronze feet, and we're talking about the fulfillment of prophecy,
because that is the ticket of the honest, prophetic fulfillment. You mean all of this is about
