for a person who would take away their freedom.
That's what we deserve. Do you see the punishment? Keep your eyes open.
Watch as we punish ourselves. Watch. Do you feel that sickness in your stomach?
That's clockwork orange, baby. Give me one more. Give me one more of those
clips. Let's just hit it the last time.
I'm expecting and demanding the best leadership in the world. Leadership that is bold,
dynamic, relentless, and fearless. We can do that.
We are Americans. Ambition is our heritage. Greatness
is our birthright. But as long as our energies are spent fighting each other
our destiny will remain out of reach and that's not acceptable.
We must instead take that energy and use it to realize our country's true
potential and write our own thrilling chapter of
the American story. We can do it together. We will unite. We are going to come
together and success will bring us together.
you
you
you
you
you
Oh, was that not all? Hey, Chewie, you've got to stay away from the...
Anyway, I'm sorry about that, people. Tonight's show is horror. It's absolute
horror. But who are we talking about? We're talking
about black-robed gangs of people breaking onto estates, breaking onto temples.
Who are these people? Whether they're wearing black robes or red hats.
It's the same group. They want to write their own future.
They want something new and they've got a tyrant
who is going to enable them and all they've got to do is make the tyrant and by extension
themselves beyond justice, beyond justice. Look what he says here. He says,
But those black guard people who eat more than elephants and demand a large
quantity of liquor from the people who send them drink, but who hide their luxury.
They hide their luxury. These people, Emperor, even while your law is enforced,
they run to the temples, they bring with them the stuff to destroy it, right?
And what happens? The roofs are uncovered, the walls are pulled down,
images are carried off, altars overturn and the priests have to keep their mouth shut
or they can be killed or they can be killed.
It sounds like a radical restructuring of money and power. Yes, it is.
And you and I are not part of it. We are that which is being restructured.
What does Libanian Stalacy says? They therefore spread themselves over the country like torrents,
wasting the countries together with the temples for whenever or wherever they demolish the temple
of a country. At the same time, the country itself is blinded, declines and dies. For,
oh Emperor, the temples are the soul of the country. The temples are the soul of the country.
You see, your liberty came from the classical temple. And now what is being pulled down
around you is that classical temple and it is being replaced with a tyrant. It is being replaced
with a tyrant. Who is the giant? The giant and who are we as Athenians? Who are we as the founders
of democracy and the scientific method? We bring down giants, sick, simple, tyrannous. That's what
always happens to the tyrant. If you look at your future, isn't there potential? Isn't there glorious
potential? Who is that atop the capital? I think that is Athena, the one who lays low the tyrant.
Let's see if we can come up. Let's see if we can come up with any tech. It's so slow tonight,
people. I'm sorry. Chewie's like, right? Okay, that's okay. We'll deal with it because we've got
really good material. There she is. There is the Athena, right? Gorgeous. You thought that was a big
cross of Jesus Christ? Maybe Moses holding up his staff? No. On the capital? No. On our monuments? No.
It's Athena. Do you want to know what the religion of American democracy is?
It's the worship of Athena. It's polytheistic, and it knows. Our democracy knows the tyrant cannot
be allowed to take power. The tyrant cannot be allowed to take power. And when I say take power,
I mean it. They cannot stand outside of your voice. You, the people, they cannot stand outside of it.
If they do, you're swamped. That's it. Everybody join. Let's join. Get your red hats and go to church
and send your kids off to the school so they can learn about Adam and Eve, and they can watch their
other little classmates be taken out. Why did they take out Timmy? Oh, he's got to go to one of those
places for those types of people. Do you think this is the first time that this has ever happened
or will happen? You have created a tyrant who now has the blessing of God. God had to intervene.
Do you understand the minds of the people that you are living next to? Do you understand those
minds? God himself loves Donald Trump. He is a God king. The Cyclops is a God, he says. They just
don't know it. They just don't know what kind of God I am. Isn't it gorgeous? Let's see what else
from the past. Give me another source. Hopefully, oh, look, he started working again. Did you dump
some trash out the accelerator? Right? Hit those asteroids. Nor are they satisfied with this,
these roving Christians who are going to be doing this to you. They take land. They take estates.
They declare it sacred. They did this, people. Imagine, you have an estate that's been in your
family for 300 years and it's on Tuesday, they declared it sacred and you have to move out by
Friday so that the church can come in. You know those monists who want to make America wealthy
again? They want your wealth. Isn't that funny? You got to stand there. You got to stand there,
watch them take it. You got to watch them take it because they do. Now, I am warning you and in
