We call it satiriasis in ancient, both Greek and Latin use that.
And it means that you've got a constant erection.
Now, the physician said seven days as long as you can go this way using these cult drugs,
seven days of sustained erection.
Otherwise they said people die.
I don't know.
Maybe it was cardiac.
I don't know what it was, but I can imagine that there's a stress on the system physiologically.
You know what I mean?
I'll let you healthcare people figure out what causes that.
Somebody give me a response if you know it.
And what is this?
What is this?
This is the word that we were just looking up, right?
Stuff that you scrape off of naked wrestlers, right?
It's got the sand from your arena on them and everything.
And what is this book that we're, the source that we're looking at?
It is Hesikias.
And he's an ancient lexicographer and he's going to tell us, he's going to define it for us in Greek.
So he says the conisalus is the coniodtos.
Thank you.
Seriously?
Okay.
And what is that?
It is skirtesis saturke.
It's a dirty, amorous dance.
Where your genitalia are stretched out.
Right?
Right?
Okay.
Wait a minute.
Do I need that drug for this?
It's all connected.
Give me the next one.
You're in the Madison people.
Knee deep.
Look at it.
What is a coniodtos?
It's dust raised or stirred.
Okay.
It's dirt.
But look at the bottom.
A dirty fellow.
That's the dirty fellow.
That's the Victorian way of saying that dirty dance that the conisalus does by shaking himself
in a certain way to get you to be able to enter into the right.
Right?
That's here.
We've got it.
Okay.
Fine.
What do we have to do?
We have to, there's somehow we can use the sweat of this business to figure out what's
going on.
Look at these texts.
I know you don't believe me.
I'm about to bring up.
Hit me with the first one.
This is Galen people, pure medicine.
In this section, he's writing perihidrostos.
What is that?
Oh, it's a hitros.
It's sweat.
It's sweat.
Oh my, he went to great lengths to talk about medicinal varieties of sweat.
Did you know that the people around you have sweat that can be used in the composition
of medicines?
Hmm.
Interesting.
What about this one?
What kind of substance is this?
Peri-u-roo.
U-roon.
Right?
You guys are going to recognize that one, right?
That's urine.
I have never seen so many references to urine in my life as when I started reading Galen.
That's also because they use urine as a method of diagnosis.
When you come to me and you're like, hey doc, I've got this thing going on, kind of dizzy.
The first thing I say is, let me drink some urine.
You drink your patient's urine.
The act of doing that allows you to use your mind to determine what the state of that ill
balance is.
Right?
If your urine looks this way, if it smells this way, you can tell from the smell.
Galen is big on smelling urine.
He's big on smelling urine.
He's always smelling urine.
His patient's urine.
Give me some urine.
Right?
But it's a way to diagnose because you're dealing with the natural.
If you can go out and pick up a toad and lick its whatever and enter into a mind altered
state, it surely makes as much sense to say you can gain knowledge from the body products,
bodily products of somebody, of another person.
You can see right away the line, especially with the sexuality, because remember the priestesses
are blamed as being prostitutes later.
The acts that they're performing.
There we are, Chewie.
Fantastic.
A couple of Thai fighters.
Let's go to the last couple of slides.
What else?
We were at sweat and urine.
What are we going to be testing here?
Oh, people look now.
This is the big one.
Are you ready?
What is this?
This is a special communion formula made from the porfura from the purple.
Right?
Oh, God.
Right?
You mean they drank that stuff they used to dye stuff with?
Yeah, they did.
And they also used it rectally and ocularly.
Right?
Love it.
Love it.
They were in pain, by the way.
Heracles, dogs all drank it and it's staying their lips purple.
Keep going.
Dogs are another form of temple guardian.
I know that only because they said that in antiquity.
Right?
No dragons and wolves.
Those are temple authorities.
Look at this.
What else do we need?
We need spittle.
Did you ever notice that Jesus was spitting in people's mouths and eyes, spitting on the
ground, putting it in people's eyes?
Right?
Here it is.
The spittle.
Galen has an entire section in this one, at least in this one.
Treatise on the use of the spittles and what kind of different spittles do what?
Remember, when you see these ancient physicians slash shaman represent, they're always doing
crazy stuff with their own body fluids.
Right?
The masters of Greek democracy who were influenced by people to push the world towards what we
call democracy.
Those people were using drugs.
Epiminities was using drugs.
They took his skin off and when he was done and they turned it into a relic and the Spartan
force watched it, guarded it, keep going.
Do we see how much drug use is going on?
It's amazing.
And finally, milks.
Milks.
And the strangest milk that I've seen, the strangest milk that I've seen is the milk of the Parthenos.
And in this treatise of Galen, he talks about what to put on the breasts of the Parthenos.
He doesn't just call them, he doesn't use the word mast on.
He uses tithos, or tithon, which is a grape-like breast.
It's a developing, early, purely developing breast.
And he talks about the milk from that and what it does and what it looks like.
Yeah.
So you can see.
So if Galen is going to have access to that level of knowledge, that's probably the tip
of the iceberg for what the priestly crafts are doing.
But I never thought, I never thought of harnessing body fluids that are being used in medicine
until I started seeing how they were creating these medusae.
And that's when I noticed the lateral slits in the arms and the constant exposure.
They'll do this thing where they whip the back and then they'll apply a salve to it.
Something about the release of whatever it is that that whipping action does,
whether it's adrenaline or whether it's, but they're using the drugs.
Imagine, your doctor never tells you, take this medicine, go home and have your wife beat you with a cane while you take the medicine.
Well, I don't know.
Doc, does that make, does it make a difference?
With the medicines they're using, it makes a big difference.
But they're also claiming to be able to control things that we're not able to control.
The mental illness, for example.
Also, they have cancer treatments.
