And the author of the article makes some conclusions about what this means.
It must mean there's a soluble component that's being washed out of it, right?
Okay.
Well, that's nice.
Give this possibility.
Yeah.
Great observation.
Sure.
And altered rocks that are red.
Oh, now he's going to start talking about what are the other ones?
Look, we get alanite.
Alanite is an insoluble potassium aluminium sulfate that forms on relatively high temperature,
hydrothermal acid, sulfate alteration of volcanic rocks.
Oh my God.
That is perhaps the nerdiest thing I've ever heard in my life.
But you know, that's great science people.
There's this paper is trying to track down the two authors.
They're trying to really track down what is it in the substance, but they recognize at
the same time that we're never going to figure out what it actually did because we don't know
all the cold.
We don't know all the science behind the cold.
What is it that they're doing and their preparation, the drug, you know, they prepare drugs in
the human body, you're taking the body and you're tweaking it to the point that the body
is able to produce a communion.
Medea did this the first she used her vaginal excretions.
Why?
She kept her drugs there.
Yeah.
Wait a minute.
What?
Not in a little, you know, I don't know.
I don't see a sack or baggy or maybe something even nice, you know, cigar box or something
like that.
She kept them where in her vagina.
Those ones that Christ you that she figured out, they're prepared via human filtration.
She used her vagina as a factory.
One author flakus calls it a, it's not really a factory.
It's the, the means, the black box that you can put something in that creates something
else, right?
It's that mortar from the mortar and pestle, right?
That's how he phrases it for her vagina, right?
And she's not the only one we have examples of vaginal drugs.
We have others in, especially in the arachnid tradition with like the God Apollo.
Yeah.
So there's a completely new dynamic approach to what the existence is in a state of health.
You are in a state of balance with those wild roots that are out there and those things.
And those things that grow on the trees and all of those fruits, all of those fruits and
you know, some of those fruits come in the form of animals.
And there's certain animals you can lick and certain animals.
Let's go to, we need more body fluids in here.
Let's go to the, go to the next.
Yep.
Boom.
Alam.
Look, he's just going to talk about Alam.
That's great.
That's great.
Let's keep going because I don't want to keep holding people too long.
Okay.
Breakthrough.
So this is what we're concerning people.
Ultimately, it just comes down to the papers.
Is it Alam?
Is it Cowlin?
Is it Montmorillonite?
Is it hematite?
Keep going.
Yeah.
Lemne and earth appears to have been first recognized as a pigment, but not as a medicine.
So what do the authors do?
They go back to as many references as they can.
They can't, to the drug or to the substance that's ultimately used as a drug or medicine.
And they can't get, they can't penetrate into the cult.
So they can't see those seeds of fire, right?
So we have a combo here.
Okay.
We're just going to throw those out.
It may have something to do with one of these, one of these substances, right?
Right.
Okay.
And he says that once it's called meal toast, right?
That's the dye.
That's the dye.
Okay.
We're dyers.
We're religious dyers who trans, who are able to cross a quantum barrier.
Yeah.
To the other side.
I get it.
Okay.
Kind of makes sense.
We've got wheat rust in there.
I just wanted you to see that, that red wheat rust in RoboGo.
And then all of a sudden we start talking about, is this medicine?
Yes.
But we're talking about drugs that can be used to enchant.
And you say to yourself, what?
Now, if you've ever been a counselor or psychologist, psychiatrist, say you're a psychiatrist and
you've given drugs, you've given out your prescription to somebody.
What you are doing is you are enchanting that person.
You're putting them into a state that they're not normally, I'm going to be in.
Right now, they looked at it positively in antiquity.
They looked at it as you are taking away the pain and you are replacing it with an artificial,
but naturally embedded power.
And that's namely those drugs.
Go give me the next one.
Oh God, look at this.
People are a word for toxic, by the way, comes from tuxelma.
And what does that mean in Greek?
It means arrow, arrow.
Remember, the Greeks said before they got there, the Autochthonist people were the Pulaskians.
And these are horse cultures that developed ultimately those poisons that the Scythians then push and use.
Medea has 12 Scythian assistants who are known for their drug knowledge as well.
This is a big deal.
By the way, Medea also built a gigantic bridge underneath the Euphrates River with all sorts of beautiful stuff on the inside.
So if you think you know better, you don't.
You can't, how can you get more beautiful than that?
Let's keep going.
Boom.
Conclusion in this paper, we offer the bulk composition of Lemnian Earth, the medicine as being essentially a clay
consisting approximately 40%, 35%, 20%, and 5%.
Now, how closer are we to anything historically?
Do you see how this type of research is difficult?
Because what have we really learned?
Okay, all it gives us is like a shadow of what the ingredients may have contained.
Notice I said contained, not what they were, what they contained in the processing.
What is she doing in the processing of this drug?
And that's the problem.
That you have to go to the cult to be able to penetrate, to get those answers.
Give me the next one.
Boom.
Yeah, the ritual of extraction at the bottom provided a means for concentrating both clay and soluble minerals.
Okay, so all of that brings us to that conclusion.
There's got to be something that they're doing in the process.
We don't know all the details.
We know we don't because people like Galen didn't.
And so they're keeping this within their guild.
So it's not, I don't know if it was that, if it really matters that we got.
No, we don't need to see that.
Go to this one, please.
Nope, this one.
I'm going to hurry up here.
Now, here in the end, I want to just, I want to, so we have that paper.
And I want to introduce you to just a couple of ideas that are in the environment of the cult that you may not have picked up on,
but certainly would influence how we're looking at these, the manufacture and use of these drugs.
Conizalos, what is conizalos?
It's a cloud of dust, right?
But it's also that mixed oil and sweat on wrestlers.
And that stuff is potent, man.
You can make, you make some potent drugs out of that.
Look at number three.
It's also a demon of the same class as Priapus.
Now, wait a minute.
And you're going to say, oh, you're going to feel your modern world kind of breaking down.
What do they mean?
It's a demon.
It's a demon.
A diamond is a power.
A gospel is what a drug does.
Yeah.
An Eoangelion, a gospel.
Are you kidding me?
The word before the Christians way later than Jesus started, started referring to it.
You mean that, that meant the capacity of a drug compound?
Yes.
That's its gospel.
It's what it does to save, to bring sotetia or salvation.
And think it was odd did you that Jesus is the old great physician, right?
Because all of those Christ's are dealing with drugs.
Now, look at here at the bottom, a demon of the same class as Priapus.
Priapus is the God on Lemnos with that giant erection, that giant erection.
That's where we get our ancient term Priapism.
Yeah.
