You need to burn as incense, a very fine powder of frankincense.
Yeah.
Not regular.
Right.
Not that chunky stuff, but the really processed fine powder.
Right.
Okay.
You know, there's expenses, I guess.
Hephaestus.
This is a hymn to Hephaestus.
I want you to look at the first, the end of the first line.
Akamaton pur.
It's calling Hephaestus the Akamaton pur.
Pur is the word for fire, for fire.
Okay.
Now, wait a minute.
We know that Medea sows the seeds of fire and that,
that's what makes her medicine so profoundly strong.
What is the Akamaton pur?
What does that mean in Greek to be Akamaton?
Akamaton.
What is the, go ahead.
No, this one.
There we go.
What does it mean?
It means without a sense of toil.
How Victorian England.
You just, it's just kind of, not tired.
Yeah.
Not tiring.
Yeah.
Okay.
Without a sense of toil.
That which never fades is Akamatos.
That which never fades.
What is that flame?
The vestals talk about their flame this way.
Right.
It's the flame that always lives.
This is our Hephaestus as we live on Lemnos.
Okay.
Just, I'm holding him up here.
Great.
Everliving flame.
Everliving flame.
Chewie, the next one.
What else is, what else is he?
I wanted you to know it's on the previous page.
It's there here.
Light this up.
What else is he?
Phosphore.
Or Phosphorus.
And who is that?
Who is that?
Phosphorus is Lucifer, the bringer of light.
And he is part, for those of you who have not met Satan, he is part of a much older pre-Christian,
pre-monist.
It's before Judaism.
Right.
It's coming out during the Bronze Age.
And what they're doing is they're worshiping sun and moon and earth.
And the stars are the powers.
Right.
The stars are the powers.
And within this religion, you have a title of she who understands those drugs best.
And she is the Medwa, or the granddaughter of the sun.
Okay.
So, all right.
And I want people to be thanking.
So, Phosphorus, he's a guardian.
He's a guardian.
He is that morning star.
Remember Venus that we were talking about before?
Right.
It's right.
Okay.
So, wait.
We want to get to the science.
Let's keep going.
We need to get to the science.
Boom.
No.
It's okay.
Go to that one.
Boom.
Fantastic.
I wanted you to see here.
Oh, yeah.
Bring into light and all that.
Oh, look.
Look.
The name of an ISav.
Isn't that interesting?
By the way, Christing means to apply a substance to somebody's eyes that causes you to enter
a state of mania.
Love it.
A lot of IS stuff here.
Keep going.
We need to mosey along because people need good timing.
What is the God that we worshiped?
So, our authors, our scientifically inclined authors in their archeometry journal, archeometry,
said that we need to maintain, you know, to find out what was in those things.
What was in those clays and earths that they were using, right?
Well, we need to appreciate the cult in order to do that.
Well, this is the cult name for Hephaestus.
Technodiitos.
And look, they give it the one example is what I just showed you from the Orphic hymn
to Hephaestus.
Right?
This is one of those Hapox legumina.
Right?
It's only going to appear once because that author is pulling from the air this concept.
What is Technodiitos?
Technodiitos is from Techni, which is the word for art or skill or science.
Science.
And deitos is your diet.
It is your regimen.
It is your way of life.
So, the way of life of our divinity, our Limnian God, is a way of Techni, of skill.
Of skill and precision.
When you have to make calculations, you're functioning within a Techni.
So, what is this?
This is a big sign that says, hey, this guild, these people are educated as hell.
Right?
And we've got to be careful of what they're doing.
The greatest physician in all of Rome is Galen.
And he's going to this Limnian priestess.
He doesn't know how to do this process.
He doesn't know what it's about.
All he knows is it only works if she does it.
Otherwise, it doesn't work.
And stuff is being faked.
And Galen talks about it constantly.
The drug market in Rome, lots of fakes.
And so doctors develop stamps, seals, impressions that you can put into a pill.
And people can see it and say, oh, this obviously belongs to Dr. So-and-so.
He's reputable.
So, we can use this one.
And Galen still doesn't have that knowledge that the priesthood does.
So, we're talking about technical, technical crafts, these medical guilds, these medical priesthoods,
these medical temples.
It's where all of the basic knowledge is, the anatomy, what we would call physiology,
anything to do with growth, anything to do with any of the hard botany brought into the pharmacology,
all of that stuff.
These medical guilds, priesthoods really is what they are.
They're the ones who are kind of shouldering the burden of all the knowledge.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
Give me the next one.
Let's go sail.
I'm going to take a few more than five more minutes.
I'm going to take another 15.
But here, to paraphrase Renfrew's comments on cognitive archaeology, to access pathways of thought
via the means of proper scientific inquiry, one does not need to rely solely on methods of scientific analysis,
but rather on the explicit nature of the reasoning that sustains it.
In this paper, we build a case for the nature of limny and earth as an ancient medicine,
not on testing or analysis of a sample because we're not going to have any originals, right?
We're rather on the basis of reasoning out of the evidence available.
So doing, we arrive at a composition for limny and earth, and the active ingredient within
by examining the evidence and focusing on the ritual of its extraction.
Is the ritual a covert form of both a geochemical process and deliberate beneficiation, right?
Now, unfortunately, what you're seeing is that's an invasion of church, right?
It wasn't, they were turning it, they were, yeah.
One of the weaknesses of this article is that it takes the entire history of the drug.
And you have to realize that things are different when the classical priesthoods break down and are replaced.
They're forbidden and then replaced.
The knowledge is lost.
So if you're going to talk about anything post-classical, you're going to be, you know,
it's no wonder that you find this stuff doesn't actually work
because you're using that corrupted pool of knowledge.
Yeah, and no, if we're going to have the stuff that works, that sample that actually works,
that has that ancient reputation of being such a great drug,
we're going to have to go all the way back to the one that the Lemnian priestesses produced.
