I know people have been asking me, where are we going to Sodom? Today's that day, but I say so with a heavy heart.
I say so with a heavy heart because we're going to have to look at things that are disturbing and confused at the same time.
You have a perception that is a translation based upon a translation of the initial account.
Tonight we're going to that initial account. We're in Hellenistic Alexandria.
We've got access to the library and tonight we're going in to look at what is there in the Greek.
I'm going to set this with a series of vignettes that I hope will put you in the place that you can see how the greed drives Sodom and Gomorrah.
Yes, it's our greed that drives it. The way that we see it, the hallucination that you and I are under about Sodom and Gomorrah.
Let's dispel it. Let's get down to the dirty and see what it is. But in order to do so, let's set ourselves with a video.
Chewie, you got the star charts. Hit it.
We may preserve the seed of our father. And they made their father drink wine that night and the firstborn went in and lay with her father and he perceived not when she lay down nor when she arose.
There is no man around here to lie with us as is the custom all over the earth. Let's get our father to drink wine and then lie with him and preserve our family line through our father.
And it was there that something disastrous happened. Lots daughters got him drunk and slept with him, resulting in incestuous pregnancies.
So one night, the oldest daughter decided to get her father drunk, worked to the point that he was unaware of his surroundings.
Once Lot was in this incapacitated state, she proceeded to have sex with him and is impregnated.
They were drunk and having sex with him. Their acts of incest show Sodom's influence on them.
Now many of you know the long term implications of this relationship between Lot and his daughters, if you can call it that.
And you know that it started out with a very strange visit by a couple of Curioi, Curioi, Curioi, the lords of the area.
These are Andres and they came in and Lot was all, whoo, come to my house, right?
Well, how do we get there? We get there through these two girls, through the two daughters of Lot, who are not, who are, may not be exactly what you think they are.
Let's pull up that text and see what the daughters of Lot, this is our first text.
