And then she harvests him. Hang on. Then she harvests him. She does this thing. That's totally last thing. Sorry, Chewie.
Can you pull down the satanic initiation for a second? Right? Some Christians somewhere just got a little tickle somewhere.
Every time the satanic initiation sign goes away, a Christian gets tickled. And you don't want to get tickled.
Let's go to Potos, right? Oh, this is more drinking. Oh, sorry, people. More drinking. Here it is. Exanastasis.
What is exanastasis? It's a removal. It's just from on his steamy, his steamy, and it just means to take it away,
to remove, to extract, right? You're looking at it from the direction of pushing it away. It's in some kind of expulsion.
They made their daddy explode his seed. Yeah. Explode his seed. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How does daddy, right?
To everybody in the Bible studies class. How does Lot, as daddy, how does he manage to be unconscious and yet to ejaculate?
And you say, wait, I didn't know he was unconscious. Yeah, they're about to say it, right? He didn't get anything, right?
He didn't perceive either her laying on him or his explosion. And you have to ask yourself his reaping, I should call it.
And you have to ask yourself, how did he not, how is he not aware of this?
How is he engaged? Her sister comes in a little bit. She's like, we, I was successful. And her sister comes in and does the same thing.
And both of them get pregnant. So the question is, we've got a dude, old dude, couple of girls, they're both pregnant.
Don't worry, they're both virgins. That's what they said. What's going to happen, right? What's going to happen to the situation here?
Officer, I don't, don't, do you have a warrant, right? For the cave? Do you have to get a warrant for a cave?
My goodness. Where is Transdimensional Child Protective Services? This is getting gross.
What's interesting about it as a case, though, in history, what's interesting is that she's able to collect him in a semi-conscious or unconscious state where he is amnestic.
He is amnestic. He cannot remember what just happened. He could be passed out drunk. We're at a crime scene, people. The girl's father was passed out drunk.
How did they collect his semen? You cannot collect semen while a person is passed out unless, unless you've given them a drug to make them a satyr.
The funny thing is that satyrion, that drug in antiquity that's making such a splash with the sources, that drug in antiquity also induces amnesia.
