What do you think they're going to do in Sodom and Gomorrah?
Where they have the drugs to turn you into a Seder, where they have the rights to initiate you into a world of death and to bring you back.
You know what that resurrection is? It's the same concept of bringing out the seed, bringing out lots seed.
When you have dead Osiris with just a phallus, there are drugs you can use to bring out that seed. There are drugs you can use. Yeah.
This is nothing new. What you see, what you're smelling that are confusing to us are these hints, these whiffs of this old religion that is really a part of the culture.
And you can't detect that. It's like radiation. So when you're reading the Bible, if you don't have a radiation detector, you really have no context.
And that's why it really isn't all that odd that he offered his daughters to the city. They get really mad and they say, look, you don't realize that you're a dude who moved here and we're natives.
So you know what we're going to do? We're going to do to you what we were going to do to them. And then the angels come in, take blood and say, you better get your people and get out of town.
This is before he had sex with his daughters. You better get your people and get out of town, right? But he didn't know any of it. He didn't see any of it.
They're making potions. They're making potions people. And the pharmacological golden age is the late Bronze Age.
Yeah, it is the late Bronze Age. Okay, so just so you understand the draw of the text, realize that these people are doing things that in the context of their civilizations are accepted and normal.
Okay.
For them to collect their father's semen is not just to Randy girls being naughty. This is more than some kind of incestuous fun time.
They have the skill to take a man who is unconscious and bring his bring his semen out so that they can impregnate themselves.
What kind of how much knowledge do you have to have in order to affect this kind of an outcome? A serious amount and it only makes sense. It only makes sense that lots daughters would have a serious amount of information.
Abram. Wait, that's what they call Abram. There's no pig in Abraham. Abram. And what he does he wakes up in the morning, right? This is a very powerful, very powerful late Bronze Age figure.
And he gets up. What does he do? Hey, not late bondage. He's a little bit earlier than that. But Bronze Age. Bronze Age. And he gets up and he's looking out. He's looking out at what's going on.
Because he goes to a meeting with Curios. He goes to big, you know, who big yahoo. And he's standing there with him with the guy whose name doesn't exist on is what they call the being.
But that got translated out into yahoo.
There he is. I told you they were oyster maniacs. I know some oyster maniacs in Israel today. They were telling that Abraham's like standing there with God, right? And he's like, dude, you see what's going on?
