I know that you are a pharma cause and not just any pharma cause, not just any drug using guy. You're one of the ones that works with Jesus.
That's right. Did you know Jesus told Philip about this place? He told him. He told him, now catch up with you over there. Where is Philip?
He goes to Greece and as we're going to track him, he ends up in Asia Minor, modern day Turkey.
He ends up in a place, he ends up in a place where they worship a lady dragon, the great mother, the great mother.
How does Jesus know about these people? Let's see. Let's see. Let's not make anything up. I've been honest with you the whole time, people.
We can't start making stuff up now. Let's go right back to the text. Here it is for anybody who says, I'm the only guy on the internet.
Take it down to you. I'm going to brag for a minute. Just everybody let me feel a little bit.
I see a lot of people on YouTube doing lots and lots of shows, giving lots of interviews, and I see a lot of ideas.
And I don't see anybody actually doing the Greek. I see a lot of people professing to, but I don't see a lot of people doing it.
So the next time somebody says, where's his evidence? It's right here. Bring it up to you. It's right here, people. Look, here it is.
Okay, let's read this. Let's just read it in the Greek. He says, I'm going to do a sign. He says, I know that you're a pharmacist and a student of Jesus.
He says, you're not going to bamboozle me. You're not going to bamboozle me because what's Phillip been doing? He's been bamboozling people.
This guy is nuts. This guy is nuts. He makes people blind and then heals them. Leave it up. He makes people blind and then heals them so that they will follow him and give him their children.
You're kidding. Oh, by the end of this, you guys are going to be so fed up. You're going to be so fed up with this circus.
You're not. Make your stomach turn what these Christians are doing and all under direct leadership and guidance of Jesus himself.
Now, Phillip, fortunately, is able to conjure Jesus. He's able to say shazam and then all of a sudden, there he is. It's really cool. You should see it.
And lots of drugs. Anyhow, anywho, see how they're calling him a drug, a drug guy? Watch what he does.
He says, you're not going to, this other guy tells Phillip, he says, you're not going to bamboozle me. You're not going to mess with my mind.
And so what does he say? All day I'll post it, but the Apostle says to him.
That's his summoning. He's just summoned Jesus. Tahuel, they come quickly.
And then he gave him some of the words that we see in the Greek magical papyri. Fantastic. Isn't that nice?
And look, they say these things forwards and backwards. They take syllables and reverse them. Oh, it's good stuff.
And if you're able to follow it, you can tell which gods are being implicated.
So here Phillip is, he says his magic words, up comes Jesus. And let's go back to the text. Up comes Jesus. Yeah.
And next, oh, oh, oh. And so, and so Phillip is like, Phillip is like, okay, here we go. And he does this thing.
And, you know, he's like, got a shout that's magic. If you want to think of it that way. And he shots this thing out, this magic shot and the ground underneath this guy who says, you're not going to bamboozle me.
It opens up and then swallows him up to his knees, up to his knees. And he says, now do you want to be a Christian?
The guy's like, no. So the ground opens up again, only this time up to his neck.
And he says, now do you want to be a Christian? Long story short, you know, sometimes it's hard to convince somebody to be a Christian.
Sometimes you've got to, you know, bury them up to their neck, torture them a little bit, right?
That's what the document is clearly supporting. This is fantastic. I love it.
Remember, we're with the lace days, right? We're with an organization that traffics and children.
Right. What do you think we're doing where we're doing? You want to chart the, the missionary travels and journeys of Phillip?
Just look at all the stops he's got to make to get kids.
They continued the tradition. Why? They were born into it. Right. They were born again.
You want to see the drugs that they're making them born again with? Let's see.
Next one. Give me the next. Oh, look at this. Oh, here it is. Are you ready, people?
Look at this. He deemed them worthy. There were some people that are following Peter, right?
I mean, Phillip. And he deems them worthy of, of the Spragus.
What is a Spragus? Look at that last word. Spragidos. Nice. Nice.
What is that? What is that? Oh, well, let's just click to the next one. Let's see.
Boom. Next one. Go ahead. Yeah. Here's the definition of three and five is what I want you to look at for what this thing is that he's got a tablet of Lemnian medicinal earth.
Okay, fine. We got some medicine there. Jump down to number five, a pastile. Does anybody know what a pastile is? Does anybody know?
It's a little bitty pill. Take that down to you. It's a little bitty pill that you can put in a cup and it will dissolve and you can drink it.
And whatever benefits of the pill were you're going to get. But you can also take that little pill and they make them this way and you can burn it.
You can put that little cup in a brazier and you can burn that thing and fumigate yourself. Either way, you can inhale it or you can swallow it.
Huh. Okay. Okay. So he's giving him a pastile in the Christing. Okay. Okay. Hold. Just hold it. Remember, he's a pharmacos.
He's a pharmacos. So the technical vocabulary that they're using is pertinent. It's overly pertinent.
Okay. So let's go back to the one under that one. I want people to see the Latin as well because we have this thing. Go ahead under the under the last one we did.
Next one. There we go. It comes from the Latin word pastilis, right? Look, a little loaf, a little loaf in medicine. It's a little round ball or cake or lozzage.
And then you see the Greek word below that. Yes. And all of a sudden, take it down. I'm going to give you something. You're welcome. You can thank me. You can thank me for this.
In the book of the apocalypse, when we are talking about beasts and seals, we are using medical terminology. It is cult medical terminology.
That lace stays. The lace stays uses. And next week, when we go walking the shoes of an ancient lace stays, you're going to be surprised. You're going to be surprised about the power and effect of the drugs within the child slave trade.
Yeah. You're going to love it. We got speaking of child children slaves from antiquity from the ancient world. We need some, we need to bring them back in. I've got more Bible with more of the, you know, with more of the child slaves.
Let's see. You know, next text, next text. Boom. Give me the next one. Yeah, right. Oh, look, I mentioned them and here they come. It just can't get any better, right? So he deemed these people worthy of this pill, right? That they receive in the Christing.
And what happens when they used it? Look, I'm the very next line. A great joy breaks out in the house, right? And they're dwelling. And what happens? Poloiduloi, lots of slaves, and lots of Pideski.
Oh, no. Oh, no. And this isn't just saying, this isn't just saying male slaves and female slaves. This is saying slaves, both male and female. And you know what the Pideski is, right? Prostitute. Prostitute.
Okay. That's what the Greek says. I'm just bringing you the Greek. And for those of you out there, you try and try again to sit under the bridge and write your screed and try to get me thrown off of YouTube. For those of you who are into those kind of tactics behind the veil,
you
Thanks, Joey. Thanks. We got a little stat. We got a little cat to come through a little asteroid belt or something. What was that? Was that all the wrong? I think it was all the wrong.
Fantastic. Let's keep going. Bring up that text. Here we go. Are you guys ready for this? Boom. Next one. Yep. That's good. Yeah. And what happens? So a lot of these slaves and many of these prostitutes and children, Pides, just children, strays, right? This is a big problem in antiquity.
Stray children is a big thing. And the Romans are like, stop doing that to those stray children. And the early Christians are like, uh-uh, gotta catch us. So it was a game they played. A lot of arresting, a lot of imprisonment and stuff like that, because the Christian church is that slave trading operation from the beginning.
So, okay, let's take a look. Take a look at who else ends up there. The kids. Oh, and this is terrible. The Napier. The Napier. Oh, no. The Napier show up. That's like saying somebody who's, you know, doesn't have all their faculties, can't make any sort of decisions on their own, very malleable.
