These are the people that, um, uh, uh, Celsus, was it Celsus? Yeah, was complained about. I think it was complained about when he said these are the kind of people that the Christians target, right?
Um, so these are unfortunate, right? A lot of these kids are abandoned and they end up, again, look, they're flocking to Philip and his magic. It's, you know, uh, yeah, yeah. And notice that it explicitly states that they are children.
That they are children, right? Okay. Let's see what happens, Philip. Show us your drugs. We're still going to see him transform a boy into a girl. He does that. He does that. Saint Philip, we love you. We love you, Philip.
Okay. Let's go to the next text. Let's go.
Boom, boom, boom, boom. Yeah. Okay. And so what did they do? They got mad at this point. Okay. I'm just, I'm showing you what's happening to Philip. Okay. And it's kind of, yeah, I'm enjoying the parts I enjoy.
So give me a break. The crowd has had enough. The crowd has had enough of Philip and his drugs and they take him captive and they lead him to the place. I'm translating to the place of where they're going to judge him in order that they may whip him, right?
Lacerate him, right? Get him the mastic with that whip and the crowd, the crowd shouts out, bind his hands and feet so we can beat him. They end up taking him and fixing him to the wall.
It's very, no, no. If you delight in such things, if you delight, did I lose, did I lose the thing there? Here. If you delight, if you delight in Saint Philip, hung upside down and chained, being beaten with a whip and at one point they consider bleeding him.
Why are they going to plead Philip? Because these, these are the people who follow. They call them the serpents and they follow. It's a culture. It's an ethnicity and they follow the dragon queen and they want Philip's blood to give to her to consume.
They want to give her, her, his blood to drink, to drink. Do you know why Philip's blood is so important? If you, if you read that, you'll, it'll pass you over and you won't understand why it's important.
That guy's blood is so full of drugs. It's so full of drugs. He can make the seeing blind and the blind see with just a fumigation.
Oh my God. Okay. Let's watch this. Oh, and by the way, tonight I also have, I know it's getting late. Neil, it's going to, another 15 minutes. Let's, because I've got something good for you tonight, the dragon communion, the dragon communion.
I want you guys to see this. You guys didn't know about the Christian dragon communion, did you? You guys are all sitting there and you're being bombarded with all of this YouTube, all of these different shows that you can watch.
Nobody's going to give you this. I'm giving you the Greek text, showing it to you. Just going to speak it out. And we're going to see something nobody else has seen.
The dragon communion. When you raise the dragon, lift up that dragon.
Moses, not a word. Not a word.
Next source, please. Let's go to the next one. Fantastic. We're almost there. Look at this. Yeah, don't. Don't. This is a prohibition here, people. This is a prohibition. Yeah, don't blind us with your magic.
That's somebody I just wanted you to see. They know his magaea, whatever that pharmacosis is doing. It's causing people problems. Yeah.
This is a public service that they're doing with Philip, hanging them upside down. It's a public service. Yeah, I'm telling you, everybody knows he's a follower of Jesus, right?
So what is that? What does that imply? Yeah, there's a connection between the name of Jesus and the activities of the lace days. And those of you who say, let me do Wabba. No, it doesn't.
Okay, let's go. I love it, man. If you're going to do it, let's go all the way, guys. Show them the next text. This is fantastic.
Look, so these men, you know, they serve this echidna, this viper goddess, right? And she's the mother of the serpents. She's the mother of the serpents. Next one, please. Mother of the serpents.
Next one, what happens now? He says, hey, Miriam, who is Miriamne? Who is that? It's Philip's twin sister that he transforms into a boy.
Philip has a twin sister? Yes. And he tells her here, he says, what? What? He says, change, change your feminine form. Change your feminine form and go about with Philip. Oh, my God, change your form. That's quite a thing he's talking about doing there.
This guy is nuts. Or these, these drugs are great. One of the two. Let's go. Keep going. Right? Are you surprised that the serpent can change the form from masculine to feminine? Are you surprised? Oh, my goodness, the dragon queen knows, baby.
That's why we're here. That's why we're here. You think they worshiped Lady Babylon for a reason, right? I'm going to show you the actual reason at the end. It's the last quote today. You're going to, you're second to last. You're going to love it. Okay, keep going. Thanks for hanging in there, Gnostic. Give me a little bit of time. I know you'd love it.
Look at this first line. Hey, Dave, Theo Clare. Here's another one. Theo Clare also does what she changes the arrangement, the cosmos, the cosmos. She changes that of her feminine nature into that. I'm translating of a man.
She metamorphosizes. Can you believe that? It's another one. Philip meets these people. And by the way, they're young. The one I'm about to show you. I'm going to show you one more. Right? They're children. Right? The one that he's about to change is the daughter of somebody who's there and she's doing something.
And let's go to it. Okay, so remember the venom. The venom's there. Keep going. Oh, God, it's a lovely path. I think they're all going to find it. Look, okay, ready? There's hidden stuff in here, people. Are you ready? You're going to love this. Yeah.
Yeah, so anyway, the Apostle of Christ, we went up to the region of Parthia and there he saw in a city the Apostle Peter, the Apostle of Jesus, and he's with some companions and he's also with some students and some women.
What kind of women? The kind of women who put on the genuineness of the man. Oh, goodness. The kind of women who put on the pistis. It's the word that you guys have heard over and over his faith.
A transformation. A transformation. Love it. Love it. And Neil would tell you, but he's been reading plenty. Plenty is talking about transformations of male to female and female to male. And how do you do this? And what is the nature of the drugs that are involved in doing this? Sounds very modern, doesn't it? Sounds very modern. Yes, fantastic. It is indeed.
Give me the next source. People are going to, I've got to give you the climax. Are we coming to the climax? Yeah, I think we're coming. I think we're coming up here. Okay. Um, yeah, when you're thinking about Jesus, the vampire Jesus that gets summoned by Philip, because he has that power, when you think about him, this is who he is.
He says, I am the son, S-U-M. I am the son, the God of righteousness. Yes. Yes. Yeah. And you're my raise. Oh, you almost had me, Jesus. You know, it got creepy in the end. Why don't you just leave it? I'm the son.
You're my raise. Okay. Wait a minute. This is one magus to another. Okay. Let those with ears to hear, hear. Go to the next one, Chewie, please. We're almost there. Only a couple of more. Look at this. Um, so what happens? This, uh, there's a young girl and she has an eye, long story short, she's got an eye infection of some sort. And it's very painful. And her daddy, who's some big wig, drives an ancient Tesla, probably, right?
Um, he, he's worried. He's worried because his daughter is coming to him and he's taking her, the doctor he's got, ones that worked for the local potentate, you know what I mean? And nothing's helping her. And she says, she says tonight, she says, I heard this guy, right? She said he's got drugs.
Um, the end of this is actually, is, uh, eh, who's on pharmaca? See the drugs there? This is him talking about the drugs that have been used already to try to heal her eye problem. And he asked, he says there, he says, what else is there that I can do? Right? What else can I possibly do for you? We're taking all the other doctors. What else can I do? And then bring the next text. And then she says in response, isn't this nice? It's a little episode of reality.
From the ancient world, you know, your, his daughter has an eye infection. It's not going away. And none of these idiot doctors can figure it out. So what does she say to him? She says, I know, dad. She says, I know that you have always labored on my behalf. She says now, the thing that I deem right, do it for me, please. Yeah.
Yeah. What I think, do it right. She said tonight, I have heard on this very night, I heard the voice of a doctor and he's a stranger. He's not from here. He talks different, talk, talk, talk, different. And he comes here. And what does he say? Um, he's preaching about drugs. He's announcing some great new drugs that he's got there. You got, he's sleeping over in your storage unit over there because they rented out this storage unit.
To the travelers. She said, I heard him talking. He knows these new drugs. He'll be able to heal me. I'll bet you. And next slide. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Oh my God. She says, um, you know, of course he does, right?
But he's, um, she says, oh my goodness. She says, I'm begging you. She goes right to him, right? She says, I'm begging you, Phillip. You're the servant of God, right? Heal this pain that I got going on in my eyes. If you do, I will be your servant.
To Leia, I will be your servant to Leia. And right away you ask yourself, what is the servant to Leia? Is that something that is that some kind of slave that is perfect that has been through the right that has been finished, accomplished, done?
Hmm. That's odd. Let's see if to Leia has anything else. This is there. I've got a, did I manage to bring this one? Go to the next slide. Go to the next slide. Um, yeah, look, look what I dug up people. You're going to love this.
This is an antidote from Scribonius, a Roman. Where can you get this? You think your people are going to pull this up? They're not going to pull this up for you.
Any Bible scholar you've got who's saying, Oh, and they say just this, they don't know these texts. They don't do this work. They don't have the right to say things that are so patently wrong. Yes, look at this.
So this is the antidote of Martian, the physician, right? Um, yeah. And this thing is, look, this thing is called to Leia by the Greeks. See on the second line to Leia, there it is. And why is it called to Leia?
She said she's going to be a to Leia servant. What is to Leia to Leia to Leia to Leia? Bring it out to me.
It is an antidote. Okay. For those of you who've been watching this whole time and adding things up, it is an antidote, a servant antidote. I told you they're using the human body to produce drugs in rights that involve sex.
Yeah. Okay. She is entering into the position that Jesus took from all of his apostles. They are coming under the umbrella of the lay states who is going to run the business of their prostitution.
She is entering that institution with Philip. Fantastic. Where is she going to produce the antidote? How is she going to produce the antidote? Give me that next text. This is, okay, people, hold on. Hold on to your seat. No, below that. Hold on to your seat. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, this is just, I'm sorry. It's the next one, Chewie. It's the next one. Let's just talk more about him as a pharmacist. Yeah. Yeah. Some people say he was a magician, blah, blah, blah. We know that already. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's keep going.
Oh, and where at this point in the game, they're at a house of a guy who had it was blind and they made him see again. And I'm just going to translate for you the last line.
Um, he came to see again through the twos matos of the woman who served them of the woman who was assigned a coluthal, the woman who was assigned who took in her slavery, who became the do loss.
Right. That slave is the one who is giving this thing. And it's the twos matos. Can we get that text one more time? I just want people so they don't, you know, I've been saying they use human body fluids in, right, in retu, right? And it, because it's all over the medicine, people, you can't get away from them in medicine.
So because it's not weird or unusual in the rights. Look at this. Look at what they're doing here. Look at the twos matos. What does that mean? Bring me up to the next.
Oops. That was a wrong. Take it down.
What does that mean? It can be translated from the verb to, which means exactly what it sounds a little ejaculation of fluid from the body and some sort or another. It doesn't have to be just from the mouth.
It can be any ejection of fluids, any production of fluids, ptuo, little ptuo, little spit out there. Yes. Yes. Coming from she who was entered in to the slavery. She who is the antidote.
When, when you ask yourself why Jesus is with a naked boy in a public park for a, when he gets arrested yelling, I'm not a child trafficker.
You have to realize that that child was a lot more than just an innocent victim. That child was a transformed factory for drug rights.
Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Now, Jesus and the naked boys, we're going to continue this theme with Neil now who is going to talk to you about the gospel of Philip.
Oh, and the dragon thing will have to wait on the great summoning of the dragon and the rights. We'll get to that. But now I want to bring Neil.
I just got a couple of texts that I'm going to throw in. I'll give it right back to you and you can finish off with that dragon.
