And a couple of them are related. This is from the gospel of Peter. Coptic texts are attributed to Peter. Same guy, different language. This one, this first one's called God is a man eater.
And so this is the gospel of Peter is not really a gospel and like, like you're, like you're used to, it's a little, it's wisdom literature.
So it has little paragraphs with different titles and it's just all over the place back and forth. There is no like, it doesn't start in the beginning.
In the beginning, Mary gave birth. Nope. It just goes all over the place. Wisdom literature, sort of like a proverb. Well, yeah, proverbs.
Anyways, God is a man eater. So people are sacrificed to him. Whoa. This is the Christian shit right here. This is the real Christian shit. Listen to this.
Before humans were sacrificed, it was animals because those they were eaten by were not gods. Wait a minute.
Are you telling me that your God just wants to be sacrificed to humans and not animals?
What? This is like, before I go to the next one, thoughts on this one real quick. What do you think about this?
Yeah, the consumer. You know what? I've seen a band of women eat, eat a person, take him apart and eat him. So, yeah, no, this is, I would smell.
Yeah, exactly. No, it's part, it's why the Greeks are always walking around embarrassed about their past saying, well, we don't sacrifice human beings anymore anymore.
Right. Yeah. And then the Jews said the same thing about sacrificing there. Like, if you look at the Old Testament text, it says like, oh, they outlawed human sacrifice because of Abraham.
Like, they basically let you know like, before Abraham, this was all, this is all over the place, which is, you know, whatever.
And there's, there's texts from my porphyry about people in Canaan sacrificing humans to Saturn. And there's a lot of texts like that actually.
Anyways, I thought that was interesting because, oh, and there's another Christian group that butt heads with this group.
I think it's the Sethians. They didn't get along well because the Canites were pure vegetarians.
So they thought that Yahweh, this is these Canites were badasses. They were completely, completely against the grain.
They thought Yahweh, this God that wants human sacrifice, evil.
And they said, Jesus is the son of a different God, Sophia wisdom.
And they said that Yahweh is evil because of this.
And so they have different, they have different opinions on King was the good guy, Abel was the bad guy, such stuff like that.
Anyways, I'm going to keep going.
Next one, mystery is called this one says, I'm going to read it to my text. I came to the bottom.
This is called mystery, same Gospel of Philip, Coptic text translated in English.
It is good to speak of mystery, especially because the father of all joined with the Virgin who came down.
And on that day, a fire shone over him.
He came to the bridal chamber suit.
So on that very day, his body came into being.
And on the day he left the chamber with the splendor, you know that word is.
And what passed between the bride and the bride group through this force, Jesus did everything.
It is good for it is good for each of his students to go into the chamber and rest.
Get in there little boys, get in the bed, get in the bridal bed with Jesus.
You know what time it is.
It's time for the Christ thing.
Any thoughts on that one?
I think it's mainstream.
Worship with a great mother with the intimacy with the boy entering the bed with you.
I don't think the Christians can get away from their heritage.
And yeah, I would say, you know, again, we're right in the middle of the mystery religion.
So yeah, and you might be asking, Hey, wait a minute, there's no Christ in going on here.
What do you get? What are you just adding stuff?
Well, let's go to the next.
Let's go to the next one.
The superior superiority of chrism to baptism.
The chrism is superior to baptism for the word chrism.
We have been called Christians.
So it's not just about Jesus being a Christian.
It's about you being Christ that get it?
And surely not from the word baptism.
They're not Baptists.
That's a whole other bucket called all the way in Greece.
And maybe John was part of that movement.
We know about the origins of the Baptists.
It's not Judaism.
The Baptists were Bacchants living in Corinth, Ephesus, and a couple other locations.
And they were devotees of the goddess Cotus, K-O-T-Y-S.
Look it up for yourself.
Don't listen to me.
Look it up for yourself.
They were called Baptists.
And because of the chrism, Christ has his name.
The Father anointed the Son.
The Son anointed the messengers.
See, you get Christ too.
