Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere.
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
I'd wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Wednesday night Bible study.
And boy, do I have a whopper for you. I have a whopper for you.
Tonight is going to be dedicated to the art, to the art of the ancient sorcerer Christians.
Yes, yes, you're going to love it tonight on Lady Babylon.
So tonight, when we're wrapping up the sermon, we will bring in the guns,
and Neil will be joining us with some additional firepower.
Fantastic. You're going to love it tonight. This is good stuff.
This is good stuff. But I'll start out. Neil will slide in.
Tonight, I want to take you, and before I tell you where we're going,
I'm going to dedicate this to a person called Gunkratch.
Gunkratch is a demon possessed sorcerer. He gets his cues from the devil.
Yeah, he does. He does. And he says to me, hey, have you seen this text?
Have you seen this text? I'm like, no. He says, you know, it's this good stuff from the apocrypha.
And what did I do? I ignore him. I ignored him.
A thousand pardons. Master Retch, a thousand pardons.
So Gunk talks to the devil and the devil tells him, give this over to Amon.
So he tries again. He mentions it. Oh, and he says, you've got to find it.
And I'm like, oh, God, I hate these things because most of them are Coptic.
And I can't go back to the original, right? Bring it to me if it's in Greek.
Oh, my God. Guess what? The acts of Philip people.
We owe Gunkratch a round of applause and a giant thank you tonight.
Everybody out there in the chat sin. Sin GW the best.
And say thanks a lot for bringing us. Now, what did Gunk bring us?
Gunk brought us a ton, an absolute ton of drugs and cold.
He even brought us. And this is, this is what perked my ear up.
This is, you mean this is a fourth century text that's in great Greek.
And it talks, it talks about the dragon queen.
Yes. Yes, it does. It does Jesus and the sayings of Jesus that you didn't hear
because the church said, we're going to have to get rid of that.
Well, we've got the Greek. We don't care if it's part of the canon or not.
We bust down the doors and take control of all of it. Right?
We're going to do that. We're going to do that. Oh, God.
And I've got a follow up coming, coming for satanic initiation on Friday that this is culmination.
Love it. It's good stuff. Okay. I won't take up any of your time.
Let's get to it. That's enough. Turn it off, Chewie. We've gone back in the machine.
We're there and we want to see what's going on. Let's purify this joint before we get out and start breathing the vapes.
Shall we do that? Let's purify this place tonight. We call in Hipta.
We call her in to cleanse this temple.
Music
Fantastic. Doesn't that feel good? That feels good. Here's what I'm going to do as the accompaniment, as the subasius.
I'm going to tell you, just as a preview on Friday, it will be the episode to end all screeds.
I am going to put us all into the skin of an ancient lacedace.
And I'm going to show you what you've never seen.
Oh, God. Let's bring it. Let's bring it, Chewie. Hit it.
It starts. Let's go to our first point. What is this? Oh, bring it up. Bring it up. Lovely. Don't you love seeing the Greek?
Oh, God. So what are people saying? People? Philip. Philip. People.
Philip. Philip. People. Who is Philip? Let's just look through the evidence.
This is the apostle of Jesus. And I say, yes, you are right. Now, let's see what the text says, not what our traditions say, not what our best intentions say.
Let's see what the text say. Let's meet Philip. Let's go. Okay. So what are people saying about him? Some people are saying he's a magus.
Look at line two, people. The third word in, magus. Do you see that? You cannot, you cannot not look at that anymore. It's in your brain.
Philip's a magus. And what else is he? He's scolios. That guy is bent. That guy is twisted up here. You know what he does? I'm translating.
You know what he does? He divides the sexes. What does he do that for? He teaches that chastity is the focus to God, to God.
We'll get there by chastity and that people who participate in producing children, they fall short into a place of pain.
Thank you, Philip. Thank you, Philip. Do me a favor. Can you turn a woman into a man? Philip, would you do that for me? Philip.
In the name of Jesus Christ, would you turn a woman into a man? No problem says Philip. I'll show you. Let's go to the next one.
Who is this Philip guy? Look at that third line in. I know this is somebody talking to Philip. Look over here at Philip.
