Strangely enough that text tonight that I showed you from in the latin
That is a formula that the text says is taken from augustus
That he's the one who uses it right? He's using this really advanced formula
so yeah, it it's uh
It makes you wonder neal when when people are going through it and they're professional
Like upstanding, you know
Good people and intelligent people that you trust like sissaro
And they say that you've got to go through these rites because you you really aren't
Aware before you do
Yeah, you know who got you know the list of people who got i'll give you a short list of people who were initiated into the elizinian mysteries
um
julius caesar
Cleopatra marcus aurelius
Olympius queen the uh the mother of alexander the great alexander the great augustus
I mean, that's just a short list of like the one some of the most famous people in world history
Plato
Socrates all those people in Athens they all did this this was a you had to or else who were you if you didn't get it initiated
They all did this it was a way of purging the people
It was a way of somehow keeping that democracy going and I know it predates it
But it does something for the people
There's something in that purge that changes your perspective
That kind of I don't know is it freeing?
You know is that what it is essentially it just frees your mind because it allows you to experience
What's beyond that point of death? What's before that point of birth?
you know
The stuff is the fact that
They have constructed and when you talk about elusis elus they didn't just sit down one day and say
Oh my god, we're gonna figure out this right, right? That's that's been handed down that bronze age mystery, right?
You know had such a profound effect on the world. Yeah, you know
It lasted
Past like they don't even know how old it is. They know there's sources of it in the mycenaean period
So it's at least bronze age at least
But it lasts all the way to 500 ad they couldn't get rid of even the even like the worst christian emperors that try to shut it down
Couldn't it took a long time that it was the last thing to go out of all the pagan religions the last thing
Because nobody wanted to lose it. Everybody loved it
And so you know what they did to end it
Christians aren't you gotta hand it to them. They're kind of smart or slick
They co-opted it. They created a a new story about st. Demetrius
Demetrius means demeter's son
and he was a he was an initiate in elusinian mysteries in the fifth century and
they said that
Demeter came to him in a dream and told him that they needed to convert elusinian to
an orthodox church and this is what your decree is and so they
Obviously, you know converted it into a church that church is still there today. It's an orthodox church
But they had to go that route to get rid of it
They couldn't just do it out of popular vote or people not wanting it. They had to do it in a slick way
So that's that guy's name is st. Demetrius to this day. It was kind of like rewriting history
I mean if you have a st. Orpheus they have a st. Orpheus orpheus. He's holding a liar in his hand. It's orpheus
But it's st. Orpheus. They had to co-op these things. They were too popular
They're too big for people to just cancel. You know what I mean?
Yeah, christianity is built on orphic physics. So there's no there's no way that you couldn't deny the connection
I love that. All right. I'm gonna give you the last comment throwing anything you want and thanks for coming tonight, neil
Well, I just want to say sabba kathon
In fact hails satan
Sabba kathon sabba kathon. We have a translation or no. All right fine. I'll see
I was hoping we can go. Oh, there it goes. It's on the bottom
It's sabba kathon sabba kathon
Now you know what we're saying. Nice jerry. Thanks. All right. Hail satan guys
Now the fences that fence us falling
Maybe we could walk together again
Just maybe we could walk together again
