Underworld dark vegetation moisture the underworld that pushes the moisture up
Apollo he's underworldly and apollo is heavenly. He's in the sky. He's a light bringer
He is the he's the light that goes down and those two together is the metamorphosis. It's the tragedy
So you have to go through that in your life. Everybody's supposed to go through that in a lifetime
That's a fulfilled life. That's a complete life
And it's a it's amazing that the orphics
Use the very same conceptions with the arrows of aeros
They're either gold or they're black and people are always at or psianic. They're described psianic
dark black something like that and um people always ask what's the difference between
those
Arrows and aphrodite because aphrodite is sometimes described as golden and sometimes is dark
Right and she loses those when she enters that dark morning. She becomes that queen of the underworld
So you see the very same thing that's going on between
Apollo and dianesis
It's some kind of physics that they're explaining about how the cosmos works. Yeah, it's gorgeous, neil
I mean it makes you kind of want to join one of these ancient cults. You know what I mean just the
Just to get access to if nothing else all the good scrolls, you know what I mean? Yeah, I understand it
I don't have anything like I get it. I understand these things like when I look at the ancient world and I see this culture
I'm like, wow make sense. That seems like like the elysianian mysteries. Okay, demeter and bacchus
vine and and
vine and
Grain right red and wine. There's two moisture dryness. They come together in the cup
You mentioned that cup that Eucharist you take the cup you die
You go through a psychedelic trip you die and then you have an orgy all night
You would go through this wild ecstatic experience to become a new person have this
Experience that you'll never forget by dawn. They would do it all night. This is what they describe the mysteries when you get initiated
All night long you are tripping on this chai kian
You're having these orgies you're going through it then they bring out the phallus
In this box as holy box and the hero funds you they're holding it and you are the initiate
Are the only person who's allowed to touch it you open the box
You bring out the phallus you touch it and then you put it back and then you say the magic words
I have taken from the box. I put back in the box
Then as dawn starts to rise up as this as the light bringer as lucifer starts to show up
You are supposed to go into a baptist go to the next room the telesterion
You take a bath sacred bath you get washed after you're washed you come out. It's dawn. It's daylight
You are reborn the people who went through this experience. We have testimonies
All of them all the testimonies are all saying I have no longer for your death. I am saved
I'm sell. I have salvation. They all experienced this thing
So whatever was going on in these mysteries was changing people's lives to the point where
For example, this is my next video. I'm about to release the next day or two about dian Isis
There was a guy from from uh india his name is zharmaris
He traveled all the way from india to go meet up with augustus as a
um messenger from king porus the indian king
He wanted to send delegates to offer a a hand and piece like we're gonna have peace the the romans and the indians
We'll order, you know, we there's no war between us blah blah blah blah blah
So he sends over this delegate zharmaris and zharmaris knew about the elosinium mysteries all the way in india
Dian Isis was so famous. He's worshiped everywhere. Everyone knows what dian Isis is he gets to Athens
He gets up with augustus. He go they go to elosinium mysteries
They open it up even though it's oddest season because it's augustus augustus can do stuff. He's the august one
He's the augustus. So they open it up. They let this guy get initiated. What does he do?
Right? This is gonna sound crazy, but I kind of in a weird way. I kind of like understand it
This guy got initiated went through that experience that I just explained
And then after in the next morning
jumped into a fire and killed himself
And then he wrote they wrote on his tombstone that he
Had nothing else in life that he needed to fulfill his he wanted to end his time as the brahmins do it says
Like there's a custom of the brahmins that when you are fulfilled you end your life
There's no point in you go on to the next
And he felt after being initiated into the rites of bach as a demeter. There was nothing else to be done
I want to end it
Wow, that's crazy. That's that's and that's in like tender. That's in like forward. I think four or five different sources
Uh, cassie as d.o. Says it nicolas of demascus a couple other people have this written in this in different ways
But it's it's well sourced that this happens. So he was with augustus and
