You're the one who guards his appearance.
Come with us into this wilderness for we run through this world cycle by means of your will and command.
Oh my goodness.
Finally.
Finally.
Last one.
So Philip turns, right?
He goes through all these machinations.
He's doing this right.
He's been saying his magic phrase.
He's been using his drugs and now he turns and he says to Bart and to Mariam.
He says now stand up.
Wait what?
They were laying down the whole time.
He says get up now and raise up your hands with that sacred cup that we have fortified and now purify the air.
Use the sign of the cross.
Behold the glory and the power of God.
Behold the glory and the power of God.
Oh my goodness.
Inmediately what happened people?
Now we've been waiting for this moment.
Take it down for just one minute.
We've been waiting for this moment the whole time.
I told you guys they were using this right and what they would be doing with it.
The only thing you're doing in the mystery is you're bringing the lightning.
If you are the son of God, you are bathed in the lightning.
You are that power.
You are born anew.
This is the rebirth that Christianity promises and in it we have to find lightning.
Go ahead Chewie.
It is with that source.
Ready?
This is the last paragraph.
Immediately there came about something that was like fire lightning.
Lightning of fire.
Fire producing lightning that it consumes.
Let me continue translating.
What happens?
It blinded the dragon and what else?
The beasts that were in the dragon.
Wait a minute.
Are we talking about the antidote, the telea?
Are we talking about the dragon as the formula?
The dragon is that which contains the theria, the beasts in the book of the apocalypse.
They are using this exact same terminology.
They are taking their drugs there.
Let me finish it off and that's it.
I'm sorry to take so long tonight.
The apostles, what do the apostles do?
They averted their eyes.
They averted their eyes so that they wouldn't be able to see into that amazing place that was revealed in lightning.
That amazing place is the place that produces that sputum.
It is the place that produces that juice of the body that they call the water of life.
And it is there that one becomes blind.
Those serpents get that drug in their eyes.
We know that Porphyry talks about the use of venoms to create cause blindness.
And he talks about them as these potent drugs.
So what are we going to do?
What are we going to do here with our right that we're watching?
If you want to follow the communion and enter the lightning, you must become blind.
A child of the serpent, a child of a kidnap.
Now do you know why Jesus was sitting on the cross screaming for Sabakthon?
Because that one guy in the audience that was watching him as he was hanging there, dying.
