Welcome.
The intense purple sky prints, Athena of the night sky with the Frankie scents.
The true servant, Medea the sorceress, rude cutters like the Royal Oak.
Wids and walks by with the purple cloak, magic birds and the kiss of poison.
This little chicka-dee I know, she casts a spell on you.
With me you'll be in paradise, spoke to the good thief on the cross next to Jesus.
Oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love, oh my love.
Dragon venom, mysterious, looking to my eyes, my girl likes to party all the time.
I'm a sex shooter, shooting love in your direction.
I'm a sex shooter, coming play with my affections.
I stayed up all night so you could feel alright with Athena making medicine.
The whole rhythm section was a purple game, and the eagle flies.
Here comes the purple rain, let Tex get him high.
Thank you Teddy for that purple magic.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
So tonight we're going to kick it up a notch.
I am going to give you the secret name of Rome.
Yeah, this is something that I'd like to throw out there.
See if people can find it, inevitably they don't.
Tonight, on the back of my words, through the power of the messenger, I am going to bring you that secret, sacred name.
You will understand when you know her.
Fantastic. What do we have to do to get this place cleaned up?
We have to bring in the fumigators, right?
Bring them in, bring them in, we've got to get this temple clean.
And let's calm down, let's pull down one of those powers.
Here comes Hermes.
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
Tonight you've got a two-fold test.
There have been things planted in your way that you will be able to pick up.
You will be able to hold those symbols and you will be able to assemble the name.
Now, let's get going.
I want you to be able to jump right into this because I know, I know, Satanic congregation,
those of you who have been through the initiation, I know you will be able to find your way.
Let's do it, shall we?
Hit it. Hit that first one, Chewie. Fantastic.
Who are we dredging up tonight?
This is Galen. Everybody, big shout out for Galen.
Big shout out for Galen.
Here we go. Oh, my God, when is he?
Second century Anno Domini.
He's the physician, the body physician, some people call him, of Marcus Aurelius.
And he's a big wig in Rome, baby.
Oh, God, he knows his stuff.
He truly knows his stuff.
Well, thanks to one Robert Lee in 2013.
What did Robert Lee do?
Robert Lee from Essex wrote a dissertation.
And that dissertation in classics was a translation of a work by Galen.
Oh, fantastic.
Congratulations, Robert.
This is the official award of Lucifer Star.
And you deserve it, buddy. You deserve it.
Nice. What did Robert do?
He took a text that all the other classes just ignore because they're, you know, it's Harvard.
You know what I mean?
They're too busy copying other things.
So Robert at Essex put it together for us.
Oh, Robert, thank you so much.
Thank you.
There are a couple of references that you will recognize who have been through the initiation.
We're going to that dark harbor, right?
We're going right sailing right into it.
Oh, God.
Okay, here we go.
Let's just, let's not hold back.
These people need their dope.
You know what I mean?
Oh, yeah, you do.
Let's see the first one and blow it up.
So tell us Galen.
Tell us Galen.
And by the way, you, you Greeklings who are taking the Greek right now, this is second sophistic.
Second sophistic.
This is not this.
What happened to Greek?
Oh, God.
It's so sad.
Let me just tell you this story.
What happened to Greek?
Um, it was so widespread and successful that the common instinct started drawing
it down away from what it had been the sixth and fifth centuries when it was at its height,
when there was power.
I'm going to show you some six and fifth century Greek tonight.
Oh, God makes me so happy.
Oh God.
Love it.
I don't think that was a right word.
Happy.
Let's go to the text of Galen.
Tell us.
Um, he says, look, Piso is this guy's name, right?
Or Piso, if you want to modernize it.
Um, what is he doing?
He's got a son, a very beloved son and his son happens to be, um, he heard himself.
Oh, and who is this guy?
Piso.
Uh, he's a big wig, you know, one of those nights he's got a position, official position,
you know, uh, his son, he was going through an initiation and this initiation into the
mysteries.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Really?
Of the mysteries?
Yeah.
Um, well, he got hurt on his horse.
He got hurt on his horse and Galen had to go treat him and, uh, he's, he noticed Galen
happened and noticed while he was there, um, that his father was, you know, into these
theriacs, he had his theriac scrolls out.
You know what I mean?
He had a theriac.
Did everybody see the news?
Herculanean?
Woo.
Right.
I told you, guess what it has.
That's the game we'll play.
Guess what's in the library?
Okay.
Um, and, uh, what happens?
Yes.
Okay.
So, um, he noticed that he's reading these.
Give me the next one.
He noticed that he's reading these texts, uh, these scrolls, right?
And he says, Hey, I noticed your interest in the theriac.
So let me fill you in.
And so he starts to talk to him.
And what we're going to trace tonight is the use of the theriac in the Julian clan.
Right.
We're going to follow Julius Caesar to Augustus.
Right.
We're going to go from Augustus to Nero.
We're going to go from Nero to Marcus Aurelius and his whole imperial family.
They're all on drugs.
Okay.
Now wait, now wait.
Remember the head of my department in my dissertation defense said the Romans just wouldn't do such
a thing when it comes to drugs, but it turns out the whole imperial family is Galen says,
he's supplying them this drug.
What is this drug?
Theriac.
Oh God.
What is a theriac?
By the way, I've got to say, um, couple of interviews coming up, one with general Lee,
gotta love it.
And another one with Hamilton and, um, check them out when they come out.
But this is kind of the bedrock of the evidence that will push us forward so that people will
start making the connections and figuring out what was the actual history.
Did you think it was a guy that came out of the red sea and it splits in half?
Oh, sit down, atheist.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Go to the next one.
What's the source I'm bringing in now?
Ready?
Are you paying attention because you should be formulating the name for those of you who
were in the congregation, right?
Who didn't just come to watch.
Um, here we go.
Yeah.
Oh God.
And what, what's going on here?
We're looking for the gospel, the epongalia.
And some of you say, well, look at that.
It looks just like a one galea, which is the gospel.
Yes.
