Sunday morning, dark clouds rising Oh, there's no sunshine anywhere
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom To grasp the message in the air
Oh, if I could have one wish And know that it would come true
Had a wish that God would give us strength To know just what to do
Then we could tear down the fences That fences the only
Fences created by such evil men Then we could tear down the fences
That fences the only Maybe we could walk together again
Welcome to Lady Babylon. This is the Season 6 opener.
I tell you what, last time, last season we had a mandate
and that was to kick down the doors and take back the text.
I am very pleased to report that we have proceeded in our mission forward.
This season, this season, it's our mandate to bring forward the untranslated reality.
I am going to be bringing you texts, sealed texts that have not been opened.
And we're going to open the seals. This is Season 6, Lady Babylon.
Today we have quite a somber but striking chord to begin with to open up this season.
And I am just very grateful that everybody can be here to participate in this.
I'm going to be very careful of your time, very respectful.
And I'd like to begin tonight just to set us in the mood, just to set us in the place.
Before I even tell you what we're going to do, where we're going to go.
I want you to see just a few quotes, just a few quotes of the Medea.
Now these are auto-translated, yes.
And I hope that you will understand the spirit behind them.
Let's get into this place. We've got the images for you.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Fantastic. We put ourselves through Seneca in the court of Nero.
And of course Nero is digging into the dirt.
He's sending out his embassies to pick up all of these theriacs,
all these compound formulas that can be used in the mysteries.
For those of you who haven't caught up to that point yet,
we're talking drugs, compound drugs, turning the human body into a drug manufacturing device.
We're talking about cults that are entering into satiriasis through the power of something called the burning purple.
We've all seen it. We all know it.
We've stood at the feet of that cross.
And we have seen that serpent wrap around the cross.
And we knew this is our salvation.
Right?
Thank you. Thank you for all the drugs.
Yeah. Tonight what we're going to do, right?
I've had the machine go on while I was doing that little song and dance for you.
But tonight where we're going is to a text.
And this text is not often looked at.
People are not that interested in it, but it is the perfect and precise bridge.
It is the perfect and precise bridge for us to step back into that New Testament.
Yeah. Yeah.
We have to go native in order to get to it.
Now this explains exactly all the cult that Jesus is involved in.
And our job this season is to bring to light the cult of Jesus in untranslated work using the Vox, Orphic.
The Orphic voice. Orphica. Nice.
Let's hit that first.
We've got a comment to hit.
Yep. Go ahead. Hit the comments now.
Hey, you've dropped more insight than Crowley did in 50 years.
Sorry, people. You know me. I switch gears quick.
But I want you to have a couple of comments.
Come on, man. It's fun.
And thank you guys for participating.
I'm Crowley did in 50 years.
I've read original sin.
Only a square would fail to comprehend prudentious struggles with Saudi mode libido.
Oh, I smell nastiness.
Yes. Yes.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Very, very much cheese.
Commando. Fantastic.
Fantastic. Beautiful.
Hit us with another one.
Thank you, Chewie.
Oh, you put that one in there on purpose, didn't you?
You say no, you did.
That's okay.
You can have your time in the limelight.
Thank you, Chewie, for what you do.
So lovely.
I was moved by what I'm and said about you.
I also was not in the light in the least surprised.
Another terrific episode.
Yeah. Thanks a lot, Chewie.
You know, we wouldn't be here.
Right.
If it weren't for Chewie.
So little round of applause for Chewie.
Say something nice in the notes.
Let's do we have one more?
