I didn't think of this till right now. Isn't there some play on the greek
In the in the gospels when he's being I don't know which gospel it is
But there's a there's the argument that he if you break up what he's saying
Saba cthoni, right
Yeah, yeah, no when he's shouting and he says he says lama sabak thon
Right and everybody's like anybody who heard that at the time would know exactly what cult
Jesus was functioning within just by that right sabak thon
No problem, and it's a magical incantation and all the scholars that
Divided the people right now the classes because they don't touch this stuff because they don't want to
I don't want to but they don't need the headache you talk to any classes
I tried to get rock to bring in the naked boy rock bringing it. No come on come on
He's got to keep his job, right? He wants to stay out
Of that so I don't have to i'm fortunate enough that we can go ahead and bring in Jesus's naked boy
But okay, I just want to make one or two comments on everything that you showed first of all
Tight tight brother that that junk was tight as tight gets
Right, you cannot walk away from that evidence
You cannot walk away people and you were going to get just one
You got double in the end. You got a climax there
A day-to-mall you got everything with oh, I'm so impressed beautiful
I'm I'm gobsmacked
at the
You know if you and I were just in a wrestling match
Um, I'm not quite sure who they're gonna call right? It's it may be a split decision
Right. I'm serious. I'm serious neal. I'm serious. That was real professional real good stuff
Real good stuff. Okay. What I want to do now is take it just take a couple of questions from people
Um, I will pick them because I'm in charge
But I want you to be thinking about everything that neal was presenting there
And I saw people thinking about well, just you know, somebody asked I'll just start with this
Well, she was waiting for good questions to come up
I'm gonna say hey
Um, somebody already said jump the gun and said hey
Um, could it be that when they talk about multiple snakes?
for example
Being in one sort of drug that these are different coats so to speak
Exactly. These are the different elements. Yeah, that's
On that on that one showing on that plate that I was going there's all these little like
Serpents and bugs and different creatures on that on that plate
And I'm thinking that's gotta be some sort of drug reference there. Why would they just be throwing random animals on this thing?
Yeah, yeah, and
John Scarborough said, you know the um
The scorpion that's yeah in the mithraic
Reliefs um, sometimes there's a scorpion right under the testicles
And it looks like it could be stinging them, right? And then all of a sudden you think
You know, John Scarborough was like, you know that that has some kind of crossover
With the fact that you and I are reading medical texts that have to do with you know, scorpion
toxin being used in the treatment of
Or to induce
Infertility it's like a chemical castration
Oh, okay. Yeah, it makes sense with the eunuchs and all that kind of stuff
It kind of it fits very well the pharmacology fits. I love it. Okay. I'm gonna look at a couple of questions
Neil, did you have any just put a cap on it while I'm hunting for questions
And yeah and about the eunuch thing the uh the business teams kept that system in place
They seem to have kept that system going
the eunuch system
It makes me wonder if they're interpreting the text
Those who are eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven
And they're taking that as like a green light
saying well
We have in our texts where we're allowed to uh create eunuchs for our kingdom
because um
As far back as early as early as Constantine and going all the way deep into the 10th century
You had a division. I forgot the name of it was
I was showing you a couple days ago. It was a weird name for it
But the the the name in Greek literally means like those who sleep beside the emperor
It's what that's what the etymology is and there it's a unit of eunuchs
That are chosen at what from where I don't know how they choose them
But they're made into eunuchs and they're given over to the emperor and they live in the emperor's quarters
The emperor the highest the most powerful man in the world arguably depending on what time period we're in
And he's got a whole little band of eunuchs that live there with him
It's interesting. Yeah, nice nice. You're exactly right right the one who shares the bed
Um, yeah, can can you explain the biblion that goes in the mouth?
So neil we're talking about a zikule and we're talking about
Using this little book and we talked about this in the greek magical empire because they do the same thing there
And they actually describe the inks that are the psychotropic inks
So
Something is going into his mouth and ending up inducing this quaking. Remember he's talking
the seismos remember he's talking about
um
those horns and initiating those horns that
that thunder that quake
That gai eochos that that um, you know, see gai on that earth trembling
Force is that force within the communion
It enables you in the community because remember we're talking about mithraic stuff, right? And um, this is all
um religious operation
Slash medical operation an event
Right, we're inducing things. Are you gonna remember this?
This is a time where religion and science were one
There was no like today that they're dueling now you have science and religion dueling
But we're talking about a time in the world where the people who were doing science were the religious leaders
They were the priests. They were the astronomers. There was no difference between astrology and astronomy
They had they had the technical skills. They had the monopoly on the technical skills, right?
those witches
Are oracles, right? They're all connected. They're all the root cutters. They're all the ones that are
Preparing the drugs and getting people hyped on the drugs
You ever wonder why why do they go to root cutters for wisdom and ask them how to what to do about things?
What do you think they they're they're doing the the root root cutters?
That's the that's where you get the I mean the it's where you find the highest content of dmt
Is in roots not leaves or or or like berries or anything
It's in the under the ground and the roots so the root cutters are they're going for the magic stuff
They're looking for the magic
And it's a it's a pure matter of science
I mean if you if you look at what they're doing within the operations themselves
Um, you and you can see this just by the antidotes that they're using and talking about the symptoms that they're trying to alleviate
The craftsmanship you said the priestesses have the have the technology, right exactly
And I think that's why the priestesses are the ones that are involved in sending out colonies
And saying hey, you should kill this tyrant or you should bring these people to power
I think that's why I think that's why they're there because they possess that technological edge
And they're doing that that interface
Um that interface between what you and I would call religion or spirituality
And the physical world
That interface is possible
In the mystery all the mysteries are about is achieving that vision
Whether it's Ezekiel sitting there bombed
On his wheels that that angel having boom put him into that
I was just telling I was just telling someone a couple of days like not that long ago that if it wasn't for
My experiences with DMT
I probably would be stone cold atheists right now
That those experiences are just
life changing
Like they're there it's magic. It's something it's not it's you can't explain that. I wish I can explain that
It's not even worth it
I'll give it no do you feel Neil that your eyes are open. Do you feel that your eyes are open? Do you kind of
Feel that analogy there's some there's some something that
When you're in that state where you
are
Opened up to there's this some there's you just feel like there's something beyond the this
Nate natural world that we're experiencing
It just does now if you know the one that thinks that if you can achieve
I'm sorry if you could achieve that you know as a
Human being as somebody born in nature
You know that there's an achievable end to create what they're doing in the mystery. You know, it's a possibility
It's not an imaginary world. It's not faith. It's not a belief
It's an activity. Yeah
And and it's possible to achieve that. Yeah, love it. What's the question? Do you think subasius?
Is palaskian? What do you think? What do you think?
I was looking at that question my first thing what I would say about that is
Well, according to diodorus and according to herodotus
subasius is the
All this Dionysus
He's the horn Dionysus and he's from the black sea region
And check this out in the black sea region
And we know the plaschians come from that region and then they go and they find the Mediterranean and they populate Crete
And they spread out from there
And are Thessaly and Crete at the same time like kind of at the same time. You don't mean by that
anyways, but before that they're all the way in the black sea like
northern
Black sea
All across the black sea and this is where you had the cultivation of grapes
And is discovered ask anyone any any anthropologists archaeologists will say the cultivation of the grapevine
Was discovered in this region of the world
So we and in the time of the we're talking about a time where any metaphysical concepts would become deified
The idea of oaths and contracts becomes mithras
But the idea of a god that you can drink and and takes over your your mind you can have this
ecstatic experience ecstasy
That's a god becomes a god that had there's no you don't only you need evidence to prove that that was a thing
That that was a deified concept
So, you know, this doesn't take a lot of mental it doesn't take a lot of like
logical
Inference to say that's where dying isis comes from
That's where the so sebaceous is a Pulaski and god probably that's what I would say
Yeah, and I think that's the safest way you can say it because you know, you can hedge it with probably just because look
