Let's go.
Is there a problem?
Hang on.
Shoe isn't a kid and there's a problem.
Let's pause for this message from your sponsor.
Who is this?
Who is it?
I can't see.
I can't.
I can't read your lips.
Oh, did you hear?
You're not supposed to say anything.
Okay.
Decay.
Oh, and by the way, people keep asking, when is Chewie going to show her face?
When is Chewie going to show her face?
It's mystery.
Let's go back to the text.
Back to the text.
We're almost done.
We're in the stretch here.
I'll hurry us along a little bit.
And what do we really need to know?
Look, this is part of a tradition.
This thing that Hermes passed down to us, this gift, it's gone through people like Apollo
to his son.
It went through Athena to others, citizens, people like Heracles, who were able to pick
it up and were able to what?
Were able to mount the ether.
They were able to mount the ether.
Can you hear me?
These are the people who have done this through time.
Chiron is one of them.
And what did he do?
He taught the art to his boys.
He taught the art to his boys.
And substitute Jesus for Chiron.
And it's the same cult.
We still get Christ.
We still get sons of God.
We still get death and resurrection.
Okay.
What about that prophecy?
Promise me.
Let's go on.
There's a lot here of what's promised, but let's go on to the...
I want to see the prophecy that nobody's revealed, but I want people to have tonight.
Okay.
Now, I want you to recognize really quick.
This is on the lithica.
And I just want you to see on the authorship of the poem.
This poem is considered by some hoo-ha to be the production of some Asiatic Greek.
That's a just slight, just a slight hint of kind of eugenic-y kind of thinking.
Right?
I mean, technically, you know, he's from Asia.
Well, whatever.
It doesn't matter.
Written in the fourth sense.
That's the guess.
After the profession of magician had been made a capital offense by the law of constantious.
Right?
Okay.
He even conjectures that the godlike prophet that we're to talk about now.
Keep going.
Oh, is what?
Well, let's get to some drugs first.
Right?
Yeah.
The salagramma or sacred stone of Vishnu.
I don't know how to say that to you.
I'll defer to snappy on that.
Some stone sacred to issue to Vishnu so much used by the Brahmins and all propitiatory
rights, especially at the moment of death is described by somebody as a kind of ammonite
to very heavy oval round black.
The very wrinkled ponderous round black or rights of Orpheus.
Orpheus.
Sometimes it's colors violet represents that vindictive avatar.
Okay.
Take it down.
Take it down.
Wait a minute.
Well, I thought we were in Greece.
We're all over baby.
We are all over the globe.
Go back to the next one.
All over to the all over the globe.
Here we are.
I want to give you a few, a couple of passages here.
Here's the prophecy people.
Are you ready?
What's going to happen to this God prophet?
Who is this God prophet that's coming?
Who is this son of God that is coming?
Who's going to use the gift of Hermes?
Who's going to know the ambrosia?
And like Chiron is going to pass it on to his boys.
Who is this?
Well, I'll tell you, I'll tell you who what happens to this prophet, the boys who have
soft, I'm translating the boys who have soft flesh.
They grab him with their little grabby, grabby hands and cause him to enter desire.
Okay.
It's getting a little bit strange.
Keep going.
This is unheard.
Are you ready?
And the soft Korah, that soft Korah.
Does everybody know the soft Korah?
That soft girl pulls him into her bed because she is always, always, always just.
Hot and bothered for phylotes.
Oh my God.
She loves that stuff with the kisses, with the kisses.
Let's keep going.
Are you serious?
This is prophet.
Yep.
I'm serious.
Are you ready?
It's going to start to sound familiar.
Give me the next one.
And what's going to happen?
Look at the second line.
When there's a storm on the sea, he's not going to get upset.
He's not going to be shaken.
He's going to walk on the water in his feet.
Will be as if they're on dry land, on dry land.
Does that sound familiar to anyone?
Let's keep going.
Let's keep going.
Why do you think Jesus was talking about?
Well, this happened because this prophecy has to be fulfilled.
Uh-oh.
Look at line 40.
Look at line 40.
Jesus, this isn't starting not to look good.
And the pirates.
The pirates who are atypical.
What do they do?
They abandon him.
They abandon him.
You know those boy pirates?
You know that rock that he was raising and pulls out that sword?
He's going to be the next pirate.
He's going to be the next lace-dace.
Did you see the word lace-dace there?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Lace status.
There's our plural.
Look at it.
Line 40.
Right?
And what's going to happen?
Look at the next line.
It says that people are going to what?
They're going to see the father in him.
They're going to see the father in him.
And they're going to love his kingdom.
They're going to love his kingdom.
Wait.
This is prophecy?
Yep.
It's prophecy.
Let's see if it came true.
Let's see if it came true.
Go to the next one.
We only got a couple of these left, right?
This is coming up on the end.
What else can this prophet do, this God?
What else can he do?
He can see into people's brains.
He can see what the mortals are trying to hold in their minds.
He knows what they're contriving.
He even knows what those bird songs are, those creatures that hover in the air.
He knows when they give out their Bacchic song.
He knows these things that are unheard of by men, right?
Who don't have ears to hear.
He knows the birds, those prophets of Zeus.
He knows them.
What else does he know?
Uh-oh.
This is going to scare you.
Are you ready?
He knows how to establish the rush of the coming dragon.
And he knows how to balance the drug of the snake.
You see line 49?
You see where it says, oh, Eon.
There's our Eos people.
There's our Eos people.
And how does he get transmitted to them?
I'm going to give it to him.
I'm going to give it to him in the holos.
I'm going to give it to him in the bile.
You know what that bile is in the box?
That bile is serpent venom.
He's going to be a master of the serpent venom.
He's going to be screaming about people who are thirsty.
He's going to be bringing people into death and raising them again.
Are you, let me ask the Christians, are you ready to be raised from the dead?
Are you ready?
I'm speaking to you.
You evangelicals, you ready?
Because you know Jesus can do it.
You know he can raise from the dead.
You know you can drink those drugs that'll kill you and they won't.
You know you can lift up those vipers.
Wait a minute.
You don't?
Is a Christian?
You don't?
Then you're not a Christian.
Turn around and walk away.
You didn't come here as a kid anyway.
You weren't put through the right.
You're uninitiated.
You are unborn again.
You know what you are?
You're a psychological deviant.
You're a psychological deviant who thinks you're in a state that they were in an antiquity
and you're 180 degrees off.
You're 180 degrees off.
God, it's embarrassing.
Somebody's got to show you the history.
Right?
Somebody's got to show you.
We've got two more slides.
Go.
Actually, I want to quit right there on that last slide.
Just bring that last slide up one more time.
I think it was this one.
Bring that one up.
Yeah.
A thousand other blessings heaped on high, stored in the cave of skill for Hermes lie.
Immortal true of wonder's potency, who so attains a happy man as he.
Isn't that nice?
That's a little Victorian misogyny cuddled in there too.
But there you go.
There you go.
Love it.
Love it.
Okay.
Let's bring in Gnostic Informant.
Gnostic Informant.
Thank you for coming.
I really appreciate the fact that you would join me and miss my second to last episode
for Satanic initiation and Bible studies.
Yeah.
Tell me something.
Tell me just really quick before I get into the interview part.
And people love to see it.
People last time were saying in the comments, they're saying, whew, he's so hot.
Well, I got, I want to add some sources to compliment to what you've already brought
brought across because I think the main, the main theme here and the main theme of the
Saint, Saint Technician in general is there is no escaping the world, the Greek world
that these religions are operating in.
Theology itself comes from the Orphics, Orpheus being called the first theologian.
All of this descends from Medea and the magical rights that came out of Colchis that influenced
the Etruscans, the Greeks, the Romans, the Carthaginians, the Egyptians, everybody.
And they call themselves Orphics, the Pythagoreans.
Pythagoreans are basically Orphics that are living in Italy.
Plato was one of these people.
He called himself an Orphic.
He starts Platonism.
The Stoics come along and the Stoics and the Platonists mix together.
You get middle Platonism.
It's where Christianity comes out of and so forth.
And there's no escaping this.
There's certain...
When they're speaking in their languages, whether it's Hebrew or Greek or Egyptian,
there are certain words that etymology goes back to these Orphics.
And I'm going to show you the word Eucharist.
You and Chorus to give grace.
That's a technical, cultic term.
But I'm getting ahead of myself.
First, I want to show Paul, our buddy Paul, our peer Paul.
He has obviously no links to Medea, right?
That would be crazy.
Medea is a witch.
What would Paul have to do with Medea?
Let's go with the source that I got the first one I told you about when I'm the share screen.
This is from Titus, one of the letters that are attributed to Paul.
In the spirit of Paul, maybe one of his...
Maybe somebody who Paul is traveling with, whatever.
It's Titus.
It's got Paul's name on it.
And if you go down, he says,
One of Crete's prophets has said it.
Cretans are always liars, evil brutes, lazy gluttons.
This saying is true.
Okay.
What prophet is he talking about?
Who's this prophet?
Why is he calling him a prophet?
Well, it turns out this is from Epimenides.
Most people would already know that.
But here's the thing.
Epimenides didn't make this up.
Epimenides is citing somebody.
And I'm going to go to this screen now.
Epimenides is citing Medea.
Here it is.
He reports, Athena Doris of Eretria in the eighth book on his commentaries,
says that Thetis and Medea had a dispute in Thessaly.
You know, that's where the Pulaskians settled.
As to which was the most beautiful, their judge,
Idomenius, who gave victory to Thetis.
Medea in anger said, the Cretans are always liars.
And in revenge, she made the curse that he would never speak the truth
just as he lied in his judgment.
There is that Epimenides paradox right there.
Epimenides is citing Medea.
And then so by extension, Thetis, Paul, is citing Medea.
There you go.
You can't escape Medea's influence.
No matter how hard you try to purify or separate,
