Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met, I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace, where is that horc called destiny
I think she ran on without me
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. I have a couple of announcements before we begin today.
Gnostic informant is being initiated into unassailable freedom.
He has been handed over to the devil. It is a return to Bacchic mania.
If his preparation is complete, he will come to celebrate Saturn with us this week.
And now for me, as your mystus, I do not make public the preparation. This is his business.
Tonight's episode is about preventing rape and killing saints.
I know that we don't have a lot of time together, so I'm going to make this brief.
Tonight, I must start with a public service announcement. If you are being cornered,
if you're being taken in the back or into a back alley or somewhere in a park where there's not a lot of people,
with an academic, if an academic coaxes you into some place that's isolated,
always, always, always rely upon reason. Don't take everything you're given.
Today, I had to witness a terrible, terrible intellectual and psychical molestation.
And it took place in such a grievous and perverted way in order to maintain status,
in order to maintain hu-ha-ism, in order to maintain the great facade of academia.
With one little stroke, you can bring them short every time.
With one little stroke, what was the weakness today? The weakness today was the mystery.
The mystery, what happened? Everybody defines the mystery.
And those who define it, who live the fairy tale, define it as the secret. Everybody knows it's the secret.
Great hu-has from great institutions will tell you that. And they'll say, go look it up.
I suggest you do. And when you'll do, when you do dig down to the depth and get to the ground,
the scientific ground, you'll see it means initiation. It means initiator.
One who has, one who is directing, one who is leading, the moustace is the one who is leading the initiation.
It is also the initiation. When Jesus said, I'm the way.
He was saying that because the initiation is the initiator.
He is the way. Yes, very good.
So when someone, and get back, get back, young, did you see what he did here?
Young, get down. Right? Get your whip. Where's my whip? Get, you broke my cup.
It was young. If you understood the mystery, you are never going to understand young
until you open your eyes, until you have ears to hear. And until then, don't pretend.
Don't sit in your palace, your lofty palace and potentificate pontificatiously.
No, you don't. Everybody here who is in this congregation knows this temple is sacred.
Here we can go to the source. Here we can find out what was being said.
And here tonight, I'd like to start. So shout out to the, those of you who are, those of you who are used and abused.
Yeah, it's time for us to stand up and take on our abusers and that phony world that they keep trying to shove down our
throats, that fake world that you know doesn't exist now. Your eyes have been opened.
Yeah, no more. No more of that. Tonight I invite you to come to Salome. We go to Salome.
In order to get to Salome, I want to resurrect the ghost of Oscar Wilde.
You say I could have gone Crowley. Oh, yes. Well, you know, I'm given a choice between a fine French cuisine and McDonald's.
I have to choose Oscar Wilde. Thank you very much.
