He's like, wait a minute.
This is a, my God, this is a great text on, on these Therriac, these, you can't have a beast.
When you have seals, I got news for you.
When you've got seals, I'm talking to the evangelicals now.
When you've got seals, you don't even know what those are.
The classes, you don't know what a seal is, do you?
Did you know that you stick a seal in your rectum?
Stick a seal in your rectum.
Shame on you people.
The drugs, look up the Trohiscoi, look at them.
Those wheels that you guys are always confusing that the Christians cannot explain.
That's just words for a specific type of drug applicator.
Yeah, it's just the way that the drug is dispensed.
You guys didn't even know, did we have, I'm sorry, I got to show this.
There's one more, maybe I didn't include it, but I really, no, I really wanted you guys to see.
No, I forgot it.
Take that down.
I forgot it.
Shame on me.
But I wanted you to see the Christing.
I wanted you to know, infiluminous is the Christing.
And we talk about it.
What do you do when you get Christed, right?
What do you do?
You know why?
If you get in trouble for, if you get exposed to a venom that you don't have an immunity to,
that's your own fault.
You have not been Christed.
You have not been Christed.
I guarantee it with as much water as they got out of his gut when they poked it with a spear
after he died prematurely on the cross and suddenly yelling, I'm thirsty.
I'm thirsty.
And some lines that are clearly from the papyri Greikai Magikai.
Blamasabakthon.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I guarantee you if you were to have Jesus's hair, you would have drugs and you would have
a constellation of drugs that you could then say, Hey, hey, hey, wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
What fits this constellation?
What are they using this for?
Yeah, it's like a fingerprint.
You can fit it like a fingerprint.
And when Jesus died prematurely on that cross, he wasn't, didn't die from the crucifixion.
He died before.
Yeah.
And they were like, Oh, he's dead.
Shouldn't be dead yet.
Right.
He's drinking that water.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
I want to know why you guys have been over this evidence before.
So I don't want to, I don't want to rehash it.
But as this investigation is going, and let's admit it, right?
We don't have Scotland yard on our side, right?
We need to, we need to lay it out, to lay out the case with the evidence, without any
sort of bias or phony agenda, without belonging to any schools or any groups or any
religions or any cults or any covens.
Yeah.
Cause remember, I'm going to flip on y'all.
I'm flipping on y'all as soon as they come in.
Inquisition.
Um, well, by the way, you can open it up on the witch's side too.
Now I'm just, I should stop.
I should stop.
No, I apologize for taking up more of your time than I'm worthy of.
I apologize.
Um, well, we can also create, this is a new mechanism.
I show you this philological mechanism we can create because the language leaves a
trace over time, we can follow it through say the middle ages.
And we can look at the chemical profiles in the middle ages that are being used.
And yes, we do have them because we know what the witches are always arrested with.
And we have an account of, of Michelet that talks about in France, talks about
that tripod and what the Oracle is doing on what the Saabat is and what Lucifer is.
Right.
We have all of that.
So we can take those little periods of time as well.
And we can write out a history of how the drugs have been used over time.
We can watch and paint, right, an accurate portrait now because we have
tracers in these drugs.
