covered with stars. And so right away, you know exactly, you know exactly what religious
neighborhoods you're in. And people say, what are they doing with the stars? The religion of the sun,
the moon and the stars, right? The Saturnian golden age. You know, we worship, we worship the sun,
the moon and the stars. And what do we do with those? We draw down the stars, right? That's,
that's, that's what our action is. So when you go see Satan, find out who those stars are,
right? And how they can be drawn. There is a universe out there. There is a universe
where you can be struck by that lightning, right? And you can exist within that lightning.
Yeah. Do you, do you want it? Do you have ears to hear? Do you want the,
who wants the manual, man? I'll give you the manual, the PGM. And you can, you can experiment
all you want. You can find, you can open portals, get yourself into big trouble, right? And push
toward the mystery. But what amazes me is that all this mystery is about, is about one oracle.
It's about one queen. Yeah. There's no boy in the garden. It's all about her. And somehow
it gets, gets yanked historically. It gets yanked into this masculine form
where we are using the Herculian boy as a source of our glane. Yeah. And so,
you know, we have some explaining to do. If we can see this history for what it is,
right? At least we'll know that. You know, I thought a week ago when it says in the Bible that
Jesus was touching kids and the people were complaining and they're like, tell them to stop
touching the kids. And he's like, his apostles come to his disciples coming and they say,
he says, oh, what are you doing? You're trying to scandalize me, right? You're trying to get me in
trouble. That word for touch has been translated to you as touch for a reason. It is also the
Greek verb for to molest. Yeah. Was Jesus a child molester? Yes, he was. And his religion was satanic
just like the religion of the Jews. Yeah. Satanic. Yeah. Beautiful. Oh my, it's gorgeous.
Bronze age people, back to the bronze age. Gotta go back to that queen. Gotta go back to that
one queen. Yeah. I see a note here that somebody's Rob says, say something.
Lady back. I am a Satanist and my wife is a Christian. Do you have any advice to help remove
the scales from her eyes, so to speak? This is Daniel. Yeah. Daniel, the best tool, the best tool
to remove the scales is the reality. Take her to the garden. Take her on a date to the garden,
right? Be there with her and show her the boy. Show her the three men who are standing at a distance
keeping watch, keeping guard in a public park at 4am. Show her the authorities that show up,
right? For the raid and capture Jesus. Show the fighting and somebody getting an ear chopped off.
Show the boy running away, right? Take her to Ananias and Sapphira and say the Lord struck them down
right? Show her these things, right? Jehovah, Jehovah's
weakness is the reality, right? Because, because what we have created from it doesn't
match it. It's just a reflection of the reality, right? And it's important if you're going to
um work with somebody who is within a cult, right? Christianity is a cult. It always has
been a cult. It always will be a cult. It operates on the terms that every cult operates under. And
it's salvation that is offered. It's ionic life. It's not eternal life. It's ionic life that's offered
is why you can make mountains move, right? They're, they are very much dialed in to the magic
already without them even, even knowing it, right? They're very dialed. The Christians know.
They know it's the apocalypse, right? And despite the fact that they worship a liar,
right? And place him on the throne of tyranny. Despite that, despite that,
reason, reason will get to them. Let me just repeat something that was told to me by a union.
A union told me, practicing union, told me and recognized for his talent, told me that there's
something about some the treatment of Nazis and presenting the maternal figure to them, right?
You present the great mother. Find the great mother that is rejected by Jehovah and you've got your
crack, right? That power, that feminine power, that mother who is the virgin mother, right? That
imagine, you know, in every temple, in every temple, you bring three forces together. Okay,
I'm just telling the old old Roman magic. In any temple, you bring three forces together, right?
And so, if you bring the virgin, the queen, and the lover, if you bring Aphrodite and you bring
Hera, Erra, and you bring Athena, then that combined power is able to disrupt the masculine,
the feminine, the secret is the feminine magic power is superior to the masculine. That's why Zeus
is always looking over, the Greeks recognizes, Zeus is always looking over his shoulder because
the civil has said he's going to be overthrown, right? Jehovah will die, right? That's all there is
to it. And it's the feminine that brings him down, right? Why do you think they're so afraid?
When a man is transformed into a woman using chemicals or surgery, why do you think it so
disrupts the Christian and the Orthodox communities, whether they be Jewish or Christian Orthodox,
right? Why do you think it disrupts them so much? Because it's a manifestation of the power that
they know can kill their God. We are the generation of Orion. We are the God killers.
How do we get there? Can I interrupt, sorry? Masonic travel, he wants more Greek, he wants
to initiate, he wants to read, he wants to see the Greek, he's seen your Gnostic informants and he wants
the Greek. He's asked who is the boy also, and also there's Lord Snappy at 3.38am, which is a good
question of like, if you can get that up for me, can we talk about Saturnalia since it's almost
the town of the festival? What was happening with binding and unbinding of the idol and the
inversion of social hierarchies? It's a good question. And I can't let it go because my bar doesn't
work, so I'm catching up on the trade. Yeah, Lord Snappy came last time and it's good to see again.
Yeah, the Saturnalia is that golden age. It's the freeing. It's the
unconquerable or the fearless freedom, the fearless freedom. You reach that it's an age,
it's described as an age, right? But we're talking outside of time. We're not talking about
temporal ages, right? It's a power. Think of it as a power, the imposition of another dimension.
And what does that dimension represent? It represents freedom so that slaves become masters,
right? Become the, I shouldn't say, the inversion is to allow them to partake
of the opposite pole. So they don't do it just with slaves and masters. They do it with parents
and children as well, right? So the children, for Saturnalia, I let my kids call the shots, right?
And it's their choice. And we follow their will and they guide. They take over and they guide.
So we, masters of students, the students take over, right? And when those students take over, when
that younger generation takes over with its freedom, you're, you're in a Saturnian place,
or a Satanic place that row and that road disappears into the new. I'm telling you,
it's a Mycenaean thing, okay? So Satan is not who you think his name is not even who you
thought it was, right? It is Saturn. So, and hey, if there's, if there's only one way to follow
that, we can do it through the drugs. Yeah, so good. Saturnalia, fantastic. There's a ton.
Macrobius. Read Macrobius is Saturnalia. Whoever asked that question, go resurrect Macrobius
and, and ask him, ask him specifically, invoke the muse and ask him to show you,
do it respectfully. You can't come in without an unshaven, right? If you want to follow,
you have to sell everything you have, give it to the poor and you have to commit, right?
Um, because that's the way the mystery works. Yeah. Um, Lord Snappie. Yeah.
Good. Fantastic. I said, I don't want to drag people. We got way too long and people are here.
Let me just wrap up by saying, I appreciate everybody's input and involvement and I'll try
to smooth this out a little better to where you know that you're going to get, I'll hit you with
the reel or something. Um, Agent Ferrari, I need a reel that I can play that switches us over from
the, um, consulting of the texts to a time when I can engage, when we can engage and Rob can do
his job that he's not paid for and what she does so well. Um, and let's do that. I'd just like,
I'd just like to say thank you. Thank you to everybody. Come on to them brilliant.
I'll do my best for you. I've done my best to get through them and thank you very much.
It's kept me really amused. Some of the comments because I had the
sense of you and some of the comments have been fantastic.
You have probably seen a lot. But thank you. I'm, I'm, I'm privileged. I'm privileged. I look at
it every once in a while. I think, oh my goodness, how nice it is to have such great comments.
So, you know, people, thank you.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know the stuff, you know the stuff, but they won't, they won't more.
It's just like, just like myself. I want more and that's what's, that's what drives,
that's what drives me every day. I just want more and I want more about this and it just
keeps getting deeper and deeper and wider. Yeah. And I, you can't sell this stuff, Rob.
It doesn't work if you try to sell it. You can't. There's a, there's a pollution that's
involved in that process. You can't sell. I agree. I agree. I think there is. When you go
to a lucis ride, when you become a Balkans, you can't sell that. That's, that's, you cannot
put a price on freedom. You cannot do that. No, no. Oh, do you feel that? I felt a little burp
of Thomas Jefferson suddenly. That was, that was pleasant. Hey, a little bonus and then we're done.
In the end real, you will notice there is a name and I keep telling you about Orphic.
This name is the name of the dragon and it is written in Orphic and I'd love for you to
feast your eyes on the language of the mystery. It means dragon and the only reason we know that
is because the magical papyrus told us it means dragon. Have a good week. We'll see Wednesday
for those of you who want to come to the 30 minute Bible study and otherwise hail Satan and for
those of you who take your assignment seriously and talk to Lucifer, I need to know, I need to know
we need to collect that knowledge and I appreciate that. So have a rest of a good sabbat and we'll see you next time.
you
