The porphyry, remember, is the purple, and that's the mollusk.
You know, it's probably a place where they fished this thing out of the waters and prepared
it and then apparently administered it.
The guys that came up and saw them, the locals that walked up and hear these two guys messing
around, right, where the purple is, those guys said it was God, right?
It was a couple of gods that washed up.
Be careful.
Another guy said, no, no, no, it's not.
It's just some humans, just some Greeks, he said, washed up from the shore, right?
Washed up.
There they are.
Let's go get them and kill them, right?
Take them to the sacrifice in the great version, because this is at the bottom of the top of
this place.
On the top of this place is a hill, and the name for that hill is the name for doing purple.
It's got a temple on the top of it, a temple to the Virgin.
Okay, so let's watch what happens when these guys use this drug.
This is phenomenal.
The Greek text is wonderful here.
We're going down to about line, oh, this is about line 285 for those who are keeping track.
About 284, 283 here.
Yeah, so this is good.
I'm going to use this one that's on the screen here.
Yeah, there we go.
Perfect.
So maniais, I know, he was running around in mania, that's the word for mania.
He's pacing back and forth in mania, okay.
And he's shouting, boi.
He's shouting on Kunagos, like he's a hunter.
Like he's, that word literally is just the one that leads the dogs.
And if you think of a man here, you've thought wrong.
Yeah, you're not in Kansas anymore, man whose wife is a sack of rubies.
That's so demeaning.
I don't know how you people put up with it.
I really don't know.
I don't get it.
Whatever, it's your choice.
Okay, what does he say?
What does this one guy say?
He's stumbling around.
He's like Pilates.
His friend's name is Pilates, right?
A couple of Greeks.
Yeah, right?
Pilates.
He says, did you see that thing?
He says, it's the dragon of Hades, it's the dragon of Hades.
Now, that may not make sense to some of you, but for some of you take the right path.
You'll know that the Crimea has a dragon and a gateway to Hades.
To Hades.
We have a dragon and we have a gateway to Hades.
This thing is so old that Homer even writes about it and it's speculated that Homer got
it, stole it from the epics about Medea, which would make sense, right?
Because before Odysseus is running around in his skirt, Medea is ruling the world.
Yeah, yeah, you didn't know she, yeah, fantastic.
This is gorgeous.
I tell you this stuff.
So what's this guy doing?
He's running around.
Ah, there's the drachyna of Hades, right?
He's like, do you see her?
Do you see her?
He says, as if she wants to kill me, she's here, she comes, she's coming like she wants
to kill me.
And what does she got?
She's got daynice, ahidnice, for those of you who follow the ahidna or the ahidna, you
know that in the dipsass, the poison, right?
You know that this is her, the viper.
Here she is.
She's coming at him with these terrible, terrible, viperine darts, right?
Oh, God, this is gorgeous, yeah.
And now this next line, it's a little odd and not translated very well.
So you guys are sitting tonight on the, you're looking down into the canyon, right?
On the top, you're looking down because this is not done.
This text is not done, right?
