Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back. It's nice to have you, and I appreciate your audience. I see that there are a lot of comments tonight already, and I'd like to get started.
I've brought with me tonight Rob all the way from England. Yeah, and he is here. He is going to be the master at arms here, and he will look through your questions and anything that strikes him as particularly inspired because we are looking for the best of the best.
He will, I'll ask him and he will throw to the gallery and we'll see. I need to have some interaction with you tonight in this process of initiation, but before we begin, I need to remind everybody that this is a satanic initiation and that we do not accept any sort of cash or reimbursement or any sort of gold or silver or whatever currency or glitch.
Of electric space you decide to invest in.
It's corrosive. So that brings us to our topic or opening topic for tonight. Before we get to the secret text, we're going back to ritual right and I've got some, some very good ritual for you tonight, but we're going back to ritual.
And before we get there, I want to start with just, I want to park our space timeship in, oh, let's say, oh, where should we go tonight? Yeah, yeah, I feel it. Can you feel it? Oh, I feel it coming. Here it is.
The dark harbor. That's where the destination is tonight is a place called the dark harbor. And here where you cannot serve God and Amon, we hold a sacred space.
And we do so through guarding these texts. And that's what I'm going to bring to you are some texts in.
If you were there in the first century, if you step out the door and get a whiff of the air, it's the first century. Yeah, and the dudes, it was, you know, we started to have our money all in common.
Yeah, so we sold things off and we gave it to Peter and this one guy, this one guy and his wife, they sold their stuff and they didn't give it all to Peter.
And what happened? Peter got really angry and a couple of people got smitten. Yeah, smiting, thorough smiting and dead. And what is funny is most people know this episode.
This is Ananias and Sapphire that I'm talking about, right? From the Book of Acts. Most people know that episode. But John Goldenmouth, who is this wonderful, oh, he's a wonderful, wonderful scholar and teacher and great homilyrider.
Yeah, he's into the mystery. He knows what the mystery is. You know, he's living too close to it. And yeah, he says, you know, it was Peter, right? Okay, the miracle that happened, you know, it was maybe, maybe not so much fantasy, because at the time that it happened, people didn't mourn the death of these two.
They didn't mourn them, right? They just, they went in, you gotta understand. They went in to Peter. In front of Peter, closed the doors, opened the doors to dead people, right?
Smitten, smoded, smut. And you don't realize what the effect of that was. Watch the effect. John Goldenmouth says it's not. It wasn't about whether or not there was mourning for the dead and how the reaction of the crowd was.
It created an environment of terror, of terror, and that kept the community operating. Isn't that marvelous? It's fantastic. I'm well done. Well done. We're going to look, now we're going to go to a text and we're going to look at this in living. I want to, I want to, I want to step further in.
Okay, you know the atmosphere, you know how it is. Those of you who are in the cult, and I'm sorry, but the warning is tonight, you're in a cult, right? You're looking at the cult from the inside. That's the perspective that I will give you is to be gazing.
I'm offering you the Templam, right? You think Templam is a building. It's not. Templam in its earliest form is a space. It's a space where an Etruscan Haruspex comes out, quarters the universe. Yeah, and creates a space in which can be housed the image. And that image reflected into your reality drives everything.
It's the quantum physics. By the way, I've made a very nice, just by the way of break, and we'll jump in the text. I want to let you know that I've been trying to follow along with you as well. And we have a lot of very intelligent people out there who are jumping in and want to participate in this group.
In this group, I'd like to take us to that group where I can respond back and forth with you. So Rob, keep an eye, keep an eye. Rob, is there anything incredibly intelligent that has been thrown out there or something that we must, is there anything we have to grab on to before we continue?
I don't want to. We've got to discuss the paper reel. We've got to go into the paper. That's what we've got to go. That's the biggest question of the night, and should be answered really. So I'm up for answering that.
But I don't want to stop you waxing my lyrical. I don't want to interrupt that. But yeah, we want a longer show. Nobody's got anywhere to go. We want to leave.
Okay, okay, Ron.
Don't talk about the people at some point.
Okay, just jump in whenever it's, it feels, whenever you feel the spirit, Rob, whenever you're moved, jump in. Okay.
I will. Okay.
Fantastic. So we started out tonight. We're going to go to a very special place. I want to start with our dead physician of Nero.
I want to go to his work. And I just want to look at a couple of words. And then from there, I'm going to take you. I want to show you the dark harbor and what it is. And I got to warn you on tonight's journey. You may feel disoriented.
You may feel things around you are changing. Don't let that temporary side effect of multi dimensional travel disturb you.
Just welcome. Welcome. It's a, it's a pleasure.
Okay, hit it. Let's pull up.
Andromicus. Give us andromicus, please.
All right. I want to go back to the first lines.
And I'm going to read it to you in Greek so you can hear it.
And we'll speed up our translation until we get to a point that, you know, we just reached this rich soil. Are you ready? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hear me. Right. Hear me. Right. Learn. Learn the incredible strength of the mini thrown antidote. Oh, Caesar.
It's the giver of unassailable freedom. Hear me, Nero.
They call upon her as he la rain. They call upon her as galene. They call upon her upon her as aeudion. And who is the they? These are the hidden eye that we're talking about. What is an hidden eye and achus is a viper.
Mm hmm. What is an echidna? An echidna is one of the Ioboloi. The throwers, the slingers, literally the slingers of poison of Eos.
And that Eos is printed in this text. Who are the echidna? Right.
Mm hmm. Here we go. We're in the right. They call her these three names, right? They invoke her. Right. As these three. And then we get a funny hey ku anon uk othetai li minon.
And that is most literally she who does not have a mind for she who does not have a regard for that is she who is unafraid of of what the cyanic harbor, the dark harbor.
That's who we're invoking. Yeah, and you asked me what is the dark harbor.
And I'm going to take you to the dark harbor.
But before we do before we get there, that's just the beginning.
He then from there talks about the different venoms that Galene is able to navigate.
All right, good.
And he says, even the Poma Medes, the Poma Medes, the sacred communion or the sacred drink.
Yeah, the sacred drink, the sacred. If you want to translate it potion, you can translate it potion.
But the potion of the the means who follow the medwa. The medwa. Yeah, isn't that nice? That's that's nice.
So where is this harbor in order to get you to the harbor? I want to step toward it and the direction we're going to do that is through because because we're necromancers, right?
For those of you who don't already know or you missed the meeting, we're necromancers and we call up the ghosts of the dead.
Yes, and we bring them. We bring them. I have a special project for anyone who is interested.
I'll just throw in this announcement for anyone who is interested in this necromancer tactic practice.
If you would like to talk to a ghost, I have one for you.
And I have a and why would you do that? Why would you call up a ghost, right?
Because only for one reason because we want to talk to the devil, right? We want to know.
We want to have that oracle. That's why we're necromancers.
Yeah, it's a switch your poles for a minute north to south, right? Just turn them around under these circumstances.
All of a sudden, we find ourselves as communicators with spirits of the dead.
This is the necromancer ancient world and it has to do with a lot of mathematics.
I met a physicist this week was finishing his PhD in condensed matter physics.
Yeah, and the changes from phase to phase.
And he's looking at mathematics. He's looking at mathematics. This is very interesting.
He's looking at mathematics and he wants to know how it is because he's an engineer as well.
And he wants to know how it is that the Greeks were able to engineer with calculus when calculus hadn't been written yet, right?
Yeah, so I went over to the shelf and I got my Greek mathematics book down and I opened it to a random page where the muse led me.
And it's the calculus through the language that they're able to convey.
They're able to express the calculus with their own language.
They're algebra and you say, wait a minute, the Greeks didn't have algebra.
Let me show you. Let me show you the Greek mathematical words.
Let me show you. This is fantastic stuff, dude.
What was his name? The Archimedes, right?
And what he was able to do, this stuff is, oh, you guys are going to love it.
It's fantastic. Some of these texts are crazy, but...
Yeah, go ahead.
I spoke to Lord Byron. It's one of the comments from Duncan.
Absolute brilliant comment. I spoke to Lord Byron. He's quoting you.
He's quoting you. So how are these physics working when you're talking to Lord Byron?
Yeah, okay, good. Excellent direction. How are these physics working, right?
So basically, you have to draw the spirit.
You have to draw the spirit and then control or bind the spirit in a binding that's akin to...
I think the physicists call it entanglement now.
Yeah, they call it entanglement.
So you bind Byron and force Byron, like Jung, who I'm very rude to and for good reasons, right?
By the way, okay, we should go to Jung's red book because everybody knows that Amun is in it.
Everybody knows that Jung is looking for the girl who is the half viper.
Half girl, girl viper.
And why is he coming up with that? Was it something that he was into?
Yeah, you see why we need this cult? Why we need to go there?
Yeah, so okay. Ask the question again to me, Rob, please.
Man, we've got to go with the purple. We want to know what this purple is.
You want to go to the purple? Okay, good.
It's got to be a discussion. We've got to discuss the purple and the chattas.
It's full of purple and we want to know what the purple is.
Nobody really knows what the purple is or understands the purple and it should be cleared up.
And that's why we need to go directly to the...
Okay, this is going to require a bit of harsh things that are going to get kind of ugly from here on out.
Rob, you know, we're going to talk about the redhead.
So let's go to a passage. Let's open up to a passage of...
This is Gaius Valerius Flachus and he had access to the sibling books.
And I just want to put this quote up for you.
It's an excerpt.
It's an excerpt.
Let's see if that is prominent in Medica Mina.
He's this with Geneus Cwesinus Ipsum Cwai Monile Wenanus Implicat.
Yeah, again, Gaius Valerius Flachus.
And he's one of the people who has access to the sibling books.
And he is writing a work, a metrical work on his waxing lyric.
He's writing a metrical work on Medea.
And so I just want to bring that back up again and I want to translate that for you.
Okay, it's talking about Medea.
And what is she doing?
She is bringing out medicines from her quistis.
Quistis, you know, that sacred basket, you know, the minads carry around, right?
Um, yeah, she's, she's going to it and she's taking out of it death bringing text, please.
Death bringing.
She's pulling out of the death bringing container.
Yeah, containers, the best way to express it.
The death, the death bringing container.
She is bringing out these medicines.
Yeah, what is that container?
It's the harbor we're looking for, right?
