Those are the three that focus their oracular power on this process of bringing this voice.
Some people have been asking about that, right?
And about interacting with that voice.
Imagine a world where there were other entities around you, forces that controlled what was
going on, interacted with and controlled, right?
Imagine if you could interact with those what you can.
Your eyes can be open and you can be as gods.
You can.
There is a very powerful initiation that is preserved by Lord Byron, by Lord Byron.
You should be able to use that initiation to gain the power of the logos.
Yeah, for those with ears to hear.
Fantastic.
And for those of you who are coming, for the evangelicals coming that I always say the
same thing to remember Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy.
Remember that.
Tonight, we're going to move to a couple of guests.
We have the delicacy of some company tonight.
We've got Rob from England.
We've got Rob.
Rob, thank you for coming.
Rob, I appreciate it.
Thanks for having me.
Can't follow that though.
That was amazing.
Thank you.
After Rob, gracious Rob, after Rob is snappy and snappy.
Thanks for coming.
Thanks for having me.
And last but not least, we have Chthonius.
We have Chthonius.
And tonight, I want to go ahead and say thank you tonight.
What I wanted to start with you, Chthonius, I wanted to ask you, we have a lot of people
who have come out of cults, and they've gotten to that point that they've seen some, whatever
element of reality it was that woke them up, and they said, this is not right.
What's going on?
And they stepped out of these cults.
I think we have a particularly sensitive topic with you.
And that is, you seem to have come out of a cult that has political power to it, right?
A political cult.
We'll just say the, I'll let you define it, but can you just tell us a little bit of where
you've been and how you got here, you know, all the way from there?
How do you got to this place of thinking differently?
I used to support Donald Trump.
I used to believe in his Make America Greater Again agenda.
What I didn't see is what he was really doing with Christian nationalism.
I didn't see that what he was promoting was through, mainly through Christianity and anybody
that seen his like macho, chauvinistic, egotistical ways, I didn't see that when he was controlling
the Christians, that he was arming hate groups, like the Proud Boys, and how he, I knew that
he was on Epstein's Island, and I denied it because I believed in what he was doing.
I thought he was really going to make America Greater, but all he was doing was fulfilling
an agenda that I don't know.
And if he would have kept going, if he would have got office again, or if he gets office
again, I feel like Trump would be doing the same thing that Putin would be with trying
to go after a group.
And he did not like Agans.
He didn't like the LGBTQ community.
He seemed like he was really racist towards Mexicans and blacks.
He was sexist, and he was an egotistic opportunist.
And how I got there is learning about Christian nationalism.
I never really heard that word until I heard the group talk about it.
And now I see Putin doing it as well with the Ukrainians.
Putin uses the church to his advantage, and that's what he's, he's arming his citizens
with that.
And that's exactly what Trump was doing to the Americans.
What do you think, what do you think, Thonius?
My question number two, and then I want to follow up with Snappy and Rob.
My question number two is the first flag that entered the Capitol.
The first flag was the, was not the Confederate flag.
I was expecting, as soon as I saw it, I saw it watched it live, like most people, as soon
as I saw it, I was like, oh, they're going to have Confederate flags there, right?
Which they did, and they've got Trump's face.
But the first flag that went in there wasn't an American flag.
It was a Christian flag.
And I thought, my question for you, Thonius, is why do you think these people who went
into our Capitol, why do you think they carried the Christian flag in right after they defecated
