Right?
There's relationships.
You know, it was a, he was taken.
They were giving him anti venom.
When he don't tell anyone this, this is just between us.
But they were giving Jesus anti venom on the cross.
There's formulas for that specific anti venom.
And it causes that thirst.
And it's from that dipsass snake.
It causes you to be really thirsty.
So no wonder he's sitting there crying out about being thirsty.
And then, you know, spills is when the, when he gets lanced spills out a ton of water with his blood.
Right?
Because he was drinking a lot.
He was thirsty.
He didn't want that cup with that boy.
Oh God, how am I going to do this?
But he did it.
He ended up doing it because he got the stuff all over his face.
The Galen has described to you.
You'll describe to you what prepurial boy ejaculation is like.
Right?
This is not something new.
Saint.
Let me just add this pile this on.
Then we got a girl.
I'm talking too much.
Back to questions.
Saint Cyprian comes out of the graveyard with the viper venom drooling out of his butt.
I'm sorry for my family guest.
Out of his rectum.
What else should I say?
Out of his anus.
What is the proper?
What's the proper term?
Out of his hole?
No, I don't think it's now.
I think the most, I think the most polite term would be out of his buttocks.
Anyway, he's with a couple of prostitutes, so-called, and he's in the cemetery.
Was he doing the mystery?
Bet he was.
Right?
Get thee behind me, Satan.
Yeah, so we've got a lot to learn.
There's a lot that, you know, if we're going to grow this baby, if we're going to grow this baby inside of us that's the son of God, you know,
then we've got to learn our drugs and we've got to learn what they're doing with the drugs because we've got all the specifics there.
And part of this formula that I started reading at night, that I'll maybe continue next time, talks about what time and where and how often to have intercourse during the process, right?
Because the ejaculate is the, I mean, imagine it, they're taking a drug from a person.
They're taking a drug from a person and that person's body is creating the substance that allows you to kick yourself into the visual, the dual universe that exists around, you'll see two sons, right?
Promise you.
And you'll know.
And once you know, you'll be able to speak the language then, you'll understand and you'll have ears to hear.
You'll have ears to hear.
And you'll be able to calm the winds, right?
Because you have galane.
If you have her, you have everything.
And that's what Nero's arch doctor is talking about.
He's grabbing that from an ancient, ancient religious right.
And yeah, let's go quickly to questions and then I don't want to take forever.
It's been an hour and you people have graciously given me your time.
I just want to see if anybody have any feedback.
Do they have any questions about gaining the ears to hear?
That's what we're doing.
Are there other ways for people who don't have access to these exotic ingredients?
You know, this is a question that I've gotten a lot in the past two years.
I discussed my research with Dr. Carl Rock, who was the one who broke elusus that, hey, they were using a drug and elusus, right?
Everybody's like, ooh, they could.
So I send my research back and forth to him.
And there's been an author who has taken my work and other people's work and woven a modern piece on the communion.
And I get that question.
Oh, how do we?
OK, so say we're a billionaire and we want to have access to this thing.
We're not going to build a giant penis shaped rocket ship.
We're going to build a drug that's going to shoot us to the other side.
Yep. Yep.
We're going to come back and we're going to have incredible power, quantum power.
We'll be able to entangle everyone, control everything.
The muses voice will write everything.
It's gorgeousness, right?
Yeah.
No, you can't because you have to have a person.
You have to have her.
You have to have that goddess who can produce for you the substance that makes you alive from death.
That which brings you back.
That which puts you into death and brings you back.
You have to be able to have that priestess, that oracle.
And we don't.
We don't have that oracle.
You would have to have been raised chemically.
I mean, think of the complexity of this ancient system.
They're bathing their fetus in the drugs that they themselves are using in the rights intentionally to have a specific product.
That can carry the voice.
