Which has translated mean city of pan
Talking about canubis there. That's kind of crazy in his company
There were also who were experienced in agriculture such as marion the cultivation of the vine and tryptolomus
And the sewing of the grain and every step apart of it
And he says uh, this is where this is where the muses comes in
While they were in ethiopia their account continues the satyr people were brought to him
Who they say have hair upon their loins?
For osiris was laughter loving
Now remember last time I was here we talked about the
Byzantine law codes that banned laughter
if you were a
agricultural vine
Vineyard worker who worked in vineyards
It was actually forbidden for you to laugh while you were producing the while you were
Cultivating the vine and producing wine because that would mean that you were
Following the rights of the ancient dianesean religion
Isn't that crazy? So this is actually very important
laughter loving god fond of music and dance
Consequently, he took with him a multitude of musicians among whom were nine maidens
Who could sing and were trained in other arts?
These maidens being those among the greeks were called the muses and their leader
Musa getis as the count goes was apollo
Who was for that reason also given the name musa getis?
As for the satyrs
They were taken along in the campaign because they were proficient in dancing and singing and every kind of relaxation of pastime
For osiris was not warlike nor did he have to organize pitch battles or engagements
Since every people received him as god because of his benefactions
now this is where
This is where I wanted to um
I wanted to take a step back from this screen right now and pull up who these nine muses actually are
So I got my other screen ready to go
It is over here
Won't take me long at all
Here it is
So we got the nine muses ready to go
Who are they?
member there's nine of them
three of them
are
inspired by Dionysus
madness
Three of them are inspired by aphrodite
love
Three of them are inspired by apollo
The leader of the muses right so you have different kinds of inspiration
People are inspired by love
People are inspired by madness and people are inspired by randomness from the gods themselves
So you have caliope
She's the goddess of epic poetry
right
Cleo if we talked about it already
The muse of history and lyre playing
Polyhymnia
The goddess of hymns that means many hymns in greek polyhymnia
El terpe
The lyric poetry muse
Terpe scori the muse of dancing and chorus
Herato the muse of erotic and lyric poetry
Melpomene the tragedy and chorus muse
Thalia the muse of comedy
Urena the the muse of astronomy
right
And then there you have apollo
standing amongst the nine muses
and so
We have a really interesting passage that i want to read real quick
And so i'm almost getting towards the end of it. This is gonna you're gonna like this where socrates
And um, you know, I we talk about play-doh. We talk shit about play-doh a lot as his monism sort of corrupted the world. I think
but
He did have a muse
He and there are some there are some dialogues by play-doh that are very important, especially the one that i'm about to read right now
This is from phaedrus
and so
Let me pull up my
screen again
So, okay, this is from phaedrus from 244 phaedrus
He says
This former discourse was by phaedrus the son of pithocles
Of mirrorness, but which I shall speak of
Cicorus son of euthymus
Man of speech. All right, and I this is now this is socrates speaking
This is one of the few
Dialogues about socrates that I actually think he said something similar to this
So remember play-doh is writing this down after socrates is dead and he's looking he's thinking back of the past
He's writing these dialogues. What would socrates have said about this here. I'm gonna write this down
I think he's I think play-doh was spot on here
I think this is one of the few dialogues that played socrates might have said something like this
So let's let's read what it says
And I must say this thing saying is not true
which teaches
When a lover is at hand the non-lover should be more favored because the lover is insane
And the other is sane
For it would be a simple fact that insanity is an evil
The saying would be true
But in reality the greatest of blessings
Come to us through madness
What?
This is the this is the religion that I want to bring back right here
I'm serious when it was sent as a gift of the gods
For the prophetess at delphi
Now remember what is delphi delphi is where the ancient oracle was the most famous
Famous oracle of the ancient world people would travel off all the way from india to go visit the oracle
And they would get the oracles about the future
and at delphi is the
Dedicated a shrine to the nine muses of course
Apollo was on the top of the mountain
And on the bottom of the mountain guess what you had there you had a tomb
A tomb of the burial of Dionysus
Wait, why is Dionysus in a tomb because Dionysus is is the god of resurrection and death
You know Apollo stands on top of the mountain because he's the heavenly. He's the heavenly son of god
All right, and Aphrodite is the goddess is the is the as the third of the triad
She brings the love. All right. So what what happens here?
The priestess at didona
It's one of the ancient seven wonders of the world where the
Zeus I'm not kidding. It's called the plastic Zeus was set up and they don't even know how old it was
It goes back to like who knows it was just it's just there one history starts getting written
Dodona's there already. We don't know when didona was built. It's the oldest oracle of Zeus that exists
When they have been made conferred by many splendid benefits upon Greece both in private and public affairs
But few or none when they have been in their right minds and if we should speak of the Sibyl
And all others who are
Who by prophetic inspiration?
Have foretold many things to many persons and thereby made them fortunate afterwards
Anyone can see that we should speak a long time
And it is worthwhile to induce also the fact that those men of old who invented names
Thought that madness was neither shameful nor disgraceful
Otherwise they would not have connected the very word mania with the noblest of arts
Which felt which foretells the future by calling it manic art
No, they gave this name thinking mania
Which it comes by the gift of the gods is a noble thing
But nowadays people call prophecy the mantic art
tastelessly inserting the t in the word
so also
When they give a name to the investigation of the future which rational persons conduct through observation of birds
and but that's um
That's the uh roman art of uh
Oh augury and by other signs they furnished the mind noose
And information historia to human thought oasis from intellect dianoya they call it
Oy noistike art
Which modern folk now call oin oin oistik making it more high sounding by introducing the long o
Notice how they pay so much attention to the vowels and the way words are spelled
It's this is crazy how crazy this they take this so seriously if i love it
The ancients then testify that in proportion is prophecy
Manticay is superior to augury
Both in name and in fact in the same proportion madness
Which comes from god is superior to sanity
What
Wow
This is mind blowing which is of human origin
Moreover when diseases and the greatest troubles have been visited upon certain families through some ancient guilt
madness
Has entered
In and by irracular power has found a way of release
for those in need
Taking refuge in prayers and the service of the gods and so by purifications and sacred rites
He who has this madness is made safe
For the present and after time for him who is rightly possessed
Of madness a release from present
Ills is found and a third kind of possession
Madness comes from the muses
So we got dianese in madness
Apollonian madness now a third kind of madness from the muses
This takes hold upon a gentle and pure soul
Arouses it and inspires it to songs and other poetry
And thus by adorning countless deeds of the ancient edge of the ancients educates later generations
But he without the divine madness comes to the doors of the muses
Confident that will he will be a good poet by art meets with no success and the poetry of some man vanishes into nothingness
Before that of inspiring
I got
One more thing I want to look at
And um
All right, so yeah, he's basically explaining here. I don't have to I can go to the next one. He's basically explaining here
that um, you have different kinds of madness different kinds of divine inspiration
and uh
You get matt you get the the nine muses that can be either sent by aphrodite, which is love
Dian Isis, which is the mania and apollonian inspiration of the song
So so so it's sent for three things
now
last thing I want to show
Is um
There's a passage from plutar about dian Isis and and um
And osiris if you want to pull this up. I have it ready to go
So he says he says this is fascinating stuff. Now. We're talking. Herodotus was writing in 450. This is
500 years later
And plutar comes along and this is what he has to say
Osiris is identical with osut with dian Isis
Who could be more fitting to know than yourself clea?
For you are the head of the inspired maidens of delphi
Huh and had been consecrated by your father and mother and the holy rites of osiris
What is going on?
If however for the benefit of others is needful to induce proofs of this identity
Let us have undisturbed what may not be told but in the public ceremonies
Which the priests perform
And the burial of apis that's the bowl. This is very important for the mysteries
The bowl is slain
And the bowl is buried and they mourn
It's agricultural, but it's also it has it's also spiritual
And when they convey his body on improvised beer
Do not in any way come sort of a bachic procession
For they fasten skins of fawns about themselves and carry bachic wands and indulge in shouting and movements
Exactly as those do who are under the spell of dianesiac ecstasies
For the same reason many of the greeks make statues of dian Isis in the form of a bowl
And the women at ellis invoke him
Praying that the god may come with the hoof of a bowl
And the epithet applied to dian Isis among the argives is son of a bowl
They call upon him by the water of the sound of trumpets
Out of the water they call upon him out of the water
So out of this baptism. They had the sound of the voice of god
It was that reminds you of
At the same time casting into the depths a lamb
You that's not a that's not a mistype. I'm not typo a lamb
As an offering to the keeper of the gate
The trumpets they conceal in bachic wands as saccari socrates has stated
In his treatise the holy wands
Now you're probably wondering
What the hell is this treatise that socrates wrote when we lost it?
But we do know what it's called
the word
oceon
The holy ones that socrates wrote is the word oceon, huh?
Oceon, what is that word? I thought I thought the word for holy is
Either seba saba or hero or
Um hageo those of the greek has the nine words for everything everything
This is just one of the few words one of the many words for holy ones
But let's see what ellis has to say about this. This is very important
Let me pull up my screen
And let's go to this oceos
Ready for this. This is crazy
So socrates wrote a text called on the holy ones called on the oceon
That's where the word osiris comes from
So yes, the word osiris does have connections to greek
Believe it or not as ancient as osiris is so is greek
This is one of those one of those weird things that make you think how old is greek
So what does this word mean? It means hollow divine law or to make holy
ready for this
Let's see what the lsj says hollowed sanctioned or allowed by the law of gods of nature dk
