The Satanists were testing people with money long before Jesus was ever saying.
Hey, money is the root of all evil.
Those are Vox.
Those are the woe case of the voices of the Orphic dragons.
In the end of today's session, and I want to go to questions now,
because I think we've looked at enough text and people have gotten enough in their brain
enough to chew on that I'd like to go to you now so that you're not just sitting there,
because I appreciate your time and I want to acknowledge your time.
And I want you to ask some questions.
But I want your questions to be directed toward that which we are venerating.
We are venerating that midwife, that great mother who is the source of death and life.
And why are we doing that?
Because this is an initiation.
The Romans, and you're about to do this, whether you like it or not.
You are going to meet her.
She is leitwm. She is death.
And if you know her now and she brings you back to life to a new birth,
then you will have ionic life.
And you say, what is ionic life?
We don't have the concept today.
We translated that one as eternal life.
We took a wrong turn through the Latin. It's hilarious.
No, it's ionic.
And the ion is outside chronos.
The ion is that which bounds it.
The Pythagoreans talked about this.
This was one of their contributions.
Anyway, let's get to your questions.
If you want ionic life, let's talk about who would like to go ahead.
Give me a good question here.
Burning off immortality.
Are you saying women dams are immortality?
No, no, no.
What they're doing is they're taking the child and they are burning off its mortality.
We have this depicted vividly with the Ellicinian mysteries.
And it's a frightening process, frightening process.
And it kills two out of three.
So what do we do though?
Are we killing our own children?
The physics of it, this is cool, I read this.
The physics of it are that you are actually entangled.
With a number of souls that inhabit the all of being, the cosmos.
And those souls can influence things that happen around you.
It's basic ancient necromancy.
It's absolutely fantastic.
But if we're going to take you to initiation, we need to look at that.
What happens to the soul?
The only way to figure that out is to separate you from your body.
Wait, we'll get to that.
Another question.
Okay, precess pithia, can you tell us what's in the horse cup?
What is the porneia?
It seems obvious, but I want to hear it from the devil's lusty lips.
Oh, I like that.
That's a lot of alliteration there.
I applaud you.
Who is that from?
Brian.
Brian, Brian.
Okay, excellent.
A poet used to make me want to smell the essence of Lord Byron.
Yeah.
What is the cup of the porneia?
Right?
Yeah, because whoever drinks of it, what happens to those people?
Yeah.
And who is she?
And they always separate her because I know you're talking about Brian.
I know you're talking about the horror of Babylon, they call her personally.
Personally, I think is a terrible name.
But they always want to separate her from that woman who is having that child.
You know, Joan conceived on the battlefield.
We all think that she's the Virgin Mother, but we will find that child and we will devour it.
Right?
Chapter 12 of the Apocalypse.
Remember, these writings belong to the Sibyls before they do John.
Right?
They're calling the early Christian Sibylists for a good reason.
Okay, Satanism.
I'm showing you the operation of Satanism, which gives birth to Judaism and Christianity.
Okay, let's go.
Let's get another good question.
Have you read Pascale where we read off the claim that communion was semen when the sword started the sex magic movement?
Western.
Okay.
When it comes to things that I've read, I listened to my advisor who told me the secondary stuff.
Anything anybody else has written about it, forget about it.
Right?
You don't need theories.
Go back to the primary sources.
So unfortunately, the depths of my knowledge come from the primary sources.
I'm comfortable with those of antiquity and the Renaissance.
