The trochoi, you know, what makes the drugs the hand of man
Yeah, you see the drug is the interface
between humanity
tea
and divinity
Humanity and divinity and we see that in this third century text
Greek text
Oh god, isn't that gorgeous? You didn't think it was there
Right right off the front. This is the front of Ezekiel by the way
It's in the third chapter when god starts insulting him being like
Yo, god, you're your language blows
Right, that's a direct quote by god
Your language
blows
Yeah, it's very simple
Right, they're not designing these drugs there, you know, you got to give them a break. It's just a cultural thing
You know the romans they're in huts man
Romulus and remus you want to think about romulus and remus? I know we've got a lot of fans out there
I'm a child of venus just like
Julius Caesar
but
Romulus and remus were living in huts, bro
They were living in huts
Yeah, they had until the you know, they had to get somebody they had to import somebody by the way their mother
She was the priestess
The lupa
Isn't that fantastic? She was the oracle
Do you see who was making things work? Do you see who was ruling?
Do you see where the power really was in antiquity?
Oh god, I love that that makes me so excited. I love that. Okay, stop this. We need
Do these people a service
Well, yeah, come on. I'm gonna get it together. Do you think go? Where else are we going? Why are we doing all this?
Ezekiel because a don
Horace
What is the
What is that? That's the visions, baby
That is where we get the visions. You need we need those wheels for vision
Uh, yeah
Yeah, I told you this that I am describing to you now
Is the interface
between us
And divinity
It's the interface
Wow
You know, he said they're gonna like it
right
Harvard
Harvard's knocking at the door, but you guys can't do the text. What's your problem? What's your problem harvard?
Oh my god, I'm gonna say it and I know
he
He won't get mad at me
So I'll say it because he won't get mad at me and I really really like the guy
I really do. I have so much respect. I have no more respect for any scholar on the planet than I do carl ruck
Right, everybody knows that I call him lucum. Oh
Right, it's the word the Etruscan word for priest poet
Yeah, isn't that great? Isn't that great? Um, any who? Um, carl ruck. I was very I'll never forget
I was in boston and he had invited me for
There was a paper in the department at boston university that I gave and very it was a smashing success people loved it
um, and then, you know
He took me to harvard said yonder. Look oven there yonder
harvard
And I said I looked at harvard and I looked back at carl ruck and I
I said, why do you look so sad?
And carl ruck looked at me. I'll never forget. He looked at me right in the eyes and he's so tall
He was looking down on me, right? He's like
It's like a giant
right seriously
big
And he says he looks me right in the eye and he says
It's not what it used to be
And he had such sadness and sorrow in him
I thought
Yeah
Yeah, congratulations harvard
congratulations
Amazing and you know, you think why would the devil be so mad? Why would the devil be so mad at an institution?
right, why would because
Those institutions were
The reflection of the ancient museum
That was civilization
You see what's happened to it. They're sitting around debating. Oh, we don't need to look at those sources
There's a ton of it, but we don't need to look at it because we've got some scribbling
It's much more important
All right libraries people libraries
Libraries let's go look up satirizes together. Shall we?
Let's go next one. Chewie hit it. We've got to get these people on their way
Gnostic informant is waiting patiently wait Gnostic wait for me. He's got a presentation and everything. So
Um, I'm not going to rush, but I have a few couple more to do not too many
So what happens the Pnellma took me says Ezekiel. It took me. Is this after they gave you by the way
You know Ezekiel said about the drug god gave him. He said it was numbing numbing my tummy
like honey
Has anybody
Chased just to make sure has anybody checked
How old this kid is?
Has anybody checked it
Okay, some of this stuff is gonna look bad
But again, it's the bible. So let's just get back to it get back to the bible. Isn't that nice?
So the spirit took me
Right and what what what happened when it boom when the spirit kicked in
After I've had my wheels what happens
I hear I'm hearing things
I'm hearing things anybody else hearing things
Ezekiel is hearing things. What's the voice?
It's the voice
Of a great earthquake
It's a rumbling
It's a voice of an earthquake. Are you ready? He's gonna this guy's gonna tweak. Are you ready? He's gonna you watch this next one, please
chewy
Are you doing stuff with a
Chat fantastic. Um, look people
What's going on? What's the stuff they handed you at the front door?
Right, you know what I'm talking about. It's so loud now. We can't really hear each other
But they gave us something and it's doing something to us
It was honey in my tummy
But it's doing something. I'm kind of feeling a little bit awkward and kind of you know warm in some ways that I maybe shouldn't
And look what happens
I learned that there's a voice
Look at that
Look at that. What's gonna happen? There's a voice
In these pills
There's a voice in them and it's that voice of that quaking
It's the voice of that quaking. It's the sound of quaking
Boom it shakes me to my core. Are you guys getting ready
To get bockock. Let's go to the next let's go to the next one. Here we go. It's a little bit psychedelic
Boom
Othronos out to flocks poros
You know what thronos is
You guys are on the inside
And you know that thronos is vo
Or walks orfica
You know, it's vo
for drug
polythronon
Right a compound
mini-thron
So what is the throne?
Who is the who is sitting on that thing? You know, it's the chief
It's the chief not here
Here it's lucifer
Right and the third
Right you get it third time
We're in it. The oracle has switched
So who sits on it now? Well, look at that throne. What is it? What is it? It's the flocks poros
I want everybody to take out their wheels
I want everybody to take out their wheels. It's a medicine. You can put it into wine
You can dissolve it
You can put it into your
body
If you just want to shove the pill you can shove the pill like ezekiel
Right, there's different ways to administer these drugs
Right these trochoi and what they're doing to people. How do you think they're getting the vision?
You know where prophecy comes from? I'm going to tell you this
Harvard Yale will not tell you this and if you look at their panel of speakers, you're going to laugh
Harvard and Yale won't find it
If they looked hard enough
They would find
That these are the substances that are driving
the prophecy
They're connecting the language itself
When you enter into that
mental place through the drug
