Is this the beast?
Right?
Yes.
This is the theriac.
Yes.
Right?
Thank you.
You're dead right.
We have to find that dark harbor.
We don't have the sautera.
We don't have the savior until we have that.
So, yeah, imagine, think of the proposition of bathing your fetus in venom.
Yeah, in order to bring somebody that could use a little bit more of their brain.
I've got an interesting question.
Do you get killed if you refuse the call?
You're not there voluntarily, right?
You've come to be initiated.
And it's not like, I haven't read a text.
I'm not going to make anything up because there's no reason to.
I'm not getting paid for this, right?
There's no, I've never read an account of an initiate who wigged out, got, you know,
I was like, wait a minute, it's too much.
No, I haven't.
And that's probably because they're always drugging them.
You always, yeah, you, you put it in the place.
I'd like to ask Dr. Buzzard.
I'm sorry if I forget to mention names, but Dr. Buzzard said,
Titerian people are two brominated indole rings.
To me, in pre-curses, bonded together.
Yeah, that's what I was, yeah, that's what I was discussing.
That's what I remember, Rob.
The physicist was so interested in.
Love it, love it.
Now, what does that mean?
Okay, having said that, Rob, what does it mean to you?
What does that tell you within that purple dye of the, of the mollusk?
It's the watching brackets, trip to me in pre-curses.
That's what we were discussing today, isn't it?
I'm leaning here with this because I've got to bromine.
I've got to pass bromine and I'm leaning less today at real time.
Trip to me in pre-curses is what we've discussed earlier.
And then I've got to get that three in the ad yet.
There's a purple that's going to be a big discussion.
There isn't anybody discussing it out there.
There's only going to be yourself.
Now, this is the rest of us, Rob.
You've got to remember, baby, this is the Renaissance.
We're here at the psychedelic Renaissance.
It hit the medicine.
We're going to be there figuring these things out.
There are doctors and therapists right now trying to do that.
So, yeah.
Why do you think, Rob, that they're looking for the mystery of the purple?
I think the following, the text.
I think the following, the text, but it's a century after century,
this is getting passed through.
I think it's, I think they're seeking the purple in this day on this personally.
I think it's gone on for a very long time personally.
Could be wrong.
Could be wrong.
And I'm more than willing to investigate and find out.
Could be wrong about it.
There's no hubris here where I think I'm correct.
You know, you research, you find stuff out.
You ask it and you test.
You give it the acid test.
You see the old job and you've got to do that with everything.
Yeah, I'm willing to bet it makes, it would explain a lot
when it comes to the Templars and that whole allegation
licking the anus or the penis for the purple.
Yeah, I'm willing to bet it had, you know, it surfaces, right?
It surfaces the use of it does.
It changes.
I'm watching the Queen's funeral.
The crown is sitting on a Tyrion purple pillow.
It's not a Tyrion purple pillow.
The funeral casket is covered with a Tyrion purple.
A huge cloth covering it.
And then it's got the royal standard.
I'm not sure I pronounce that correctly.
But right on the corner you've got the Irish side of it.
And you've got the heart with what I interpret as a symbol
with a breast out right on the corner.
I'm mourning the Queen's passed away.
I'm also licking the image and thinking, whoa, it's purple everywhere.
You've got a symbol on the corner.
It's all that in the symbols, isn't it?
It makes you think, like I say, I don't know if I'm correct.
If it's that, I'm licking it.
Can you lick that because you run up to that casket,
lick the purple and get high or no?
That wouldn't be the purple dye.
It's not the same.
But if it was, I don't know.
I'd like to know.
I'd like to know.
Because they pulled out to jump it from a cave
what had been there for many years.
I don't know how many years it had been there.
But as soon as it hit the sunlight, the colour was radiant.
The guy and this Tyrion purple dye only gets better.
It doesn't grade in time.
It only gets better apparently.
What a red.
That's why it's more expensive than gold.
It's hard to extract.
Really difficult to extract.
So when you have it, why do you need the blood of the redhead?
Or the dragon?
Why do you need these?
I think it can only be because you're potentiating.
You've got your DMT-like effects.
Are you somehow modifying through the system,
filtering it through the person?
I have to be of a certain Aryan makeup.
When I say that, everybody goes,
wait, what did he just say?
I'm talking about the Aryans.
The real ones, not the mythic ones.
But the Aryans who were coming up with all this pharmacology,
these antidotes.
I think there's a reason they took the name Medea
and started to call themselves Medes.
There's a certain power behind this whole process.
