Angels next to uh, they that are called ophanines with glory around about them, right with the spark
around about them and that they're a part of this
System that moves the mobile throne of the father
hallelujah
hallelujah, isn't that amazing so
Um, what we need to do is we need to actually look at what's written there
And you know, maybe bring that forward instead of acting like a bunch of jerks
Yeah, do you see what it does when you drift?
From classical education
You drift from reality
You have to remember julien was saying the christians the first thing they're going to do is destroy education
What he was talking about was not what you and I call grammar school
What he was talking about was a classical
Education there is a reasoning
Built in to the greek
There is a reasoning
That is there that they will destroy says julien in order to meet
Their purpose in order to bend it. They will bend that light
And so what we must do is take back
Those texts they must become hours again
So that we can show people
What was going on you didn't realize that ezekiel
Was on a drug trip if you're a christian sitting there tonight
You didn't realize that if you're just a student of religion if you're just a student of divinity
You didn't realize that profits were only profits because of the drugs
You didn't realize that jovo was so mean to his own people said your language blows
Right, don't worry. I'm not going to send you to anybody with a brainy language
Right, there's a reason for that because when this is all written in the third century
That is the historical environment of the author or authors
Yeah
Right fantastic. Okay last um, I think I've got one last thing to say
And then I'm going to bring on I want to bring on uh, um
Gnostic informant, um, yeah, no, I've already I've hit it. I've hit it. Let's do it. Um tonight welcome
At our premiere of initiation apocalypse. Um, welcome neil and I want everybody
Everybody to give a warm welcome. I'm gonna reach out
To the gallery in just a minute, right? I'm gonna engage
I'm gonna do something new and engage the gallery directly because your opinions now
Are important but before we do I'm going to give the stage to neil
He's been reading a ton when I just work in the sources like he always is and and we're going to hold him responsible
For keep regarding those sources neil go ahead. You're on that's what I know is differences between someone like you and me and like most
mainstream academics
Is when they're when these when the mainstream academics are talking about whatever topic
their
Initial reaction to recommend something is some sort of article written in 2025 or 2025 didn't even happen yet
Like 2020s or something some current article on a subject and say, you know a good a good
Reading on this subject is an article from dr. Ba-ba-ba-ba-blah and blah-blah-blah university
He wrote an article a couple years ago about this. Oh, this person wrote a book a couple years ago on this subject
Just you check out their book on this
You don't get that with ammo or me
I say let's go right to the primary sources and dig this shit up. Let's look at what this
Let's look at what the greek says
Try to trans see what the translation is correct
See if we can have a difference see if we come up with a different translation. Maybe it's not the same
We that's how technical you and I get we go that deep
But there's a hallelujah. Hallelujah. I'm just I'm just gonna interrupt and I'm gonna say hallelujah. That's wonderful
Okay, now i'm gonna shut up. It's a big difference and and so
I like to come on here when i'm working on a current video
I like to come on here and just share some of the stuff that i'm looking at
Because i'm trying to piece together when i'm making my videos the hardest part is to get it into a script that's cohesive and
um
You know some sort of like a storyline going on rather than me just throwing a bunch of shit out the wall and see
Because that's how my older videos kind of came out and now now i'm starting to get them better at like putting it together
In a more narrative way. That's really hard to do
And some of the stuff i'm looking at i'm working on currently working on
comparing jesus tobaccos
Because recently dan mclellan was had a video he came out with talking about how somebody one of his wanted somebody like
tagged him on on uh
TikTok or something asking what he thought about the dianese and mysteries and how the eucharist could possibly have
Bowered influences from it and he just shut shuts it down and says no
The that's that's madness. That's just people squinting hard enough and seeing the two
I've eventually start to look the same when you squint hard enough and i just thought
wow that is like
I i can't believe he hasn't even like heard of like ruck on this subject or danis mcdonnell on this subject or
There's a lot of scholarship on this that
I guess this is outside of the spl world though
So i want to i want to make a video
Going through some of the sources
Showing the um and it's not even about jesus copying bacchus. It's about jesus competing with bacchus
Trying to be better than bacchus trying because you bacchus was all there was
Bacchus was the greatest god of the ancient world. I I demonstrated that in my one video a couple months ago
Dianesis was so widespread. There is no god in comparison to dianesis
So jesus wants to be the son of god you have to go through bacchus to get there
So what i want to start off with i'm going to go through some slides that i got
And i just want to go through some now when i'm not going to get into all the details of like
Of the sources of what i'm going to show in my video
But i want to go into the deeper stuff because this is what this is what we get at doing this channel
I'm going to go to some some deep stuff and i want to hear from people what they think about this because
I don't even know about this stuff yet. I want to hear your thoughts. I'm on and everyone else
So let's start with the first slide that I got all right now. This is called the uh parabiago plate
And the reason why i'm starting off with this is because the iconography it's dated to like the fourth century
It was found in milan
just upper italy
And um, so if that by zoom in you guys see the zoom in
Yeah, okay, cool. Um, so, okay, so here's what i want to look at here. Yo, you got adis and kaibili
Or civilly when i like to call her kaibili because that's the greek
But uh, adis and civilly are sitting on the chariot drawn by the the lions
And you have the uh, the core tests
That are dancing around them, right? All right. We know we know what that is up here though
Here's where the luciferian imagery comes in
You literally have solan or apollo solin victus apollo helios
By the fourth century those three are merged into one sun god. So
Helios apollo soul
It's the same name for the sun god
But there it's by the time you get to the fourth century
It's this indencipal sun character, right? So diana is the moon goddess
But diana is also the you know the artemis
But in between them you can see lucifer
Phosphorus which literally is lightbringer lucifer and then vesper
So there's a luciferian symbolism
The the lightbringers diana luciferia is one of the titles in latin for diana and look at look at this
Look at her look at his wheel and her wheel
There's the eight-pointed star right there that eight-pointed star venus
So the imagery is just beautiful and then i want to come down to here
ion
So a lot of people there's people who think this is dianesis
But most people think this is a ion
But here's what i want to say about this. They're both right
Because you can see that the thrysoi staff the pine cone on top. He's holding it. He's got the uh official
official
garb that dianesis technically wears all the time with the same way he wears it
and uh, he's he's inside the
zodiac like ion
being held up by what i think is
Mythras coming out of the rock. I'll show you that in a second
But here's what's so interesting about this is you have the serpent
On the on the rod be a sleeping rod
It's a symbol of it's a symbol of rebirth resurrection
And you can see how in john's gospel they compare jesus on the rod to the snake on the rod, right?
So i'm gonna i'm gonna circle back to this but i want to i just want to keep
I just want to get through this whole entire thing real quick down here. You have gaya or uh terra mater in latin
mother earth
and um
And then you have these four seasons
I don't know what to think about this because the the uh scholars are saying that this is like four irritus
But i don't see any irrituses have wings. There's our wing little cupid
I don't see any wings on these what i see is i see these little
Characters of the son of god. I see you know holding the the grapes the bokeh bokeh symbol the hermit hermit symbol
Of holding the uh the good shepherd symbol all that stuff
But i do i think the four seasons are definitely there too now. Here's where it gets crazy
Because this sim this sort of um iconography it becomes a common place during this time period
If we go to this one right here, this is mithras
Slaying the bull obviously, but if you look up top there we go. We have the same diana and apollo
You know the two's this the light givers with the with the with uh with lucifer eosphorus vesper
um
And uh in between and then there's the torchbearers
Now this is where this is where i want to get deep right where he's slitting
The animal right where he's cutting the animal you can barely see it here
But i'm going to show you i'm going to go to my slides in a second. Um
Out right here. There's an s
This is in latin s there's an e right here a b
And then there's an e and an s i o
And then so what i want to do is i want to show you something on my if you can go to my slides
There you go
So france kuman a long time ago was able to he is the one that actually decoded this
He was like the main mithraic scholar of his time and he still is in my opinion
Although all the mithras digging that i've done
I don't see any modern scholars touching this dude france kuman and his lifetime. I think he lived from like
end of the 19th century all the way to like the middle
Of the 20th century something like that
So he's been dead for a while, but
I'm i'm not kidding when I say this there is nothing out there that even comes close
