Sanctioned by divine law
What you tell me osiris's name is is is greek and it means to be sanctioned by divine law
What it says here
Look at this permitted or not forbidden by divine law
Of persons pious devout religious
Oceos
All right
Check this out, right?
so the bowl
the bowl
This is represented by Dionysus and apis
is
The bowl that is slain
Now if you know if you know anything about the mysteries of addis
They washed their initiates in the blood of a of a blood of a bowl
Just like christ just like when you're initiated in christ in the bible. It says washed. I think it's first john
First john is the as the chapter where it says that you are washed in the blood of the lamb
Your initiates and christianity are washed in the blood of the lamb
so um
Look at this
So if you ask you look really closely in this
It's very hard to see it
but right
Right here. I can see it right now. You might not be able to see it
But if you can look this up if you want check fact check me right here. It actually says sabazio
S e b e s i o there's the s right there. There's the e right there. There's the b
There's the e there's the s there's the i there's the o it's very hard to see
But if you look it up, it's france kumail was the first one to spot this out
Sabazio is the name of dianisus sabah sabazius. It also means holy
Sabah means holy
So osiris down in egypt means holy
Sabazius up in frigia means holy. It's the same exact. It's they're literally translations of each other
They're both vine gods
they're both gods of the the right of the vine of the uh of ivy they both wear ivy
They both die and resurrect and they're both both both of them are represented by a bull
Whether it's the apis bull or this turk toros
And they're their blood washes new initiates. You're saved by the blood of the bull
Right
Look at this
All right, um, I don't know why it's taking so long from this for this thing to load. Oh, here it is. Okay
Ready for this
Revelation
714 sir thou knowest these are them that came out of a great tribulation
And have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb
That's mystery religion language guys
They're taking the lamb
from the bull
The bull represents virility and strength and power the lamb's meekness
So they're flipping the mystery into a different
This is what they want their their followers to be meek. This is what they want to this is how they want to run their civilization into this
This is what the mystic priests are doing
It's actually kind of fascinating if you think about it
All right, lastly, I want to show one more thing from luchin
I love luchin by the way
Um luchin luchin has some interesting things to say
He's the last
I want to say the last great
um
The last great pagan roman to ever live
And he says some crazy stuff
Um
That's the wrong page
Let me just pull up this last page real quick and then I this is so tie everything together. I promise
He says
Where do I do with it?
Oh, I got it actually I got it. It's over here
Luchin when we go to luchin real quick
All right, here it is
Here it is right here. So this is from luchin him to the mother of the gods
He's talked about in the mithraic religion. This is the last strata of paganism that ever existed
And he says something very interesting
Down here a little bit
He says
Perhaps it is worth to raise the following question
There are two equinoxes
But men pay more to honor to the equinox in the sign of capricorn than is the sign of cancer
Surely the reason for this is evident since the sun begins to approach us
Immediately after the spring equinox for I need not to say that the days begin to lengthen
This seemed to be more agreeable season
For a part the explanation which says that light accompanies the gods
You must believe that the uplifting rays of the sun are nearly akin to those who yearn to be set free from generation
Down here he says
For when with our eyes we perceive the sun's light not only is it welcome from useful for our lives
But also the divine play though said when he's saying its praises
It is our guide to wisdom
And if I should also touch on the secret teachings of the mysteries in which the chaldean
Divinely frenzy
Celebrated the god of the seven rays
That god through whom he lifts up the souls of men
I should be saying what is intelligible
Yeah, holy unintelligible to the common herd but familiar to the happy theorges
He's making say those who have ears to hear
right
now
The seven rays god we know
In just in many depictions is soul and dictus or myth rust
but
There is another seven-rayed god who comes a lot later in history
recently to us and that's
this god
so somebody
the architect of the great
Of the great statue of liberty who holds up that that that torch the light there lucifer
That architect I looked I looked into this person while this person was a freemason very mystic
Um very into the mysteries and I would not be surprised if this was inspired
by the seven rays god
Of julian the sliver the goddess liver toss. That's who that is
That's libera
So that's the mystery and that's that's the muses right there. It's about so
Summon all up to what i'm just what i'm getting at the religion that I want to replace christianity judeism and abraham and um
In um islam with is the religion that's not dogmatic
Doesn't require you to believe anything. It doesn't require you to say something happened in the past that you have to know about
You don't know what is requiring you to know any that stuff
It's all it's saying is that you can have divine inspiration too
Anyone can it's the religion of the muse. It's a religion of inspiration. It's a religion of poetry. It's a religion of music
religion of film
theater love
Madness and that has no dog dogmatism at all what required
And that means that what christianity came along and did
Was it took away divine inspiration? This was the last
Debate between the nostics and the and the orthodoxy. What were they debating?
What were they trying to fight over divine inspiration? The most important thing in the world
Those nostics were saying
Divine inspiration can come to anybody
And the church was saying no no no no only the bishops can have divine inspiration
We're the only ones that can have it. No one else is allowed to have it. They took all that power to themselves
They pretty much ended religion as we know it. They pretty much killed the gods
There's a reason why plutarch
Got the oracle that the great god pan was dead
As christianity was rising
That's what it is
That's it
Gorgeous the death of inspiration such a somber
Note to end that gorgeous chorus. That was fantastic
um, I was looking through some of your
some of your
Source work is in my mind as you were going through it and uh, I just wanted to say
Very well done. It's a shit ton of sources and people there's nothing that you can argue against
Just sources right because it means you're not really putting anything forward
But what's the actuality right like you do in court or something? I think it's I think it's brilliant
I want to ask you a question though. I get first question and
Anybody with questions go ahead and put them in the comments and let's see. Um, if we can get some answered
but
I want to ask you. What do you think the
Scholarly and theological
professional opinion
will be of
You talking about this history
Um from these sources that shows things that are very different about christianity and judaism
Well, how do you think this kind of stuff will be received? How do you think?
Theologian or a pastor or somebody just watching who's been exposed to christianity. How do you think people will receive this?
I think whether they know it or not
They might not know this but a lot of these scholars of christ of judy of of the bible
Are pawns
That are being used to protect sacred history
To protect the bible
Make sure that these two pillars stand up the two pillars are one that the old testament is very ancient
It goes all the way back to the early iron age bronze age
That's got to be there
It's got it. That's got to be the oldest
It's got a predate homer
If they have to have that happen because they want everything else to be inspired by it
It can't be the other way around
You can't you can't say that the bible starts around it gets finished
You can't say the bible is a product of the third century bc because that's no that would kill the whole religion
That would take the roots right out of the tree
The second pillar is that jesus is special
And that christianity is special and unique and inspired by god and that no paganism has any influence over it
Those two pillars have to stand
So if anybody tries to encroach that
They will be met
They will be met with problems
Yeah
What do you think our chances are because you know, we've got the bible
And we can teach people the bible
What do you think our chances are if we just take it to them with the bible and just show them everything that's in there
Or do you think ultimately there's going to be
movements against
You know, okay, you can't
Say something bad about x y or z
All right, because you're discriminating against us religiously
Do you think that the day is coming when there are laws
That will be made that will
Make it illegal for us to talk about such things so freely
it's amazing how
Anybody's a lot you can go ahead and you can say agamemnon didn't exist
And the trojan war didn't happen. That's all not you could say that if you wanted to right and people would say, yeah, cool
Yeah, but if you if you doubt Hebrew bible history
All of a sudden you get slapped with this
Oh, you're profaning Jewish history and that's anti-semitic
Wait, I didn't say anything about Jewish people. I'm talking about a text that I don't think happened
Oh, that's really that's really rude. Oh, do you know that's anti you can't that's the people the people actually believe that and that that's
I don't care
I don't care
I could if I'm allowed to criticize
other
Ancient mythologies and say those didn't happen and I can criticize this one too
And I it's amazing how quick people will throw that word at you
The as word the anti-semitic word just for pointing out things that are true
Right, right. And what's what's such a crime? I think about that is that the actual history of the Jewish people is way more interesting
Right the very fact that they're part of these migrations through the Aegean
You know and how does that influence their cultural development that
Why wouldn't you want to know the reality? Why wouldn't you want to know?
Um, I just don't get it. You what you showed was crazy
It's crazy how this one area of study has the special honors and has this this little protection thing going on
Or to criticize it all of a sudden makes you evil or something
It's it's like it's a lot I could say about that but that's we'll leave it at that for now
it's um
When you bring out the linguistic evidence and you kind of show one of the things you said that I really liked was
Um, nobody knows how old greek is
Right and it you start pulling out the plaschians into the equation and you're getting way before there's nothing in egypt
Right
Yeah, and you have these you're these scholars that I can't stand. Well, that's one of them on the top of my head right now
Who won't even say the word yaoi?
But say adonai because I don't want to be rude and say yaoi. It's a divine name
I can't say it but like then you have actual jewish people saying yaoi with not caring
It's like why you look silly you look stupid right now and I I think you're fake as hell
Sorry, I just think that's fake as hell
Yeah, you're like why should I listen to you at if you had this laws that you have to follow
You can't even say yaoi, but you're supposed to take you as as the as the scholar of this religion. No
You're showing me your bias right then and there
And I know I know you're gonna protect this thing at all costs whatever that whenever there's a wash
When it could go either way you're picking jude you're picking sacred history over the over over facts
That's what it looks like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, totally totally we have to just work with the evidence
It's so obvious that they're
If you can't even say the word yaoi and you want me to think that you're uh
You're a middle a middle a mediator between the truth and no
You're working for it. You're playing on a team. It's so obvious. You know who you sound like
You know, you sound like neil you sound like
To talk almond
Complaining about that
Monast worship of a ten and how it overthrew almond. You're talking like him
um, that's still
That's the whole it's that totally repressive
