um is especially grown to take in the influence of the viper that ferment
that ferment um is what that mushroom is. Yes. Right? Look at this. Look at the great. It's beautiful.
It's moma. Right? The ferment. Uh, and this is why now all of a sudden it makes sense to you.
Right? Okay. First, let's finish the picture. You see you're watching the vipers. They're calling
around doing their thing and their dens and these mushrooms are there. The mushrooms are absorbing
those toxins. They're absorbing that breath, that vitality. Right? It comes through the
viper. For those of you with ears to hear, you'll hear. And now as you wake up, you know
why Jesus said, watch out for the manna. Right? Watch out for that fermentation.
That fermentation, the fermentation of the Pharisees. Yeah. The fermentation of the Pharisees. Now you
know I call them generation of vipers. Right? It's we're working under the same system. Right? Jesus
is no dummy. He's picked up the right. He's picked up the influence from uh, and the candor, I forgot
to tell you, is like second century BC. Second century BC. And it's so popular. Everybody by
first century when Jesus and his crew are out. Everybody there is, he's in the atmosphere. Right?
One of the few that is. And his works really had a huge effect. There's a lot of business team work
done specifically on the candor. Right? Most classical scholars avoid him like the plague
because his Greek is impenetrable. Yes, you heard me. His Greek is impenetrable. If you want, next time
somebody boasts to you, that they can show you Greek, flash up the very first thing that we
are a bit from Nero today, that we had just flashed that up. He won't be able to translate. I guarantee
you, I guarantee you people, and you, and let me tell you why, because in that passage are
Hapox Legomina. Words that only appear here. Right? So we have problems. We have problems
in translating this stuff. What do we do? We do what the Victorians did. We run back to Ezekius. We
resurrect this guy from the fifth century, fourth and fifth centuries. We resurrect him. We say,
tell us what these words mean. And we go back to Aisa. And we look at Aisa and we see what she,
we see what she, what she says. Can we have the next reading? We need to proceed. We have
eight, nine more minutes until we self-destruct. Yes, one of those, sure. Let's go. I want you to look
at the mazo just to be overcome, to be overcome. Look at, I want the second one here. Just take a look
at number three of the powers of nature. It's overpower. Dom na meneus, baby. Dom na meneus.
Okay, keep going. This is real. We are at the place where the magician comes into being.
I mean, we're with the dactyls. We're with the dactyls. This is good, good old magic. This is
Mycenaean stuff. Right? This is snake goddess. Phil, we love this. Okay, let's get another reading
up here. Yes. Oh, why not? Let's go ahead and throw up the Ephesia Gramata, right? The Ephesian words,
right? These were written. Well, they're written in a lot of places in antiquity.
You can look it up and find yourself a list of what sources we have that have them. But you really
want to talk about the Temple of Artemis, right? At Ephesus, where this cult seems to be coming from.
These words are words. And of course, they have this wonderful library. Look at this wonderful library,
right? This is coming from the cults that you and I are worshiping. You and I are working with now,
right? This library is, that's where it's coming from. Pythagoras says that, right?
If you want to found a city, you should build a Temple of the Mews, right? Start with your museum.
Anyway, let's put up the Ephesian letters. And what people have traditionally said about these
is that these writings, is that it reflects an older language. Is it Greek? Well, it's expressed in Greek.
Yes, yes. Oh, the very last. Let's go to the very Ephesian letters here at the end.
There. Gramatha. There. Okay. And look, it's expressed in Greek. You can see it in Greek.
Aschion, cataschion, lyx tetrax, dam nam meneus, aesion, or aesia. Now, if you don't know,
if you don't know what any of these words mean, you're at a loss. What they're used for
