Everybody says Jesus Christ. Do you think it's the guy's last name? I think he's got a middle name.
It's an H, I think, because I hear people, Jesus H Christ. No, it is not his name. Christ is something that is done.
It is a title. It is a title. And I know we've looked at it, but tonight I want you to see why it's being used with horses.
Why it's being used with horses. Watch the logic here. It's fantastic. Let's go to the next one.
Yep. Here's your artichrist, right? Fresh spread. Look, and here it is in relation to the pharmacone.
It's a category of drugs. I'll show you. It's a category of drugs. Did you know Christ was a category of drugs?
No, you did not. Children, I want to tell you. Anytime you drive by some beautiful church with a big cross on it.
Goat. Where's my goat? Where's my goat? Every time you drive by a church with some beautiful cross on it, you're going to know that in that place, they worship a man.
They worship a man who was arrested in the public park with an naked boy. Okay, okay, okay, stop, stop. Yes. Yes. Let's keep bringing it back.
Yeah, there we go. Take a look at this, people. What is this? What is this? She's just reporting what's going on, right?
She says, this stuff happened. You wouldn't believe any of this stuff. I was preparing this drug and I put some onto a piece of wool and I threw it on the ground and it happened to land in the light.
And when it hit the light, this thing burst and just disintegrated. It just burst into this hot magma. Just disintegrated right on the spot, right on the spot, man.
Right on the spot. Just ran into the ground. Next one. And what happened? These are the drugs, people. They're still talking about drugs and Christ's.
And what happens there? You know, out of the ground, it comes up this boiling, fermenting stuff. As a matter of fact, it looks like the grape, looks like that sweet, oh, juicy grape that produces that wine of Bacchus, right from his vine, baby, right from his vine that comes up and that comes up through that drug.
We can bring the lightning through this drug. You have to be Christ's to get there. When Jesus is walking around and people are saying, is he the Christ?
They understand what that means. It's filtered in their society all the way down to the marketplace where they're going to buy their drugs. Fantastic.
Especially if they're civilized out in the provinces. There's no market there. They take that stuff and they ship it back to Rome. They compound it in Rome, put their stamps on it and send it off.
And then out in the provinces, you can go and you can buy a little tablet like this. We're about to see one. Jesus talks about them. You can take one of these, put it into your wine and dissolve it.
You know what they're giving their horses? Cannabis and wine. Wait, what? You can give a horse wine? I didn't even know you could give a horse wine. I used to take care of horses near Talmagedo.
What? If I had known I could get my horse drunk, I would have been doing it a long time ago. Is there a reason, is there a reason that we shouldn't have stoned horses?
Yeah. Let's see. How do you treat your horses mania? That's the real question. Did you know that's a question they're asking? You wouldn't be able to answer a question like this.
I didn't even think a veterinarian today would be able to answer a question like this because they don't even consider this. They don't know the depths. The psychology side is, you know, the whole neuroscience thing and veterinary sciences.
You know what I mean? What are they doing? What are they doing? You can treat mania of your horse. Put your horse on a regimen, right? Oh, that's not because you're bleeding them too, right? You bleed your horse.
Wait, who are we talking about? Who are we talking about? We're talking about these tribes. You know what the Hippiatrica is all about? It's about the tribes that are around the Black Sea, right? And there's some in Italy too, Sicily, and they talk about the horses.
Talk about the horses. And what do you do when your horse has a problem? A little too much, you know, black bile. You're bleeding the horse because you're what? You're using the blood in your medicine? Yeah.
And what are you doing with that blood? You're bringing out what is what you and I call the genes. The Medusa's real. Yeah. The snake venoms. Guess what? They're hormone analogs. You think you're fancy with your, you know, take your testosterone and do your transition? Dude, dude, if you could catch up to the technology.
Okay, let's get back to the text. I'm getting off the, you got to catch up to the snake venoms, people. Catch up. That's one of the freebies in tonight's. Bring up my goat again one more time. That's the freebie in tonight's business is the cure. The cure is out there. Yeah, the cure through the medicine of a people who lived 4,000 years ago.
The genius of a group of taking down the goat, the genius of women.
