For coming tonight. I'm going to now bring on
Gnostic. Gnostic, um, please tell everybody how you've been doing what projects you're doing
And then I'm gonna shut up and put plug you in totally and let you be the uh the circus master for
As much time as you need because you know people love it. So, um, tell us about what you're doing and then go for it
Oh, man, I got a couple projects working on and uh, and uh, that i'm putting out pretty soon
I've been real busy doing a lot of bunch of stuff doing all types of
Projects working on and collaborations and stuff like that. Um, I do want to I so you said a lot there that I want to
Complement I got some sources
First of all, I have a source from heratis now real quick before you before you bring up my screen
I just want to say something real quick
there's a story about pythagoras
And his life is pretty fascinating
You know, he grew up in ionia
he travels to athens and he
becomes part of this
old pre-socratic academy whatever it is pre played a platonic academy and, um
He travels to egypt and learns the mysteries of the egyptians
He travels the babelon learns the trip is the bed and then when he comes back he sets up a school in croton, italy
Which is magnagracia at the time greater greater greece they call it
Greeks were inhabiting most of italy at that time latin's are just a little tiny little baby at that time
They don't
They're not ruling shit
But the greeks are spreading, you know
So everyone thinks of helanism as like this post 330 ad rpc
Phenomenon it's like once you actually read in the history helanism starts spreading
Centuries before alexander. It's taken over the world just culturally
So pythagoras goes to croton italy
And he sets up a school there
And the school the first thing he says to the people out there is the first thing we're going to build is a temple to the muses
So he builds the first thing they build is a giant
beautiful temple with probably corinthian or ionic columns doric columns, whatever
Beautiful temple to the nine muses
Which is what I want to focus on because people always ask me
Neil you want to tear down the abrahabic religions. What are you going to replace it with?
And it's very simple
It's the religion of the moot of the mousse. That's it. It's the religion of inspiration
It's the religion of art. It's the religion of poetry. It's the religion of theater. It's a religion of
divine madness that anybody can attain that you don't need to go through a
priesthood of elders
To get to anybody can get to it
all right
So we're going to touch on that but first of all pull up my uh source that I have here
This is I just pulled this up because in 450 bce
Herodotus goes on and travels the world
Sort of like Pythagoras did
But he was inspired by cleo
The muse of history. He's the first historian. They call him the father of history. So he travels to the egypt
He travels to he travels to the sythians. He meets with the sythians and talks about their learns about their history
He learns about indian history. He learns about Babylonian history. He learns about persian history the media median history
Uh, what else he learns about anatolian history. He learns about
You know libyan history. He's talking about, you know, he's talking to the elders in libya. He's talking to
Phoenicians about their history
He's learning about all these histories
And then he goes to this little area that we call Sinai
He doesn't mention israel or jerusalem or jews or is or
Judaism, but he does say something that I think
it
I think we can tie to
judaians
he says
They deemed none other to be gods except for Dionysus
And heavenly aphrodite. That's uranian aphrodite aphrodite uranos
It's titled this video
And they say that the cropping of the hair is like the cropping of the hair of Dionysus
Cutting it around the head shaving the temples. They call Dionysus oral taut and aphrodite
a la lot
all right
Interesting. They only have two gods of the honor. It's aphrodite
Dionysus. Now, why did he do that? He's doing some greco interpretatio here
He's saying that he's looking at these rites and he's comparing them and he's saying
There's definitely a Dionysus an aphrodite cult set up here in this desert
so
I'm going to compare that to what we got in the chaldean oracles where
They say the Dionysus or Bacchus
Was called by the chaldeans yaho
We know we always always bring this verse up. This is just
Relative to what i'm talking about in the Phoenician tongue. He is frequently called sabaoth
Who is above the tet seven poles the demi urgus?
And then we find in the oldest manuscripts that we have
Of the of the greek septuagint the name yaho is present
All right, I got some store some sources that I want to run through that have that I related to this
the first one I got
Is
About Dionysus and apollo and the muses and where do they come from?
so
Let me find my source real quick. Here it is
Um actually that's not it
It's
This one
We're gonna do with it
Okay, hold on one second. Let me pull this up
Chewy wants me to take some heat off you while you do that
Um, I'll make notes by the way for people
I'll just say this quick for people who are taking the greek whether it's an ominous
or um
In my studio
The class
lab is on saturday
And full steam ahead for those of you want to go in and say hey, can we talk about
This sentence from chapter two or chapter one whatever whatever you have to be to move for what? Oh, it's sorry
Unit two or unit one. Sorry about that. Um, so yeah, please feel free to attend
And we've got that um link
Chewy says
Uh, we'll put up that link. So did that give you enough time there and oh, yeah, I got it. I'm ready to go
Thank you
So before I even touch on this, I want to say something about the last source that I had there is that um
During the time that Herodotus is traveling the world in 450. Remember what's going on at that time
There is no torii yet
Nobody knows about Judaism yet doesn't exist yet. It's just not there
Simply the gods that are the main gods and this is this is actually the reason why I thought I think that source is relevant
because the main gods that are worshiped in Jerusalem at that time is
Asherah and Yahweh
They're ahead of the pantheon and they were side by side at that time period even as late as 450 bce
You would go there and they would have coins minted of
Athena
They would have coins minted with Zeus on them. There was just part of the Mediterranean world like everyone else
That's why Herodotus just went there and thought this is business as usual nothing nothing
Nothing to see here. Nothing crazy out of the ordinary. It's regular Mediterranean life happening in Judea
Which is fascinating
Now I think who is this Dionysus? That's the question. Who is this eastern Dionysus?
I think it's Osiris
And I I'm gonna I'm gonna get into that right now
All right, this source right here
I'm gonna share I'm gonna make this a little bit bigger so people can see it and read it
He said this is from Diodorus of Sicily
He says Osiris by the way the the old pronunciation is yo
Yo Cyrus
Yo the yo he va fe
Osiris and that relates to yahoo too that we find in Crete. So there's this older ancient yahoo presence
Going on the eastern Mediterranean
Over in Crete Egypt Judea. That's my that's what I think right now. Let's keep going
Osiris was the first they record to make mankind give up cannibalism
For after Isis had discovered the fruit of both wheat and barley
Which grew wild over the land along other plants, which was still unknown to mankind
So basically we got this god Osiris and Isis
And they're taking humanity out of the stone age and civilizing them. That's what's going on here
so we got
The some cities during the festival of Isis as well as stocks of wheat by the way think about what he's doing here
Demeter
Demeter and Osiris are being equated with each other
The Demeter and Isis I mean and then Osiris and Dionysus. So as you got the festival of Isis
Stocks of wheat and barley carried among the objects in procession
The memorial of what the goddess ingeniously discovered in the beginning Isis establishes laws
in accordance with people regularly
and uh
For this reason the early greeks great demeter
You see how he just switches up from Isis Demeter just quickly. Boom. That's what that's diodes for you
You got to be you got to be paying attention what he's talking about. He does this with Dionysus and Osiris as well
For this reason the early greeks gave Demeter the name thasmaphorus
Which means law bringer law bearer. By the way, thasmaphoria
in uh in greece and Athens was celebrated in the same week as the
Judeans later on celebrate the so-called festival
And plenty of the elder geniously points this out in his moralia where he's worked
Comparing Dionysus to Yahweh
And they have a festival in the same week
They do this they do very similar things they carry palm trees and and uh myrtle into the temple
And I think there's something going on there and I think he's right
He said Osiris they say founded the egyptian thivian city with 100 gates with the men of this day after his mother
The later generations called it deos deospolis
And it says right here
Osiris they add built a temple to his parents Zeus and Hera
Which was famous for its size and its costiness in general and two golden chapels to Zeus
The larger one to him as god of heaven
The smaller one to him as former king and father of the egyptians in the role as he is called by some
Amon
He also made golden chapels for the rest of the gods mentioned above
Allotting honors to each of them and appointing priests to have charge over these
Special esteem at the court of osiris and isis was also accorded to these
Which should invent any of the arts or device of any useful process
Here's where here's where we get into the muses ready. I'm getting there
Osiris they say was also interested in agriculture and was reared in nisa
a city of arabia, huh
phoenix near egypt
being a son of Zeus
And the name which he bears among the greeks is derived from both his father
And from his birthplace and he is called Dionysus
Manchin is also made of nisa and by the poets and by the poet in his hymns. He's talking about Homer
To the effect of this vicinity of egypt. So this is old homeric
From the 8th century bc. He says there is a certain nisa
mountain high with forest thick and finicia afar
close to egypt's streams
And the discovery of the vine they say was made by him near nisa
And that by having further despite devised the proper treatment of its fruit
He was the first to drink wine and taught mankind at the larger
Uh culture of the vine blah blah blah by the way the word for wine in hebrew is yagyan
And uh that comes from the it comes from the greek wynos wynos
So there's obviously some sort of borrowing happening
Um, even the oldest cities that yaoi was worshiped in the the minianites other
The minianites are or most scholars would say
Yaoi gets borrowed from because it remember in the north the ugaritic texts. There's no yaoi
Just el and bel and ashura
And then down in the south in these minianite cities you get yaoi
and then the archaeology says that
Minianite cities are using
Uh agene pottery
So they're culturally connected with the agene
Something to think about
This is my this is sort of my theory that i'm building here
So here we go
Here's where we get to the muses
Osiris established the affairs of egypt and turned the supreme power over to his wife isis
And they say that he placed hermes at her side
As counselor because of his prudence raised him above the king's other friends and in general of all the land
And sway he left hercules
Who was both his kinsmen and renowned for his baler and physical strength
While as governors he appointed busurus over these parts of egypt which lie toward finicia
And it was apollo they say who discovered the laurel
A garland of which all men place about the head of his god above all others
The discovery of ivy is also attributed to osiris by the egyptians and made sacred to this god
Just as the greeks do in dianisis
And in the egyptian language
They say that ivy is called the plant of osiris
And for purposes dedication is preferred to the vine
Since the ladder sheds its leaves while the former forever remains green
The same rule more more over
An ancients have followed in the case of other plants also which are perennially green
ascribing for instance the myrtle of aphrodite
And the laurel to apollo this is very important for the religion of the muse
You got to know these
That the myrtle is dedicated to aphrodite when people get married they wear myrtle. That's the symbol of love
Dionysus is the vine
The symbol of madness divine inspiration of the madness that we get from the vine
Apollo wears the laurel
the symbol of
triumph glory
And and uh when there's a triumph the seizures would wear laurel
They're following this ancient ritual
Osiris was accompanied on his campaign as the egyptian account goes by his two sons anubis and mastodon
Who were distinguished in their valour both of them carried most notable
Accortuments of war taken from certain animals whose character was not unlike the boldness of men
Anubis wearing a dog skin and mastodon the four parts of a wolf
And for this reason these animals are held in honor of the egyptians
He also took pan along on his campaign who is held in special honor by the egyptians for the inhabitants of the land
That only set up statues of him at every temple, but have also named a city after him in thebid called after the natives
come no
