The translations are eh, right?
But that's, it's obvious that something is messed up, right?
From our understanding.
The very next line.
Heide echidonon purpneusak aifonon, yeah.
She breathes fire from her chitin, yeah.
She breathes fire from her undergarment, yeah.
She breathes fire from her clothing, yeah, yeah, wow.
And what else, phonon, death.
She breathes fire and death from her covering, yeah.
It's a great dragon of Crimea.
That's gorgeous.
I love it.
And how does she do it?
With the feathered wings, with the feathered powers, yeah, that's feathered powers.
It's the arrow of poison, right?
If you don't recognize that Orestes is in a state of oistromania right now from that
arrow of poison, yeah, then you're, you know, you're missing the boat or something.
He's seeing her though, he's seeing her though.
And he says, oh my goodness, she's going to kill me, here she comes, yeah, yeah.
And then he makes what they call erinus.
He makes a vocalization which they associate with erinus.
Erinus is fury.
When you're transformed into the fury, you know it, right?
You know it, and how do you know it?
Hang on, under this drugs influence, you bark like a dog and bleat like a sheep, yeah.
Like a sheep.
So, which is not, I've seen this description elsewhere, Nacander talks about it, right?
So the prophets of the great mother would come in with the purple on, right, eyes, you
know, they've been taking this drug in their eyes, right?
And they come out in the streets and they start screaming at people furiously about their
desecration of the great mother.
If your city wounds daughters and their mothers, you're going to get the prophets of the great
mother.
Yeah, you're going to get the prophets of the great mother that show up, right?
Yeah, okay, so throw up Herodotus, just for the naysayers.
Let's just let people see that we're not joking here about what's going on, right?
Among these, the Tauri have the following customs, all shipwrecked men and any Greeks
whom they capture in their sea raids, they sacrifice to the Virgin goddess, I told you,
as I will describe, after the first rites of sacrifice, they strike the victim on the
head with a club.
This is like one of those clubs that they brought to apprehend Jesus with, right?
This is not a, don't be thinking hammer, right?
This is an implement.
I mean, you know, anyway, they knock you on the head first, I don't know, is it nice?
Yeah, and according to the source, they then place the head on a pole and throw the body
off the cliff on which their temple stands, isn't that nice?
Others agree as to the head, so they get bonked, but say the body is buried, not thrown off
the cliff.
That's a tiny detail.
The Tauri themselves say that the deity to whom they sacrifice is Agamemnon's daughter,
Iphigenia.
Look at that.
So the Greeks aren't just running around claiming, that's the Greek daughter of the king, right?
No, it's actually her, right?
The Taurians fully admit that, right?
Good.
As for enemies whom they defeat, each cuts his enemies head off and carries it away to
his house where he places it on a tall pole, stands at high above the dwelling, above the
smote, you know, these heads they say are set up to guard the whole house.
Yeah.
If your house had heads on pikes around it, you probably wouldn't have to even have a
guard dog.
They have a lot of guard dogs in antiquity, but you probably wouldn't even need a guard
dog for that, right?
Who's going to go into a house where there's a head on the outside?
So, okay, look, I know it's shocking.
You're in a different part of the world.
You're in a different part of time.
You're in a different place, but this is how world is functioning.
We're in the late Bronze Age.
Can you smell the late Bronze Age, right?
Be feeling the lack of civil authority, but the presence of armies that are led by leaders
or coalitions of very powerful, wealthy people.
Some big cities and big stones.
