Now, a lot of professors out there will know, will know that what I'm saying is
correct and they will say, good for you for doing it, but they will do so for
you for doing it, but they will do so very quietly.
OK, so what do we have to say to the rest of the kids that are here?
The ones that aren't from Princeton.
Let's look at the drugs and how they are used in order to get a better idea
of this profile, what these people are doing, what these Menorchins are doing.
Right? And not just them, but everybody across the Mediterranean.
This is not the only place in the world that they've got drugs.
Remember, you can buy this stuff.
You can buy North African Viper venom in Rome.
Yeah, I can get up in the morning.
I can walk down to the market.
I can see the stalls they set up.
They have plaques for their for the type of stall they're using, right?
Doctor so and so.
And they sell their drugs, right?
Medicus, say doctor, medicus and sell their drugs.
Right? You know, all their different, all their different pills
that are dissolved in wine are stuck in your rectum.
They've got all the oils, right?
You can put on the skin.
Did you know they've got stuff that you plaster your skin?
Oh, this is good.
I'm I'm I'm ruining I'm ruining the show.
I got to keep going.
Let's go to the next.
Yeah, here we go. I just wanted you to see this is concerning those
those yellow boy, right?
This is those poisonous animals right at the top, right?
There's poisonous living things and what they're doing.
OK, look at this word.
Right in the beginning of this treatise, we deal with loose
Lissa or Lusso is the verb is contract.
Nice contract.
And it means to rave or be mad.
And look at Roman numer number two of dogs to suffer from rabies,
right? Because this is the context we see the mad dog in, right?
OK, and what do we do with the mad dog?
Well, we know that there are substances that can induce madness
and can stifle madness.
And now, for those of you who are classists who are thinking, oh,
wait a minute, didn't they give hellbore to somebody that caused
the daughters of somebody not to get not to stop going crazy?
Yes, they did.
And do you know why?
Because these irracular priestesses and colleges are
taking your sanity and balancing it,
balancing it with the use of their chemicals.
Yes, yes, right?
Those drugs that were in that Bronze Age find
those drugs are not the good hallucinogens, right?
Those drugs are the scary hallucinogens.
So why would you want that in your system in the first place?
Why would you want the Lemnian fire?
OK, let's go to Heracles.
This is a translate.
This is just a translation.
Go there.
This is just the dipsasses, the therion, right?
And I just wanted you to see.
We're going to we're going to look at a description here.
This first paragraph is just a description of the dipsass.
And apparently he's short.
He's only about a length of your arm.
Yeah. And he's got these black spots on him with a kind of a
tawny, amberish brown, that kind of thing color.
Yeah. OK. Anyway, this is how we start to get into.
OK, what? Well, who's who's using this and what?
You know, are these about just bites that people are picking up?
Or what are these things that?
No, no, no, these are part of compound recipes.
We do have bites, right?
And you can include the bite of an arrow to be the very same,
the very same administration, right?
This is from like a fraud.
I just want you to look about halfway down the end of the line
and would that my father had not spurned the nightly terrors
of the Oracle of Issacus and that for the sake of my fatherland,
he had made away with two in one doom,
ashing their bodies with limny and fire.
