We're when we're talking Pulaskians. We don't have a written record, right?
So we have to be very careful, but
Based on the greek words
That we're saying oh, these are probably Pulaski and roots and everything they involve and yes, guess what their name means the purple
right
another one surprised
and
Are they the ones that are propagating this
Knowledge, you know, it's so much the knowledge is so technical you look at them with rake stuff and you think oh
Okay, so what do they do they get together and they kill a bull?
No, no, no, you totally you just totally miss the boat and by the way
It's underground and there's a lot of sweating and there's some drinking of some body fluids
And there's a whole thing going on a death and resurrection because they're doing it
It's the cult and they know how to induce these phases
If you can come back this way you're a lot more likely imagine
I'm going to send you into combat before you go. I'm going to boost you into the nether
Where you can see all your ancestors
Right and when you come back with their spirit will go
Right. This is the good stuff, man. I mean it doesn't get better than this
Um, I think neil answered that last question
Perfectly
Real before you before you go to the next one by scoby, uh
I just want to say one of the things that's so fascinating about this last fourth century generation of pagans
as they're venerating the most ancient gods on the planet the great mother
And and and mithra you can find them in bronze age text. You can find great mother
dug up in archaeological excavations from the
copper age
Mithra in the vizet then the vesta or and and then you got like so some of these gods are
Being worshiped in the last generation of pagans. They're they're holding on to concepts that are so old
And christianity is so new compared to this compared to this religion that faded away
It's a baby. It's not it still is even even if you took the time that christianity has been in existence right now
2000 years what about right around 2000 years give or take
You're still short for how long you're still you're not even halfway there to how old magna mater and mithra are
Because they're going we're talking going we're going way back
way back
And and that influence is widespread. It's so widespread that
We get um people referring to media is mithra
Mithra right and her you talk about the plasking connection her you know neil you've seen it
Her etruscan name mataya
Is just lacking a row
Right, that's all it's that's all it's lacking. So that mithra figure we got to remember when we're looking at lucifer
Right, we have to appreciate that feminine form
I loved your guy by the way on the video talking about the early forms of jesus being yeah
That was a good clip combination of masculine and feminine, right?
I knew you'd like that clip. I was like I couldn't say this any better myself
So i'm just going to clip this guy out and show it to everybody
kudos to that dude
Now our question is did jesus have the alabasteran when he was on the cross
um if they were giving him according to known us the antidote
for the dipsass
He could have had it administered by an alabasteran. Yes
but um
Would it have been obviously there?
um during you know
Look you're opening up a pandora's box now because now i gotta say and you know i'm going to because you know you want to bring it out
When did he get the alabasteran inserted into his rectum?
You know at what time if he's got it there. Was it something they were doing? I mean they
realistically they do have the antidote
They do have the antidote
They could have administered it rectally, but
The antidote was soaked into a sponge so we know it's a fluid right for for oral consumption
technically if he'd used the dipsass
with the purple
Back in the garden when he was with the boy
presumably because the boys possessed the
gelene
Presumably he would have got his antidote back then
Where's the alabasteran come into this?
Is he there on the cross with you? I don't know. You know, he's screaming a lot. Maybe it shot out
Halfway through the crucifixion and people were like look he just burst the little Dionysus
Fantastic. Love. What do you think neil?
Well, he was given something. I mean depending on which gospel we're talking about. I think it's john where he's given some sort of
Sprig
Some some some sort of he's been they're giving him stuff
so
I mean whatever the text says it says but
The fact that he didn't he didn't receive anything. It's just not true. So he was receiving there
Some of that stuff could be drug references
Yeah, what what else you give to a dying person on a cross besides the drug, right?
Right, let's see hercules passes into the underworld overcoming Cerberus with bruce strain hermie
He's by being androgynous
Then there's the castrated boy option. Are these all different options for sex without
insemination
Oh, go ahead. What do you what do you think? I'll let you take that one. That's a good question
There is this what I noticed about what he's the question is also highlighting is there's this uh, there's this
Universal idea that all these sons of god
Have to go through and there's always something to do with
some this is castration or
or some sort of a mat something something to do with like
Castration or the loss of
That type of thing like with adis for example or a donus
There's always something to do with the sex
Met a parts that has to do with like
I'm not and this is what this is what I think goes back to bachas the plucking of the of the vine
um
And there's something to be there's there's something deep about that that's going on there
Is that that makes sense? I just said it does it does um
What is the little what is avid say orpheus is doing that gets in trouble?
Orpheus
The last day before
This is the this is the chapter called the death of orpheus and always metamorphosis
By the way a lot of versions take this part out
So you only only certain versions of this text you will be able to find in english or you got to go to the latin
And then it says that orpheus picked up the thracian rite
The ancient thracian by the way we talk about thracians the thracian pirates
The lace stays right so orpheus is taking up these ancient
Thracian lace stays right and what is the rite that he describes?
Of plucking a young boy's manhood before he becomes of age
That's what it says
Yeah, yeah, you can't
That's a religious rite. We're not just doing you're not just doing it for fun. This is an ancient religious rite, right
Right, this is what do you think this is ebbsteins island or something come on man
This is bigger than that. Um, and it's worked into the it's baked into the empire
That is that bachic empire, which is all those oracles
Speaking love it. Love it. Oh god. This is such wonderful stuff
Neil thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for coming tonight. I feel I feel like I
I feel like um
Like this is a co-creation tonight and your material was just delicious
I loved it and on behalf of everybody satanic initiation and now initiation apocalypse
I think we owe you a
debt and thank you very much
Um, did you want to talk about your next you have a what's your next video coming out?
I kind of gave you a little bit of taste. I'm working on the um
The overlap of jesus in these in these late
Pay late era
I call it late era because paganism so ancient
First cent from the first century to the fourth century. I know it's a big that's a long time 400 years
but
That's the that's the end of it. That's the last we're talking like
You can it's a short little timeline compared to like how ancient these pagans gods are
But how diverse they are in their different regions of the world and they sort of come together in the roman imperial cult as one
That's what the roman imperial cult does is they syncretize all these different religions from pathos
Cyprus and egypt and asia and greece and north africa and they just sort of take all these different gods and sort of
They put them all in the one religion
and
this is what christ in first century when this is
right when rome is really starting to explode in its uh
In its influence over the surrounding regions
In christianity comes out of that soil
of that syncretism soil
And so i'm sort of trying to i'm making as most most of the content is going to be comparing dionysus to jesus
Because i think and i think you can make the argument
Especially if you're immersed i don't think you have to be an expert to say this if you're immersed in the ancient texts
You know dionysus is special
He's not just one of the gods. He's dionysus
He's the sun. He's the great dion. You know what i mean like yeah
Yeah, no no no and the fact that he permeates everything. He's the one god that invades and takes over right and they're like
Oh, yeah, he spread from the east rides all over the place. Yeah, yeah neil
Jesus takes over dionysus and there's i don't i just think anyone who can't see that
I don't want to sound like i'm getting cocky like i know everything because i don't know everything
But i honestly will i'm like my personal opinion
If you can't see that that i just don't think you're immersed in the texts that you say you are
Bravo, bravo well said and you know what if you know the texts better than the people at harvard
Then who's the expert?
Yeah, i'm gonna go that far
Yeah, hail satan hail satan. Hey, thanks everybody for coming tonight
I really appreciate you allowing me to come back
and um, we can look for this again as a workshop for the apocalypse and um
I'll leave the last word to gnostic informant gnostic hail satan
house satan
um
