text.
I'm just going to read through and I'm going to give you a flavor for some of the terminology,
some of the images that are being thrown around.
So we've landed squarely tonight at the feet of Lady Babylon and who she is.
We're discovering who she is.
We're looking from the throne of Satan, right?
From that necromanic source, that necromanic origin.
So let's just look quick at a little bit of the, a little bit of the Greek.
Yeah.
So you have one of these guys, one of these messengers comes forth, right?
And these messengers are a very distinct entity in this realm of the vision of which you are
attempting to induce in the death and resurrection, right?
The death and resurrection brought back, right?
This is, this is good.
You know, does anybody smell Bacchus, right?
Yeah.
We have to have a sacrifice right up front.
Good.
Take him out.
Dress up, Penteas.
Take him out and watch him pull his head off.
Why?
Pergation.
Pergation.
Remember, this is the environment we're working in.
We're working in.
Okay.
I just want to say a couple of things here.
What does this angel have?
He has the fialas and some people, you know, they'll just try to describe this, you know,
some kind of offering dish, right?
And it's, it's a kind of a saucer, but the ones that I've seen, they describe being of
iron.
Yes.
They describe being of iron.
Isn't that interesting?
That gives us a little place on the radar there to, you know, land our ship.
But we see these in mystical rights.
The women in the audience might understand this better or have a better, because it's
a theme.
It's a thing for people with breasts, but they're used as coverings by Bacchus.
So menads put these things on their chests in war situations, right?
Because they're very combative.
They're very, um, they don't let you get away with anything.
Yeah.
And if they catch you, they'll chop your head off, right?
And get a group of these ecstatic ecstatic.
Did you notice that Lady Babylon right away enters?
This is about entering the ecstasy.
Right.
Yeah.
So you were smelling, we're smelling, uh, we're smelling that old Orphic religion, right?
From which the Orphic Vox comes.
So the Orphic Vox, it's just the images, the Orphic voice is just the images that are coming
through the right, through the right.
Um, um, one beautiful thing is that name at the end of the episodes that we have that
we flash in front of you there, um, people, people watch Game of Thrones and Lord of the
Rings and things like that.
Um, there is something way cooler, right?
Than that.
They have their languages that they build in these shows and it's great, you know, it's
fantastic.
It's like working backwards with the linguistics, right?
Gorgeous applause for the creativity, right?
But we have a language that is real and that exists and its name is dragon tongue.
It's supposed to be a language of a higher being, yeah, a higher being.
Some of these, they call them sons of God and these guys, new drugs, they knew drugs,
they've walked around teaching people drugs.
Yeah.
Anyway, sons of God, right?
So yeah, yeah, uh, yeah, yeah.
So the beast, everybody talks about the beast.
So when we take the seal, the torojisco, we stick it in our backside and we're entering
that stage of vision and we meet the messengers, right?
