You will live a dead woman. You will not cease. Departing this life and descending,
I send you a force of death. It's a death threat.
Fantastic. You really know what they're doing.
Fantastic. Isn't that great? You look what you did. You brought it up.
Look what the news did. Wait, where are the news?
That's what I'm trying to get across to right now to your listeners, to the people who watch.
I never expected this. I never expected this to turn up yesterday. I'm very young in
my research and I spoke to him last night. We just thought it was fantastic and he asked
me to come on and talk about it. Also show me face because I have disappeared.
That's where Heraclitus comes in for me. Heraclitus, I took a bit of solace in Heraclitus
for a while. I took a step out and that quote is fantastic. Have you got that quote where you
can get it up for me to you? It's number one because I think that's really important.
No, it's okay. We're going to have to call it there.
What the message is trying to get across. How do I get from a death threat spell
for what is all intents and purposes the work of a man locked away in a lunatic,
asylum? He's poverty stricken, he's addicted to opium, he's destitute,
and he's had all this treatment that's completely ruining him. How do I get
from that death threat to something good in this gentleman? Why am I presenting this guy?
Why would I present this guy to you? Is writing death threats and why would we be interested
in this, Jack? You've got to ask the same question of all the intellectuals around in France of his day.
Of his day, these intellectuals got together and the Matisse and Picasso, among other artists,
sold works, sold parts of their works, is a fund for him and they put a benefit on for him at the
share of Bernard Centre. All these intellectuals of the day came out and they read excerpts from
his work and celebrated him and he is celebrated in France right now and he's unaid off,
essentially, I'd never heard of him and the only reason I did hear of him is because of that last name,
Otto and I've got a relative, he was an Otto, I've got a great great grandad, he was a French guy
who came over from France as a master builder. He had no money either but he came over as a master
builder and made his way and I have no idea what the link is there but it seems like when I've looked
through this chap's artwork and I've looked through this chap's interests and I've looked through
his images and I've seen quite a few recognitions and as I say at the beginning they were looking
for recognitions, I want people to recognise these things such as how we treat these people.
That recognition was disgraceful, it's absolutely disgraceful. You know,
I'm on, you could be treated the same and you've had comments on the YouTube, you've had comments on
the Discord and dealt with, albeit dealt with, you know, but they come through and they're disgusting,
these things are, they're disgusting now, the way they can treat people in another day and another
time, we'd be burnt, I'd have been, I'd be burnt for reading out a spell. This guy was an atheist,
he was a complete atheist and he was very, very intelligent and he knows his stuff, you can tell,
in all his quotes you can tell, in all the markers you look for, you know, as I say, he's took me to,
he's took me to the battle, he has, there's a word that I want to share and it's battle
and I'm going to cut off there, because this is a long thing, this isn't going to just end today
with one presentation or one conversation about it, this is a long conversation, this guy is well
read, well studied and in all the things we are becoming well read and well studied then,
shall we change, you know, I think he's got a lot to offer, Osh.
So, Rob is going to say that France, that France puts those who are inspired by the news into insane
