Christ means anointed one.
Ah, for all of those.
Oh, do you know what's waiting for you, people?
Oh, this is what's waiting for you, people.
Watch.
Here it comes.
Here it comes.
Pharmacon.
What is the pharmacon?
What is the drug?
Well, we have a drug at the top and then we have a healing remedy and number two.
Look at number two under healing remedy and look at the one, two, three, four, five, six
lying down and you're going to see the Greek word.
Christ on followed by epichrist on and from the increase stone and the epichrist on.
We also have the on the Christian.
The Christ is the drug you put in the eyes for the sake of your frame.
Oh, for your life.
Because you didn't know you have not been born again.
That's why when he talks, we're idiots and we don't get it because you're not alive.
You're not alive.
If you had been initiated, your eyes were open like those of Cicero.
You would have said, my God, if you haven't done this, you really haven't lived.
Yeah.
To make you alive.
Did you know your brain could be born after your body?
Oh my God.
Oh, I love it.
I love it.
Let's go to the next one.
This is gorgeous.
We're almost there.
We're almost there.
Who is this?
Who is this?
Dionysus says you're crazy and not in a good way because you could never find any drugs
cure you and you're not suffering without them.
So you mean I got to have the drugs?
Wait a minute.
Can you say it again?
Dionysus, can you say it again?
Please?
Yeah.
He's no problem, right?
You're nuts, right?
You're nuts and not in a good way in a very painful way because the drugs, you're not going
to be able to find a cure by means of the drugs and neither are the drugs, right?
Going to be able to be lived by without, you can't live without these drugs.
You can't have your brain.
It's a system that perpetuates your brain.
Again, somebody told me just today they were like, I don't, I don't know if I can keep
up.
I want to do Greek, but I don't know if I can keep up with these nerds because this stuff
is, you know, it's way out there.
Yes, guess what?
Guess what?
The more you do, the more you're going to understand how dumb you are.
Do you know how many years I've spent recognizing on a regular basis how inadequate I am, how
dumb I am?
Do you know what I've done?
I've hung around with a bunch of really, really, really smart dead people and they didn't get
there by birth.
They got there by language.
Oh, oh God, Mother Greek, you are so sexy.
I want to go to all the depths of Mother Greek's mind.
I want to find where she is.
Oh God, you're not going to, let's dig, let's dig in.
Let's dig in, Chewie.
Look at this people, I'm giving you a Greek phrase and this is a drug that will set your
mind.
Are you ready?
