I'm back. I'm back
Welcome to lady Babylon initiating apocalypse. It's so nice to be back with you tonight. I missed you
I felt the burden of your absence. I did I did but I did my business
We got ourselves through that 93
We got that opening we got that channel now. We're set now. We're set now. We just watch
the apocalypse
Open like flower. This is gorgeous. This is absolutely
Gorgeousness and gorgeosity all wrapped up together and silky
Okay, let's do this thing. What are we looking at tonight tonight? I just want to bring right to you
God
Tonight we're going to take God's
Turn in the chair remember he doesn't run this place
The devil does
Fantastic sit on your throne
sit on your throne and
Acknowledge those stars because tonight we get
to
Talk directly
Face to face. I know he didn't like it. He didn't have a choice
He didn't have a choice. This is testimony from God himself. Yep, you heard me
You heard me and what is he gonna do?
He's gonna tell you
Exactly what I've been telling you
He's gonna tell you the same thing
He's gonna tell you the same thing the very same thing and he's gonna do it
Through a dead prophet. Isn't that cool? Isn't that cool? Watch this now
There's something that we're all very mixed up about and tonight for the first time in
Human history
It's coming out and you're gonna see it you guys
You guys get to see it first
Before everybody else does but you know me you know me I gotta have me the
Tail end of some Harvard. I've got to bring him out
You where's my whip? I got to bring him out
Let's bring the voices of Harvard and Yale. Can we do that? Can we do that chewy?
By the way, everybody thank you to chewy and to all the work that chewy's done
Because that's the only way that we fly
Definitely chewy. Thank you. It's gonna this is gonna be good. We got to give them what exactly what they need
Okay, here it comes. Are you ready? I want to I want to bring to you the confusion
the confusion of a symbol and it's
Unveiling but before we do I got a guest
One from Harvard one from Yale and we have a conversation. What are these people up to chewy?
Show us show us what the people know show us what the people are up to my first
My first slide there, please
Fantastic, it's okay. We've been out of business for a while. You don't have to worry about that. Here we go people
Are you ready?
Center for the study of world religions. This is video came out. This is Harvard
Look at Harvard Divinity School. I thought I smelled something right look at the video. It's the archaeology of ecstasy
Psychedelics in the ancient Mediterranean world. Well, what a great and noble and worthy pursuit
Harvard fantastic
Bring up the next one who who's bringing us all this stuff the same people that in a little bit time here people
Look at this when's this thing gonna happen? This is an event. You know, we can all go to this and we all should of
Course, it's online
Fantastic, right crop of psychedelic intersections cross-cultural manifestations of the sacred
Conference
2024 February 17th
everybody
Everybody we should go we should crash this party. It'll be fantastic. Give me the next give me the next one, Joey
I want you guys look who is this? I got a little sliver here. Who is this? This is Dr. Stang
I don't know
Is he a doctor? Well, he's got a THD from Harvard Divinity School
Thanks, Dr. Stang. He's look professor of early Christian thought this man should know
everything
Everything I'm impressed already just looking at that thing. I'm impressed, but you know what we're gonna do, you know
You know, we're gonna do okay. Give me the next one. Look at this. Um, this is a conversation between
Mid Charlie and somebody else. Let me just read it to hand a graph from the University of Amsterdam in a series last year
Speaking about so-called Mithras liturgy. Look, Dr. Stang, don't put a
Don't put a
Apostrophe after the a and Mithras don't do that
Which was a text so named by the Germans collar blah blah blah good good good. I like it so far
Right and so a fascinating text that again has been pushed to the margins and miscategorized
Good for you guys keep going. So that's one. But the Q&A function is
Actually exploding with people who are telling me that there's ample textual evidence that apparently none of us are reading
None of us are reading take it down for one second chewy
Yeah
Yeah, right
That is when the voice
Goes out
Right, that is when you've got to the guards or asleep at the gates, right? You've got to wake them up
Let's see it back to that same one. What is what do you say at the bottom here?
So we have Galen cited arm and Hillman
Saying we need to read Galen. Yes. Yes, you do others are saying of course many of the stories in the honesty
It's long been thought some of the episodes. Yeah. Oh my god. Okay hootie-dootie do professor now
Bring in his interlocutor. Bring her in. Who is she? Who is she tell us? I think she's a Yale
I think she is Karen Paulinger foster. Sorry, Dr. Foster. If you don't work at Yale, let's give you a position there
Divinity I give it to you. I grant it. Sorry and
That is to say that a good half dozen chapters in the book or by people authors who are presenting textual evidence exactly
From the Acadian Samaritan Egyptian and Hittite sources
Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me?
Do you know what the epic of Gilgamesh is
It's whatever Greek knows a third grader can write
Right because languages are not equal and the little lie kiddies that we all know that they're telling you is that this
Language is equal to that and we're in a universe where everything is created equal
That's not how language works
Who could we bring? Who could we bring? We could bring Jehovah
Let's ask Jehovah. Shall we ask Jehovah? I'm I'm I'm in a place. I'm in a place to ask Jehovah
Karen
Didn't want to consult
almond
Karen didn't want to
They think that they're going to have
a meeting about a
use of substances
That they know nothing about from the text that we have
thousands of
Seriously for some Hittite scribbly dibbly do
What did they have a list? Did they have a list of drugs? Oh my goodness
Yes, Harvard Yale
Wake up
Wake up. You don't even know this language your divinity degrees degrees or trash
The trash
The trash I told somebody just that today and I like the guy
I like the guy, but I got to be honest with you
I work with divinity students
And I've got to bring them out of the depths
Back to life
Yeah, it's amazing. I love it. I love it. Okay. Let's go to the look. Look. Where's this all going?
Look, it's gonna get exciting. I promise. I promise. This is some of it. You gotta watch the interview with God
That's really all let's go hit it. Let's go to the next one. I just want you to feel
Tonight as we get into the place that we need to go. I just want you to start to feel
I want you to start to feel
The hand of God, I want you to feel and how do I want you to feel it?
What is that kataya doing on there?
It's the hand of God that is coming upon me
In a way
That forces me into pure courage. This stuff is liquid courage
Oh, this is strength, baby. These are the strong pills. You thought I was going to bring you the weak stuff tonight?
Nope. I've got Ezekiel tied up. I've got a gag in his mouth. I've got the third century guy who wrote
The septuagent I've got him tied up too
Right, we're going to correct his grammar a little bit, but first I want to ask God
I want to ask God. How do you how's the Hebrew?
How's the Hebrew God tell me
If languages are all created equal, why are you always badmouthing yours?
Oh, let's go next. Let's go. Oh god. What's after that?
Watch this people watch this people. What is this?
This is Ezekiel's
Garbly garbly garble here. Let's read it
Euglos on su
Esele
Prostanoi con tu israel
Oh
What does it say? Let me translate it. I'm not sending you
This is God speaking, right? What is that God say something God? God say something
Yeah, yeah, say something God
Speak these are his words. Take it down. These are his
words
His words
It's your pheos people out there
All you fundamentalists all you orthodox
You people
He's speaking have some respect
What does he say to you put it up there?
He says look Ezekiel. I'm not sending you to anybody with a sophisticated language
Right. I'm not sending you to anybody whose language is evolved
It has depth
It has density
I'm not sending you those people. I'm sending you to israel
No
Wait, wait, what what now look god
I have been working with this congregation. You can take it down. I have been working with this congregation for a long time
We we talked about
You know
