The the size the size of the Hebrew
Language
This
8000
Maybe
The size of the greek
You know big big
We we don't know the total because it's so big
Oh, wow hundreds of thousands
Hundreds
Hundreds of thousands. I'm gonna show you tonight. God. Tell me your people. Tell me about their language and its sophistication
Please would you tell me give me the next one chewy?
Hmm. Hmm. Here's a translation just for those for those of you who just want to listen to the king james
Just for those of you for thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech
Of a hard language, but to the house of israel
Right, that's a terrible translation terrible. Absolutely terrible translation
Confuses the issue and doesn't explain to you that he's saying Hebrew
Is incapable of carrying the mystery
Wow
Interesting, let's see one. Let's go to the next one. Please go to the next one. Boom
Look people. Here's the long passage. I'm just gonna read it to you quickly. I'm gonna read it to you quickly, right? He says get up
We are on throw. Who are we talking about the son of man?
Son of man, who?
This is in the mystery people. Listen up
The son of man get off your backside and go to the house of israel
and say these words to them
Why because
I'm not sending you to people who use big words
Right. I'm sending you to israel
I'm sending you to the people of israel. Look at verse six
I'm not sending you to a people who are alophonus. Look at those two words people alophonus and alo
aloglossus
Do you see that alo? Do you see the alo?
You see the alo and you see then two different roots guys who were taking the great phone
Right for your sound and gloss for your tongue or speech or language
Huh
That's interesting. That's interesting. I'm not sending to these people of other languages or other
dialectical
tendencies
No
No, I'm not going to send you to a culture that is ontas tibarus
That has tibarus in their tongue in their language next one. What is that?
What is that tibarus? We'll come back to this. What is that tibarus? Go
What is that tibarus? So look it's bulk
It's bulk your language hebrew ancient because modern hebrews flourishing it's about 60 000
Congratulations
Right now it'll survive
Fantastic, but the ancient hebrew that for some reason
Has a minuscule
Hittite hittite. Oh, yeah literature you call that stuff literature
Those are lists brah groceries. That's not literature and that's not a language that has hundreds of thousands
of captured images
Oh, god
Oh, love it. Keep going keep going
Um, yep next one next one
Now I want you to look at the hebrew and I just want you to notice that those two words that we just looked at in greek
The alofonos rides in the a lo glossos
that
What is that in the hebrew?
That is represented by four different words
Four different words to generate two
in greek
And those two greek words are technical terms
Whereas the hebrew are not
Because when you've got a thousand you don't have room for technical. Yeah, it's the way it is
Okay, science people. We love it. We love it. You love it
I'm gonna jump on the audience here in just a minute because I want interact more. I want to amen
I want to hell satan. I want I wanted that kind of thing, but I want you to see this now
Now go to the next slide and we're I'm gonna show you a video here in just a second
Um, this is the people who he's not sending to the people of substantial
speech
Right. Okay. So don't worry. Don't worry zeke. You're not gonna have to talk your way through anything
Right. Don't worry. Just chill out for a minute. Go to the next one, right?
These people
um, yeah
Try that one. Um, I just want you to see that the word for tongue is very specifically and
used in a
by grammarians
Right in a specific way and you can talk about different dialects
So these are types of speech that ultimately are different groups of languages
And apparently greek by the third century when this text of ezekiel is written
It makes perfect sense that it's written by a jewish
person who is using the greek with
some difficulty
In order to express something about his own
history
Where god
openly criticized the poor people for having a
Speech that was
So, you know, you can go there because they're not going to take your
um, your speech
And have a problem with it, right? And then he says well, I could have convinced the other smarties if I want to right
That's how god is. That's how guys you got to give it to him. Okay. Just lay off him
For a minute here while he's under the chair of
focus
Yeah, and um, so what I want to do is I want to go now
I want to go now to a place
A place where we can look at
A
A new symbol that's been hiding in our society
for several millennia
Several millennia we haven't been able to pull it out of the ether
But tonight we're going to and it's with all
Do humility that I say it's my honor and privilege to bring this to you. It's my honor now
Before we get there. We have to go through some humans
We have to go through some humans and we have to we have to look into the mind
Um, there's a very confused group of people. These are bible scholars
Bible scholars, they're very confused. These are preachers. These are priests. These are rabbis
These are people who are very very confused
very
very confused
About what came out of the prophet's mouth
Wheels
Wheels within wheels. Can we have the wheels, please?
Chewie when you get a saint people, let's just take it take a look at this little this little
You know a short little
Kind of documentary of the confusion hit it
Chewie's did not turn about as the creatures went
Their rims were high and awesome
And all four rims were full of eyes
All around
When the living creatures moved the wheels beside the moved and when the living creatures rose from the ground
The wheels also rose
Whatever the spirit would go they would go
And the wheels would rise along with them because the spirit of the living creatures
Was in the wheels
I think this means that god sees and cares about what takes place upon the earth
Though events seem out of control
We know that not only is god in control
But also we should be comforted by the fact that he sees and knows what takes place on the earth
I don't even know what that means in movies very famous movies. This is a movie from 1997
This is the movie contact
And in the movie aliens had sent through radio transmission
A lot of schematics to make this machine you're seeing this wheel within the wheel that's spinning
Here is something I photoshopped to give you a better, you know
Crude idea of what maybe Ezekiel was seeing was additional
Angels next to uh, they they were called ophanemes with glory around about them, right with the sparkle green around about them
And that they're a part of this
System that moves the mobile throne of the father
If you
Believed any of that was substantiated by these texts
um
You're as full of it as an
doctor of divinity
Yeah
You're as full of it. Yeah, isn't that fantastic?
Such confused. Did you see the monstrous stuff?
That they were doing it. I mean, I've seen worse. I went to basil, right? Um, right before Hoffman
died passed away
It was a big deal at the time too and I presented at the conference
there on
you know, I was doing my thing with the drugs in history, you know, and
There were artists there and they would have loved these depictions. They would have loved it
Oh, you haven't seen the eyes all over. No, it's because you're mistranslating it. You're mistranslating it
Look right through. You're mistranslating it
Oh, because this wasn't in Hebrew. You see in Hebrew. It's got to be wheels because it can't be anything else
I remember 8,000 words if you restrict yourself to 8,000 words unique words
Watch how quickly you run out of things to say
Yeah, it's fantastic. Um, so when when the
Old testament or the Torah was actually written
in the third century
