Okay. We need reality.
Yeah. Because we're sworn to it, right?
Reality. Reason.
I've kept you to your 30 minutes. I'm going to have Rob on for five to 10 minutes, Rob.
Tell me, what do you want to do with this material?
Hey, so I'm going to be cheeky and say, can we get fingered by Oscar Wilde then instead of the academic?
Because...
Yeah.
You've taken a look at Salome. You've taken a look at Salome now.
Tell me what you see in Salome.
Coded. It's coded to the hilt, isn't it?
How does Oscar Wilde know how to code this stuff and put it into a play that becomes something that's...
It's not just a small thing. This isn't... I mean, you've got like your megastars who are obsessed with this stuff.
You've got Al Pacino, who's obsessed with it.
He's done a play. He's done a film. He's done a documentary of a play of a film.
And in our day and age, so he's reading into this.
I mean, how does Oscar Wilde know about the wines?
When he's writing this play, how does he know is to include these wines?
Because he talks about three types of wines from different areas in geography.
So how does he... That takes either... Because he hasn't got the research capability we've got in his day and age.
So where's he getting his information?
That's the big thing for me. He's getting his information from...
He kind of steers clear of the biblical side of things and gives salami agency.
He's kind of... She comes to the forefront, doesn't she?
And she becomes the star.
Whereas it's been portrayed for so long as almost like a warning.
The kind of message what's coming from down below through the vent from John.
John is talking apocalyptic source, isn't he?
But that doesn't come until after.
He's talking this out. The moon's turning blood red.
And the sun's going dark. And the sun's turning to black.
And that doesn't come until later on, does it?
If you look at it in a historical sense, that doesn't come until later on.
So why is Wilde including this into... I mean, has he been initiated?
Essentially is where I'm going with this. Has Oscar Wilde been initiated?
Because if you were to ask my opinion, I'd say yes.
I'd say he was initiated through his education.
What do you think about his being in prison?
Was that an initiation?
Yeah, I guess so.
Because he's feeling the wrath.
He's talking about the dragon and feeling the wrath of disclosing information there.
As far as I'm concerned, I think he's disclosing information.
