So, the redhead is actually, he's one of these Scythians, you know,
and he's doing his thing, he's going through his initiation.
And yeah, and does he come out of it?
I hope so, I hope so.
I hear two out of three babies don't.
Eamon.
Yeah.
Eamon, we've got to come out from Ariel.
Hi, Ariel.
It's David the redhead.
Oh, David the redhead.
I'm not sure.
Come back with that, Ariel, please.
Because that's interesting, real interesting.
I'll find that very interesting.
Was David initiated?
Can't imagine I'm spitting.
David, is that an initiation?
Some connection there.
You don't know what happens to that redhead,
but you're not done with the formula yet, right?
Because you're taking his blood and you can't let it coagulate.
They say if it coagulates, it's no good.
It's no good.
Yeah, so you have to keep it.
You have to keep it from coagulating.
And then they take that with the blood of a dragon.
And what you take from his head when you cut it off.
And these dragons are the guys like the wolves who are living out in the caves.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
You can trap them with the right drugs.
Offer them the right drugs, right?
And they will be subdued.
They are, I don't, they say a dragon is scary, feared by all.
It's neither a god nor a mortal.
Neither a god nor a mortal.
And the one that guarded Medea's fleece, feared only Medea,
was considered a god killer.
And if you'll notice that she put that dragon into the death state
in order to claim the fleece, right?
And she was very upset about it.
She was very upset about it because Prometheus is a man.
Yeah, and yeah, beautiful stuff.
The dragon comes back anyway when she burns up this palace and kills everybody.
It's not like that's funny, but her, yeah, it's a long story.
It's a long story, probably not worth it.
Oh, by the way, for those of you who know that Medea,
or say that Medea killed her children, right?
The Corinthians made that up.
There was an oracle that went out right after the kids of Medea were killed,
her sons were killed, and she was able to escape from the city.
They got sick with a plague.
And the oracle said, it's because you killed Medea's kids and claimed that she did, right?
It's terrible, terrible.
Those Corinthians should be, you know, good.
Good plague on the Corinthians, Hail Satan.
Plague on the Corinthians, right, Siri?
Plague on those people, yeah.
Anyway, let's go, let's keep going through the text.
We have to, we can't leave off the, you take the dragon's blood and a stone
that you take out of the middle of his brain.
Yeah.
Okay.
And you take all of these ingredients and then you're, you're set to be able to make that sabat.
There's a place.
Okay.
Think of it as a dimensional place that you can project yourself.
This is how they talk about it, right?
This is, this is their world.
You project yourself.
This is fairy queen stuff, right?
And that's why, that's why Rob is chasing the fairy queen.
He's chasing Mab.
He's chasing Medwa, right?
Because she's there too in his, in his past as well.
This is Lady Babylon.
It's she who bridges all of the languages.
Yeah.
Isn't that nice?
Chasing this chat at the minute.
Chasing this chat at the minute.
I'm trying to keep up.
Yeah, yeah.
So I'll get, I'll get with you.
I'll get to you.
Okay.
Just buzz in, buzz in Rob and just say, Hey, I want to read a comment when you'd like to read a comment.
That's, that's fantastic.
I will.
I will.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Good.
And if, if anybody has any great, you know, great questions, they're welcome.
We're going to, we're about, oh, we're getting into it a little bit of length here.
So I will, I'll make an ending in just a minute.
I'll wrap up and, and then when we're, then we'll give you a chance to ask some questions.
So we're with, we're with the redheaded boy and we took his blood and we mixed it with the blood of the dragon and with the gym that comes from his head.
And now we're, we have the ingredients from the cauldron.
And these we can transfuse to burn off the mortality.
Remember in the initiation of the lusus.
Remember Demeter is working the boy demophon.
Yeah.
And her mother walks in and she's like, Oh my God, what are you doing?
And the, the text says that she was putting him into the fire.
Right.
And she says, she says, look you ungrateful jerk.
Right.
I was going to burn off his mortality.
Well now, you know, forget about it.
Let him die.
Right.
Isn't that cool?
And so yeah, yeah.
Is he your, is he your redhead?
He's in the position of your redhead.
You know, Rob mentioned today, and I want to talk about a question about pedophilia, pedophilia.
I want to open it up to the most uncomfortable academic discussion possible because we have a, we have the freedom if we are respectful and clinical to be able to ask some questions.
And from antiquity, you know, they've got a word, pae de rastea.
Right.
Pedorasty.
Right.
It's a, it's a big thing.
If look guys, if we want to find that kid that was with Jesus in the garden.
