I will expose her mystery, acts, and the scarlet potion that gives her power.
I will expose the potion with its seven venoms and its ten botanical ingredients.
The potion you see, which was once made by her, is now no longer made, but will return
in the future when it is brought again into existence out of the emptiness of her body.
It will destroy God.
The demons who exercise power in the earthly realm will be thunderstruck when the potion
and its use return to this realm.
These are the powers not found in the book of life.
The magic book of Eve, whereby Eve's drug recipes were first established.
Sophia, Ewa, herself, will teach the wise.
The seven serpent venoms were discovered on seven mountains where Lady Mystery once practiced.
The powers behind them are of seven types.
Five of them have disappeared.
One remains and one will be found in the future.
When this one is discovered, the potion itself will temporarily return.
And the potion which once existed and is no longer present, this very potion, is the eighth
communion and is the product of the seven venoms and will bring destruction of God.
The ten botanical ingredients you see are ten powers not yet manifested, but they will
combine under the essence of the seven in one hour when combined in the potion.
And together the botanicals and the venoms have one goal, one effect, one power.
These ingredients will act as antidotes to the ram and the ram will master them because
they will make him the master inebriant and the leading power of powers.
And these ingredients are carefully chosen.
And the one messenger of seven said to me, the pharmaceutical waves that you see commanded
by the whore, these have been preserved by various ethnicities, sex, nations, and languages.
And the ten sources you see along with the potion, these induce the whore to produce
an orgiastic rite and make her to become inspired.
They will consume her body and make her burn with fire.
For the goddess constructs the potions by putting into their essential nature the ability
to accomplish a single purpose from a plurality of ingredients.
She gives the potion the ability to bring her own song to completion.
And the woman whom you see, she is a great city, the home of the magi.
And she gives power to the potion by mixing the powers of the earth.
So if you apply the Orphic terminology straight over to the translation, that's what you get.
And the pharmaceutical depths of this, you can't understate them.
So I just want you to realize that this image of the individual who is the one who bears
the cup, the one who brings the cup in analog for doing this analogia, the one that brings
the cup is the source of that communion.
And this is, you say, what communion is this?
Where does this come from?
I just wanted to read you.
It's the communion of the virgin.
Yeah, really, it's all this form is a communion of the virgin.
With her virgin milk, she lets streams of statutes gush into the baby's lips and drops
into the girl's mouth, the sweet produce of the attic bee.
That we're talking about the virgin herself, the source of that milk, that nourishing milk.
We're talking about astraya, astraya with the sigmatal row or str root, right?
She is the sister of the dawn bringer.
She is the sister of the dawn bringer.
So again, remember the images, we're working with the images.
So in this old, what's called an old generation of deity, within this old generation of deity,
we have laid out for us the plan of how to perform the mystery, how to bring it back.
So to bring us to the place where we enter death and then are resurrected from it.
The whole object of these mysteries is that interaction with the other dimension that
is around you.
We have a goal.
We get together with the Athenians, right?
And they're celebrating the mysteries.
The goal of the Elisthenian mysteries is to raise the Korah.
It's to visualize the Korah, to be able to interact on the level of the Korah.
It's a coming together mystery operation is a coming together of those two dimensions.
Yeah.
And that's why Phanis, the visible is the God of the process.
Yeah.
All from the throne of Satan is where we is where we get this, right?
So I'm reading to you just a couple of little varieties, little snippets.
I want to take you quickly then to the Greek text.
I want to show you a couple of things with Greek here.
17, 1, let's go to 17, 1.
Yeah.
Is that 17?
Yeah.
There we go.
This is just the Nessiel Allen text for those of you who are interested in Nessiel Allen
