You tell me, man of sorrows, how do you feel?
I want you to feel.
Now, I'm going to pull this one right out of your psyches.
Are you ready?
Man of sorrows, how do you feel?
I'm seeing double.
I'm seeing two different worlds that have two different sons.
I'm seeing things.
Oh, you are. You are.
You know why?
Because they say there.
I'm translating.
They say there was this guy, this stranger.
He came into your presence and he was a go ace.
He was a one.
He was a guy who used the logo.
He's an epotic go ace from Lydia.
If you want the specifics, oh God, these Greeks start talking.
I'm like, what?
Right?
And any who, he's got this wonderfully smelling, you know,
blonde curly hair, by the way, if anybody, anybody for, you know,
anybody for a little portrait of Dionysus, you know,
you got to show him like he is, Bryce.
He's a handsome guy, you know, it's just the way it is.
And he, what happens there?
He's also got this.
Oh, he's got that complexion, that wine complexion.
You know what I mean?
It's so sexy.
It's like the, I'm translating.
It's like the Aphrodite's graces, you know what I mean?
It's like Aphrodite's graces.
He's got them.
Where's he got them?
He's got them in his eyes.
He's got them in his eyes.
Wait, Aphrodite's graces in his eyes?
Yes.
Yeah.
Look at the bottom line.
We're just going to jump to the last word.
Neonising.
What, what is Dionysus always doing?
He's hanging out with the teenage girls.
And everybody, everybody, chorus, quick.
Somebody, where's the chorus?
I'm missed the chorus of the, of the sisters of frustration.
Where are you people?
I'm really disappointed here.
Somebody raised the objection.
Will you that we're talking about teenage girls?
Will you please?
Now, for those of you who've been following Jesus with the naked boy in the public
park or for him, some of you have been following that.
Remember, we're talking about the Neoniscos.
Well, the next stage up from the boy or girl is that developing entity, right?
And that thing is the, it is the Neonias.
Again, you can translate that as, as young boy or boy or some people will even use young,
young man, right?
Well, he's hanging out with the young girls specifically.
Again, we told them you don't put the best looking angel with the Eve.
You're not supposed to do that.
Right?
Why not?
Watchers are like, does this, does this divinity ever get it?
No.
She's messing up again.
That is what monism does.
That's what monism does.
