It's it's like a sad incident. He's um, he says look
Oh, it's coming through by the way the bible author whoever wrote this probably luke
But whoever wrote this the author who put this here
Says, you know, um, this guy happened to have a plenum aponeer on
a spirit
That was harmful
Okay, so if you don't understand that within the cult know all the casting out of demons
Right, you can meet someone and you can figure out what their demons are and with the right drugs
You can cast them out may require some some christing and it may require
um sexual
Congress of some sort or another
And what happens this dude has an evil spirit. He says he's got this evil spirit
And what does the evil spirits say it says?
I know
Right. I'm aware of jesus
Right. I'm aware of what jesus
You know, what his act was right and I have personal
experience
I have an understanding of paul
Right, I know what he's but you seven
This is something else like we don't know what happened. They went into a house
And you and I are gonna now watch what happens from the outside house
But the seven sons of the high priest take this one dude into a house and he says look
I know how jesus does this and I've seen how paul does this you guys are not doing it the same way
And what happens you and I sit outside the house
We hear a commotion from the inside as the dude
Jumps on him and it uses the same word for jumping there that a predatory snake
Uses the for for grabbing and holding on with its fangs
So what does he do this dude jumps on him both?
Right with his bad spirit and he overpowers them
Right, he overpowers them and you and I sitting outside and watching
Watch them all run out and they are naked
Do you know why they are naked?
Because you end up naked when you have your eyes opened
Yeah, it's the mystery
Yeah, and and uh, they're running out of his house and it says they're also beating up
So
Can you see how the cult works? Can you see how the cult works?
Do you understand now why jesus is able to calm down?
People who are in tombs raving and mad. Do you understand why because that's part of the freaking cult?
Right paul's doing the same thing
It's not miraculous
Right you were it's not even intended to be miraculous. Oh, it's not
It's the reality that you can't read because you don't read the language
Right good. That's why that's why domin you we're trying to get people trained
So they can read it and last but not least
And then we're gonna go I just have a couple hymns to finish off
What happened right after this with paul so you and I are sitting in this village and we
See these seven sons of the high priest the jewish high priest go into this house with this dude next thing you know
We hear all this commotion and they're running out nude and beaten up
Right um, what is the community response to this incident?
It's here in axe 1919
People came together
Took their magic books and burned them
It was so much the cost the value it says they estimated the value of the books
To be around muriadas pente
A myriad is 10 000 coin
Right so five of those so 50 000 coin worth
Of magic books
Now i'm going to tell you something you have been told for years by biblical scholars
By scholars of biblical theology
You've been told
That only the very few people read in antiquity
Oh these this is a land a fairy tale land where nobody reads. It's only the extremely rich
It's only the extremely rich dude in this one location. This is asia minor in this one location
They've got more than 50 000 bucks
Worth of magic scrolls. You know what that says says people are reading a lot more people than you think are reading
And it turns out that's true
Look at the libraries that we find
The romans are complaining the giant public library those christians. They burned it down
It was their public library
God
They're burning them down all over rome. There's not just one library in rome. This was the big famous one on the palatine hill
That's what monism does get rid of the evidence so that you can rewrite history
But we're not going to let that happen
We're going to show it to you now for what it is now everything tonight was brought to you by
uranium
Because urania is that mystery power
She is that mystery power
I'm going to give you three. It's kind of a riddle, but I'm going to give you three
forms of that uranian power
Via ancient cult song. Are you ready for this because I wouldn't make this stuff up, right?
I can't I have to always go from the text. That's what the devil said anyway
Go hit me with the next one. Why does he say hail satan? I'll tell you what
Um hipta. Look at this. Here's a goddess you've never heard of I guarantee I guarantee maybe one or two nerds
Hipta, who is she? I call upon hipta the nurse of bacchus the elwatic girl
The elwatic girl. What is that? Do you know what who elwa was?
She was the one who was taken from the side of adamantas
Right. She was the one taken from adam
Right. She is that bacchic crier. And what does she do? She leads the mystic rites have
This is well, okay. I kind of want to go now, right? What does she rejoice in? She rejoices in sabu
Hagnu
She rejoices in holy saba. Do you know who invoked holy saba with the last breath that he had?
Jesus christ did jesus christ did
Sabak thon
All right, he did exactly what somebody who was in the cult would do and remember jesus christ in the first century
Is technically since judaism only goes back to the third
Jesus christ is technically i mean the monest judaism not the jewish people
Right, not the ethnic group. I'm talking about the monism that is judaism
That thing only goes back to the third century. So it's technically jesus is a founder of judaism. Isn't that odd?
No, it's not odd that somebody who's gonna cause a contention or
You know take over the territory from the holy priesthood
Right, it's just because he could do it better than the priest could
Right, remember the magi those drug headed drug dealers
Right, they're the ones who brought the whole hey, here's the drugs and the money
Bruh, right so jesus could do it better. He got his education down in egypt
the people in
Jerusalem involved with the temple they were sending their people out
Down there to learn greek jesus had to go down and do that
Right
So it's no wonder that they're all the rabbis are all saying dude. This guy is brilliant
Right and not only that he can put you into a state
Right, he can put you into a state. Give me the next one. Give me the next one
That's hipta and i want to go now. Yes. She's the chthonian mother. Don't you love that?
Chthonian saba. Love it. Give me the next one and here is aphrodite
I just want you to take note of a couple of things here a couple of expressions that I want you to see the very first word
Right, who is this smile loving aphrodite? She loves the nighttime, baby
She loves that yoking. You know what she is. She's the mother of necessity. What?
Necessity compulsion the reason that you're here
You got blanked into existence. I got blanked into existence. You got blanked into existence. Chewie
Right
We all got blanked into existence
How do you think we got here? We got here by aphrodite. Doesn't it make sense that we would return to her
As the muse, you know, they called her the muse, right?
Who is it? Who's with who the jews worship again before they worship jahu?
The misogynist god they worshiped aphrodite
You're kidding me
Who did they they did it through bachas the worship of bachas? Yes, because you can't have aphrodite without bachas
They go hand in hand. Thank you. Plutarch now for the jewish ethnic community
Who can who wants to see their origins? Imagine you're cretin ancestors
Right before they had immigrated to the levant
Imagine you're cretin ancestors worshiping this divine pair
aphrodite and bachas
aphrodite and bachas
Isn't that something?
You thought adonis was some crusty
Crusty desert god. No, no, he's not
He's not he's the lover
He's the lover of
urania
Isn't that nice the lover of urania? That's the culture that you come from
now on the
muslim side
You come from the bachic adherents
Of a rite that was perpetuated that made it all the way
To arabia what we call what they called arabia
And that's where you come from. That's why you've got that big stone
Right. Um, that's why that your original devotions were to that goddess
Of intercourse. I know things have changed. I know things have changed
But that's how it started out and it seemed to be because at the time they didn't have jihads the followers
Of aphrodite he'd never had jihads on anyone
It's a it's a phenomenon of polytheism right if you think about it. What is a jihad?
Right that action is against it's exclusive of one core monist group
Right, you've got to perform that action against those who are on the outside of the fence
Right put your burqa on
Right, um, you're in the fence
everybody else
Terrible idolaters call them ever what's it whatever you want
Right, but those polytheists were your ancestors. Give me the next one. Um, I wanted to go give me the next one. Go ahead
I wanted to show you here at the top
I just want you to see that this is aphrodite who was called lukhaina the end of the first line lukhaina
Um lukhaina is like a drachaina
The drachaina is that priestess of the dragon and the lukhaina is the priestess of the wolf
Of the wolf and what is this wolf priestess used? Look at the fourth line down last three words
You know that field throne is a drug
Right, it's a concoction
All right a filter you can call it and they're usually sexual that one's called erotomania
drug
The one that causes you to enter into erotic mania now. I want to say this and I know I know
Neil is waiting in the wings
So I'm going to finish up here, but I want to say this
The erotic mania if you have never in your life
entered into erotic mania
I'm sorry that you haven't had that religious experience
I'm sorry
But
They made that religious experience
the centrality
of their salvation
Coming to grips
with that
climax
is
part
of the death process
and rebirth
Yeah, if you think about it, it sort of makes sense
It sort of makes sense. We don't send a person to the moon
We put them into a state
Where they can go beyond death and be brought back on a tether and when they come back
They're full of that knowledge
Full of that knowledge and if we guide them properly we can tell them when you see this do this do this
Right from our people who've already been going back and forth and who are the people who go back on forth on a regular basis
the oracles
What do you think they always know the future because when you're detached according to their physics when you're detached from this
existence that is material
You become aware. I don't know why they said this, but you become aware
of all time
Right, it's like ghosts in the underworld
somehow know
Are watching us they get some absorbed
you know
vision
Right, and that's why your ancestors either hate you or love you
Right, you you you didn't realize it, but you're living this specifically for their benefit
Right, it's weird. It's a strange way to look at the world. I think it's quite noble though. I think it's quite noble
Um, and I think it bears, you know, we need to look at it give me the next one and we're done
And I want to give you one more
one more
Him here. I want you to see this is melenaway and I want you to see that she is that cthonia nymph
Who wears that hecatic?
gown
Hecatic gown this is we're on the witch side now. You didn't know aphrodite. It was actually a witch. Did you you didn't know aphrodite?
It was actually a witch. What does this one do?
What does melenaway do?
She my name is natus and this is the perfect way to end because that means
She causes people
to enter insanity
and if you look at the very if you look at the
Second to last line the third word in oistron. What do we want from her?
We want oyster
Right. This is the same cult person that you and I have been looking at that we call medea
This is the same cult person. She has to be performing that right
Right. She has to be she is the source. It's her body and blood
That is the source of our salvation
Right. That's how we manage these jumps to death and back
Right. Now we can do this in tombs
We can do it with the right drugs. We can do it with people walking around. Oh god. There's another one revive that one, right?
This is the world that produced
Christianity if this
Modern age is to produce another christianity. It will not
Come out of any churches
It'll come out of movements mass movements of people
Who enter into altered states?
Thank you
