Prostitutes and the tax people. You can see that. Let's go. Everybody knows that. They're like, shut up and hurry up. Listen, here's the other one. I'm going to take you back now. We took you to the Alpha and the Omega and we took you to somebody speaking in parables.
And now I want to translate for you some John Littis. He says, hey, there was this kid, Tages, the one who was born from the soil, right? There was a farmer out working in his field and this kid just came right out of one of the little grooves he had plowed in the ground.
He just came out of it. And I'm going to translate for you. They call this guy Tages. They could the Greeks call him Chthonian Hermes. See that the top Greek students, that top line middle, they call him Chthonian Hermes, this boy who comes out of the ground.
And you know what? Just like, you know, Procholus, the teacher, right? He says this, right? And what is he, how do they talk about this thing? Well, it's heretic. They use heretic speech or allegorically.
They talk about things. Why? Because it's the law. It's the nomos of the priests to do that, right? Yeah, since why? Because it's not right to make things visible that have to do with God in a way that is not holy.
You can't do that. It's what it says in the red, right? But now, because of this, they use myth and they tell parables. They tell parables. For example, let me give you an example.
Instead of saying the soul has been initiated, given all power, it is incarnated in the flesh. Instead of saying all that, right? What's they say? What? There's a kid and he's a newborn kid. He's a young kid and he comes out of the dirt that's plowed by this farmer.
Do you understand? Okay, those of you who are sitting here, when Jesus is using this method and he's telling people, no, I've certain people that I've called. I've called you here, whether you want to be here or not.
Whether it tortures your soul and I'd love that you're drawn. I'd love that even though you love Jesus and you want to defend him, you know that you can't. The evidence is all gone. You can't have your fairy tale Jesus back.
Still you want to come? You want to be here? It's me. It's me that's drawing you. Do you see why? You know why. You know why. Devil is more handsome than Jesus. Did you ever consider that?
Yeah. Let's go. Bring us back to the next one. I'm still on the ether of that one a little bit. You've got to let me ride a little bit. Where's my goat?
That'll do it. Okay. Fantastic. Fantastic. Let's go to the next one. This is 1st John 2.18. He says, hey kiddos. Why? Look at the first word.
Oh God. These people are creeps. Seriously. Never walk into a room of people and say, you know what? I was just with my little kiddies. You know, you sound like a creep. You know, but it's no wonder. This is John. We know that when he was hanging out with Jesus, if this is the right one, you know, he could have been 10 years old.
Let's see what happens. Let's see the marks of his relationship with Jesus. Are you ready? I'm going to preach to you from this pulpit what no preacher could possibly tell you because they don't go there.
They don't do the work. They don't do the work. They want your collection. By the way, we are still not monetized, even though we could be. Why? Same reason if I, if I'm fortunate enough to bring a foundation, to bring an academy to life, to bring some kind of museum back, that it'll be nonprofit.
I already talked to the right people person. Yeah. Yeah. And they're going to make sure why? Because people need to know. People need to know. There's a line. There's a line.
When you're talking about the sacred, you don't have any right to say anything that's motivated by faith or money, faith or money. Get out. Get out.
Because the faith just leads to money. I heard somebody say, well, why is that? Because the faith is always just a pathway to money. Trust me. Have faith in this venture.
Let's go to the next one. Okay, I'm going to stop. First John 2 18. Little kiddies, you know, the ending has come. You know, everything's going to come to completion. Right. Right. And you've heard, you know, the anti Christos comes.
The anti Christos is coming. The anti Christos. What is an anti Christos and every evangelical runs around and they write books about the coming and boom, you and I are floating in blood and lightning bolts and the Christians look yeah, yeah, going to slaughter you all.
They get worked up over that stuff. They get really worked up over that slaughter. You got they love a good slaughter. Julian was right. They love a good slaughter. They do. They do. Let's go bring it back up.
We got that Christ. What about this Christ? This is the anti Christ. Yeah, and now there are lots of anti Christ that have come into existence. Wait, what? There are anti Christ that are existing now. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, go to the next one to 19. Look at this people. From us, they went out. Why did he say from us they went out? It's because the anti Christ is a dude with 666 on his head. You morons, you morons, clowns, clowns, Bible scholar clowns.
Preachers are no better. Your preachers are pathetic people. They're pathetic. Oh God. Awful. Learned. They think they're learned. It's too bad.
I can't have some kind of, you know, public event. Bring back the Colosseum, you know what I mean?
I do it. You know what I mean? You got to fight for what's right in the world. You have to. Especially now, man, especially now. Do you feel where you're at with Alpha? Are you ready? Here it comes.
Bring up the next one. We've got to pop them into this quick. Yep. Yep, yep, yep. And yeah, so they went out from us on these anti Christ went out from us, right? They weren't from us directly. Why not? Why not?
Because if they were, they, you know, they would still be here. They would still be here because you can't make a Christ or an anti Christ unless you have a body to do so. You can't wait. Say that again. You can't make a Christ or an anti Christ unless you have a body.
