I'm going to take you to the place where the purple is, and where they're using it, and
we have a text that'll talk about that.
So when you are talking to Satan, when you're talking to Satan, when you're using that Saturnian
oracle, you've entered that initiation, and you're then operating actively, you can function
within both worlds at once, so that the rocks must obey.
Yeah.
Gorgeousness.
We've got a little video.
I want you to see this video.
This is in the other world where the north is the south, and the south is the north, full
of subliminal messages for you.
So, eat this one up tonight.
Everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
Women who are easy.
Having a virtuous wife is being like a rich man with big sack of rubies.
Your husband is blessed.
God is favoring him by providing a wife, providing you for this man.
Easy.
Easy.
He is the ruler of this world.
These titles and many more signify Satan's capabilities.
We must remember that God has given him domain over unbelievers only.
Believers are no longer under the rule of Satan.
Unbelievers, on the other hand, are caught in the snare of the devil, lie in the power
of the evil one, and are in bondage to Satan.
Satan is the God of this world.
It's not saying that he has ultimate authority.
It is conveying the idea that Satan rules over the unbelieving world in a specific way.
These bad guys at Corinth are Satanic.
Self-righteous respectability, that's the beating heart of Satanism.
Abortion?
God is forgiving it.
Bored sites?
God is forgiving it.
And we think, oh, you're starting to introduce moral chaos.
No, forgiveness of sin is not moral chaos.
But I believe that God has built men to engage with the world, and God has built women to
be domestic.
Between Presbyterians and twerking drag queens is not to display an admirable neutrality.
This only happens when the state has decided to side with the Kinky tribe plus.
And everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
So, this is not a fairy tale that we can live in, right?
We're going tonight to see the queen.
We're going to see somebody who is not a bag of rubies.
Are you a bag of rubies?
I know.
I could be a bag of something, a bag of rubies, I don't know.
The fact that you put up with that is just, to me, is absolutely phenomenal.
Shows your patience.
Wow.
I want to bring up another passage in Greek here, and I just stuck out one line out on
the side there.
It's just for you to get comfortable with, because it's an important line.
But in the first four lines of this little speech that we have here, this is again from
the son of the root cutter.
And he's talking about the great virgin that is worshiped by the Talrians in what we call
the Crimea.
Yeah, fantastic.
And on the fourth line, he says, hey, there were some guys that were washed up, you know,
on the shore.
Down in the crack of the side of the wall, the cliff, where the sea hits up against it.
By the way, they called the Black Sea an ocean.
The Camarians live beyond the ocean in the Greek mind, and that ocean was the Black Sea.
And those Camarians come from Crimea, earliest people from Crimea.
Fantastic.
And the fourth line says they ended up in this little cave, little crag, where the dealers
in the purple, where they do their thing, where they deal in purple.
Did you know there's two Greek verbs?
Yeah, this is weird.
This is weird.
But Greek has several ways of saying to do the purple.
Yeah, to do the purple.
So here they are doing the purple, doing the purple.
Let's just see really quick, go ahead and pull that one up.
Yeah, here's the word just for the skeptics in the group, right?
