This is it has his name on it and everything
But this was a baptism room. It was the middle room
in between the mithraic initiate hall and the uh, the sacrifice hall for magna mater
Where they took the bowls and to slay the bowl
So you're seeing that this religion was multifaceted. It wasn't just about mithras. It wasn't just about
Magna mater wasn't just about Saturn. There was like a whole fuck. There's a whole pantheon of gods all sort of um
Coexisting in these places that these priesthoods would sort of are sort of like interconnected in a weird way
And it makes me think of like, you know how the elohim is the singular word that they use to describe
The whole godhead right the elohim is all the gods
But it also can mean one god to me. I think that's what lucifer kind of becomes
Lucifer becomes a singular word to describe one god
But also a face of all these different gods solendictus
diana
Bacchus apollo
You know pan
They're all they all sort of become the they all become like singular under this term lucifer light bringer
Because you have that the imagery of the of the torch bearers and the uh, the light bringer is always present in these iconographies
um
So one more slide i want to go through and then i want to show there you so i'm going to go back to
One second i want to show this real quick
Mithras coming out of a rock holding the zodiac
Now if we can go back to my my original the first one that i was on not the last one
And i'm almost done here. So this is um
That i want to go back to this so this is that's why i think this is mithras right here coming out of a rock
and holding up ion
It's sort of like his resurrected self
It's like two phases of one character and that's why i think this that's why i think the snake is right next to them
It's the same length as both of them because it's sort of like showing
The snake
Uh gives away its it's uh dead skin and becomes new and mithras being born from a rock anew is the resurrected ion
Ion and this is another part of my video that i don't have the notes for here, but i'm gonna be in my video
i'm going to show that ion was called
Ion was followed by that by three disciples
Who were called the chronoï?
the chronoï were
Basically avatars of ion himself
But they were past present and future
So you have three faces of this you have a trinitarian god called ion
This this is this is the same ion that epiphania says was worshiped in in uh, egypt
After the and born at the winter solstice
And he tells me he's telling christians not to take part in their written
He's saying all these christians keep taking the part and all these mysteries of ion
We shouldn't be doing that like he's basically saying that these christians are
intermixing with the ion worshipers
But so i'm just want now i want to highlight that thing because jesus sort of comes out and he's
he's um
he's
He's competing with this this idea of this one the son of god is
The son of god is like you have all these sons of god characters
And they all sort of go there's a lot of them get resurrected a lot of them have
passions a lot of them are sacrifices a lot of them
Are saviors healers asclepius
Whatever and like you can sort of see how
jesus sort of takes on
All these different traits but tries to be better than all them
well
It gets crazier. So i'm gonna go back to my go back to my slide again real quick
Or not slide go back to my yeah this one
um
so
um
Am i showing the right one okay?
All right, can you see my let me just see all right good. Good. This is the one so
Yeah, so that's what i meant by mithras coming out of iraq holding up ion and then the snake that i hear that uh
Representing the resurrected mithras or the death of ion
But here's what i wanted to mention
because down here you have
tethys
and
Poseidon
And anyone will tell you Poseidon is always depicted with horns that look like
crab
Claws right?
I don't know if you guys can see that or not. Do you see the crab claws for his horns?
Right, so one more thing i want to show you and before i went to my last video
That's uh this right here. This isn't from an from an old church from the fourth century fifth century
It was it was an arian church
But you can't really hang up on the fact that it's arian because the arians were just catholics that had one
tiny tiny minute difference
Is that they believe in the trinity they believe jesus is god they believe in the same books
The same canon they think the gnastics are heretics
They think they even call themselves catholics. They are catholics
But the one difference is that they think that jesus came after the father. They both aren't eternal
Such a minute difference, but that's a big difference a big deal for a lot of catholics. Anyways, the reason why i brought this up
Jesus is being baptized
in this image
And look what we have here the father god the father has the
earth shaker
Poseidon horns
There you notice that see the see see the
See the uh the the crab
little crab uh claws on his head
And so in this so i know some people try to interpret this as
It's the river jordan incarnate
But i'm not buying that
I'm not buying that i think this is Poseidon
Here's why I think that
He's being born into the water
He's being initiated into the water
And he says this is my son. I've begotten you right?
and so
What happens when jesus is uh killing the cross the earth shakes
The earth shaker appears the earth shakers mad
He cried out to his father on on his uh
On the cross and the father responded by shaking the earth. That's if you anyone who knows Poseidon
And you know ancient greek texts earth shaker is Poseidon. That's his title
So I think there's something there's something to be said there. I think whoever built this church was um
Was trying to artistically express jesus
Through the through the lens of what a pagan would appreciate
But you might think this is all crazy and i'm going too far
I just want to show a video real quick. This is my last thing and then i'm done
Play the video please the first christians weren't looking for a god who made them feel guilty
That would never have caught on
They were looking for a god who would save them and fill them with hope
So was their model for the first jesus
Christian artists selected the youngest and handsomest of the pagan gods
They chose apollo the god of the sun
Blonde and unbearded youthful and curly haired
Apollo was a god who made you feel good
So the first jesus's were curly haired and pretty because they borrowed that look from apollo and it went further than that
When this
mysterious christian statue
Was dug up out of the ground it was thought to represent a woman
An unknown goddess a muse
Only later was it realized that this too was an early jesus
So
In that wonderful museum in cleveland the one with the jona marbles
There's a carving of apollo performing a miracle with nike the goddess of victory
Apollo is the robed figure on the left
And look how shapely he is
How easily we might mistake him too for a woman
Pagan gods could be male and female
They could amalgamate the sexes and represent both genders at once just like this jesus here
Extraordinary as it sounds the first jesus's were sometimes made to look feminine on purpose
All right now last thing I want to show real quick because I want to show one more example of
Iconography
I got to show my last screen
there's mithras
carrying the animal
And then jesus as the good shepherd. I mean that's all you can also find hermes statues of him looking like that
Holding up the shepherd holding up the land like that
Hermes is the good shepherd what i'm saying is
Jesus is being portrayed
in so many different ways not just dianesis not just aya i'm not just
Sabaeus, but like these many fascinates sons of god characters that jesus is competing with where he sort of like
Through through adopting their images. They rewrite them. He's rewriting them in in the likeness of christianity
That makes sense
So that's what I got so far
Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. I was paying attention
And that was some of the hottest material
Congratulations now seriously on a professional level neal
That was you know, I I'd have respect for you if I came to a conference in classics
And I saw that presentation. I'd be like this guy knows his sources
He knows his sources my god. Yes subodzo
That's the one that I think is the craziest
It equals it equals. He's being slain for humankind. It's a salvation
He he equals subodzo the verb in greek
Equals a wadzo. That's what the oxford lexicon tells us when you a wadzo
When you shout bachas or when you shout a wa
You are doing
The sabazian manner. You're doing the sabazian
