It is a fact that the phallus was erected in the middle of the Holy of Holies.
Do you know those of us who can worship that God?
That's life.
And every one of you was brought into this world through that gateway.
Every one of us.
Swim, swim, swim.
Swim, swim, swim.
Right into mommy's egg.
Yes.
So you can see where the Greeks are.
They're right in this, you know, as human beings, they're right in this world of familiarity.
And all we need of these texts is just to pop that, pop those images out.
You're going to see Jesus and John the Baptist.
You're going to see other people in ways that you didn't realize they were this way.
You're going to see conversations that make sense.
You're going to wonder, have you ever wondered why you were supposed to have been born again?
Yeah.
You weren't born again.
What?
We got to redo the baptism.
Yeah, we got to redo the baptism.
It's a thorn in the flesh, baby.
Now, here's the thing.
How many of you Satanists?
How many of you pagans would be willing to make that step, to walk that way?
How many of you would like to show up at the great festival of the Bonadia?
Men, you're not allowed.
And they'll kill you if you show up, if you try to infiltrate.
It's an old Amazonian thing.
They imported Bonadia from the East.
Remember those Amazonians that kill, those Scythians that kill three men?
And then they can chase down a mate with which to mate and dispose of later.
You talk about abortion today.
Imagine a society where a woman has a choice to abort you as the husband.
Yeah, love it.
Love it.
Hit that.
Do we have that last, bring that last quote up.
Yeah, this is just, oh, this isn't that sent by the gods.
It was, I had a little, bring maybe that last word.
Yeah.
No, that's okay.
We've got everything.
So what I'm, what I would like you to understand from tonight is that you're seeing the text
of the gospel of John through the eyes of the cult in which Jesus is rooted.
This is a book that would be written by someone with ears to hear who is making plain the
Vox Orpheka, making it plain for you.
And we'll see that when we come across the cult post in a little bit.
We'll see it when Jesus is mixing his wine.
And if we do anything for season six, it will be to open up that vista, that unseen vista
of a reality of a person who, who was way steep in orgy, sex, drugs, castration of children,
cutting of oneself and applying drugs to the incisions.
Who is this man?
He's the man with the wine.
What do I have to do with you, Mary?
Come on.
Come on.
What do you want?
This is not your biz.
This is not my father's ministry.
Right?
What do you have to do with it?
You want them to have the water of life?
Is that what you want?
When Jesus was on the cross, screaming about being thirsty, this text tonight, please realize,
this text tonight said they were engaged, that Jesus was initiating it, giving the orders
for them to be engaged in the dipsass communion.
Do you want to know what Jesus' dipsass communion was?
You want to know about the serpent?
Yeah, you know you do.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Thank you for spending your time and giving your time.
Keep up the questions.
We love it and we'll put up as many good ones as we can.
It's an honor.
Hail Satan.
Thank you.
