She appreciates all you are and thinks the muse chose well.
We've got Ali Rowan joining the Discord, thought the study was exquisite and sharing tons of
relevant material.
We've got Nancy Devine, who thanks you as always.
She's found Byron via Dishare and I want to hear more about the poetic feet, please,
if you don't mind.
We've got Dio Genousos.
Thinks the texts are rude and disrespectful and is not the source material.
Go your own way.
Craneum Maximus affirms the cost of selling religious knowledge.
We've got Sobaq, Lord of the Four Corners, who will always be supportive and thinks you
are one of the best to learn the mysteries from.
Todd B knows you know.
You responded with a comment about some armed minads.
We had quite a few comments from, excuse me if I'm ruining the name, Iraqis Kazant Edis,
has just come up with some fantastic responses.
The mythology with the dances and I just advise anyone to go on and have a look at them comments
and there's quite a lot to go into.
There's a lot of knowledge there.
So that's YouTube.
That's from YouTube.
We've also got Discord, the community responding on Discord.
We've got Wretch who's dropping obscene amounts of knowledge and information on there.
People are digging into that.
Loving it.
Really, really, really loving it.
We've got Rat King who's exploring the Palladium amongst many, many other interesting posts
that are always going on.
We've got Perio who's revealing initiation through a Japanese anime.
Which is fascinating.
Fascinating stuff.
Absolutely.
We've got Old Boy who's wanted to explore the significance of the headless man.
We've got a question about the headless man and the significance of that.
Many, many, many more good things.
And I'm going to cut myself short there and introduce DARREN to come forward.
They just takes me up to, I know him as Lord Snappy, but it takes me up to DARREN.
That does it.
We all know.
We all know the name and we all know the comments and he's been such a massive help in the
Discord and on this channel.
Such a great help and so much appreciated.
And I just like pass the floor over to DARREN, the floor is yours.
Thank you so much, Rob.
I appreciate that a lot.
So yeah, this is really great, really happy to be a part of this community and it's been
really inspiring for me.
I'm coming at this from, as Amon was saying, an Eastern perspective.
I have a degree in religious studies from Carleton University with a specialization
on tantric shyvism in India.
And what I wanted to do for us tonight is, and what I did for Amon earlier today was
I gave a brief presentation examining three different myths that kind of show how shyvite
tantrica is directly related to the Orphic mysteries and that they are dealing with the
same mystery.
There's the same processes and ideas that are going on.
So the first myth that we're going to examine that I want us to go over is the myth of projopity.
So also, just before I go any deeper, if anyone wants any sources or anything from me, they
can just message me on Discord.
As was said, I'm Lord Snappy.
I'm not going to cite anything here.
But yeah, so we're going to go directly to the Rig Veda, to the myth of projopity.
And projopity within the Rig Veda, he is the primordial sort of male figure.
And this is sort of a creation cosmogony that's very similar to the Orphic cosmogony.
In the beginning, in the Rig Veda, they described the cosmic waters as a sort of eternal plane
of chaos.
And at the same time, the only other thing that is present is tapas.
Tapas is austerity or sort of violence and attack upon the self.
It's also in the later tradition specifically within Tantra.
It's described as desire or shakti.
So shakti comes upon the waters and it commits an act of violence.
It commits tapas.
And through this tapas upon the water, there is a heating that occurs and that produces
the cosmic egg.
I'm just going to quote the Rig Veda now.
