Right.
Right.
Then we have to know.
We have to know what is the pedorasty anyway.
We'll talk about that.
I'm wrapping up and we're back at the, at the dark harbor and with the potion of the means.
And we're trying to figure out what Nero is conjuring through this great arch, you know, this arch physician and what they're trying to do.
And it is consistently described as the same process.
So it's the, it's the.
What do you mean?
We're wrapping up.
What do you mean?
Well, I mean, you know, with the, with the text.
Yeah.
With the text.
Right.
We can't let anybody go without getting this way of came.
People need to figure out how to access it and get to it because I got it.
I got to it through you.
You, you tried to, and I had to say it and I'm not the best researcher and certainly wasn't at the time saying for it, but I found it difficult.
I needed a title.
I needed something to go with.
So I'll try and sort that out and put it in the chat.
In the comments on the, on the video and I'll try to get a link or if anybody can help and get a link.
I'd appreciate it.
Yeah.
If you need shorting out and we need to get more into the purple.
We go into the purple and we, because it's such a vast subject.
We go off, we get taken off into different areas.
So we've got to come back to it and try and stick on point with the purple.
The purple?
Why it's there?
Why would white, white everywhere when you look around?
Why it's, it's the purple reel.
And we've got to discuss the purple reel because it's, it's a very interesting subject there.
We haven't, we haven't covered it yet.
It isn't covered yet.
We need to.
You perhaps need to do an episode entirely on that.
It's not short time.
Just to give the people a taste.
Just to give the people a taste.
Remember this is something I say all the time.
I say it all the time.
I say it to my students.
And who are learning Greek.
You have to realize those, you know, the purple trade and antiquity was huge, right?
The name of the Phoenicians comes from it.
So, and it's a extremely, extremely valuable commodity.
I've looked at the drug trades and antiquity and it's on a, on par, you know, with the drug trade.
So, uh, yeah, if the plants that you can get and where you can get them from, you know, um, yeah, the murex, can you get the mirror?
Right.
It's expensive.
It's more expensive.
You know, what Rob, you reminded me more costly than gold, baby.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We've got a question.
Are you taking questions?
Let's take some, let's take some questions.
Let's go ahead and take some questions.
I'm trying to look out for them.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Keep them coming.
Keep them coming.
Get the questions.
And if I've missed any, if I've missed anybody, I apologize.
I'm a novice and I'm trying my best.
That's all I can say.
So, dark harbor.
Let's finish with the dark.
With the dark harbor or the cyanic harbor.
I hate to, I hate to, but we need to make sure and get this image.
So this harbor is the culpose, right?
The vagina as you saw.
And so you, you have a person who is producing a communion substance that Gemma, that Gemma that was with the, the virgin sinuses of Magistra.
Sinuses of Medea, that Gemma, that Jewel is also called the cup.
So when Lady Babylon presents her cup of porneia to us, that doesn't surprise any of us at all.
It didn't surprise the Nicolatians, right?
That Gemma, that Jewel that is there and she ejaculates, right?
She has to enter that.
It picture Medea harvesting Prometheus.
And when she harvest him, when she harvest him, he enters a state of relaxation from intense rage.
Yeah, chain to his rock in the Caucasus.
Yeah, gorgeous stuff that you can smell the Scythian and Amazonian.
Amazonian influences in the ancient ritual, especially if you see the drugs.
And that's always, just always follow the drugs because it can't, it doesn't lead us astray.
Right?
Their substances you use and they do certain things.
So yeah, any good questions?
Yeah, Eamon, Cranion Maximus is asking, have we finished with the original text?
Let if there is promise, promise, let it come, mean it.
I'm going to stop.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah, yeah, so Medea comes out just to finish that off to make sure that we've got the picture.
She is inserting that oil, right?
That drug within her vagina and on her gym that is the source of the communion.
Yeah.
And then she runs off crazily, right?
To battle essentially.
So that, now you know why they call them the sorceresses, they call them the drug wielders.
Right?
This is, it's a huge deal.
And the ability to create these formulas.
I mean, imagine just for a minute, step back for a minute.
Say, okay, these priestesses who are involved in all of this worship of this midwife.
And this poison show, Artemis, the poison show.
Who are in these women's realm of magic and creation and destruction.
Nana, what the sorceress is.
That's what Lady Babylon is.
She just does it in every language.
Right?
She's able to bridge that gap in every language.
So, yeah, gorgeousness and gorgiosity all wrapped up.
Another good question is dark harbors may be his body.
Is this the theriac?
Yes.
Is this the beast?
I hear it.
I hear it.
Do you hear them, Rob?
