There's your staffs with the serpents on them.
There's your stars there.
And then, then you have the, the bread of the cup of the Eucharist.
Okay.
That's universal.
You see that with Ellosinian mystery, so that with Solendictus mystery, so that Christianity, so that everywhere.
On the bottom, you can see there's another communion where they're all sitting at the table, like the Last Supper doing their thing.
Have it, you know, these are, these are ancient rites.
Okay.
And this isn't, everyone's getting this.
Everybody has their own version of this because this is how it was in the Bronze Age.
This is how it's passed down from generation to generation.
And as synchron, as these gods are being synced together through Roman imperial cult, you start seeing this.
This is a text called Saturnalia by Microbius.
And he, in this text, he says that Apollo and the sun are the same.
And afterwards taught that he was the father of Liber, Dionysus himself, who is Apollo.
And there was no doubt from these that the sun and Liber Dionysus are considered the father of the same deity.
Okay.
So if you go down, this is where it gets crazy, because you don't, you always hear this pushback on the whole December 25th birth of the son of the son of God thing.
Well, look what it says.
Look, look what Microbius is saying here that in the winter solstice, he's depicted as a small child.
Obviously, what that means is born on the winter solstice, such as the Egyptians bring forth that the editors on the certain day that a very short day.
As small and a child, he's born on the winter solstice.
And then his age is set at the summer solstice, when he attains his greatest height in the image of the beard.
And then from, from then on, diminu, diminuations, the God is represented as the fourth from an aging man.
Likewise in Thrace, this is the same.
Likewise in Thrace, the same is to be, we had to take the sun and Liberus, who they call subasius.
There he is.
There's subasius, Black Sea God, right where the same area is Medea.
All right.
If we continue, we'll see it says, and the sun is in the upper that is in the daytime hemisphere, Apollo is in vote.
All right.
And in the underworld, that is that night Dionysus, father of the book is held.
That's where I got that read.
It says up there, Apollo and the sun are the same.
And Liber is also so Dionysus basically what he's getting at here.
Okay.
He's saying Dionysus, Apollo, subasius, pan, whatever you want to call him.
This is the son of God.
He's born on the winter solstice.
That's because that's when the sun is at its smallest.
That's when the sky, you could see the sun.
Right now we're at the time where it's the shortest days of the year.
It's cold out.
It's the winter solstice time.
That's what this period is.
And so let's go to the next one.
It's the time of the year where the birth, the sun is happening.
The sun is being born.
And so here we go.
This is the crazy part.
This is what I wanted to get to.
He calls him Ya-oh.
So Macrobius, after explaining the rights of Saturnalia and why we do Saturnalia,
why we give gifts every year at this time, why we shut down our businesses,
why we held our New Year's Festival at the Kalins of Janus.
And he says, all these characters that we find in these mythologies are all Ya-oh.
He says it right here.
The sacred verses is called Ya-oh.
For Apollo, Clare is consulted, which one of these gods should be considered who is called the Ya-oh.
Now, you know, if you've watched my videos, you see in the Chaldean oracles,
they say, Bacchus is Ya-oh.
They'll say there's a triad.
And you see this with the early Christians, especially the Valentinians,
where they say, like, you don't have Trinitarian theology until like the fourth century, fifth century,
where they actually institute the Trinity.
But the early Gnostics were already way ahead of them.
And they said that, you know, Jesus, who is the Christ in the Logos,
is in a triad with Zoe.
You were talking about Zoe earlier.
Zoe is called Sophia, wisdom.
And they're in a triad with the one.
The one who is Phonies, the one that created, self-created God, right?
And that's what these early Christians were saying.
And this is, now you have a pagan saying, Ya-oh is this God.
So there's complete overlap.
He cites Orpheus.
Likewise, Orpheus, I'll read the part before that.
The power of this oracle and the interpretation of the numbers and names
by which the book, the Father and the Son, Ya-oh, are signified,
was executed by Cornelius Labius in the book called On the Oracle of Apollo Clarius.
Likewise, Orpheus demonstrating that Liberty and the Son are one and the same God.
And he cites the passage and goes through how this is like, these are ancient Orphic ideas.
And so there is no escaping Orphic inspiration in these ancient mystery rites.
Eucharists, baptisms, these are all initiations for the ancient mysteries.
So that's that.
Brilliant.
Brilliant.
Oh my God, I need to go take a cold shower.
That was so good.
Oh, and by the way, Ya-oh might be wondering, that's not the same as Yahweh.
It is.
The oldest Septuagint copies that we have.
So whatever Septuagint copy you think is the oldest is not.
You're thinking of a church text called the Codex Sinaiticus,
or the Codex Alexandricus, or the Codex Vaticanus.
Those are the three big church texts.
All of those are produced three 25 or later.
So between three 25 and 400, they start producing these big church texts
where they take the Septuagint Old Testament.
It's altered.
And the reason why we know it's heavily altered is because we found fragments,
Greek fragments of the Old Testament from Alexandria.
And instead of in a lot of places in that text where it's supposed to say Yahweh,
it says Ya-oh in the exact same spelling that you just saw in the Saturnalia.
So it's that same God that Bacchus is named after in the Chaldean oracles
where they say another name for Bacchus is Yah-oh.
So Plutarch turns out to be correct in what he's talking about.
He's not just throwing this up out of his ass.
Plutarch is looking at texts that call Bacchus Yah-oh,
and the Septuagint is using this God called Yah-oh.
So he's not just making this up.
He's citing texts from the time period.
You see people.
You see what happens when you give an angry person a club of truth.
You see what happens when they pick up that evidence.
Listen to how many sources.
Just listen to how many sources.
Gnostic just went through.
Oh, my God.
I just heard one after another.
I was like, oh, irrefutable.
Nobody can stand up to that.
Nobody.
You're swinging that lightsaber.
Like it's red and you want to cut somebody in half.
Yeah.
I'm saying my weapon is the sources.
I just go to the sources.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a beautiful training, people.
How lucky we are that, you know,
Neil can jump in and can do all the source work
so that there's no question.
Listen to what he's talking about.
This revolutionary.
I don't know if people heard it, but that's revolutionary.
Right?
That is a different view of history than any of us have had.
Yeah.
Definitely.
And from the mouths of the people who were living it.
Good God.
You can't get any more authentic than the Bible scholars.
Neil, you will take them and you will do things to them that
are so naughty and so gratifying at the same time.
Oh, God, I love it.
I love it.
And that's good.
I want to say this too, because those two religions that you see
in the time of Constantine, by the way,
Julian the Apostate is a nephew of Constantine.
He's from the same dynasty as Constantine.
Originally, these two religions supposed to coexist.
And they sort of mirror each other.
One of them is Christianity where it tries to separate itself
from everyone else.
They're like the ancient hipsters.
We're different than everybody.
Oh, you like all that mainstream Apollo stuff.
We're different.
We don't look.
We have different.
We have Jesus.
But it's really, they're just a bunch of hipster douches, right?
You know that hipster douche that everyone knows that tries
to listen to different music than everyone else.
You've never heard this.
Only I know this song.
That's type of crap, right?
That's what they were like.
But the rights of Mithras and Sol Invictus was another form
of this ancient syncretist religion where you see both
Vedic and Hellenistic traits coming from that part,
that Armenia, Cappadocia, you know, the place where Medea was.
And a lot of this stuff finds its way into the Roman religion.
And this was the ancient Roman religion.
And let's not forget.
Let's not forget that Medea is called Mitra.
So the connections there are unbelievably tight.
When Julius Caesar walks his scrawny bottom up to the temple
of Venus, Genetrix, which if you know Rome, you've got to
understand this is like the cult that everybody who has
Roman blood, this is their cult.
This is the great mother, the Genetrix, the producer
of our people.
This is our mother.
You're talking about our mother.
He walks into her temple and he dedicates a portrait
by some famous Greek dude of Medea.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's crazy.
But so Julius Caesar, Augustus, they're venerating Medea.
You see that.
And they're not bringing this out up for the first time
in Rome because you go back to the Etruscans and there's
Medea there.
Medea is all over the place.
And she's a big deal.
These ancient rites that these Orphics are passing down are
if you want to call it Pulaski, and I like that word
because it covers, it's not just Greece.
It's also the Black Sea.
It's also Northern Turkey or that region, Armenia.
It goes, it's where you get this, it's where you see a lot
of the derivatives of this ancient, you see this with the
Shavites, the Shavites, I think I pronounced it right,
with Shiva.
There's like an Eastern Dionysus going on.
And this is the God that represented by the Soma drink
in the Persian religion.
They call it the Haoma.
And it's the God of the vine.
It's the God of the drugs that possesses you.
And then the Greeks, you see, it's Dionysus.
So it's the Kaikuan, Kaikian.
And so you see the same rites in their respective languages,
you know, tweaked in their own little way, but ultimately
it's these rites that are passed down from the Bronze Age,
being kept intact all the way up until the Middle Ages
when Christianity and Solon Vic is the last two.
But not just, it's not really, they're not the last two
because you have, the word pagan comes from, it means like rustic,
like people on the outside, in the inner cities, you have all
these overeducated, you know, ivory tower, sort of nerd,
orthic, Pythagorean, middle Platonist, stoic people that
think they're smarter than everyone else and they have
religion figured out and they have, they look at, they read
Plato and get their theology from Plato.
But outside of that, in the countryside, they have these rustic
worshipers of Pan that don't give a shit about any of that stuff.
They just want to, they just follow what they're, what they
were brought down from their parents and their grandparents
and they're keeping these rites alive.
They don't care what the new philosophy is of the day.
That's, those are the people that I love.
That's why they call them pagans.
Think of the billbillies.
That's what they call them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Think of the farm girls.
Imagine the farm girls that, what do they do?
They're all tatted up and partially shaved and they go out
on the weekends at certain times a year and they get, they get
into groups, don't get caught.
If you get caught, they'll fucking, oh, excuse me.
Oh, I can't believe that's the first time I said that.
They'll catch you and they'll kill you.
And this is their pagan way.
This is their pagan way.
Imagine those, imagine those types.
And I was talking to another academic about this.
It was so hard to get rid of them.
Cause you weren't going to do, you're going to slaughter
all, you can't do that.
That's, I mean, so they have to co-op them somehow.
They have to tell them stories.
Deminers showed up in a dream and told, and told Demetrius
to worship Jesus.
So you guys should do it.
It's totally cool.
Oh, we have a saint named Orpheus now.
And you look, he plays a liar, just like Orpheus does.
You see him trying to co-op them in different ways
throughout different centuries.
Cause they won't ever, ever to go away.
They're always, they're always living on the country side,
always, all the way through the, through the middle ages
and the Renaissance and the Enlightenment.
You always have the small minority of pagans living
somewhere.
They survived.
You can see it.
You can see that pagan influence come through when Rome's
like, maybe we should start worshiping the Phrygian mother.
Why?
Cause an oracle told you dumbasses to do it.
Right.
And you see the Phrygian mother influencing the virgin mother.
And those are the Cappadocian Phrygian church fathers.
If you look at their tombstones, we're just looking,
we were just looking at one from not to one of the early
church fathers.
I can't remember his name.
It starts with an A and his tombstone doesn't even have
the word Jesus or Christ on there once.
All it is, is venerating the Holy Virgin mother.
Like, is that, that's what they, that was synonymous with God.
The earliest Christians are just the Holy Virgin mother,
gave me life, gave me Zoe.
And this was, this is on the early church fathers,
Jesus isn't on there and Christ isn't on there.
And this is a big tombstone with like 500 words.
No Jesus, no Christ, the Holy Virgin mother is all you get.
What is that?
I mean, that says something about these early Phrygian
Cappadocian church fathers.
Yeah.
And you mentioned earlier, you mentioned earlier that,
you know, it's really these Black Sea peoples in the,
you know, north of Turkey, modern day Turkey,
who are passing on this culture down into Asia Minor
through the trading and through the business.
It's where all the pirates come from.
The southern coast of the Black Sea is where Alexander,
the false prophet, you know, famous,
it's where he ends up going to start his,
start his mystery.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you got Cappadocia's wedged right in between
