Everybody, somebody asked me today, somebody asked me today, how do you keep from, you
know, where do you start and how do you keep from getting lost?
Right.
You will get lost and you will perish if you don't hold on in this cave to the
line that runs through it.
And that line is the science of the pharmacology.
Remember, we serve iternitas who stands with nature.
Nature has left that fingerprint there for us to pull out.
As long as we hold on to that reason and we hold on to that line through the cave,
you know, you're bound to get out.
You won't fall off.
You know, there's places here where you can fall off and drown.
Right.
So, okay, fantastic, fantastic.
I've talked way too much tonight.
I want to say one thing before I leave.
I've got two books here that are talking to each other.
They're talking to each other.
I just want to quote them in this.
I just wanted to say the devil's magic nowadays is on the first floor, a fine
and well-selected medical library, which these young surgeons with their own money
and at the expense of their pleasures are incessantly adding to,
less dancing and fewer mistresses, more science and brotherly love.
Yeah, yeah.
What are those books?
What are those books that we're looking at?
Destructive of old, constructive now.
In the chemical laboratory, the devil is hard at work
preparing what is to alleviate the poor sailor's pain and cure his ills.
That coming, that Merlinian prophecy of the coming of the cure, the coming of the cure.
Yeah, it's all there.
And what year, sir?
1847?
1847.
In the year 1847, physicians were reading this book, this very book that I'm holding.
Look at how nice the binding is.
Your books are nothing.
Your books are nothing these days.
Look at the paper.
Look at the paper.
Do you see any yellowing on that paper?
No, you do not, because this is how books were made.
Well, people knew how to make books.
Yeah, so 10 years before, 10 years before, this is what people are reading, right?
And Galen is going to that place in Lemnos,
where the locals aren't exactly impressed with his drug knowledge,
but he's able to acquire the drugs that he needs there.
That is what is in your Bronze Age hair.
It's too bad we don't have their skins.
It's really too bad we don't have their skins.
Some of this stuff, you can lick and get high.
Some of these books, you can lick and get high.
They're skins.
They're not books.
They're skins, right?
Oh, God, I love it.
That's the blood.
That's the blood.
Are you guys ready?
That Miltos?
That's the blood.
Yeah, love it.
Okay, we've had a thank you for letting me roll on a little bit more than I should have.
I appreciate everybody tonight.
Thanks for coming.
I will not.
I will try to stop by.
I've got a couple of things going on.
I'm going to try to stop by the chat just to say hello tonight on the
after this.
I need a couple of minutes here to freshen up.
I'm going to try to jump on there, but I may only be able to come on for a few minutes.
It's an honor and a pleasure always to the folks who came tonight from the Ivy League.
Yeah, you can stand back up.
You can stand back up.
You take these sources in hand.
You can take these sources in hand.
Let's help these archaeologists to know the mystery.
To know the mystery.
Fantastic.
Hail Satan.
