Eat my flesh. Drink my blood. It's the chemistry, people. It's the chemistry. The seed of Christ is called the love of God. And guess what? That word for seed, it's the same as the semen. There was an ancient drug called the love of God. What was it? It was the semen of the sun.
Okay. Okay. That should be it. It's a wrap. It's a wrap. Nobody here can possibly, can possibly ever look at across the same.
It gets my goat is what it does. It gets my goat. Yep. Right. Okay, bring him down. Right. Exactly. Pan. I told you it was going to be all about pan because you're looking at that goat. She's beautiful, right? She provides for you that nourishment, that milk, you know, who, you know, who gives that milk?
That's the one that pan chases. Pan chases the nymph who gives the milk. Sometimes, sometimes she's a goat. Sometimes she's a goat. It's not wrong with a goat. Yeah, it's quite natural goats. Let's go to the next one. Let's see if they can do you think they're, I think they're catching it. They will.
I know that's what's predicted anyway. First, John 20 here. Kaihumes, Rhizma, and you have a Rhizma. Wait a minute. What? This is never translated. This is translated as some kind of theological event. This is a physical existence. This Rhizma is a thing. It's a thing. It's a noun. It's a thing.
You have this. Of course we do. We're not, we're not following the way of Cain, right? We're not performing the mystery of Anomia. We have a Rhizma, and that is ours. The antichrists that are coming. All of those other formulae. Yeah. Guess what? Those seals on the book.
Trohiscoi. You take one of those, you put it in wine, white wine. Let me show you the text. And you infuse it. You infuse it into your horse. Makes the blood better. Makes the blood better. Let's keep going. Next one. Boom.
What is a Hristadion? I just wanted you to see. Look, you can, this is probably the most common, one of the most common routes you got going from Rio, from Rio. And it is specifically medical. Look, a Hristadion is just a thing that carries these drugs. And now go to the last one, the very last one. I need to see Chewie. Yeah. Hello, lady. Who is that? Did we hit a bat?
What is that? We're in an asteroid somewhere. Okay. Put that on there. Just kidding. Go to the last one. I know I put this last. It was the very last one. Look at this, people. Blow that up. This is going to blow your mind. And for those of you, I'm sorry, who just, you know, who just wanted to come to fight and, you know, ended up buried, you know, don't worry about it. Watch this.
Cataplastos. What is it when you cataplastos something, right? When something is, has been what, plastered? Plastered? Look at this. About halfway. And it says Farmacon Cataplastone. It's a type of drug, a Cataplastone Farmacon, a category of drug. And it equals the Cataplasma, which, like me, if you've been into ancient medicine, oh, you know what a Cataplasm is, right? They've got that both sides.
Greek and Roman, right? It's a skin plaster that you use, right? Medicated skin plaster. A lot of them have really strong substances down. But blow that up again. Look at what it says after plaster. It says, as opposed to a Christa and a pota, a Christa.
That's Jesus Christ in the feminine. Yeah, no, it's things that are applied as Christoi, things that are applied as a Christos, and things that are pota, things that are drunk, things that are drunk. So these are just different ways of applying medicine.
Now, I want you, bring up some images, mind-changing images, right? Hit the right system there, right? White weapons, you got it on? Good.
These different categories. You didn't know that a Christ was a type of medicine, did you? A means of application. You didn't know that, did you? Did you know that it's these plasters, these incristations? They use that word.
These incristations, that these are penetrated bandages that have medicines in them. You can have plasters, or you can have incristations, or you can have potables, drinkables. They're just different ways to get poisons into your body.
Because that's the thing, that's what they're doing. I don't know how many texts I've shown you in seven seasons, but we're up to hundreds, people. We're up to hundreds, and we're not even on the surface of the drugs.
So this is a lot. I know this is a lot. You're all absorbing this, and people are saying, it's a lot of information. I've got to go back. I'm trying to pack it for you, though, so that you can pleasure. You can have the pleasure of following it.
But here, let's go, because we don't have time. We need to get through Alpha, and we need to bring as many people through as possible. Hit that. Go for it.
Okay, people, let's just pull out the horse, the Hippiatrica. And what does it say? It says this guy named Absurdus, which is nice, because Medea's brother had this name, Absurdus.
So it's kind of a Black Sea region name. And what is this about? Well, he wrote a section of his work about mania. Remember, he is a Hippiatrus. He's a horse doctor, and he's writing about mania.
How are we going to treat mania in the horses? And I just want you to notice, talks about a couple of other authors. We've got Humulus. Nobody's ever heard of these. Nobody's ever heard of these. Jesus Christ may have heard of these.
But none of you, none of us, none of us, right? Oh, God, I love it, right? So when somebody comes on board and says, yeah, he's qualified, he did be, you realize those people have never even fought.
They've never even considered the possibility of the existence of this. There's 800 pages of this, people. Oh, God, it's got the Christing. Oh, let's go back to it. Love it. Look at this.
Okay, what are you going to put into it? Well, this is another one. But let go back to the first one. Yeah, because I want you to see the bottom line.
Look, this is for the, look at the last line. What's happening to your horse? Your horse is getting lissatic. They're getting a little bit of mania. So you have to have the right therapy for your horse.
And what are some of the stuff they're giving them? Are you ready? You're going to love this, people. Look, they're giving them cannabis. They're giving them cannabis right there.
Yeah, look, there. There it is in the Greek. People are like, Oh, were they using cannabis in the temple? No. But they're using it everywhere else. And they're even giving it to their horses.
And they're making skin applications of it as well. Isn't that nice? Make a nice oil that you will rub into the skin of your horse all over it, right?
