Wait, what? Ashing their bodies with limny and fire.
Yeah, what? What does that mean?
What does that mean? Hey, look at here.
This just let's bring up Achilles.
Excuse me, Heracles, a few a few lines later, right?
What happened to him, right?
Whom the hide of the lion made invulnerable by the bronze in battle
and who possessed but one past the Hades and the dead.
Wait, wait, he had a path to Hades and the dead.
OK, you're beginning to see the resurrection right, right?
OK, fellow necromancers, here we are.
Don't don't start to scare the kids.
They're just here to find out what those drugs were doing.
Who possessed but one past the Hades and the dead?
That which the Scythian quiver covered.
Do you like that?
Yeah, the Lemnian Thunderbolt, the Lemnian Thunderbolt.
Why am I picking on Lemnos and why am I picking?
You guys don't know it, but Odysseus is a huge drug user, right?
Odysseus is a huge drug user.
You don't know it because you don't read authors like McCander.
McCander is a poet who is a priest,
who is a master of the Therriac and the drugs that are used in Ritu.
Within the right itself.
So that's some of the information we get through those sources
that your typical classes are not going to get.
All right, it's a it's a sad and a shameful thing, but it's the way life is.
I want to look at a couple more of these texts.
Oh, what do we have here?
Something something jumped in here.
I think I'm feeling queasy or something.
What is this? Oh, it's axe.
It's axe, right?
It's the axe of the Apostles, right?
I did so thin days.
Oh, no, this is where Paul is having his shipwreck.
Yeah, and he comes to Melite, the island.
See that in the first line, Melite, he comes to Malta.
Oh, perhaps there was some Miltos involved.
All we're doing are we changing vows?
Yeah, we're just tuning vows.
Don't worry about it. It's all connected.
Where is this place?
Remember those pirates that we talked about who were trading the drugs
and trading the children?
This is on their way between Africa and Italy.
Isn't that nice? That's gorgeous.
I love this.
So it ends up being a place where there are these Barbaroi
and Paul ends up washing up on shore.
And these Barbaroi, these locals are like, hey,
let's give this guy a hand and they start doing nice things for me.
Build them a fire, right?
And why? Because it's cold and rainy, right?
And so Paul goes to get some wood, right?
And he's putting it on the fire when this is the one, two, three,
fourth lying down about a third of the way in.
Ehidna. Ehidna apotestermes ex elfusa.
This Ehidna, this Viper jumps out from the fire, right?
And grabs on to his hand and the Barbaroi on the next line.
They saw it. They saw it holding on to the Thedeon, right?
We just saw in the passage before.
We just saw the description of the Thedeon.
And what it's venom does, OK?
So here's another Thedeon grabbing on to Paul when he's in Malta, right?
And they said to each other, Pantos, this is a beautiful line.
This guy, there's no way this guy is not a murderer.
Why? Why?
Because after washing up from the sea,
DK with a capital delta DK.
Look at it, fourth line from the bottom of the end, DK.
The goddess, right?
She's not going to let him live.
After all that he's been through, she's not going to let him live.
He must be some kind of, you know, he's got some blood guilt on his hand
or he's got something, right?
If you're hearing a little religion in this, OK, yes, yes, right?
Remember the Christians, the Christians.
The monotheists are the atheists, right?
You can't be a monotheist without rejecting every other God but one.
And if DK justice is a pagan polytheist God, right?
