It's like Heracles dogs, baby. It's why they've got that purple stripe on their mouth. Yeah, you got it. Sometimes the eyes.
Yeah, that's that's cool stuff. Cool stuff.
Um, we'll save that. Yeah, we'll save that. I think we're on a good train. We got to go out and take the folks out into the ship.
Please pull up. Please pull up our text or holy text. If you'll all turn with me to today's him.
Arthariac of Andromachus. Number three. Yeah, there we go. Okay, I want to read you the first couple of lines of that.
Cluthi polithronio briaron.
Briaron is a word that he's using in here to modify strength, but it means like the ultimate, the highest.
And it's used in cold. It's using cold context all the time. It's gorgeousness.
Anyway, sinos antidotio. First couplet. Let me finish the second line so I can get the first couplet in.
Caesar ademantu ddotor elewtheories.
Bring up my face. Yeah. Yeah, there's no translation of this. So I will translate it for you.
Fortunately, I've got a couple of cheats because this is written in a form very, very similar to the Orphic hymns.
The best daters put the date on those at around late Bronze Age, pre-Homeric. Yeah, good stuff.
Anyway, the late people who date those things late, they're guessing and they're terrible linguists because we have Mycenaean influence.
So that's early. Mycenaeans early. That's the old Greek. That's this stuff. That's this stuff. That's the name of a god in Mycenaean linear B.
The Medeo. Or the Medeo. Or the Medewa. You like that? I like that. Anyway, Caesar. Yeah, so you can see what's addressed.
What it's doing is it's following liturgical performance. Right? This is liturgy. This is a direction. It's a song.
So we're guiding the images in the song to fit the initiation. You can imagine that you're sitting.
Yes, we actually have a text that you could hear if you were sitting in an ancient initiation. Let that sink into your head for one minute.
I have brought you today a text that has not surfaced in 2,000 years into our language. I'm bringing you now.
I'm making that temple, that temple that I say temple, that temple of Babylon. I am making that tower connecting to you through the waters.
Here we go. Hear me, Cluthi. It's an implication. Who do you normally implicate? This is what they said. Did you hear the priestess? She's singing now.
She's got the Smyrna on and the Smyrna is on her private parts. That's important because we're going to drink a mixture of her ejaculation.
That is going to put us in the place where we can see everything. Not just our dimension, but the other one that...
I don't know if you guys are in my dear right, but the one that sits over us and occupies the same space.
They can work out the physics, but that's what we're here for. We're here to bring that resurrection.
You say, wait a minute. Resurrection? Are you kidding? Are you Satanist? Yes. Here's a key for the word today. Satan.
Satan. You'll be told by the... Well, some. Mostly by the people who do the Smyrnaic languages.
Oh, God, we have to figure out where this is from. It can't be. It's got to be from Hebrew or American. It's got to be... No.
It's just Smyrna from Mycenaean and the rogue gets swallowed into the new, which is common.
So Satan is Saturnian worship. It's Saturnian worship. So get your holiness together.
Land on your feet and realize that we have a type of mystery that is from the Bronze Age that is functioning.
Yes. For your perception, the thing that you should know right now that you didn't know is that Judaism and Christianity are the development of Satanic Bronze Age mystery cult.
This is where the sons of God got all their drugs, right? A lot of drugs. Can we go to drugs yet? Are there any drugs? We've got to keep reading our texts.
I've got a question. Let me consult with that.
Yeah, so you're noticing Saturn and Satan as being the same. Yeah, very much so. Very much so. So let's show it.
Instead of me giving you BS, let's just look at the text. What does that text say? Bring the text back up, number three.
Yeah, hear me. And who do you usually hear when the priestess starts saying this? She's imprecating the God that you are worshiping, the one whose power you are drawing down.
The witches call this drawing down the moon, right? Because that's the goddess that they drew down.
But in our initiation, in our Saturnian or Satanic initiation, who are we calling down? Who's it?
And it puts Kaisar into the place, Nero. Interesting. Interesting.
Sounds like some sort of interest must have been in the palace with Nero. If his priestesses are going to be involved in this court magus of his.
He's called an archiatrix. Yeah, an archiatrix, right? The first, he's the highest physician.
There was a time, long story short, there was a time in Rome. First century, there's a medicus or a doctor who is assigned.
Usually someone with Greek training who is assigned to the whoever happens to be in power, whichever of the emperors happens to be in for the day, right?
And that archmage position ultimately becomes the body physician, right? By the time of Galen and Marcus Aurelius, because that's really what Galen is.
He's the personal body physician. Anyway, so it only makes sense that Galen is bringing us these old, you know, look at this, look at what Nero's, look at what Nero's number one physician.
Look what his arch doctor said. Yeah, and here it is here. Okay, let's get into the formula and let's see.
Ruthi polwthroniu priaron stenos ante dodol. Wow, what is he saying? Yeah, listen up, Caesar. Here, oh, Caesar, put in your ears, Caesar, what?
The unassailable strength of the polythronic antidote. The polythronic antidote. Polwthronos is a word, just literally means many thrones.
But I told you I was going to teach you some Orphic Vox. And here's where we start. Polwthronos, polwthronos, right? Polwthronion, that word, many thrones.
Throne is farmacon, a power. A throne is a seat from which power is administered. A manythrone drug is a polypharmaceutical. Okay, you could have just said that.
But since you have ears to hear, you know this is where these powers are coming from. You wanted to see the throne of Satan, right? Give me a hands up if you wanted to see the throne of Satan.
Because that throne is that pharmacological power. That's why they call them wizards, sorceresses. Let me go to, I'm going to go to your questions here. I'm being told there's a, what is that document you keep showing?
What is that? Good question. What is that? Yeah, well, it's a, you know, German edition of the corpus medicorum gricorum, if you must know, nosy bird. And it comes from those Germans in the early, oh, it's probably 28, 29, 30, something like that, who were doing the body of medical works from antiquity.
You know, we have these great medical works. Nobody knows about it. You go to any classicist, you can ask them, right? Give me some works on antidotes, right? There's a whole, there's a whole genre on antidotes alone. Galen has like a 700 page book on antidotes.
Nobody ever touches it. It's full of, full of stuff that makes you, it makes you wonder. Okay, I need to take them back. Hurry, we need to get them on board with this. Give them a stiff injection. Yeah, so hear, hear me, hear the great strength of the many thrown antidote.
Okay. Caesar. Yeah, what kind of antidote? It's got a name. It's got a three word name. Ademantu ddoddor el Eusteries. Oh, it's beautiful. The giver of unconquerable freedom. Or, and when they say unconquerable, they mean you are in a position of not being able to be overthrown because you have no faith.
Fear. No fear. It turns out God was a liar. Yeah, in our universe, take a look outside, step outside the ship and take a look. Because in our universe of this first century, where Paul reads the Septuagint in Greek, because there is nothing in Hebrew, he reads it in Greek, and everybody quotes it in Greek.
At this age, we have to say, what is this? What is the, what is going on here with the words? What are they showing us in the words? Where are we going? And that's what I'm trying to do here with you, the giver of unassailable freedom. Wait, did he just call a drug, a provider of freedom? Yes, and I'll show you a hymn that will show you the savior through home.
You can actuate the mystery. Yeah, it's amazing stuff. Remember, we're profaning. We're profaning. On that next line, on that next line, line three, El Dion. He says, look, she's got names. They call her things in different places, right? That third line, he la reine. They call her he la reine. You've heard the word hilarious in English.
This is the original hilarious. You want to know what that was? That was a procession of buckets in March, opening the month of Mars at its apex.
Now, love it. Love it. And who do we worship? We worship civilly. Why do you think we're mourning? Because he died. And we're going to raise him again. Isn't that something? Who wants salvation now? Who wants salvation? Yeah, he la reine. They call her, they also call her what?
Gileine. They call her the peace. That's like the peace, rest, calm. And they call her El Dion. El Dion comes from, comes from El, prefix El, meaning good or well. And Dion, what looks like we think it's probably from Zeus, ultimately, from the word for God.
Yeah. So that which bestows the El Dimon. Yeah, cool. Why? Because you got to remember these people are, you've already taken a drug, you've already taken the communion, and you've entered a state of frenzy, right? And you're dying.
So you need Gileine. You need the antidote to bring you back, right? Remember, I forgot. All of this is about resurrection and birth, rebirth, death. And your vision of the cosmos, something that I cannot charge you for, technically.
Your vision of the cosmos is that process. And this is a prison. This is a prison. That is because we stepped out of the timeship, right? This is how the world is working. This is how the quantum cognitive stream is flowing.
Okay. So these are resurrection, death and resurrection mysteries. Okay. Yeah. So he's about to go through a list of drugs. And of those drugs, I just want to put some of these plants up here.
He mentions opium. And remember, opium is not a big deal because, you know, Virgil in the Georgics tells us how to cultivate opium. He writes a work about farming and he tells us, this is how you grow opium.
And because they're using a ton of opium and antiquity. And it's in medicine. It's a huge, you know, killing pain is a huge deal, right? I mean, she got kicked out of the garden, right? Forced into that episode of pain, right?
Because they took away your drugs, right? You weren't supposed to open your eyes and make her like us. Bronze Age. It's Bronze Age cult. Fantastic. Lots of snakes. He's about to talk to you about some of the snakes that are involved in the cult.
And he tells us in one line. In one line, I just want to mention, he tells us that these things are even more powerful. Galane, the theriac, the beast is more powerful than any toxin of any serpent.
Yeah. So these people were heavy, heavy, heavy. Flash up some serpents. Heavy, heavy, heavy into the venom. And in this one, they add scorpion venom. They add scorpion venom.
So I'm not quite sure if the guys in Pakistan who are now smoking scorpion might be able to fill you in on the intricacies of the psychedelic benefits, health benefits of smoking the scorpion.
But it's in it. So the toxin is in it. And remember, this is the luscious part. You know you want to hear it. Throw me up some more of the drugs. We're also talking about, oh, hemlock. Everybody loves hemlock, right?
Yep, there's the hemlock. Pretty. Oh, that's nice. And everybody talks about that because Socrates had to drink the hemlock, right? But they know it can be used at low concentration, right?
You just don't pound it when you compound it. You make it with the right dosages of everything. And when you do that with the hemlock, you turn yourself into a party guy.
You find these people in the streets on all fours, right? It's legal in the taverns. You can buy all these drugs in the real marketplace, right? You buy everything from all over the, you know, their trading influence, right?
So, um, yeah, but you got the spices and you got all the goodies and you got all of these, these North African vipers that they're selling the venom.
They're selling the venom of the viper in the marketplace, right? So you take these, Luke is the one who tells us that if you, if you want to look him up.
It's in his civil wars. He's quite his civil war. He's quite this aficionado of snakes and the different types of venom that can do different things to your body.
And, you know, there's so such cool descriptions in these medical texts. Oh man, you get, you get bitten by the dipsass.
And what is it duty? It's a horn viper from north there. Oh, look, he showed himself on the screen. Yeah. Yep. Devil is always there. Right. See his horns.
Now you know why Moses has horns, right? Bring it back up. No, bring us up. Bring up. There he is. Take a look at him for a minute and realize that you're milking him and you're adding him to opium.
And you're adding him to things like hemlock and the deep purple dye that comes out of the bottom of the Mediterranean from that shellfish.
And you're taking that and you're anointing. That is, you're greasing up, you're lubricating an alabastron.
Right, which we all know. I've told you guys that before. That's Mary's medicated dildo. Right, because in antiquity, you don't have injection technology.
You know, they don't make those tiny, tiny cage needles and put them to stick those things. No, but you got a perfectly good avenue up your backside.
Right. You know, put drugs in there that can have immediate access, you know, and, you know, there might be benefits to, and so, you know, you know what neighborhood you're in, right?
You have the aphrodisiacs and you got the, you know, you got the priestess and she's with the hymn and she's got the, she's got the purple in the Smyrna that is then being ejaculated into the tripod.
And all of a sudden you're in a, you're in a polypharmaceutical wonder world. And what happens to the fetus? This, you guys will love this.
I mean, we got to, if we're, if we're doing this all the way, we got to tell you what they're doing. I mean, this is usually where I get interrupted.
