Here we go.
Walk every time. Psychotropic logos. You know who's in the right.
Urses with the giggling smile. Produce the flowers with the pow.
I give you my blood. Do you have the blood of the dying god?
Sell fire with the stars in your eyes. Rub it in with the man who's laughing.
I am B. Brink Hallelujah from Aphrodite's lips.
Ethos. Purple juice cult. Gorgeous. Make your face melt.
Characards dealt. Ancient songs of cosmic spells.
Wave the magic wand from overhead. Simon says, Hail Satan.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon and more Bacchic orgy.
This is fantastic.
Oh God, you're going to love this tonight because what I have is a sudden, is a sudden and mind blowing visitation.
Oh God, who are we going to have tonight on this second date this week?
And by the way, for those of you who come out, thank you.
Thank you. I want to say it's a privilege and an honor to know that when I'm working on the day's presentation,
that you're going to be beneficiaries of that labor, that that field is full of ripe fruit.
Oh God, love it. I love it. It's delicious. We're going to bring in.
What are we going to do today? We're going to bring in Dionysus.
Today, I want to bring you a total initiation. Today, I want to bring you up.
We have a lot of people who are joining the congregation and a lot of people who need to see,
what is this crazy person talking about?
One of these crazy people in this chat, by the way, for the chats, everybody in the chat is working in the chat.
Thank you. Thank you for doing that. Yes, fantastic.
I want to include some comments tonight, but the reason, you know, people are asking me questions and people are getting the dope.
And the dope is, oh, it's good, isn't it? I mean, you cannot smoke that ancient Greek linguistic dope without it growing inside of you.
It's like a spark. It's like it. It's like that spark that brings us all the art.
Oh God, I love it. You know, you get high on this stuff.
Thank you.
They took, they took me off. Julie, are we up? They took me off because I'm a bad boy.
I was just going to talk about our date. That's all. That's all I meant to do.
Thanks for coming. That's fantastic. Time fighters. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a, you know, hey, I love it.
Screamers. We used to call those screamers. Let's go to the next one.
What do I want to do tonight, people? I want to bring you right in. The ship has already gotten there.
Get off of it. And we're going right into the initiation.
We're making the temple pure tonight. And people are like, what? This culty. Get out of here.
Hail Satan. Get out of here. Right. Hail Satan. Love it. Right. If it scares you. I'm good. It should. Right.
Can I get Penelope? That gets my goat when people are like, you must be welcoming.
No, we must welcome the sign of the cross and the multitude of sin that it covers tonight in the mind transforming illustrations that Chewie has put together for you.
I want you to see what our slave AI has been able to do with all the images. I love this. What a world we live in.
It's just glorious. Let's look at bringing up that first text. I'm being very serious people. You know what the problem is?
The problem is proscunesis and that ammonia that they're all bowing to the demonic powers. They're all bowing to the demonic powers.
Let's see. Let's see what that means. Let's go into it. Are you ready? Go into the demonic power stuff.
Look at that gorgeous last word. Okay, go. Hit the next one. Here we go. Are you ready?
Many of you may find this shocking, but I want to stretch your brain now.
So for everybody, take it down for a second, Chewie. And then we're going to put it right back up.
For everybody who's saying, I want to take those classes, my thank you very much, my inbox for requests is so stuffed.
I can't manage it. So thank you very much. You're going to be fighting the tide here, but I'm getting to the point that we need to start bringing people in dojo.
And I need people to come in and I will start making appointments.
So what I'm recommending now is be persistent and stay with pursuing discussion with me through Wisent for now, right?
That's the avenue that we have to meet. I can't keep putting off allowing people access to those sources.
So I'm going to open up times and I want you to sign up for those dojo times whenever you so desire.
And yeah, you'll get some basic training up front with me and I get to see what your medal is, which I always enjoy.
Don't you love licking metal? I love that. Let's go to the next one.
Look at what this means, people. It's going to blow your mind. What is it to daimonidzomai?
What is it? Listen, it sounds like daimon, doesn't it? That's because daimon's Greek.
It's because daimon's Greek. Here we go. It's fate, right? It's that fate that's appointed, right? You have one.
That's not what I thought. Yeah, look at the first line in Greek under.
Daimonidze taituhin. Yeah, look at their translation. Each one has his own fate appointed, right?
You daimonidzo, your tuche, your tuche is your fate, right?
Oh, it's the chance that is you. Now, wait a minute though. Look at number three down below.
What does that all mean? Well, it means to be possessed by a daimon or an evil spirit, to be possessed, to be deified.
This is what I'm showing you tonight, right? I'm bringing in Bacchus. He'll be in here in a minute.
We'll introduce him, right? Everything's cool, right? Welcome. Welcome.
I appreciate, by the way, tonight is laid back, but we're going to do some heavy stuff because I want people to be able to have that initiation.
Okay, what do we hear at this initiation to bring? Bring it up. We're here to bring the Adola. Are you ready?
This guy doesn't just talk about it. He actually does it. It's fantastic. Adola. Adola. What are Adola?
Well, it's the plural of Adolon and give me the next one. What's an Adolon? Look at this people. Just relish this.
Relish the Greek thought now. What you're doing is you're working out your brain. Are you ready? Right? Here we go. Phantom. What?
We're worshiping phantoms. Worshiping phantoms, brah. Isn't that cool?
An unsubstantial form. Wait, what? Look at number three. Look at number three. Does somebody smell that sacrifice?
