And the ashuras, they're sort of our titans.
The leader of the ashuras is Shiva.
This is our Dionysus figure, okay?
This is our reborn god, okay?
So the ashuras are in control of the world.
The devas do not like this.
They decide to approach the neutral party, the one who's in between, the preserver.
They go to Vishnu, and they ask Vishnu, what do we do?
We've lost our power.
The entire order has been upset.
We're no longer in control of the ashuras are.
How do we restore this?
And Vishnu says, you're thinking about this wrong.
You need to work with them.
You need to come together to do something greater.
And he tells them of the amrit.
And he says, if you work together, you can gain immortality and you can produce the milk
from the ocean, okay?
Now what we have just understood earlier in the Rig Vedic hymns and in the Rig Vedic
myths is that the original figure is this prejopity, this Purusha, this cosmic person
who is sacrificed and becomes the literal embodiment of the physical universe.
He is the earth and the oceans.
What are we churning?
We are churning the Purusha, okay?
What do the gods and the, well, sorry, what did the devas and the asuras do?
They band together and they take the tallest mountain, they take Mount Meru, then Vishnu
transforms himself into Kumara, the primordial turtle, and they stick these together and
they create our lingam, our unity of the phallus and the vagina, the linga and the yoni,
all right?
And they use this to churn the ocean for its milk, okay?
They take the snake, the cosmic world snake, the suki, and they use him as a rope.
And through rubbing in friction with the Mount Meru, they cause this friction to churn and
produce the omrits.
But while they're doing this physical task of churning, of phallating, okay, the suki
spews poison and this poison is going to destroy both the devas and the asuras.
But Shiva rises to the occasion and he decides to sacrifice himself.
He drinks up all of the suki's poison, he consumes it all and it is about to kill him.
But just before it kills him, the goddess appears as Parvati, his divine lover.
And she stops the poison in his neck.
And in the Tantric tradition, they interpret this sexually, okay?
What is going on here is a sexual process of transmutation.
The poison goes throughout Shiva's body and it permanently turns him blue.
And then what is described is that Parvati and Shiva produce the soma.
They draw down the moon and they add that to the churning of the oceans to help create
the omrits.
And at this, the gods are also throwing in countless herbs and spices and other psychoactive
elements as they are churning this milk and they are creating the samarits, right?
Yeah, let me, let me say, let me just step in.
First of all, that's gorgeous.
That's absolutely gorgeous.
And I want you to know that as I'm sitting there listening to your description, nice
use of text as well, fantastic.
As I'm sitting there listening to your description, my mind is in cyprus with the cult of Aphrodite
celebrating the death and resurrection of Adonis.
Yeah, and exactly the description, even down to the very concept of what waters are and
how the life comes from them.
It's just, it boggles my mind that the Bronze Age, that the Bronze Age was able to produce
such brilliance, such, such incredible, sophisticated, religion, medicine, culture.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Is there anything else you wanted to say?
Yeah, I just wanted to end this with my own little personal thing is that when I was,
I got to travel to India with my professor and my professor was an expert, as I said
on Tantrika and he was working specifically with the Aghoris and the Aghoris are a certain
sect and one of the ways in which they do this thing, they have this symbol here is
the Lingam in the Yoni United.
This is a lingam and this is representative of the churning of the ocean of the milk.
What they do in this particular cult is they have the Guru called the Nagasadhu who ingests
the poison of the viper and then he offers his seminal fluids to his followers as a ritual
offering.
You know, so they are tripping on his fluids and this is happening to this day in one sect
of Indian shyness.
Yeah, that's all I wanted to add.
