You gave me hope when it seemed hopeless You put a song in my heart
Showed me a road not often taken You gave me a start all the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name Because you were like a wave
On the ocean wild and free you came And you were like a storm
Coming out of mountains, never to be tamed All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name
Welcome to the premiere of the final and seventh season of Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation.
It's nice to have you tonight. It's nice to have both sides.
It's nice to have over here the ones who write the screeds, the ones who condemn in the name of God and Jesus Christ and everything that is holy.
Yes, thank you.
It is for you that we have brought tonight the art from the Renaissance and from antiquity to a place of user-friendliness so that you can enjoy because I know the screeds are simply not enough.
Screeding is not enough.
Lady Screed of Screedington does not get satisfaction.
And that's why they come. People have been asking me why? Why? What is the logic of coming to you in order to condemn and sabotage?
What's the use of that? And I say, quiet. I call them. They're chosen. They've come along with us so that we can watch the judgment.
This is the final season of Satanic Initiation. This is the test.
We will progress from Alpha to Omega. And you will know. You will know. Welcome to Lady Babylon.
I just want to start this season by saying I've been looking into, via the graces of someone who is sitting in the shadows, the foundation of an academy.
The foundation of a place where we once again will bring her back. That muse, that access to the text will bring it back. There are ours. There are ours.
I'll let you know. Should we bust through, I'll let you know. And I appreciate your time. This is between me and you. I appreciate your time.
Tonight, in order to cleanse this place, in order to bring this place to somewhere that a God can come, I'm going to have to cleanse it.
And tonight, as we begin Alpha, I want you to understand that you are undergoing the examination.
And there are those of you who have been here from the beginning and who have dutifully watched every time that we have gotten together.
There are those of you who have come in and worked your way up by reviewing. And there are people who just, you know, they've seen a few.
Rock on. From Alpha to Omega is a very, very serious operation. It is the time when we are done with the work. We have gone where we all needed to go.
And now it's time. Now it's time to show. Now it's time for that mystery to kick in.
