This is, you know, this is the way to go.
This is the way to go.
Yeah.
Late Bronze Age.
Okay.
Fantastic.
And who do we come up on next?
Late Bronze Age.
We're getting behind.
Let's go to the last text that we've got there for you to see.
I want you to meet up face-to-face, face-to-face with our, oops, let me get up in the way
here, with our, a little bit of Latin from Valerius Flakus, right, who has access himself
to the sibling oracles, right?
He's got access to the book, so he knows, right?
If anybody knows the history of the purple and the visions that are produced by it, yes,
the Saturnian rites, if anybody knows it, it's this guy.
And he's writing about the rising, the uprising here, literally the text, it's the coming
up from underneath, from underneath, right?
Hera is the reason we're all here, the queen of queens, right?
Hera, right?
And Hera needs, all right, let those with ears to hear here, Hera needs the world to
conform to her.
And so she calls upon the power of Aphrodite to use the Medea, the Medua, or the Medusa.
She calls upon her, a human, a human, right?
We're talking about two different dimensions now, together, functioning together.
Just hang with me.
And what's funny is the one element that is this reflection, right, that all the guys
at MIT are saying, hey, this is your reflection of reality through the event horizon, right?
Everything that is in this reality that is reflecting from that other side, that is powering
this individual, who is, who is every mind, every mind.
Imagine that every mind in one virgin.
So there's a civil war going on.
There are Scythians involved, you know, the Camarians, the Camarians in Crimea, they were
the ones who really made a place for this oracle in the first place, right?
So all of the sibling power that comes from the Crimea that were, you know, kind of stuns
us as modern scholars of Greek history and of Greek languages.
This kind of Eastern influence, what the Greeks would call barbaric area, is the cradle for
the very mystery that ends up being Judaism and Christianity, you know, and it does so
through a virgin, you know.
So you can see why she'd need to be controlled, right?
You can see why she's a bag of rubies.
Comes down to them.
I'm sorry.
I hope that pains every, every female ear out there tonight.
I hope that hurts, stings you.
I hope you get that oistress.
And I hope you feel that because I don't know how, how else to prod, right?
How else to prod?
By the way, people, there's a group of people who are talking about, hey, I want to join
and I want to do it.
And I'm a woman.
That's fantastic, fantastic.
We'll talk about, you know, yeah, what's stopping you, right?
Let's look at these verses to finish off here.
This is from Valerius Flakis, right?
And he says, soul anima media subit, right?
She comes into the mind.
She comes into the mind of the goddess.
She comes into the mind.
What is she?
Men's omnis in una virgine.
The all mind, you know, in one virgin.
Wait a minute.
You mean all of the stuff with the civil war and the gods and the powers of the magicians
that are around.
All this stuff, all this killing can be solved by one virgin, yeah, yeah.
And remember, she's 12.
She's 12.
The text says she's not ready yet to wed, right?
That's 13, 14, right, 13, 14, 15, somewhere in that range.
She's not ready to wed yet.
She's not a full nymph.
So she's 12 or 13 years old.
I was shocked when I found out Jubit was, you know, a teenager, right?
Where's she late 15?
