It's good for a man not to engage a woman, not to hop to a woman, nobody be hop to mind
any women, right?
It's good for you not to.
You mean like Jesus was hop to mind those children, right, right?
He's a harpy.
We're going to get to fingers in a minute.
That's tomorrow's next episode.
But yeah, let's go back, back to the text.
Yeah.
Paul, give, give me another one.
Give me another one, Paul.
Give me.
What is it?
You think about this whole Aphrodite thing, the whole coupling, Paul?
Yeah.
It is because, Paul says, it is because of the porneia.
Yeah.
For the sake of the porneia, each person, let him take his wife, let him take a woman,
a woman, let him take a woman, let each woman take a man.
Yeah.
Why?
Because the porneia, the porneia.
It's only because you have to, Paul acknowledges in his epistle to the Corinthians first.
He acknowledges the victory is already won.
You can't escape.
You're Christians.
You can't escape.
The greatest defeat that you face every time over and over and over again is that luscious,
luscious flash of Aphrodite.
You can't beat it.
You can't.
Your wise men end up in hotel rooms doing bad stuff.
Your youth pastors end up in cycles of oppression causing assault.
Yes.
If you don't use it openly, yeah, in which case, when you get home, when you get home,
I know what you're thinking.
I know what you're thinking, what she's there for, because you don't worship Aphrodite.
I know you.
You preach.
You preach on Sundays.
I know.
I know what your submissive women do.
I know.
I know how it's better to serve you.
Yeah, I do.
Yeah.
Well, you wouldn't have Aphrodite and I'm sorry, gents, but you can't.
You can't raise the flag.
It's part of the agreement.
It's why you got all that frustration, Pastor John.
It's why you got all that frustration.
It's why your kids are going nuts.
It's why they're going nuts, John.
Yeah.
Love it.
It gets my, this kind of stuff, Jerry, does this get your goat?
He gets my goat.
Yeah.
Hallelujah to the holy sign, to the holy sign.
Amen.
Amen.
Let's go back.
Boom.
Paul, give me, answer a couple more questions and answer a couple, couple more for me.
Um, don't, this is Paul, don't hold back, you know, don't keep back from each other.
You know, unless it's for some kind of prearranged agreement where, because you're going to be
praying, you're going to be praying because you, everybody knows, can't have sex while
you pray, right?
Although it, maybe that's just Paul's world, right?
Maybe the, maybe we got no problem.
Do we have a problem?
Do we have a problem with that?
No.
I'm praying to Aphrodite.
Right?
I got no problem with that.
And do you see the block here between what became Christianity, right?
Because the early Christians, half of them are doing this stuff anyway.
The porneia that Paul's trying to drive out, um, those are, those are occult happenings.
Yeah.
It's, they're getting arrested for them too, because they're doing incest and stuff like
that.
Dude, you got to come on.
This is, this is Roman influence, baby.
You're going to be, you're going to follow some laws, right?
Come on.
Get this, this province, it smells.
Every time I come to visit this place, it smells.
Can't wait to get back to Rome.
Don't can't you?
Oh God, everybody.
Let's all meet at the baths.
Let's all meet at the baths.
We'll have a wonderful time.
Oh God.
Love it.
Let's go to the next one.
Um, yeah.
So don't withhold yourself, you know, um, unless it's for these little prayers, why?
Because you know who, look at the second to last line, or Saturn himself.
What is he going to do?
He's going to get you on account of your, my what?
Your egg, Crassus, you're out of balance.
You got too much, right?
I've put too much voodoo on you.
Can you feel, can you feel the desire rising?
Can you feel it rising?
And as you get in that rush of desire, what happens?
What happens?
You get out of balance.
You get out of balance and you just got to go.
You know, you got to go there.
There's a place.
There's paradise.
You got to go and, um, look, um, that, that paradise, it involves us going there together.
Yeah.
It involves that, that water of life, you know, that peak and that pinnacle.
This is the song.
This is that song of the universe.
This is that siren.
This is that siren.
You can't plug your ears, man.
Plug your ears or you will get sucked in, right?
Pastor John, your, your reason that we have the sisters of frustration, right?
And that we have people who are abused, right?
Priests, pastors, ministers of Christ, your reasons people have been abused.
Didn't you think you're going to be held responsible?
Didn't you think DK was a reality?
I know you didn't.
Well, she is.
Watch this.
Let's go.
One more.
Let's go.
