Do you know that Aphrodite and her earliest portrayal has male genitalia?
Does that bother anyone in the room?
Anybody?
Remember, you're the jury.
Let's go.
Let's go to that same one, yeah, let's finish it off.
Oh, what are the graces doing?
They're washing her and they're Christing her with ambrosia.
The stuff the gods have.
The stuff that is that sweet immortality.
That's what they're applying.
They're Christing.
And what does she do after she gets Christed?
Wait, I just want you to see it, I just want you to see it mentally, right?
This is so beautiful.
What does she do?
She stands up, right?
And she's there completely, completely covered in this glistening, glistening ambrosia.
This is the stuff that gives you ionic life.
This is the stuff.
You cannot exist within the quantum.
You cannot exist immortally, yeah, you can't, you can't.
You have to be, you have to be supplied with something to keep it going.
And that ambrosia, that source of life, I've got a tree for you.
I've got a tree.
It's the tree of life, Zoe's tree.
And from that tree, I can give you that which will open your eyes, and you will be Eve.
Yeah, yeah, okay, Lucifer.
Thank you very much.
Who's supposed to, who is on duty for this information?
Who was there when she got Christed?
Which one?
It was the dragon.
It was the dragon.
You mean the dragon was there and he still gave her access?
I tell you, I tell you, you divorce your wife, you kick her out, you kick her out, and the
next thing you know, your freaking slaves won't even do what you want them to do.
You mean he gave her the, he gave her the stuff?
Now she knows, now she's going to be totally equal.
She knows what we know.
Yeah.
All right, you know what you did, Lucifer?
You birthed, you birthed his, his downfall.
Oh, God, it's okay.
It's okay, little G, just sit there.
Just sit there, all right?
That's steady.
I can feel it, right about here, yeah.
I can feel it.
Let's go to this tag, back to the text.
We only have a couple more, we only have a couple more.
I want to go ahead and yeah, finish this one off.
So she's getting up from that ambrosial bath and what does Aphrodite do?
Look at the bottom.
They call her filimedes, smile loving, smile loving Aphrodite.
She is all decked out with gold.
This is gold and Aphrodite, all decked out with gold, wearing that dress that, oh, God,
if you saw this thing, you'd be so jealous.
As a matter of fact, why don't we show people, let's show people the dress, just in case.
Before we get to the dress, what do people say who are associated with Aphrodite?
Are you ready?
Here's one.
It's words from the lips of the dude that she engaged in intercourse with to conceive.
You say what?
Yeah, God's don't normally, typically it's fatal, right?
Okay, but this is what she does to everyone else.
Do you understand?
And she understands, it comes back and she falls for a mortal, which is, you know, it's
considering, considered within transdimensional, you know, legal terms, it's considered, oh,
God, I don't know, assault of a minor, yeah, yeah, it's not good, it's not good.
Let's keep going, let's keep going.
We have to have entities that are fully, fully aware of what's going on because, you know,
you take a human, right, and you have Aphrodite, it's unfair from the very beginning.
It's unfair.
But what I do says this mortal, who's this mortal, he's not just anybody, right?
He's the father of the dude who will become George Washington of Rome, right, right?
This is a big deal.
We are all as Romans.
Do you see where we are located?
We are located squarely within the city of the seven hills.
We are located there.
The Jerusalem is just a type of Rome.
It's just a type of Rome.
The Old Testament is written in the third century in Greek, yeah.
The Jerusalem is just a type of Rome.
And that power of Rome, which by the way, is in that name, which those of you who can't
find it can't use, okay?
So fantastic.
Smell the necromantic stuff.
I love it.
This is gorgeous.
Bring it.
Okay.
And so I'm just going to translate it, you know, he says, look, I would, you know, he's
talking to her because what she had to do, she had to lie to him, right?
She had to lie to him and say, I'm a, you know, I'm just some lady, just look at me.
Some lady down the road, farmers, parents.
Here I am.
Boom.
And he's like, well, you're, you appear, you appear to be a goddess.
Even guesses it's her already, you know, it kind of has it figured out.
He feels that sting.
And what happens?
He says, in order to enter your bed, I will go to hell.
Yeah.
He says, I am willing.
I would enter into the kingdom of Hades through your bed, through your bed.
And you think that we with Isis and people ask, where are the Egyptians?
Where are the Egyptians in all of this?
What about those drascans?
Where do they stand on this?
Lhasa.
We're squarely within, theonian realms, people, squarely, right?
What are we doing?
We've got both poles.
We've got Urania, right?
And we've got the Wanasa of the under.
Oh God.
Do you realize that on both sides, she is the image that burns through everything.
Do you know why they don't want Lady Babylon brought back in the apocalypse?
Which leads to a charge.
Do you know why they don't want her back?
Because they know she is that undefeatable extent to which monastic, monotheist, monad
of loving people can go.
They can't get beyond that limit.
She will shut them down.
Lady Babylon will shut them down.
Do you know what the misogynistic religion of Christianity, Judaism, do you know what
these forms of misogyny, their greatest enemy is?
It's Jezebel.
It's Eve.
It's Lady Babylon.
Yeah, their greatest enemy.
Did you hear the coyotes?
