Yeah
That's gonna surprise people
Wow here it comes. Did didn't you thank the whole
Taking her out of his side and then all we got to eat this and live
Didn't you think he was a pervert?
That's paul's thorn
That's paul's thorn
Don't knock it says paul. Give me the next one. Give me the next one
Boom and finally the chorus here
ride
Yeah, look the chorus or who are the chorus in this
Play the cyclops the chorus of the people who are standing back
They're the satyrs and they're standing back watching this happen. They watch sideliness try to sell
and the satyrs have just a little bit
of
Bacchic morality and what do they say? Look, we saw you sell. We saw you take advantage. You know, we're not lying
Right, we're not lying. Let daddy die if we're lying
You have done those strangers wrong by trying to sell them something
Do you hear it?
Okay, okay. Give me the next one. Here we go. Here we go. Um, look
Look
Yeah, yeah, I know you're not going to be able to digest this
right
but
We have laws
We have laws. This is you know Odysseus trying to explain
to the tyrant
How life is supposed to work
We have laws. He didn't understand that. He didn't care about laws
Do you think your tyrant cares about your laws and your statutes and the things that we all have to abide by?
Tyrant doesn't care
Right the followers of the tyrant. They don't care. They're getting eaten last
Yeah, but there are some satyrs out there and some of those satyrs
Right, some of those people who have the influence of Athena
Right the immortal virgin who brings us democracy
Some of those people say look man, we've got laws and you've got to abide by those laws
And one of them is when somebody washes the shore when somebody comes to your border
You got to give them zinnia
Protected by Zeus baby and you got a what you got to even clothe them you got to give them gifts and clothe them
Right, this is the just thing. This is how you're supposed to live
You're not supposed to Odysseus tell them you're not supposed to put people on spits
And consume them with your ravenous greedy jaws
Do you know who you are Silenus? Do you know who you are out there?
You who are making america giant again. Do you know who you are?
You're working for the cyclops and the cyclops is going to kill and eat
The men of Odysseus and he does
He kills them and eats them consumes them why because that's the price of being in the cave
With the man of great fame
Yeah
Yeah
That's the price
Are we going to put the covers on are we going to put the veils on?
Are we going to show exactly what's happening? We're going to show exactly what's happening
We're just going to pull out open the doors of the museum, baby
Right, these are the people who sat around and created democracy
Perhaps we should listen to them. Perhaps we should listen to them giving the next one quick
Oh boy, we lose it. We lost the tracking device. Here we go. Now listen to me says Odysseus is pay attention cyclops. Listen to me
You got to put away your margon
Of your nathan your jaws. What your jars your jaws margon go down. Show me what that is. It's the next one
Boom, what is that? Oh, it's something that is mad
Mad what kind of mad
When you jaw it's mad
Well, how's it mad? It's gluttonous
It's greedy
It's lewd
It's lustful. Do you hear how the cyclops talks? Do you hear how the tyrant talks? You'll always know the tyrant by their speech
They give themselves away
It's full of obfuscation lies
and corruption
greed
Stains your soul
with the stench
of ruin
Do we have that tattooed?
Do we have that tattooed guy somewhere with the black tattoos? Does he have we don't we're so somewhat chewy
See if you can resurrect that image people tell me what you think it's chewy. Well, yeah, okay here. Look. Oh, look at him
Look at him shameful tyrant with the writing all over himself. You know what those write those writings are
Those are writings from the blood of the slain the spits
Of flesh that we consume
Under the power of the cyclops
Those names are written all over
the tyrant
They're written all over
The cyclops is alive
The cyclops is alive
Do you know the biggest enemy of the tyrant? Yeah, go to the next one. You can leave that actually leave that
