And what am I gonna produce with these christings fantasy? I
I'm gonna see things. Yeah, you're darn straight. You're gonna see things and how am I gonna do that with your christings bonehead?
Marvelous last one last one from the good doc doctor. Tell me something fun
A doctor says look
I'm gonna tell you about narcotics
And giving narcotics and the power the epangelia the gospel of their power
They bring sleep
Are you ready? They bring us then they
Do you know that death that paul is talking about?
That is a drug induced death
Yes
Okay, now I promised you the clown tonight. I promised you I promised you the
The
Cyclops and I'm gonna pull the Cyclops out
The Cyclops is gonna make america giant again. He's gonna do it. He's gonna do it for our sakes
He's doing everything for our sakes, right?
In antiquity, there was a dude named Euripides and he wrote a play
About a Cyclops about a dude with circular vision
It's a sad story
for the Cyclops
the guy
Who is in the story is a guy named odysseus
He is the son of booty man
And he has been held captive now
You know high-ranking
Pirate held captain held captive by some ladies. Oh by holy calypso and he swears by calypso, baby
Right, so, you know, she's big and by sir. See
He's always followed around by what what follows those who honor freedom and liberty
What follows them
The virgin follows them
Right the one who shakes the spear follows them
Where where do they always end up going they always end up going places to destroy tyrants
she
That virgin that gave us democracy
She
Is the power of freedom
She is the one to bring down the Cyclops, right to bring down the Cyclops
How's she gonna do it with her with her gorgeous gorgeous brain?
Oh god, oh god, she leads him the whole time everywhere. He goes everywhere. He goes. He's such a fortunate dude
In the middle of all of these disasters
She's with him
She who brought democracy. It's fantastic. It's fantastic
Give me the let's start to look at the Cyclops. So you're everybody's right to play
You're everybody's right to play about a Cyclops and he's a Cyclops. He's a guclopos
Anosiu
Anosiu Anosiu that's an alpha privative
Right. Oh
It's something that is not lawful
Not lawful the Cyclops is outside of the law
When you give the Cyclops the circle-visioned man when you give him immunity
to justice
You end up with a tyrant
Yeah, the Cyclops that's how he's described
He is outside of the reaches of justice. Have you noticed how the stride
Of the Cyclops picks up and is happy his gait is better as soon as you take away
justice
Yeah, as soon as you take away justice
Okay, that is the Cyclops people we are here to be purified
You are here to be cleansed
As the people of Athens who followed the virgin as they were cleansed in the rites of Bacchus
Okay, we're gonna go somewhere where they didn't have the rites of Bacchus where the Cyclops wouldn't permit that
Fantastic
Fantastic, let's go to the next one. Oh god. Here we go
Nope. Yeah, thank you. That's in the wrong
That's in the wrong. Yep. Um, okay. I forgot to throw in the mirror christ
This is a new christ that you we haven't seen
This is a new christ that we haven't seen but I want you guys to see it now and um, you know what moron is
Right, you know, it's a compound and you know, it's used in sexual practices, right? So the mirror christing is
Nothing unusual in antiquity. Everybody knows that is the fact that we don't is an is our fault
Okay, now give me the next one
All of this remember is to express
The hyperbolic nature of the power of the Cyclops
That excessive power
You and I are sitting in an environment where we are beginning to feel the static of excessive
power
Give me the next one
Come on out Cyclops. Tell us tell us a little bit something about yourself. Yeah, go ahead
Well, um, look people hit listen to the chorus for a minute in this place. There is no
Bromius. There is no Bacchus. There is no chorus
There are not people who walk around with a theorist beating the drums saying hallelujah. They're saying hallelujah. Yeah
The Bacchus invented hallelujah bonehead. What do you think that's for the Bacchus cries that ecstatic shout
Right. Love it. Love it. It goes way back. There. Um
There isn't any wine
Right gushing out. We're not in nissa
Right with the nymphs crying out Yacus Yacus
Right, so I can't sing right. We're not all going to Aphrodite
