Do you see the smoke all around us right and what happens moses says hey god?
Show me yourself, baby
Yeah, and he says, uh, well god says well, you know, I can come around here. I can come around you
Right. I'm superior
Right to you. But what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take that superior position and I'm gonna show you my doxa
You're gonna show me your doxa. Yeah, yeah, give me I think I have the next
True, I think it did maybe I did there it is give that to me. You're gonna show me your doxa. What is that?
It's a fancy
It's a vision you got vision on your face brah
You got vision on your face and you're having hallucinations
Look at this. Did you think listen?
Everybody out there. Leave that up there. Everybody out there. He was talking about oh, it's the glory of
Hashim. Oh, here he comes. Hashim. Oh
There he is
no, no, no
No, no, no
This is not what the text says you have obscured
The reality of your own history
Looking to your own history. What is this hallucination produced by look at that last source there alexander traillies
alexander traillies Byzantine the most famous Byzantine physician
Right and what does alexander traillies say give me give me bring him right up come on alex come on
Yeah, that's it. Come on alex. Tell me about something fun people. Look at this. Nobody looks at this stuff
Nobody you notice it's in greek. This thing's out translated at least i've never seen one
Right and here it is. What's that title peri frenitidos?
peri frenitidos
concerning
problems with your
brain
You're gonna cause you frenitis baby next thing, you know, you're gonna have all these kind of problems
Running around he says i'm gonna tell you what are the mechanical problems with frenitis how to restore the balances
i'm gonna show you all of this and then he goes on to talk about some different forms of mania
Mania and he goes on to talk about melancholia depression. How do you get this depression?
Treated what do you do? That's what the Byzantine physicians are doing and give me the next one
And what what are they doing it with guess why they're doing it with drugs?
Look here. He's using conan
He's he's using
The one that killed. Oh, which was the one that killed socrates
Hemlock, here's the hemlock and here's the high oscimus. So we've got this detourer there
We're inducing that mania, right and we got a little bit of anesthesia going or what else are they drinking? Oh pu
Oh look people
He's just he just used the three main drugs that we've been talking about them using for the sake of altering their minds
I got news for you world
They just weren't they weren't just using drugs and antiquity. They weren't using them like pros
Making us look like total morons
total
all of this stuff natural
right
right
God give me that snake. I want to milk that snake
Okay, give me some more
Um, what are they doing? I've been telling
Everybody to look at the theriac
Here it is again
Byzantine physician
He's talking about i'm using it. It's an antidotone. Let me say it. So people in the greek tain
theriacane
Antidotone and and what you do is you just run that together, right? You try to run that thing
Tain theriacane
Oh, isn't that gorgeous?
Um, it's the theriac. It's an antidote. It's an antidote. What kind of antidotes are they using?
Would you be surprised? You know what i'm going to bring you
Get it. What kind of they bring you this one's for headache
This one's for pains in your head
And what do you do when you got pains in your head? Look at the first line
Five words in chrisma
You have a christ you have a chrism. Yes, you do. Yes, you do. And what do you do it?
Mmm
You what you epi create it you epichrist it you moron
You epichrist that remember in the book of revelation it says, you know, it's hilarious
I have to take some pleasure in this
I have to take this some pleasure in this you remember the scholar who sat there and said
This version of christing is preposterous
preposterous
Oh, of course, it's wrong
In his own holy writings, it's used you you christ the eyes
So that you can treat whatever it is you're trying to treat or induce whatever state that you're trying to induce
And jesus christ says you got no place with me unless you've been epichrist it
In your eyes he adds in your eyes in your eyes
You do not see christianity or judaism for what they are
They are preserved in the text
Yeah
It's like amber
Love it caught their dna. Give me a little more doctor a little more doctor. What else?
What is oh, this is just things that look there's a category of things that are applied to the body, right?
And I just wanted you to see chrismata, right chrismata. Yay
Yay christing. Yay. Yay
