And the energy that's touched me
And now I am no longer the same
Oh, we touched me
Oh, we touched me
And what a joy to flood my soul
Something I've been under
And now I know
We touched me
And made me whole
Oh, God, welcome back to Lady Babylon
We're gonna bring in the apocalypse with what we've got tonight. I just gotta tell you it's good stuff. It's good stuff
I love it and thank you everybody for coming tonight. I truly do appreciate it. I take your time seriously
And we try to make things the strongest that we can make them now for us
The largest class of ancient Greek is almond you the largest global class of ancient Greek is almond you if you're starting out now get
To those lessons there at the end listen to the dude in black
And start growing your brain with mother Greek mother Greek. Oh God love it fantastic
Those sessions we have laboratories people you don't realize we're the largest ancient Greek course in the history of humanity
In the history of humanity people classical philology just skyrocketed just skyrocketed
Let me say something quickly to the people at Harvard to the people at Yale to the people at Penn to the people at Berkeley
We beat you we beat you hundreds of people hundreds class of hundreds for ancient Greek
You know why because we are bringing the apocalypse we are bringing it. Oh God it's been so beautiful the last few days
I just want you to be able to partake Satanic congregation in the beauty tonight. Oh God
Thank you for coming everybody there. Thank you for coming and visit visit the folks the language lab so that you can have your Greek strength and
Oh God love it you wash those at your pace to it's perfect for you and nobody pays a dime. Why does nobody pay a dime?
Nobody stop trying to don't if it's associated with me and you end up paying that's not good. That's not good devil doesn't like that
You got to keep standards you got to keep standards when you're judging the world
Look at yourselves people look at yourselves. It's gorgeous tonight. We're gonna all of us. We're gonna look in that mirror
I was with the muse I was with the muse give it to me. I said give it to me
We've got the Cyclops we've got the Cyclops tonight. We're gonna look right into that Cyclops giant round vision
Circular circular vision the bra with the circular vision and tonight we're bringing back classical mystery
Are you ready? I'm gonna stand and you're gonna stand with me Satanic congregation
You're gonna stand with me and why am I standing here because I'm standing with Athena. I'm standing with the Virgin
Tonight our name is Odysseus. We call this project Odysseus. Don't listen a lot of people are out there
Don't listen to him my god people keep a straight and narrow reason baby right always will just fall back on reason
Fall right back on her. She loves you. She loves you. Oh god. We're gonna go with Athena because Odysseus
His travel companion is goddess
Now now Athena tonight is who we're looking at and we're gonna stare into that tyrant's eyes again
I want us to go ahead and hit it chewy light speed. Let's go
Boom boom tonight people we have right off from you. This is the chorus. Where am I taking you? Oh god. Did I forget?
I did I did excuse me. I'm sorry people just you can leave that up if you want
Harvard Princeton Yale all you people that's it that you had your opportunity
You had the light and it went out shame on you shame on you. This is your judgment. Oh god give it to get Yale Harvard Princeton
Princeton
Princeton you idiots gave up your ancient Greek program could you not attract anybody to your stupidity?
Is that what it was? Oh?
Shame on you shame on you for calling yourself guardians of classical philology
Servants of mother Greek shame on you
Tonight we bring lots of shame
Shame it's not ours. It's yours. We're just highlighting it
Okay, what's the passage we've got? Oh god people wanted me to read a little bit of Horos
Macaros this a we odd say huh?
People looking at third word on the first line Eve is there Eve is there. Do you see her a we odd say
Hey, we odd say and let me hear that diagram of the invisible six six six. Let me hear it a we odd say
Fortunate is the person who can enter into the Bacchic revel with those flowing streams of wine
Making that religious celebration great
And what does he do?
He has his beloved
His beloved one
Person male
His beloved buddy
Who's got that flower of?
Gorgeousity
And it's all over him dripping from him. That's the dude that's happy. He's got golden locks in his hair
He's you know nice. He's go. What's he putting there? He Christ himself?
He Christ himself people seriously. They're talking about Christing themselves. He Christ himself
Oh, you have got it you have got it
Alright, that's a good one. You have got it. Where did I take us tonight? Where's our first anchor point? It's right here
Performing the Bacchic right and I'm gonna take you a place to a place
Everybody I'm gonna transport you tonight. Yeah, it's a field trip night. I'm gonna transport you tonight
To a place
That you were afraid could possibly exist. This is a place where we do not celebrate Bacchus
Are you ready? We're going there. Okay. Get ready. Give me the next one. Next to our system. Nope. We're done
Give me the next boom and well, wait, who is this? I'm bringing up Paul. I just had a chorus of Greeks
I just had a chorus of Greeks and now I'm bringing up Paul. Yes. This is in the 2nd epistle of Corinthians
Yeah, he says we have a treasure
Encased in these clay pots
What's that treasure Paul
It's the Rupert Boley
It's the hyperbole. Yeah, it's the excess of the power that belongs to God not to us
Okay
Okay, I hear it. I hear it coming. Are we gonna summon that Cyclops? We're gonna get there. Thank you Paul
Paul, can you tell me I have a question for Paul the Apostle Paul? Have you ever been drug involved in drug rights?
Drug rights Paul drug rights that involve sexual relations
Have you ever Paul the Apostle been involved in secret rights?
Then that are well, let's say self-stimulatory
Plus the eating of the of the seed that is produced from such
