That's what you get people just like that. Those are monists
They are in a state of frenzy. Isn't that gorgeous?
Isn't that gorgeous? They're in a state of frenzy
Do you know what that is it is the opposite of liberty
It is the opposite of Bacchus. Are you seeing it now? Let's all go to Aphrodite everybody
Back on the ship. We're going to Aphrodite Paul. Tell us then Paul you visionary freak
Tell us. What do you see in your rights when the hoo-ha comes?
We see the things that aren't seen
Yeah, yeah, the things that are seen are just chance
incident
The things that aren't seen
So is your ionic. Okay, so you're seeing ionic things you guys eat the magic seed
Right, everybody's living ionic
Everybody has ionic life. You want ionic life? Not if I have to eat that. I don't want you on a ionic life. Oh
God
Let's go the next one. Mmm. Boom. Where are we now now? We're going back to Moses
same right
Same vocabulary because nobody looks at the Septuagint because people have been doing a song and dance for 2,000 years
Don't look over there. We have this for you
Because they're doing that
We don't look at the Greek it's a shame it's a shame it is
terribly
terribly disingenuous
Yes, love it shame. It's another thing. She doesn't like another thing. She doesn't like
Lying my god, man
You think the devil has to lie in his kingdom
No, that's what it's marked by. It's marked by that hard cold reality
Yeah, face your reality
Ladies and gentlemen, I love it. I love it. Okay, we're getting in give me this one quick
We got to get him with this last one with Moses. Look at this people
We're with Moses and what is Moses do he kick keeps putting a hood?
He keeps putting a hood on you can't see his face
Right, they don't want to see what are they? What is Moses?
No, you didn't know that did you you didn't know Moses walks around with a friggin?
Vale a man veil on his head
So you couldn't see his face and you want to know what what's wrong? Is he shy?
Has he got something what's he got he's got the glory all over it
What
He's got the glory on it
Remember this is the time that
When you and I
When you and I would want to be lovers
Right, we pray
We men pray
To the god, yeah, oh
Jehovah
Subba off and why do we do that so that we can find our beloveds?
this is
Our right and you are eating the body
You're eating the body your servants of the body
Give me the next one
No, this is it get keep it here. What what's for the sake?
So what is he hiding his face for people, right? Look at the last four words taught that loss to
Cartargo menu
Right, it's hiding it for the sake and people will see the tell us and you'll know. Oh
This is what we call initiates an initiation
Into the secret rights, right?
right the initiation of
that
Abolition
Cartargo menu
the
Initiation of the abolition. This is the death
within you that takes place when you take of his body and
Moses is covering his face. So you won't see it
He is using what's he got on his face? Everybody knows now in Satanic congregation
You mean Moses had that base paint and on top of that he was put in the purple in his eyes. Yep
Yep
Do you know what that does?
Hallucination and delirium
You know those are the places you go
Moses is doing it just in great third century fashion very Hellenistic of him
It's very Hellenistic. Good job. Give the next one. Give the next one. You mean is this a
Can you know, can everybody get involved in this right? What's going on man? I want to see more of it. Okay. Tell us Paul
death
In a gate high
Death works in us to bring us alive
To raise us up
Do you hear it's my offer to you now if I had this for you
Would you do it?
well part of my reasoning is
Death works in us those of us who will be giving you the body
Yeah, those of us who will be master bar a
Yes, those of us who will be self-pleasuring for the body that you will eat
We're gonna do it
so that
