Oh, God, look how they translate this.
Oh, by the way, how are they translating
these geniuses or Bible scholars through the centuries?
How are they translating this?
As Messiah, did you know that doesn't appear?
It's Christ that appears, so thank you very much.
You can only appropriate so much before you're sated
and you satiate the world of demons.
There's only so much you can do.
That word is not there.
That was an attempt to appropriate the text.
Ah, wow, fantastic, yeah.
Yeah, no, it's not a Hebrew word at all.
It's not a concept even reflected anywhere.
Did you know, by the way, did you know?
I wanted everybody to know
that there is no appearance anywhere of the word Yahweh.
Yeah, no way, Yahweh.
There's no, there's no appearance of that word anywhere
in the Septuagint.
Yeah, how did it get there?
It was magic, kiddies.
It was magic.
It was written in later in order to appropriate,
to put a stamp on it, to lay claim.
Did you ever need to lay claim to something
that already belonged to somebody else, right?
You can appropriate it.
It's called appropriation.
Fantastic, fantastic, linguistic appropriation, yes.
And that's why you believe the fairy tale you do.
You didn't know Jesus was into drugs.
You didn't know his early followers were into drugs.
You didn't know that Paul was bombed on the venom.
You didn't know that.
Now you do, here it's all coming together
and our theosos, we have opened eyes.
Yeah, fantastic.
A couple more and we're done.
This is lovely.
I'm just getting two worked up people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And what do we have here?
Look at the first line.
We're gonna end up getting Pseudo Christoi, Pseudo Christoi.
Listen to that, it's just got a nice ring to it.
Pseudo Christoi.
Oh, nice.
Yeah, Pseudo Christ.
Wait, what?
You got Pseudo prophets and Pseudo Christ, brah.
You can't prophesy without that, right?
You can't prophesy without.
Do you really think people who talk about Bible times,
if you use the term Bible times in your vocabulary, right?
You really think those prophets, the anointing,
was like a little bit of,
let's take a little all of them, whoop, whoop, right?
And all of a sudden the guy is seeing visions, right?
And going places, getting taken up by angels,
telling angels, falling over dead.
These prophets are junkies.
And you didn't know that, but now you do, right?
The history that we have as a people, as human beings,
has been appropriated, abused,
and reconstructed into a terrible, terrible lie.
You mean people will lie to me?
Seriously, are you human?
Yeah, what group will lie to you more than any other?
He can lie out of his mouth,
and people will still worship him.
People will still tear down everything around them
to worship the liar.
Yeah, to worship the liar.
Yeah, you don't see Lucifer doing that garbage.
You don't see Lucifer misleading like that.
No, you don't.
No, no.
Morningstar.
You mean it turns out our God is bad,
and the one we thought was bad was a propaganda bad?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You're gonna find out when you get to the other side,
and you realize that blood,
it didn't wash off your hands.
And you know the one thing they don't put up with in hell
is somebody with a kid's blood on their hands.
They don't care what kind of God you worship.
You mean that's the reward of appropriation?
Yes, it is.
It is.
Thank you, Jesus.
Thank you, Jesus.
Give us the last slide.
Second, yep, here's our pseudo prophets.
That's lovely.
You want after that, right?
Oh, and here's our, look at this, the concrete.
This is the monster.
Oh, I wanted you to see the things
that will be produced by the Christ, right?
Look at this.
These are marvels, wonders.
You know, that's how it's generally translated,
but you know what it actually says?
Look at it, it says dios, right?
Dios, aiohoio, these are the monsters,
the terrata, they call them.
What does the Christing produce?
It gives you the ability to produce the monsters.
The monsters, what kind?
You know, the face that was on Zeus's Aegis,
on God's Aegis, do you know what he carries there?
It's the face of Medusa.
She who guards by means of drugs.
Yeah.
You don't know what you're missing.
I want to thank you for coming tonight,
and I want to ask you to consider the theosos.
To consider, oh, yep, and here's the pseudo Christ, right?
Consider, you can drop it, good job, truly fantastic.
Consider, nothing got my go tonight.
Where'd Penelope go?
Can we just see Penelope once and remind everybody?
This is the reason that we remove the naughty bits, right?
It's to cover up, right?
The cross covers up that shame.
Isn't that nice?
Thank you, Penelope, I love you, I'll see you later.
Okay, let's go.
That's where we've reached rock bottom.
We're right there with the history.
Now you know, and you can't unlearn, right?
The reality that was Jesus Christ.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I want you to consider the theosos
and what happens when they become active.
This is our quest to bring the theosos back.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Thank you for your time.
Hail Satan.
My girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I
support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my girl, I support you, my
