The Catholic church sort of shelters their sheep because they're the pastor.
They got the rod.
They got that, that augur staff and they sort of shelter Europeans for a thousand years from where these rites actually came from.
But if you actually told the story to somebody in the first century, second century in, I don't know, Paphlegonia or Phrygia, they would know exactly what the hell is going on here.
That's why you have people with a Nazi preacher in the second century.
But I'm getting a little bit ahead of myself, but I'm just, I'm trying to illustrate for people.
These, the context of these rites make perfect sense for the, for the time period.
But 1,000, 1,500 years later, with, with all these rites being hidden and done behind closed doors, we have no idea what this stuff means.
We have no idea why he's saying I thirst or why they're pulling out alabaster or why three days.
What does all this mean?
That's where we're getting that beautifully stated.
Let's call up the next text that we're going to look at.
So look, it's coming in the clouds.
You don't pay attention.
He's coming in the clouds and all eyes will see him, right?
Whoever, whoever, you know, put into death, whoever crushed him, right?
Right.
And everybody's going to see him a man.
I just want you to look at the last word in this passage, right?
A man.
Why are we inserting a magic word here?
Right?
It's very important because this is an incantation.
Right?
This is part of the prophecy.
When he gets smacked into the wilderness, you can take it down.
When he gets driven into the Eremon and he's in his state.
Notice that John says he fell on the ground as if he were dead.
Right?
Right?
These are states that they are inducing.
They're physical states, you know, they're messing with the physiology.
And yeah, let's go see who that next text.
Let's go see who she is.
Look at this.
Ego, Amy to Alpha.
Kaito, Omega.
Leia, Curia, Sotheos.
Yeah.
I am the Alpha and the Omega.
Why is he saying that?
Right?
People are like, what does that mean?
And you can get entire sermons on this that are full of unholy garbage.
And look at this.
Look at this.
Neil, you're going to love this because now we're going to, I'm, I'm bringing in C.S.
Lewis.
I got him right here.
I got him right here.
And I'm doing untoward things to him.
I'm going to do some untoward things to him right now.
Right?
Okay.
You can't see me where I'm doing it, but I'm doing it.
Look at this last word.
Panto Kratur.
What is a Panto Kratur?
Yeah.
Do we have the next, just give us the next.
Yeah.
Look at this.
Look at this.
Yeah.
Panto Kratur.
Oh, it's a masculine form of the Panto Kratera.
Wait a minute.
You say there's a feminine form of this word?
Yes.
And look what the source is.
It's the Orphic hymns.
Surprise.
Surprise.
Everybody says, and Neil knows this, everybody says the date on
these Orphic hymns is hard to fix.
And some people will say anywhere from sixth, fifth century down
to second AD.
And some scholars stepped up about 30 years ago when I was still
into the scholarship.
And we're saying, no, no, no, by the, the archaisms that are in
the language.
This has to be contemporary with he said and possibly possibly
a century earlier.
If you look at the nuances of the hymns and how they're built and
the words that are being used and how they're being used.
Yeah.
It's, it love it.
Love it.
So I'm one of those earlier guys.
So we have the title for the Panto Kratur, right?
But it's in a hymn.
It's a hymn to nature, which also uses all the empathets that
Paul, the apostle, who is way, way immune to snake venom.
The dude got bit by an ass.
Nothing happened.
He's like, and he knew it wouldn't happen.
Right.
Yeah.
Amazing.
Amazing.
Yeah.
