Yeah.
Now that's all the texts that I had.
I want, uh, people to see that there's overlap, that there's overlap.
And so one of the benefits of having Neil come then is to say, okay, oh, what do we
save them when we're on that?
We're out there with the scholars.
We're out there with the scholars and we're talking to them.
How can you push this information?
How would you deal with your, um, your audience, Neil, and when you're addressing your audience,
how do you present this information?
Do you present it as, look, um, this is what's here, or do you just kind of, kind of weave
it in?
So what I'm saying is when a professor steps out on the edge with you and you know how
skittish they are, because they don't want to be proven wrong or something, right?
And they're out there in that world and they're trying to explain something and you're going
head-to-head with them.
When you come across something that you know is BS, like you've seen the reality here.
You know the Orphic.
You just said, oh, this is the Orphic, uh, rights, rights, being practiced, the Christians
are doing it.
What do you say to the scholar that doesn't know that level of the text?
Alice never lies.
You go to Alice, because Alice, Alice gives us the linguistics, which never, the linguistics,
linguistics is the roots of everything.
So we go there first, we talk about the linguistics, we talk about Alice, then the sources.
We go right to the, right to the primary sources.
We don't need any, some, some theory from, hold on, let me fix this right quick.
Some theory from some guy in the, in the, in the 19th century, we go straight to the
sources, straight to the third century sources, BCE, second century, be Alexandria, Rhodes,
right to the Greek, right to the Latin, and we pull it up and we put it side by side and
say, here's what they're saying.
They're using the same terminology.
They're using the same chance, using the same drugs.
And then here he is in the New Testament, being using the same way and you're going to
sit there and say, it's, you don't see it.
So we show them.
We put the sources together and there's, there's, there's no playing around with that when we
do that.
That's what we do.
That's what you do.
I've learned that from you.
Like you, when I first met you, you brought up a lot of really mind blowing theories and
not, I shouldn't say theories, but kind of theories, but like at the time with other
theories.
And then he showed, then we went to the text, went to the sources, he's right.
Holy shit.
This is mind blowing stuff.
And you, once you show someone the sources, they can't, they can't deny it.
They can, they can choose to go like this, but like, these are the sources.
The context is, is when we go back to the first century, Greco-Roman world, these are things
that are being done in mystery cults, in Egypt, in Phrygia, in near elusis and Athens, in Rome
actually too.
So these are the things that are happening on the, on the ground throughout the empire
in this time period.
And without that context, you would never know.
We live in a whole completely different world today.
Past the Puritan age and the scientific age of reason, all that, that's ancient, that's
the ancient world.
It's a whole different world that we're not a part of anymore.
So that's something that people need to realize.
I want to ask you while you're here about Hermes, because this epithet that Jesus uses,
when I say Jesus, I mean, when John paints him with this epithet, it's an epithet of
Hermes, and particularly Hermes as the Angelos Theu, as that messenger of God who ends up
having that son relationship with the father, right?
He's the son.
And you could say he's the son of God.
He's called Logos too.
Yeah.
And he's, yes.
And he's transmitting that, right?
Oh, I'm glad you brought that up because Justin Marder admits this.
Justin Marder and his apologia, by the way, what are you apologizing for?
Why do you apologize?
The whole apologia thing.
Justin Marder says, you have a Logos too.
You guys call him Mercury, and then you have Asclepius.
He's also the son of God too, and you guys have all your Logos.
And yeah, and that's important because Mercury, as someone like Philo relates, and Philo's
doing the same thing Justin Marder's doing a century prior to all his Alexandria and
Celtic friends that he's trying to impress.
He's that one Jewish guy that's trying to join the club, and everyone's like, nah,
brah, like, let's get that Yahweh stuff out of here.
And this is true.
He writes about Philo says, but what about the Logos and Mercury and all this stuff?
What about, and he's playing this whole apologetics thing.
And yeah, that's, and so Mercury, Hermes, Angolos, the messenger, he only does what he's
told by Zeus.
He never breaks what Zeus makes him do.
He does exactly what Zeus does, and he comes back and he says, Zeus, I've done it for you.
What else do I want you to do now?
And then he goes over, and Prometheus kind of breaks the law.
So Prometheus and Hermes, you see this demon and angel dichotomy way before Christianity
brings this stuff to light.
But yeah, this is all Celtic imagery, Celtic language.
This is the way of the world in this time period.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And the fact that he's using, that Jesus is using these epithets and all of this language
that's connected with the mystery, you'd have to be a moron.
I mean, really, I stand back and I look, I look at us and I think, oh my God, we, how
do we not see it?
