And so the context is gone.
The English speaking Christians of, you know, UK and America, they're like little children that are being like sheltered by the reality of what they're actually worshiping and doing.
They have no idea where this stuff comes from.
It's kind of fascinating to even to like witness that.
They don't know what it is because the translation loses all context.
They sit, they sit in darkness, right?
They sit in darkness.
You should clip that what you just said.
I give you permission if you need it.
You should clip that.
It was a perfect statement of watching.
It's funny.
You're right.
It's funny to watch the people and they, they perpetuate like fairy tales.
They're like little traditions and little stories that have nothing to do with what's actually going on.
Right.
Before you move on.
Someone in the crowd who's watching this, if you have a friend who's still a Christian.
Do this as soon as possible.
Tomorrow, tonight, whatever.
Bring up that verse where it talks about Hades in the sea and death, giving up their dead.
Ask them.
Hey, what does this mean to you?
Just ask them.
Just, you'll be amazed at the reply you'll get.
You, it's, you'll probably get a million different answers from a million different people because no one talks about it.
It's as if it doesn't exist.
And I would bet that most pastors wish it wasn't there.
Wish it just, we could just delete that part.
Cause obviously there's some, there's something going on there.
Fantastic.
You're right.
You're right.
And also tell them, hey, I would also tell your friend who's sitting there trying to decide.
Look at Jesus when he's arrested and ask yourself, what's he doing with the naked boy?
Yeah.
What's he doing?
What's that kid doing there?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause something, he's doing something with him.
And your own, and your own pastor will tell you, Mark is the shortest gospel because every word matters.
There's no extra information.
There's no extra fluff.
So the fact that Mark would have an extra fluff sentence of, and a naked boy ran off with a
syndrome on his, on his, on his stomach.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
That's there for a reason.
You admit it yourself.
There is no extra information in Mark because it's the shortest gospel.
It's packed with punches.
Every syllable means something.
Well, what does that mean?
Well, that's just extra information.
No, no, no.
You're the one that said it.
You're the one that said every syllable matters in Mark.
That's why it's so short.
Tell us what is Mark 14 telling us?
That's what you have to figure out.
Brilliant.
Another short.
Get, get the, get that last text of there.
I think this is the last one.
Yeah.
And to the angel of the assembly in Laodicea, right?
Write these things.
Um, I just want you to notice that it says leggejo amen.
Oh, there.
So says the amen, the amen, right?
He is the martyrs, the pistols.
Yeah.
He's that witness.
He's that faithful.
He's that alethinos that true.
He's the archer.
What is he the archer of?
What is he the ruler of?
Taste.
Now, what's funny is, um, that thesis is exactly what the same word that is used in the hymn.
Um, he is that builder.
It really means builder.
Yeah.
It really means builder and it's used originally of her.
She's originally of Urania.
Yeah.
That all builder.
Yeah.
That one that brings that power.
Um, and there's a lot of other nail.
There's a lot of other from the hymn.
For example, she's also the salas for the salas for the bringer of that light.
This is from the lightning.
Yeah.
So, um, that cellos is a big part of the cult mystery cult.
There's a mystery of iniquity, right?
Working mystery of Anomia that's already working.
Right.
And once that restrainer is stopped, um, the man of lawlessness can come forward.
Um, it's all mystery operation, uh, miski good stuff, mystery operation.
And I think that's, uh, I think that's all the texts that I have.
