They bring them all these presents.
They bring them exotic cats and lions and snakes.
And one of the travelers asked Augustus, I want to go to the famous Ellusinian Mysteries
to get initiated.
Augustus was like, I've already been there.
I've been initiated.
I'll do it again.
Let's go.
Augustus has seven initiations from different cults all over the Empire.
He's down.
He says, all right, I'll take you there.
It's wintertime.
They're closed, but I'm the August one.
So we could go.
So they go there.
They open it up just for them.
Started a whole new initiations off season.
This Indian Indian character is Brahmin gets initiated when he came out.
You know what his reaction was?
He jumped into a fire and killed himself because he said, I'm done.
My life is complete.
That was that was his reaction from the Mysteries.
He was so blown away by what he saw that he jumped into a fire and killed himself and
ended his life because he was complete and nothing else to live for.
That's what happens.
And so when Jesus says, I thirst.
And like again, with Mark 14 with a naked boy, there's no extra information in these
texts.
There's no extra fluff.
Those words are there for a reason.
They're sending a signal to the reader.
If you know about the Mysteries, you know what this means.
Why?
Why is someone thirsting?
What does that mean?
You know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Beautiful.
Beautiful.
And we all say, oh, it's Hebrew llama.
No, it's not.
It's actually Greek magica.
Yeah.
It's their magic that's going on.
I love it.
I love it.
Neil, it's an honor.
It's an honor.
I'm going to give you the last word, but I want everybody to make sure that
you are following in whatever way possible Neil's journey and the people that he is interviewing.
It's makes for an interesting.
I usually get upset when we talk about his episodes, not with him, but with the responses.
And there's coming a day.
I'm going to try to be prophetic here, but there's coming a day when Neil will realize
if he hasn't already that he's gone beyond that he's in the into the thick now.
And the people back there, they've really done that.
Let me just say this.
I'm going to ask this last question, let you have it and then we'll be done.
Don't how do you look at these people who are following the fairy tale?
Do you look at them with pity?
Do you look at them with contempt?
Do you look at them as people that we need to shake and say, look, this is what you're
missing?
How do you look at these people who follows that Christian fairy tale?
It's interesting because I understand them.
I understand where they're coming from.
I understand what's on their shoulders, the weight.
They're not like me where they can just go off and just quote and start saying stuff
that I say.
So instead of being mad or trying to change them, I take it on myself that it's my duty
to bring this information and I'll talk to them and I'll challenge them on certain things.
And I understand why some of these people are the way they are.
I get it.
So it's on me.
I put it on myself to be the one to go forth with this information because this channel
right here, St. Tantic Initiation, Lady Babylon, this is a one in a million.
This is the most unique, the most in the league of its own channel.
The information here, you're not going to get anywhere else and it's free.
Nothing better than this.
I'm way more honored to be on a show like this than I am to interview some of these Ivy League
professors.
I mean that.
I mean that.
I'll say that a hundred times.
You could not say anything nicer than that.
I really appreciate that, Neil.
I think if you were sitting around with Professor Rock from Boston University, he took me over
there to Harvard Newsly.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's an honor.
It's an honor.
Yeah.
It's an honor.
It's an honor.
And everyone else see the honor that is, that is the Gnostic Informant.
You have just attained, you have just attained Trinosis.
Hail Satan, everyone.
Hail Satan, everyone.
