This is where the typical Dan comes in.
Typical, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
I'm a Mormon.
Dan comes in after I just threw all the primary sources
down his throat.
He comes in and says, I've read the primary sources
many times, which I can tell he hasn't because he wouldn't
have said that.
Just straight up fact.
Doesn't follow.
That's not logic.
You wouldn't have said what you fucking said
if you read the primary sources.
Duh!
I've read the primary sources many times,
and I'm representing the overwhelming consensus,
the overwhelming consensus.
You can check out May, Hubla, Winston V. Goldstein,
and more recently, even Anderson and Brickmeal
to read about the primary sources that you've misread.
To be promotion, promoting creation.
By the way, I never promoted a creation ex nihilo.
You're the one that brought that up.
I just said, you don't fucking need it.
Dummy?
All right.
Before I even checked any of those fucking names
that he threw at me in an attempt to gaslight,
I didn't care because I know the primary sources,
and they didn't change because you just threw some books
at me.
They're still there, and they still say the same things.
Dan, that's how history works.
It's stuck, frozen.
History doesn't change.
We can play definition games, and nothing changes in the past,
except how we look at it.
So here's what I said.
Listing a bunch of scholars' names in some attempt
to gaslight does not somehow erase the primary sources
like Plato, Aristotle, Philo, Plutarch,
and forming groups like the Hypsisterians
with concepts of an eternal perfect creator,
just as Plato talks about in Timaeus.
And this was present in middle Platonism,
long before Horatio Exnihilo was an official doctrine.
Again, Horatio Exnihilo wasn't invented from thin air.
It was preceded by these doctrines,
and I know this because I didn't read the fucking sources.
From the primary sources, you don't read, Dan.
The comment you tried to refute was not
about when Horatio Exnihilo became a doctrine
in Christianity.
The comment was about what Paul believed about God.
And you can't say that these ideas came later.
That would be admitting that you are not aware of the sources.
Then I went and looked.
First book, so he gave me May was the first one.
And I know, let's see, maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe Mr. PhD with his fucking 10 years of teaching Greek,
maybe he's right and I'm wrong.
Let's see, let's read the fucking shit
that he gave me to read.
The first fucking page I opened up was literally,
literally mentions all the sources that I mentioned.
It mentions Philo.
It says, he opens up a question.
Is it true that Philo already had something similar
to creation exnihilo in the first century BC?
We're going to talk about that.
And then it says, oh, of course, we have to talk about Plato's
Tameis as well.
All of it was right there in the fucking first page.
I couldn't believe it.
So I had to come back to Dan.
24 hours later, I came back to Dan.
I said, Dan, after checking into some of the names you listed,
the real question is, did you read them?
May immediately begins to discuss Plato's Tameis
and the question of, did Philo already teach creation out
of nothing?
And how Plato's was interpreted by facilities,
first century Christian, not late second century Christian.
You're off by about 100 years there,
interpreted by facilities.
By the way, the Megas Archon, that's a Braxis baby.
First second century Christian, the logo of my channel,
that's a Braxis, that's the Megas Archon.
He's the eternal, perfect God that created everything.
You cannot say that you don't need,
there's no requirement for creation Xthilo
by facilities as doctrine.
He already has it there.
It's in the sources, read Hippolytus, read Irenaeus.
The first second century Christian,
he even has a chapter about Theophilus of Antioch,
who he says is responding to these ideas.
Nothing so far suggests that the idea
of a single perfect eternal creator
requires the doctrine of creation Xthilo.
You can reject Philo and Plato as holding to,
you can reject that Philo and Plato
hold an identical doctrine of CEN, creation Xthilo,
but you still can't reject that eternal perfect one
is not something already dominant by Paul's time.
This is so bad, this is when I decided,
I gotta, this has gotta make a video.
I got, cause you know, Dan, you can go after low,
hanging fruit TikToks all day long,
but as soon as someone comes along
and challenges you, you get quiet.
Cause he didn't ever respond to that last post
about what I said, bro, you were wrong
and I was right, the sources, he never responds to that.
He's done talking after that.
But one of his colleagues, Jason Staples,
who's a big time biblical scholar,
big time biblical scholar, he came along,
jumps out of the woodwork and says,
Dan, I am exceedingly unpersuaded by that last statement.
What is the evidence that Christian monotheism,
by the way, everyone knows what he means by that.
So who gives a fuck how you define this word?
I knew what he meant by that.
The idea that the Christian God is the high God,
qualitatively different from everything else,
requires Horatio Xthilo?
It certainly isn't logically so logistically required.
So his own colleague comes in and fucking checks his ass.
And so Dan does respond to him, but not me.
He says, the Enlightenment Christians who coin,
we're already back in the Enlightenment again.
The Enlightenment Christians who coin the term
treated the notion of matter existing eternally
independent free and irreconcilable with monotheism
as have most Christians since then.
Then scholars started arguing creation Xthilo
isn't in the Bible and things changed.
What the fuck was that?
You just dodged the whole question.
Nobody gives up.
We're not talking about how to define monotheism.
We're not talking about what Enlightenment Christians
decided the monotheism was.
We're talking about Paul and what Paul believed in God.
Does it require creation Xthilo or no?
It doesn't.
If you knew the sources, this would be a done deal.
We're done.
But you're just completely dodged that question.
So then he says, so is it monotheism for Christians
has always required creation Xthilo?
Look, he could tell he's confused.
What the fuck?
Or just since the Enlightenment, I'm a little confused here.
Or is it just the term monotheism itself we're talking about?
No, that's it.
Dan never responds to that.
Never, he's done.
He just taps out.
He just pretends it never happened.
He's gone.
You know how Dan responds to everything on X
or on fucking TikTok?
Doesn't, he can respond to fucking Almond today.
Why is he still hasn't responded to this?
So this is the last thing I said,
and I left it along after this.
I said, Dan, are you all right?
Should we get you some help?
Talk about gish galloping.
Holy moly.
You keep going off into areas that have nothing to do
with anything that was said by the comment
or my response to you.
None of this has anything to do with Paul
and first century middle Platonism.
We can play a defined monotheism game all we want
at these stupid conferences that no one cares about.
I certainly don't care about them.
I don't care how you define monotheism.
I don't give a shit.
All I care about is what does the text say?
We can play definition games all we want.
I don't care.
It's stupid.
That's why I think your dissertation was stupid
about religion.
I think it's dumb.
Who cares?
None of that will change what happened in the past
and rewrite what people believed.
So again, for the fifth time,
based on what every single person who studied 101
ancient philosophy and theology already knows,
why does the belief in a perfect eternal one
is distinct from other daemon slash deities
require curatio ex nihilo?
The answer is it doesn't.
And anyone who actually reads the primary sources
about this period could tell you this.
Dan never replied, tapped out, done, gave up
because he knows he's done.
And that's the end of that story.
Wow.
Okay, now for those of us who, okay,
we've got to call the match and what we see.
Then we're going to say it like it is here in the museum.
By the way, I had 140 people are watching this shit right now.
Yeah, no, thank you for the people who are coming,
new people, Lady Babylon.
Yeah.
And by the way, to the guy that we executed accidentally,
Chewie, be better with your blaster.
What you've done is I really, really like the fact
that you're drawing it all back to those primaries.
And this is the real problem.
When Dan wants to erect a boundary
between Christians and non-Christians
living at the very same time, or Jesus
and those people around him,
this is what the theology has given us.
It's tamped down, you know, Julian,
do you think Julian was right after all that,
you know, as a means of calm down after the fight,
which by the way, it was gruesome, bro.
It was gruesome, remind me to bring you along.
You can, you know, we can watch each other's back.
I appreciate that.
And you're flying with some serious skill.
So thank you for being a participant.
But tell me this,
is there something in the theology degree?
Is there something in the religious history degree?
Is there something in the fabric of the discipline
that causes you to produce somebody
who's gonna make, you know,
who's gonna make big assertions
without, you know, really looking at evidence?
You're, tell me, this is what I'm asking.
This is what I want your perspective on.
You're coming at these sources new
in the last couple of years, right?
And you have managed to saturate,
I don't know how much time you sleep,
but you've managed to saturate yourself
when you're throwing things.
Listen to your, listen to you talking about Plato tonight.
That was fantastic.
Time me as God, I'm like, I wanted to find the exit.
Like, oh, I hope he didn't call on me, right?
You know what I mean?
So nice job, nice job, gorgeous job.
And kudos to you for that.
And that's all that matters.
At this Lady Babylon dojo, that is all that matters.
That is executing the art.
And I think that's what really stings me
about guys like Dan is that they bring
an element of deception to the science.
And that, and I think you're a great warrior for that,
for that reason.
So congratulations.
Is there anything else you want to throw in there
after the-
You know, it's not, I think there's a,
there's what's evident in a lot of these academic circles,
is there's certain, it may be not dogmas,
but like there's certain atmospheres
where certain things are,
there's ideas that are pushed easier than others.
That makes sense.
Where there's some group of things going on, it seems like.
And it seems like there's some political layers there.
Yeah.
And I'm not talking about one side being correct,
politically one side not being correct.
I don't care if, I might agree with his politics,
but that should not determine how I look at the ancient past.
Yeah.
You shouldn't do that.
That's all, that's all.
It's sloppy, isn't it?
It's sloppy.
And you find that a lot, unfortunately through seminaries,
you find kind of sloppy work like that.
I would thank Dan for coming tonight.
I really appreciate the fact that he's been a guest
and this has been scrumptious.
I look forward to any responses we get.
I hope for the 586 people who have come,
I feel the burden and the weight,
the responsibility of giving you
something that's worth your time.
And I hope that tonight,
you appreciate and accept as a gift to you,
the vision of Jesus, the Christ,
who is the drug-using, child prostituting guy
from a time when you couldn't always get away
with that kind of thing.
You may get crucified before that kind of stuff.
And the drugs, thank you for following the drugs,
you're all in.
Why is that the Dark Ages term?
Yeah, what were you saying, by the way,
who figured it out?
So my boy's Petrarch, he's the one who coined the term
in like the 1300s.
