have come ex nihilo, your honor, you know that, you know that all of this is traceable.
The Bible scholars, everyone here, you all know that this is traceable to the DNA that is in the
language. You know that we have that linguistic archaeology to show us who he was.
You see, Jesus bamboozling us there. Just the name of Jesus is enough.
What I hope to have brought your honor to the people of this world is the reality that underlies
the false, unreal matrix that we now swim in. We humans that we swim in this stuff
it's been my hope, your honor, to be able to bring that reality to us, to open up the eyes
that I know. I know that the evangelicals, I know that the Orthodox, I know that every religious
teacher, every monist on the planet will identify correctly that I bring you satanic initiation.
They will. What you have seen, jury, you cannot unremember. What you have seen, Christians,
you cannot wash from your mind. You listened and that was the mistake. Now you've seen a world,
a world that you don't want to exist but that does and you're going to have to come face to face
with it. It has been my honor, DK, to stand before you. It has been my honor to represent the muse.
Thank you. Thank you to everyone. Now, what's coming up before we tally the votes? What's coming up?
What's coming up? People are saying and I want to say a few thank yous. I just want to stand back
and say a few thank yous to people. To everyone who has written in and who has told me about how
satanic initiation transformed them, I truly appreciate this. You don't know how much that
means to me. I offer that up. I offer that up to the powers that be. I offer that to Sophia and I
say thank you. I say thank you. Keep up your search. What will I do now? Before I tell you,
make my announcement, I want to say thank you to Chewy, this whole time who has been,
everybody round of applause for Chewy, who has been my constant, constant co-pilot,
who frankly has engineered this whole process and who is making this all flow. To Chewy,
thank you very much. It's been a great honor to work with you and I hope that we can continue
working together in making something that people can say, hey, this is worth breathing. This is
worth breathing. Yeah, yeah. And just as a side note to Henry Cavill, please, please for the last
four years, all I have heard from the start of the great plague is your name every day, every day,
every day, Henry. Please, Henry, please put out this fire. Please bring satiety.
Cleanse. Cleanse the air. Cleanse the air. Thank you. Thank you, Henry. And now, sir, now, sir,
that you are Adonis. You are Adonis. Chewy, is that enough? I'm afraid she's going to,
she's keeping me. No, it's okay. It's okay. You know, Wookie's will pull your arm off if you,
you know, if you don't do what they ask you to do. So, Henry Cavill, seriously? Call me.
Call me. Just five minutes, Henry. Okay, curatives is what we need. What's going to happen?
What's going to happen? This is the last of satanic initiation and Bible studies.
What I would, what I would like to announce is the opening, the opening of a new temple.
And that temple is everything. Omnia. Omnia is coming. The little twist in tonight is that
Omnia is coming. Mr. Shadow has descended and has given us the go ahead to create via his
architecture, via his design to create what will be the new museum. A place where you can come,
where you can see that reality. Not a dead, stale place of exhibits, right? Not a place
where somebody is going to put up some modules and charge you $5.95 for their terrible opinion,
which is inevitably wrong, right, Chewie? Right? No, a non-profit. And this is one of Omnia's
core values. None of this is for profit's sake. None of it. We preserve a sacred space for
our history. We bring that from the ether. Omnia will bring an experience, a place for you to come,
a place for the world to come, and to partake of that mystery. Our goal is nothing less
than the continuation, the re-establishment and the continuation of that mystery.
And you'll find it in the concrete, not in personality, not in cult. You'll find it in the
concrete. It should be a place for you to come where you can explore a pathway that perhaps
you wouldn't have explored before. That you can take something from those of you that you've
have been left behind, those of us who have fallen before us, a time to raise them up and to restore
classical civilization, a time for us to reset the clock and to bring back those very powers that
govern the world that created democracy, those powers. It's our task to bring back Sophia. It is
our holy, holy responsibility to bring back Sophia. This will be Omnia. My shirt will be different.
I may be in a different place, but Omnia, I want you to rest assured, will be that avenue through
which we restore the muse. Thank you to everyone here for everything that you've done. Let's announce
the verdict. Close the poll. Chewie, close the poll. Tell me how much, how much we've got here.
Would you mind reading out the verdict? You're pointing it out to me, Chewie, because we all know.
93% of thanking human beings with genitalia of different types, different countries,
different appearances. 93% of these mortals, watchers, found him guilty. You remember it.
You take that message on high and you let them know Jesus is guilty.
Welcome to Satanic initiation. It has been my great honor to serve you in this capacity.
I'll be returning to the devil to find out what's next. Welcome. Welcome, Omnia. Welcome,
everything. Inhale, Satan.
Get ready for the devil's chorus.
