You can look back because I've given references
to diascortes and that kind of thing.
I know you don't read them.
I know you don't read Paul of Agina.
I know you don't read Galen.
You may say Galen, but you don't read Galen.
I know that for a fact.
Sorry, but it's second-sophistic brother and I can tell.
What is this here?
This is the enchanted potion or filter, right?
This is the magic side of the pharmacone
and the wall that Dan wants to erect.
And this is what all Bible scholars do, right?
The Bible is special.
It is the inherent word of God.
And it is special.
The Torah, that is special, right?
The New Testament, that is special.
And these things cannot be dealt with
in the manner that all of the other bits of the past
can be dealt with.
It's a special attitude.
I'm gonna erect.
They may have done that, but we certainly didn't, right?
That's the same attitude, Dan,
that they gave me at my dissertation.
The head of the department said,
the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
Just wouldn't do such a thing.
Dan, there's thousands of pages of the Romans
doing just such things.
And so I'm afraid to have to tell you this,
but Jesus was a drug user and he is Christing his own eyes.
Oh God, how's he getting that stuff there?
Remember Dan in the garden
when the naked kid was with Jesus,
when he was arrested for him?
Remember, he had the purple bandage on his,
the medicated bandage, let me put it that way,
on his yahoo, right?
And Jesus is being administered.
The rights having the purple through the impregnated linen
under the pressure of the ejaculation of that naked kid,
right, that is the Jesus Christ
who has the drugs on board,
who is able to enter into the mystery.
You mean this is all chemical mystery?
Yeah, of course it is.
Of course it is, look at the words, okay?
You're saying, no, you're still a nut.
And let me tell you something, the word gospel.
How about if we just look at gospel?
The gospel, you know what the gospel is?
It's a word the doctors use.
Wait, what, the gospel is medical term?
Yeah, and guess what, it's way older than the Christian usage.
The thing that you call the Christian usage, way older.
And it's been used over time, what does it mean?
It means the power of bringing health
that the concoction has.
So you have compound drugs and they're gospel.
They're Eungalion or they're Epongalion.
They use both.
That's the efficacy of the drug that you're taking.
That's the gospel.
Oh really, what is salvation?
What is salvation?
Salvation is the state you enter
once you have the drugs.
Okay, fantastic.
And you mean there are people who are using the terms?
Just like that, when Jesus Christ is walking around,
and he's like with that kid, he's in the garden of Gethsemane,
that kid's naked, and he's got that bandage around his penis.
And he says, oh my God, the drippy stuff is disgusting.
Ryan, what is he's got that drippy stuff on his face?
It's not the cleanest operation, you know what I mean?
Orgiastic or cult rites that are involved in this.
That are involved with the mystery and are always messy, right?
There's always purifications and whatnot
that have to be done.
The baptisms, right?
Those are about dyes.
Those are about dyes.
Did anybody know that?
Did anybody know that Mary was 12 years old?
She was auctioned off and that her vagina
was full of the burning purple?
Yeah, that made it into the apocryphal stuff.
Yeah, we got a midwife there and everything.
Everybody check it out, I'm not kidding, it's all there.
Right, so anyway, back to the,
let's get Dan back up on his feet.
Come on, Dan, stand with me, Dan.
Let's look at a couple more sources, brother.
Let's look at this.
Here's the, I just wanted you to see
that the drug is a dye or a paint, you know?
These things that they're putting,
the pigments that they're putting in the drugs,
those are the very same pigments that they're using to dye.
So, you know, it's not like they differentiate.
Baptism is that medical process.
Oh God, it's gorgeous, isn't it?
Go down to the next one.
We only have a couple here people tonight.
Watch this, Dan, watch this.
You've got a pharmacone, a drug of salvation, so devious.
Now you didn't know this existed, Dan, right?
You didn't even know what a Christ was.
This morning when he woke up,
he didn't know what a Christ was.
Evangelicals across this planet,
they didn't know what a Christ was.
Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, all of them.
They didn't know what a Christ was.
Now they know the Christ is a drug
and that drug is the way of salvation.
It's the way of salvation.
It's the pharmacone, so devious.
But he didn't know that.
Dan didn't know that.
Give Dan that next text.
I want Dan here.
This is vitamins.
Dan, just be still.
This is gonna hurt a little bit.
A little pressure here, Dan.
Just bear with me, try to relax.
Try to relax, are you ready?
This is a Christ reference.
Dan, look, here's a Christ reference.
Here he is, you know, Christ on.
There he is, hi, Jesus.
No, this is from Euripides.
This is from Euripides, and who's Euripides?
He's a tragic playwright.
And what is he doing?
When I say tragic playwright,
I don't mean like somebody who went to college
to be able to do this kind of stuff or anything like that.
No, no, no, I'm not talking about that.
This guy is the son of a root collector
who is involved in supplying all the drugs to the cults.
Okay, and he's riding this in a cave
and he has in the mouth a pheedra.
It's okay, don't worry about who's pheedra is for now.
He says,
He says,
Do you have a Christ or do you have one of those potables?
They're distinguishing between drugs
based upon how they're used.
Those potables, everybody drinks them, right?
The Christ, everybody knows what you do with a Christ.
No problem, no problem.
Keep going.
Now, notice that you have not seen anointing once, right?
Because that's the trash heap, right?
Don't go there, just stay with the Greek people.
Stay with the Greek.
Here's Mark 16, 18.
What does Jesus say in Mark 16, 18?
He says,
You're going to raise up serpents.
And when you drink the thanacemone,
it's not gonna hurt you.
When you drink the thanacemone,
what are Jesus's people doing?
They're drinking drugs.
Drinking drugs, Dan.
You didn't realize that Jesus was a drug fiend, Dan.
He's walking around with a title that says,
I'm a drug fiend.
Oh my God.
Maybe, you know, you've got to ask Christians.
Just ask them straight up.
Do you think Jesus was the only Christ that ever existed?
Do you think he was the first?
Do you think he just popped on the scene and fairy tale?
Ho, ho, ho.
And there he is.
Boom, boom.
I'm a Christ, you're what?
Nobody knows what that means
because it's the first frigging time
any of us have ever heard it.
Where's that little kid?
Where's John?
Where's John?
Where'd he go?
People keep saying this.
I want to correct this.
Oh, he's so bad.
What is that?
Are we dead?
Are we dead?
Oh, God.
Oh, God, I stepped on the wires.
I'm sorry, chewy.
That was terrible.
Thank you for your patience.
Thank you for your patience.
We're getting through, though.
We're getting through.
This week was all about getting through.
And I'm really glad that I was able to do it.
And I want you people to see.
I want you people to see.
So look, I told you the name Christ, it's about drugs.
Now I just pulled out all the drug related material,
showed you the Christing and different kinds of Christing.
Now you know why there's an anti-Christ, right?
Which Isidore says is almond, which is cool.
But there's a way to see the anti-Christ now.
What is the anti-Christ?
It's an antidote to the Christ.
That's all.
It's an antidote to the Christ.
It's why Jesus, the Christ, needed that naked boy.
You could not have had the Garden of Gethsemane
if you did not have a naked boy.
That naked boy was the source of the antidote,
which he is ejaculating into Jesus' mouth
through a linen wrap that is impregnated
with the burning purple.
And that's why when Luke says, I don't know,
he's got this stuff, it looks like he's got sweat like blood.
You know, it's that dark color.
It's because he's involved in the right.
But it's drippy and slimy.
It's not the, it's not, obviously, it's something
that he arrived at from struggles and, you know,
et cetera, et cetera.
I don't need to let you know the finer details of what Jesus
was doing to that naked boy that he was arrested with.
There's no reason for me to talk about that.
Dan doesn't want to hear that kind of stuff.
When Dan comes up and he says, look, I've got five books.
And these five books also, the Septuagint,
was originally written in Hebrew for this reason
and that reason, right?
This is the same thing the Bible scholars have done
for the last, oh, I don't know, maybe 1,500 years.
Maybe 1,500, very consistent, very consistent people.
They always are.
Okay, here's the problem.
And this is what the video, the interview
that Danny Jones had.
This is what, and by the way, I had somebody comment to me
just today, this was the best interview
that I've ever given.
Because it set things out, Danny was able to keep me
on some kind of linear thing.
And Danny was like, you know, be direct, brah, right?
That, I really appreciate that.
I really appreciate that.
And he read the chemical muse right before then.
Right?
It does his work, brah, right?
I'm exceptionally honored to have been able to be involved.
And I thank you.
Danny, I knew that you were going to get a lot of heat.
A lot of people are praying for Danny.
Do we have a picture of Danny Jones?
Do we have a picture?
Oh, look at this.
I kind of get excited when I see Danny.
Blow that up.
I have like a good day.
I don't know what it is.
Some people have, yeah, I was trying to hide behind him.
Just some people have this.
I don't know.
He's got this thing.
I look at him.
I'm like, yeah, this is of the earth.
You know what I mean?
This is strong.
This is going to last.
I like it.
Get him down.
Get him down, Danny.
So look, to be given the opportunity
to expose people like this is perfect.
This is the sacrifice that we love.
These biblical scholars will come in
with this very same bravado.
They always do until they find out what area you study.
And then they're like, ooh, right?
This is everybody.
I'll tell you a secret.
Everybody who studies who has ever been exposed
to ancient Greek.
And this includes modern Greeks.
And I studied with modern Greeks.
I can tell you for a fact, it is humbling.
Ancient Greek is humbling 1.5 million.
That's a ton of unique words.
Think of the brain power it takes
to be able to produce that.
Just following their tracks is going to make all of us
a lot smarter.
And it seems to do that consistently through history.
As it bubbles up through the surface,
the more people open up that classical gregos.
Next thing you know, there's Renaissance and there's whatnot.
Now, we can either have that Renaissance
or we can very happily sit back and look
