in the column of smoke. We sit there. We sit there. Let's go last for the last couple of times.
Yep. Next one. I want to bring you to some statues as we're heading back. We're heading,
we're going to head back, but in order to get there I got to show you artifact really quick.
Are you ready? Are you ready? Here we go. There are these statues of mercury and they're built on a
base, a quadring, right? It's a square. You got a square base. And how are they figured?
They're figured with the head alone and with an erect male member. So you've got a column
with a phallus attached to it and carved out of the top is the head. And tell me,
why do they do this? I'm just going to translate this for you. Why do they do this? Because these
things signify that the sun, do you hear Saturnalia? That the sun is the head of the Mundus.
The sun, S-U-N is the head of the Mundus and is the Satorim, is the Sator of existence.
The Sator, what kind of, what is a Sator? This is the figure of people that you and I have been
looking at for seven seasons. This, the S-T-R or sigma tau rho root is the one, the spermaea,
the one who brings that seed, the one who brings that seed. That Sator is an extension.
When Jesus is on the cross, he becomes that Sator, that extension, that extension of the sun.
Are you ready? Cornelius Labio, he says about Maya that in the Callens of May, the time of May,
there's a tent, there's a dedication under the name, right? They're actually dedicating the temple.
But when they do so, they do so in the name of Bona Daia. Bona Daia, just Bona Da.
Are you kidding me? Bona Da, just the good Da. What? Did you know that we worshiped her here? Of
course she did. And who, who is she? Who is she? They say that you can learn in her secret rights,
her identity as Bona Daia, right? Or Gaia, or in the Greek, Aia. Maya, Gaia, and Aia,
those are the same entity, just expressed by different tones, hearing different,
different tuning of those vowels. Here they are. Are you ready? The Bona Daia. And who is that Bona
Daia? What is so fantastic about her? Look at 26. They say she's Medea, because in her temple is
every type of drug, every type of drug in her priestesses, they're the ones that create all the
medicines. They're the ones that create all the medicines. Do you want to see who the Christ is?
Do you want to see? If you do, you're going to have to see the onlyborn who is both male and
female, who through the power of the purple is able to make the blood that brings us new life.
New life, new life. Jesus Christ, looking here, standing here after all this time,
seven seasons, looking at your genitalia has been the most eye-opening experience for me.
Looking at your genitalia, Jesus, has been the most when, when Mary,
the Virgin Mother, fed in the temple by the angels, when she produces that special,
special hermaphrodite. We know for the sake of the kingdom of heaven, we clip off, we clip off
testicles, we take that manhood, and we give it, we give full authority to that all mother,
so that she can nourish those children. When Jesus was arrested in the public park
with the naked boy, he was perpetuating a practice that harkened back across
1500 years to a period of a Bronze Age when people stepped up and created a right
that you and I now call the mystery. Jesus was just as authentic, historic, and actual
as every other Greek participating in every other branch of this mystery, including Heracles,
including Heracles. We owe this mystery to one person. The secret history that you
will be able to carry now is that of a queen of Lady Babylon who created the right with her own
body. She brought healing, and when you sit with Sophia, you too will have that medicine.
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, I have brought to you, I have brought to you a time of decision.
I am going to sum up, I am going to sum up, and while I do, I want you to be casting your
votes. There is only one question tonight. There is only one question. Do we find him guilty?
Do you believe the trans-dimensional authority has brought to you a case with enough merit,
with enough merit to say, no, this man is guilty. This man is guilty of racketeering.
This man is guilty of psychic assault. This man is guilty of fraud. Do you have
that vote? Tonight you do. Tonight you do. Chewie, give us a little bit of, pump us,
put us in a place that we can feel this pull. You people have watched this for a long time.
You've watched this for seven seasons, and now I'm giving you a voice. The pull is active.
Don't rush. Don't rush there. You don't have to plug it in right away. I'm going to give you some
time. I'm going to give you some time to stew and to ruminate. When we're done, we'll announce the
verdict. But Chewie, in order to get us there, pump us up with some lovely, lovely video.
You're honored tonight. I bring before your court a man, a man who was singled out in his generation
to take up a yoke that would cost him everything to perpetuate a kingdom, a kingdom that was
born of God, a kingdom that was righteous, a man who tried to bring the Thesmaphoria,
a man who tried to bring that El Nomia. This is him. He sits right here, your honor.
He sits right here from his own lips, calling himself a laystace, from his crimes, shielding
himself within a religion, a religion that abused children, a religion whose science was so advanced
it was able to transform the human into a God to make a vessel, a cup. It is my charge, your honor,
that this man, Jesus Christ, must be found guilty on corruption. He must be found to have corrupted
a right to have brought a mindset to people to cast them into subjection, not to Sophia, not to Sophia.
You know, your honor, where this court stands. You know, DK, you have been there. You have seen
the drugs, the Bible scholars, the Bible scholars who we will give voice to right now. You know
what they will say. They will say, this, your honor, is absurd. This is a trial that is a witch trial
of a man who was innocent, a man who was a lover of the children, a man who brought salvation to
humanity. He is not the first and they are not his first disciples. They are not the ones to
