what you just, what are you doing?
Well, how do you just say that's so nonchalant?
You know, in terms of the thing called religion
is something that was just some random thing that,
you know, just Islam and medieval and,
whoa, you just went through a thousand years right there.
That's a, you can't just skirt past that
like it was like a decade.
Like you, you can say that for like, I don't know.
You know, there was this one mystery cult
that sprung up in Ephesus, near Ephesus.
And it was around for, you know, half a century or something.
That's what you could say that, but like,
you can't just skirt past a thousand years of time,
7th century to the, to the Renaissance,
all the way to the Enlightenment.
You're very, you just passed through a thousand years.
All right, let's continue.
I'll get to why this is a,
that's not really the bad part though.
The bad, the reason why I'm bringing up
this video is because his criticism of Amon
can be directly pointed at him for his arguments
for what the term religion means.
I'll show you what.
And it was primarily a tool that European Protestant Christians
used to help them understand this new world
that they were discovering around them.
And so in many ways.
I kind of agree with that, but I don't,
we'll just, let's let it rock for a second.
Does it not play?
Did it freeze?
Looks like it froze.
Look at him.
Hey, Dan, he looks concerned and so in many ways.
All right, you know what?
I might have to play this from a different player
because I think it's downloading on your end.
And it's fine.
I can figure this out.
Just bring it down.
I'll bring it back up in a second.
It'll be no problem.
I can fix this.
And then I can,
we're just gonna play the whole video through
and not pause them anymore.
And I have, and that's what we'll do.
All right?
Let me say a song and dance while you prep that.
While you prep that.
Are you ready to go?
Me?
Yeah.
Everybody's something?
I'm ready to go.
Okay, go for it.
Keep going.
All right.
Oh, wait, hold on.
I have to remove this from the stage first.
All right.
Go ahead, sing your song and dance.
All right, go ahead.
Here we go, people.
The whole thing that I wanted to make sure people got
was that this is intentional obfuscation, right?
Creating a false world
where your people don't apply to the people around you.
This is a monist virus in the brain of humanity.
As soon as a society goes monist,
you lose that classical wisdom
and out go the libraries, out go the reason,
out goes the discovery.
Oh, I'm getting there.
I'm getting there.
You'll see when I get there.
Play this clip.
Hold that thought,
because I'm gonna get there.
This has to do with the very fabric,
the very definition of religion.
It's funny that this is the thing that he's talking about
and basing a lot of his,
he had a whole course on this.
And we seem to be on exact opposite ends of this.
And I think it has to do with a world,
it has to do with worldview in a lot of ways.
So what you just said is going to be,
it's going to end up being very crucial to all of this.
It has to do with, you'll see.
Actually, I'm getting ahead of myself.
Let me just, let me play this clip and we'll go.
But it's something to keep in mind
the next time you see people talking
about what religion does and what problems it causes
and what religion is,
is that religion does not exist
outside of our discourse about it.
It is a conceptual category that we created.
It is a map and it is not the territory.
The creation of this category really began
with medieval Islam and was taken up
within the Renaissance, the Reformation and the Enlightenment.
And it was primarily a tool
that European Protestant Christians used
to help them understand this new world
that they were discovering around them.
And so in many ways, our concept of religion today
can be reduced to an essence of
whatever sufficiently resembles Protestant Christianity.
And this is the way that Brent Nongri phrased it
in his wonderful book, Before Religion.
And so when people talk about religion,
usually it's a conceptual proxy for Protestant Christianity.
It's an attempt to generalize from Protestant Christianity
to all other religions.
But we can't really define religion
in a way that is analytically useful.
This is a debate that's been going on
for many years within the scholarship.
And we have just not found a definition
that reduces everything that is labeled religion
to any kind of short list of necessary and sufficient features.
And that's because the concept did not develop
with reference to necessary and sufficient features.
It is not learned and it is not used
with reference to necessary and sufficient features.
And if you want to look at the scholarship
that has been discussing this for many decades now,
here's some things you can look up.
Let me, let me, can you hear me?
Yeah, this is the part that I want to really focus on.
And finally, if you go to my link tree,
there's a PDF called Religion,
and then in brackets it says Draft.
This is a draft of a chapter
from my doctoral dissertation from several years ago
that I ended up cutting from the dissertation.
I didn't submit it because it was too bulky
and it was unnecessary,
but the whole chapter is basically discussing
the concept of religion, how it was created,
how people attempt to...
Okay, so this is the part that really got me going
about...
All right, so this is...
No, no, no, no, wait, wait, can I just say
I wanted to kill myself halfway into that.
Yeah, it...
Oh my God.
But this...
Go ahead, go ahead, I want to shut up.
I had to get to this part
because I checked this article,
this dissertation that he wrote.
And it seems like he was really...
Okay, I'm just gonna say this off the front
and I'm gonna take you,
I'm gonna put my money where my mouth is,
explain to you why I think this.
I don't think he went into this
looking blindly like a scientist would
and gathered and just let the data decide
what the outcome was.
He went into this trying to make...
Well, maybe trying to argue what his dissertation was,
trying to find the data that supports
whatever argument he was making.
And what he tried to criticize you for
is actually what he's doing here.
So I'm going to share my screen
and this is the dissertation right here.
So this is what he does, this was kind of crazy.
He defines the word, it's about the word religion.
Remember, he said he cut this from his dissertation
so it didn't actually get into his dissertation
but he has it on his website.
And he mentions it in that video.
Now, if you actually, I'm not gonna read the whole thing
but I really, you know, I would say
if anyone's really interested, read it, why not?
See where I'm at, see where he's at,
let's then decide for yourself what's going on here.
The part that really got me to wanna bring this up today
in context to why he's being a hypocrite
for what he's saying about you
is right around where he decides to do an etymology
of the word religion right here.
The purpose of this section is to outline
the process by which modern concept
of religion is developed.
And he says, I briefly outlined the process
of reification as is understood by scholars today,
arranging discussion about the history
of the etymological origin of the English word religion.
In the Latin religio, several words appeared
to have been used in Greek and Latin antiquity
to refer to concepts variously associated
with the modern notion of religion.
For example, pietus, fides, lex, secta, cultus, colore,
threschia, by the way, I gotta do something first.
Somebody sent me a screenshot, right before I went on
with you, someone sent me this screenshot.
And first of all, let me pull this up
because we have to put a pause in this for a second.
I'm gonna come back to this dissertation,
but you're gonna die when you see this.
You're gonna die.
Okay, I don't wanna spoil your surprise,
but I see it coming.
Yeah, and you're right, you're right.
Oh God, keep going, keep going, hang it up.
So here is, someone sent me this screenshot earlier.
Right before, this is right before I got on with you.
And it's someone from, it's a screenshot from a chat
that was, I don't know where.
I have no idea where this is from, actually, to be honest.
But it's funny because it's so typical, Dan.
Are you serious?
You think a person with four degrees
required ancient Greek who spent almost 10 years
supervising the modern Greek translation
of the Book of Mom and regularly visited Greece
doesn't know the Greek?
Are you honestly thinkin' that?
I mean, it doesn't sound like that,
but that's my impression of someone
who fucking talks like this.
Like that is not an argument.
That's a fucking, I don't know,
maniac thing to say to somebody.
How dare you question my Greek?
I spent 10 years supervising the modern Greek translation
of the Mom and Bible.
Fuck you, dude.
You sound like a fucking douchebag.
Okay, okay, okay.
The reason why I had to bring this up.
Yes.
He does this all the time.
He just, he uses credentials at everything.
He'll have a video, he'll be fucking a video.
Yeah.
He'll just say, this is literally false and preposterous.
And here's 10 books that I never read
or you're never gonna read that agree with me on this.
But he won't, he'll just assert,
he does a lot of assertions.
He never really gives arguments.
You notice this.
He did this with you in the first video.
Yeah.
The one, not the Christ one.
What was the first one about again?
Oh, God, I don't remember.
Oh, the Greek translation, the Greek translation.
Can I say that, Nia, let me interrupt.
Cause I don't want to miss this.
I'm flowing, but go ahead.
Look at the, no, you're flowing.
And I don't want to interrupt it,
but look, he regularly visited Greece.
Somehow he thinks his walking around modern Greece
is going to allow him to absorb Homer and Pendar.
I don't know.
I don't know what you're smoking, guy.
You're gonna laugh when you see this.
You're going to laugh and you see this.
Because in that dissertation,
well, first of all, I got to say this first.
When he, the first video he did about you,
I give it a zero.
I'm giving, I told, am I right?
I told you, I told you, Kip, Kip did great today.
I give Kip, I don't even give any,
Kip got a hundred in my eyes.
I know you, you could disagree with that.
I'm just saying, I liked Kip's video today.
Thought the energy was good.
And I thought it was great.
Dan's first video against you, zero, zero.
You want to know why he gets a zero?
He didn't give any arguments.
All he did was say, and here's five books
that no one, none of you are ever gonna read.
And I'm just gonna gas like the whole public
and make him think that they're, I'm right.
Cause I have a PhD.
Bro, that's not an argument.
That's an assertion and it's nothing.
At the end of the day, we're back at square one
because all you, you're making an assertion.
And by the way, you gave arguments.
You gave multiple words.
The Theosobase thing, that was a good argument.
I thought it was very convincing.
Theosobase is a technical term in Greek.
It's right.
It comes in the Hebrew in two different words.
I thought that was a good argument.
Dan didn't do anything like that.
By the way, Kip actually did give some examples.
He said the word Pascha, a couple other words.
He gave some arguments.
Fuck yeah, let's do that.
That's what this is supposed to be about.
