I'm always late.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a star coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to our second to last Wednesday night Bible studies on
Lady Babylon you have come tonight to something sweet
I have things for you. I have things for you. You're going to love this tonight
We get to bring Jesus
We're gonna bring him right here. We're gonna put him right in this seat
And we're gonna interrogate him
We're gonna for your sake the jury
So that you have the capacity to decide his fate
Afterwards we may have Gnostic informant appear with some tags
He's been working diligently good for him with tags
He's becoming so much more enthralled with the sources
Yes, yes, tonight on Lady Babylon
Now what finer purification could we perform tonight?
Then to bring in somebody who was there
Let's start off this session with a purification through celsus
Somebody who was there somebody who saw what was going on
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
This is the opening of the Bible studies
You're going to love this tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
same battle. This is fantastic and everyone here you've come here because you know and you're drawn
by those texts. You know you are. Let's get the real stuff. Let's get the real juice tonight. I
want to bring him in. Where is Jesus? Let's just bring him in right away. Ladies and gentlemen of the
jury. May I introduce to you Jesus Christ. It's your turn. It's your turn.
Come to me. Come to me. Come to me. You know you said you had to. You had to. I summon you
from the kingdom of Satan. I summon you here to testify today.
Your pain will be our pleasure.
Let's bring him up. It gets me charged. I love it. Wherever two or three are gathered in my name,
I will be there in your midst right here, right now, right out of his mouth. Let's get the answers.
Go for it, Chewie. Blast off. This is John 145 and Philip found Nathaniel and he said to him,
the one who Moses wrote about, you know, and the law and the prophets, we found him. And guess what?
His name is Jesus. Yeah, son of Joseph from Nazareth. Nazareth. Hit us with the second one.
State your name please. Jesus of Nazareth. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Tell me
a little bit about your childhood. Did you stay in Nazareth or did you end up going off somewhere
else? I was born in Bethlehem, right, in the days of Herod the king. And look, look, look, look,
these magi that came from the east, right, came to Jerusalem. Okay, these magi. Who are these
magi? Let's keep going. Let's keep going. They were dudes asking, where's the one who's born,
the bossy laus, the bossy laus. Yeah, the bossy laus of the Jews. The king of the Jews. Fantastic.
That's who you are. That's what you were born. Fantastic. Yeah. They saw his star. What's that,
Jesus? His star. His star in the east. They came. They bowed down. They bowed down to you, Jesus.
Yeah, they bowed down. They bowed down to a baby. These guys are weird. They're all on drugs, right?
These magoi tons of drugs. Are you ready? By the way, tonight, take it down for a minute, shall we?
Tonight, you want to see the drugs and you want to see them as he's using them with his kids.
I'm taking you tonight to show you what happens when Jesus cr-
back. I'm alive. That scared me. Some kind of interference. We're here to show you tonight.
We're here to show you tonight. That moment when Jesus Christ becomes completely stoned.
Yeah, with his boys. Let's go and look at it. Jesus, I'm going to ask you a few questions.
Let me ask you a few questions. I've got to enjoy it, right? Who wouldn't enjoy it? Who gets a chance
to do this? Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen of the jury. Who gets a chance to do this? Go ahead,
Chewie, bring it up. Coming into the house, what do these magi do? They saw the little kid
with his mother Mary, right? Falling down, they worshiped him and they opened up their treasure.
They opened up their treasure. Yeah, they opened up. You know, carrying them around,
you got a little box. It's full. It's full of what? Jesus, what they give you is dorra,
is gifts they gave me gold, frankincense and myrrh. Only these aren't the gold and the frankincense
and the myrrh you know about. This is the frankincense that is a part of a compound formula. This is
the smurna. You don't know. You know, it was on his face when they arrested him. You know,
he said it was blood. No, don't get ahead of yourself. Smurna on your face. What did Jesus
