Mark 615. Some people say Jesus that you're Elias, right? And other people say that you're
one of the prophets. Yeah. Yeah. This is just the way it is. This is just the way it is.
What is a prophet? And the next question should be, I want to pull up my question list, Chewie.
What is a prophet? What is a prophet, Jesus? Give us a definition here. Oh, people, people,
look at this. Somebody ordered up Alice, Alice in Wonderland, one who speaks for a God and
interprets his will to man as in the prophet of Zeus. That's what that says in Greek, Zeus,
right? Zeus. And an interpreter and expounder of the will of Zeus. For example, Tiresias.
Oh, you didn't know a prophet and everybody starts panicking. Are you panicking now because
a little bit of Hebrew propaganda from antiquity, from pukes like Josephus and Philo has permeated
your brain over the centuries? You got to clean that out. Have you seen anything yet from the
New Testament? No. You're looking at a Greek concept. Guess what? Prophet is a Greek word.
It's a Greek word. The concept that the Alexandrians who wrote the Septuagint in the third century,
the concept of the prophet having a vision. Guess what? Guess where that comes from?
This tradition, the Greek tradition is a thousand years before this already established.
It's a Bronze Age thing. Prophets, Bronze Age. Yeah, they're already there in the earliest stuff
in Homer. Homer. Can you believe Homer? Oh, Calcas.
Love it. What's a prophet? Let's keep looking at the definition of prophet because
I want to introduce the Satanic congregation to what a prophet is for the first time.
Look at that second line right after Tiresias. It says, bahu profetes, right? The prophet of
Bacchus, prophet of Bacchus, perhaps of Orpheus. Yeah, and Dionysus, you know, same, same. No
differences there, right? And what else? Delphi and Apollo. You have prophets. You didn't know the
Pythias were prophetesses. Yeah. Did you know that by the time Jesus is walking around calling
himself a prophet because that's what he does? Jesus, when you say to a crowd of people why you
can't do your mojo, well, it's because a prophet has no honor when he's at home. Okay. All right.
So what else is a prophet, Jesus? No, we need that back. What else is a prophet, Jesus? Look at
number two. It's a title of official keepers of oracles. Okay. If you guys thought I was making
this up, don't you know that Jesus is part of the Iraqi tradition? He may be a pirate,
but he's part of the Iraqi tradition. The Christ has to be. Right? Why do you think he's walking
around saying he's a prophet? I'm a prophet, I'm a prophet. Let me prophesy. Yep. Look at number
three, an interpreter. I like that. Of what? What do you interpret the mantis? Look at that Greek
word, mantis. Right? Mantis. What is the mantic? That's Apollo, baby. That's that priestess at Delphi.
That's what she gets is that mania. Are those from the same root? I think they are. Yeah,
mania, mantis. Who is a mantis? I know some praying mantises.
Yeah, Jesus is going to turn into a praying mantis. Did you like this? I brought you here
tonight to turn you into a praying mantis in front of my audience. Yeah, you're welcome,
son of God. I love it. Let's go to the next one. Number five, an interpreter at Declare.
Number, Roman numeral number two. Harold, sort of Harold. Now look, look at Roman numeral number three.
It stinks of poop. Intellectual religious poop. Look what happened. They don't know how to fit
your own, your Christian tradition into the, into the definition. So what did one of the
editors that Liddell had for this? What did he do? What did he do? Well, look, we got a,
it's got to have its own definition for the Bible. When it's the Bible, it gets its own definition.
You know that doesn't stand up to science because there's things that are being written
that are contemporary to the Bible, right? And the stuff that applies to them applies to the
Bible. So let's blow this up, Chewie. Let me finish off. Watch what happens. Go beyond that creation,
a revealer of God's will, a prophet, inspired preacher, an organ, an organ, an organ,
an organ of special revelations. Do you hear the Christianity in the definition? So far,
you have gotten the Greek in everything that's come before it with glorious sources. Look at that.
Look at the sources in here. Eat that up. Eat that up. Who else didn't, did we skip over?
Appamentities. Look at number four people. Appamentities was a prophet. Do you know who
Appamentities was? If Gnostic Informant comes, I'll ask him to say something about Appamentities.
But Appamentities is, because he's got some, he's got gossip on Appamentities and Paul. Yeah, Paul.
So I'll let him tell it. I'll let him tell it if he comes. But look, Appamentities is there. And
who's that freak? He's the freak who gave Solon what Solon needed to start the wheels of what
eventually became democracy. Yeah, from this guy, Appamentities, who's a prophet, who is a
profetice, a prophet people, Appamentities. And do you know what this prophet, this weird prophet,
do you know what he looked like? He had tattoos all over his skin. They took his skin when he was
done with it, and they turned it in to a scroll. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? That's respect.
He was able to pass down to you. You're sitting here today. If you're sitting in the U.S. of A,
yeah? If you're sitting in a democratic government, if you're sitting there, if you're one of those
workers, you're only there because of Appamentities. A known drug-using prophet who had visions. And,
you know, you got to give it to him for all the science. You know what I mean? Just smart. Smart.
Yeah. Yeah, it's with the drugs. It's the drugs, right? None of this physics, right? You can't get
there without the drugs. What do you think the dunamis are? What do you think the powers are
that Jesus is doing? It didn't say Miraculum. It said Dunamis. Fantastic. Let's keep going. We
still haven't seen Jesus' stone. I want to see it. It's kind of a climax. Look at the last, go back,
and look at the definition. Look at the very bottom here, people. Look at it. I just want you to
note it. It also means an herbalist. And when they say herbalist, they mean somebody who grows
and prepares drugs. Drugs, right? This is where you get your drugs from in the ancient world,
right? And let's check out the medical. None of the watch. Here's how you need a classist
over a Bible scholar any day of the week. Are you ready? Go to the next one and blow it up for me.
