quote. And if you wonder, if you wonder, King Chuck, why it's not worth your allegiance.
If you wonder, here it is. Here's history burping King Chuck right upon your bib.
Here it is, here it goes. Fancy a company of English sailors overtaken by a sudden gale
and giving vent to their feelings in a simultaneous shriek of terror. Imagine that. Fancy them.
Why? Why? Next one. Why is that fancy to me? Make your point.
He explained the mystery for these men are not English. Oh, okay. Look, it's a bunch of,
it's a bunch of people in Judea. These aren't Brits. There's no British sailor,
there's no British sailor that's going to say something like, he's going to see that squall
and he's going to be stiffer upper lip than anybody around. And he's going to say,
according to his British pride, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding doctor? You're a doctor and you're going to
seriously? Are we talking about texts? No, because these are Bible scholars. These are not
philologists. Everything that he just said, it doesn't matter. It's totally irrelevant to the
text. You cannot speak with your stupid mouth and affect a text that is 2000 years old.
You can't do it. You can't do it. So why do you bother? All you seminarians, all you professors
of Bible, why do you bother with the books that are so meaningless that have nothing to do with
the original sources? All you like to do, you like to inject your own garbage.
Let's go. Next one. This is Matthew 2020. Yeah. And he went to the, so what happens,
the mother, this is the mother, you know, of the sons of Zebedee, right? What does she do?
She comes there and she gets down in front of Jesus. She says, let me ask you something.
Let me ask you something. And what does she go on to do? She goes on to ask him, let my
kitty sit on your right and your left hand. He's like, listen lady.
Yeah. He's going to take him up to the room eventually. He's going to take him up to the
room. You know what happens in the room with Jesus? You get his flesh. Okay. I'm warning you
people. You wanted to see Jesus on drugs. What does somebody do Jesus at this age? What does
somebody do? How about some of the, some, some of the women again on the third day while she was
working at the purple? Who are we talking about? Who are we talking working on the purple with
her fingers? We're talking Mary, the mother of Jesus, the Magus, right? We're talking Mary,
this prophet, this is his virgin mother. She was raised in the temple, you fools.
Yeah. She's got her fingers in the purple. Isn't that nice? Salome likes her.
Hmm. Which one? Which one? Quick, go find her.
Here we go, Mary. What's going on? Some dude came in. He was hot, as hot can be. By the way,
I promised you I would do this. Henry Cavill. If, if I am a teacher of Greek, ancient Greek,
and if you would like to learn the language that inspires that stage where the actor stands,
I will give you free lessons. I'm told by Chewie who will rip my arms off
if I don't make this offer. So there you go. Are you happy? Are you happy, Chewie? Okay. You finally
got it. Don't, don't. Thank you, Henry. I appreciate your time, sir. Okay, let's go. What else is
Mary doing? After nine months, he came back to his house and found Mary pregnant. Oh, seriously,
how'd she get pregnant? Wherefore, being in the utmost distress, he trembled and cried out, saying,
Oh, Lord God, receive my spirit. For it's better for me to die than to live any longer.
No, okay, because he's afraid. This girl came out, this girl came out of the temple. This girl
came out of the temple. She was being raised in the temple with the purple. She was being fed
by angels. She was a dove. She was a dove. Who do you think the Magi would come to?
Did you think the Magi would come to anybody who was not the virgin born? Of course they wouldn't.
It's part of the cult, people. That's how we get there. Go back to that text.
Yeah, stop thinking about Henry. Get your head in the right place. Okay, and the virgins who
were with Mary said to him, Joseph, what are you saying? Wait, the virgins who were with Mary? I
told you they did something with that gold. I told you they did. How do you think a girl gets into
a temple? How do you think she gets there? Right? There's connections. The virgins who were with Mary
said to him, Joseph, what are you saying, you old boomer? We know that no man has touched her.
We can testify she's still a virgin and untouched, you know, because you can touch and still not be
a virgin, but this one is untouched. We have watched over her always. These are the virgins
talking. You hear the doves? Always she has continued with us in prayer. In prayer, people,
I want you to notice that daily do the angels of God speak with her. Do you know what a prophet
does? A prophet speaks with the angels. Daily does she receive food from the hand of the Lord?
Do you know how she hears those angels? She hears those angels through the purple. We know not how
it is possible there can be any sin in her. She is pure. But if you want it, wish to tell, okay,
and then she goes blah, blah, blah, right? I want you to see, take it down. I want you to see the
virgins talking now. You say what? The virgins, do you remember those girl prostitutes that fingered
Peter? And when I say fingered, I mean like in the 1950s way, you know, like, you know, you catch
somebody, right? Right? Yeah, I should have a hat and a trench coat. No, but they caught him.
They caught Peter. They were a couple of female prostitutes, underage female prostitutes. They
caught him, right? Who do you think these virgins are? Yeah, who do you think these virgins are?
They're working in the temple. Yeah, there's got to be gold behind this baby. There's got to be gold.
They bring it to him. Here it is. What are we here for? We're here for that virgin baby.
Yeah, yeah, gonna bring that, bring that star. Yeah, morning star. Okay, go to Egypt.
Now let's, let's go to the next one. And there will be in the final days. I know, thanks for
waiting, Gnostic, if you're out there. If you're not, I'm going to make fun of you. And there will
be in the, in the last days, says God, what? Ek heho, I will pour out. Those of you who were in
my class and you just looked at the hymn to Adonis, notice Ek and heho were separated before by a
