his, aren't his sisters here too? Yeah. And what happened? What happened? They got scandalized.
They got scandalized. You know why? Because they knew who he was. They knew his tricks.
And you know what he couldn't do anymore? He couldn't use his drugs anymore.
So he went out to a village. Now why, and you have to ask yourself why? Remember,
the Magi are the ones who started this whole trip. Jesus, the Magi. I got to start asking
him questions. The Magi started, started everything out. Ball gag down. Yeah. The Magi started
everything out. Why do you think Jesus is going around? Stoned. We're going to look at him actually
getting stoned. Tonight, you are here to see Jesus Christ get stoned. You're going to love it.
I've been saving this one people. Oh, I'm pulling it out now because this is the stuff
that's delicious. Let's go to the next one. Look, and what is that tacked on, right? It's a master
of an art as in gymnastics, right? They talk about physicians this way, right? I just want
you to see that it doesn't have to be a builder. It doesn't have to be a carpenter, right? It's
really a technician, right? A master of a certain area, okay? And he's got his students with him.
It only makes sense that they're saying, hey, hey, right? You know, didosculos, right? Teacher,
and here he is, children everywhere. Let's go to the next one. Boom. Oh, love it. Mark
6-4, and he said, and Jesus said, and you know, you know, because he's answering. Okay, let's take
a step back. What's happened? He conked out. He conked out in his own place of where his family
were. He couldn't do anything. He couldn't do anything. Nobody bought it. Yeah, even his
brothers and his sisters, and that's especially his brothers and his sisters, right? Because why?
Because they knew him. They knew what he'd been doing the whole time down in Egypt. What do you
think he did with all that gold? Yeah, right? I'm going to show you the frankincense and the myrrh.
I'm going to show you those, but I'm going to show you Jesus on frankincense and myrrh. You want to
see Jesus on what they use on the island of Cyprus to worship the great, great queen Aphrodite?
You want to see it? You bunch of Satanists. I love this. This is fantastic. Let's go.
Yeah, what is this? No, so Jesus says, hey, you know, prophet doesn't get any honor, right? He's
not without it. Prophet's not without, technically, he's not without honor, except, right? He may accept
in his own backyard, right? In his own patri, right? His own stomping grounds where all his
relatives are, right? In his own house. Prophets don't get honor, right? Isn't that amazing?
Mind control. Brilliant mind control, Jesus. Love it. What's the question on the next slide?
Yeah, which one is next? This one? Yeah, go ahead and put it up. Okay. Can you do miracles?
Can you do miracles, Jesus? Right? Can you do miracles?
Wait a minute. You don't understand the miracles? Oh, okay. I'm talking dunamis.
You know what I'm talking about. Can you use those powers? Can you use those powers?
You couldn't, could you? Did your steam run out? You lost it, didn't you? And you couldn't around
your own people. And let me tell you this, that moment of weakness is the most delicious thing
I've ever seen in my life, because it's an inability, Jesus. It's an inability. Look, people,
you cannot get anything more explicit. He didn't have the potency to pull it off.
He couldn't do it anymore. Yeah, yeah, they took away his drugs. Shame on them. And you say,
wait a minute, Jesus is a prophet. Jesus is a prophet. How are their drugs? Keep going.
Keep going. Did we skip? Chewie, did we skip? Are you sure? Okay. Okay, we'll get there. He wasn't
able to do anything. You know, except this and what, what was he? Look at the end of this.
Look at the Aime, oligos, except for what? For giving, putting his hands on some people
who are arostos. And arostos is not always ill. Sometimes translated as ill, but it can also be
like in a mental, mentally ill state. So he's laying his hands on him. And he's a person,
he is applying the therapy baby to these people. He still do that, right? He can still do that
to a few of these. But his duna mace, he doesn't have it in his own backyard. He doesn't have it
in his own backyard. Fantastic. Took away his drugs. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Blow
it up. And Jesus was just, all this says is, and Thalmas and he was, Jesus was just, he was like,
what? I can't believe these people didn't buy it. They got no faith. They're faithless.
Right? And so what does he do? He goes around the villages and the areas around where he lives
so that, you know, he can get out and meet some fresh face and maybe his, you know,
maybe his medicines work. Yeah, let's go. Fantastic. Bring it down. Oh, love it. And so what did he
do? He calls together the 12. These are his 12 children and AKA apostles. And he begins to send
them out two at a time, two and two, right? And what does he do? Right? He, he gives them the,
he gives them what it takes to cast out, right? These bad spirits to perform. Look at the last word,
a cathartone. Look at that. The a cathartic. This is purification. What is Jesus? Jesus,
what are you teaching your disciples to purify, to purify? And okay, so this is no necromancy,
right? No necromancy. Yes, okay, fine. And these cathartic rites, these are pretty much,
oh, there's been a thousand years of them up until this point. You're not the first, are you, Jesus?
No, no, no, he's not the first. As a matter of fact, he's, he's on the scene quite late, quite late.
Yeah, this is a mad guy. Next one. Yeah. And what happens? He, the, the, he's going to teach his
people, right? Right? They're going to cast out, they cast out a lot of demons, a lot of demons,
they cast them out because these are cathartic rites, right? And what do they do? They went around
touching people with oil, baby. This touch people, oily, oily, oily, oily. Get used to oil and given
therapy to the people who didn't feel so good, right? To the people who work quite, quite right.
They made a right oil them up in the process. These are the oil boys. These are the oil boys.
Thank you about that for a minute. Just step out historically as we sit here and look at Jesus.
He is sending teenagers out to oil people and to cast out their demons.
Okay. Okay. I just, is that clear? Did everybody on the jury hear that?
We good? Okay. Let's go to the next, go to the next one, please. Boom.
