death. You can take that prefix right off of its verb. You don't need to have it sitting on top of
it. It's like the Greeks already made the connection. You don't need it. Appo to Pnellmatos from,
from my spirit. What am I going to do? I'm going to pour it on the, on all flesh. I'm going to pour
it on all flesh and what's going to happen to that flesh. If this is making you excited, it should
worry you a little bit, right? Because you're starting to, you're starting to smell the vapors.
You're starting to get what's going on. And I'm going to make it, I'm going to put it on your
flesh, your flesh kitties. And what's going to happen? You're going to be prophets, the sons,
your sons and your daughters, they're all going to be prophets and your little pretty kids.
They're going to see visions and the old goats are going to have dreams. Take it down. Do you see
what Jesus was doing with his business? Do you see what the business of the prophet is?
Hit us again. We're almost through this people. Thank you for staying for so long, but we're going
to be done and we're going to go on after that. If you're sitting there with your, still with your
big TV for the people who said, I want you to sell my big TV and with the whole family,
shout out to you guys, get some pop, a little more popcorn, bring it down, right? What does he do,
Jesus? Back to Jesus. You're so disgusting. What does he do? He takes hold of Peter,
James and John. He takes them with them. And oh, here's the drugs people. What, what happens?
He begins to, and you got to tell, I'll tell you what Xombo means. Xombo is like when you take
a person who just got hit by a, by a linebacker. Yeah. And now they're laying on the ground.
They're kind of like, you know, they used to illustrate it with stars around the head. You
know what I mean? That is being out of your senses. That's that stunning, right? Jesus and the boys
begin to enter into this phase, this state. And what is something that's a demonet? Oh,
look at, look at this. Look at this. A demonet means to be sorely traveled, dismayed, to be an
anguish, to be an anguish. And notice that it's mental anguish. Go down to the next word. Yeah,
what is a podemos, to be a way, to be a way that they tell us. Alice tells us from Wonderland. She
tells us, hey, she whispers, hey, this is related to this derivation wise, away from one's country
or abroad. Do you know what it means to be out of your head? Look at that second line,
taste the mace, no mace. Yeah, to be gone, baby. He's entering a state of stonedness. And he is
dazed. He is dazed. Now, isn't there a naked kid somewhere? You know, every time you're with Jesus,
there's going to be a kid. And this time the kid's naked. Yes. Go back to the next one. Oh, love it.
What happens? And he says to them, what my soul, my soul is peri lupos, heo sanatu, to the point
of up until the stage of death. This is where my pain is my loopy. Look what he's doing. He's not
balling on the ground because he stubbed his toe or he broke his leg or something, right? His psyche
is being affected by what they took, what was on that bread that Nonus tells us, I don't care if he,
you like him or not, or think he's canonical or not, that Nonus tells us was full of the
antidote, was full of the poison that the antidote that he was given on the cross was meant to
counteract, the oxos, that was meant to counteract that stuff that he was putting in the bread that
he gave to Judas when he drugged Judas. Yeah, love it. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Oh,
it's a long one, people. Jesus says, get up. Yeah, pray. What happens? Jesus is whacked and he comes
back to Peter, James and John. He leaves the naked boy that's in the middle of the park with him.
He comes back, stone throws away to where Peter, James and John are keeping guard. These teenage
boys are keeping guard. And what does he say happens to him? He did fall asleep and he says,
wait, Bill Cosby says what? He says, get up and pray. So you don't, okay, it's creepy. So you
don't enter into the temptation. So you don't enter that phase. You remember where that temptation
comes from, that perasmon, that comes from the place where we get kicked, the eremon, not the topos,
but the eremon, that wilderness, that void. That is where we get kicked under the influence of the
drug. And when you are there, that's when the trial takes place. That's when the trial takes place.
And he tells them, get up, get up and walk around, walk around and move, people, walk around and move
and pray. Are you ready? What are we doing? We're praying. What is Mary doing when she's being fed
by the angels? What is she doing when she's working with a purple? She's praying.
Keep going. We got to finish up. People are like, hurry up, old man. I'm tired. Watch what happens.
Jesus, can you tell me Jesus? One more time. Oh, one hit. Oh, I, oh, I can feel, I felt that one right
on his privies. Let's find out what this means. What happened, Jesus, to all your boys? Now,
they all ran away. Jesus lost his boys. He lost the lost boys in the end, right? Only a couple of
tried to follow him and they got scared off anyway because the female prostitutes were like,
dude, you're the boys from Galilee. We know you. We know what you guys are up to. Why do you think
one of them gets him in the temple, right? And Peter's walking behind him. Why do you think that
happens? Oh, they go fishing together. The priest, the dude who's overseeing temple access, he goes
out with one of Jesus's boys. You didn't see that kid there? They don't give him a name.
Right? He's got his oil. Yeah, let's go to the next one. And what happens? There was a
Neoniskus. There was some kid. Look, it even uses an indefinite here. Tiss. Just some kid.
There was some kid serving Jesus wrapped up in a, excuse me, wrapped where? Wrapped epigumnos,
wrapped on his privy members with a bandage. And they went to grab him, the arresting people,
because you know they were going to enter that into the record. Jesus Christ, you and I are
sitting here. Take it down. You and I are sitting here. And you and I cannot use that boy as a
witness because of history because he got away. If the Romans had caught him, you still would
have been crucified. But church would have never been born. Church would have never been born with
that naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested. If we had that naked kid's testimony,
Jesus Christ would have been one of history's biggest criminals, not the Savior. And certainly
not the one who is twisting your world. Yeah. Yeah. It's Rico Laws, baby. Let's go to the next one.
Mark 1452. And what did the kid do? He left behind the sendona, right? He dropped the sendona. He
