dropped that bandage and afugin gumnos and ran away. Gumnos. There is no mistaking this word right
here in people. In Greek, this word right here. There is no mistaking. It means naked. Naked. Gumnos.
Naked. Good. So what happened to your kids, Jesus? They all ran away, including the one that was with
him that had a medicated bandage on his private parts with Jesus in a public park at 4 a.m.
And what about Jesus' face? Did the arresting officers get any sort of description? Yeah.
Remember, he has this bloody kind of dark, reddish, clotted blood stuff for his hudor.
His hudor. What is it? Bring it. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
And going out to pray, you know, he comes across as apostles, right? We're turning back from that
prayer. He comes back to his apostles and he finds them comatose, right? And what are they
comatose from? They're comatose from Lupe, from that state, that state of anguish that leads to death.
They're there. Can this cup pass, Jesus? Can you take this cup away? Right? No.
Fortunately, people, it's the will. It's the will of you know who. Gotta bring that cup. Jesus has
got it too, even with his stuff that's all over his face. And look here at the bottom, people.
Just look. As Jesus has stoned, look at this bottom line. Comatose. They were like clots of blood.
And what are they doing? What are they doing? Coming down into that earth, coming down into that
basal layer where we know Erechtheus. Erechthonius, if you want to say.
The Erechtheum is built in honor. That offspring of the virgin. Who is Erechthonius?
He's the offspring of the virgin. He's half serpent.
Half serpent. He is the son of God. He is the son of God produced by the
the Etuchos. Yeah, the God bearer. That's who he is. Let's go. Go to last. We're almost there.
Last one. People look. No, go back. Back up one. People look here. What's happening when Jesus has
this stuff on his face, right? Which makes you wonder, right? You evangelicals, you can excuse this
and say, oh, this is, you can have a disorder of your sweat glands and it causes you to produce
a dark red material. This is what Jesus must have. It's amazing the links that you idiots will go to.
It's amazing. Let's go. And I mean idiot people, not like a modern idiot. I mean like an antiquity.
Somebody who has no access. Yeah, fantastic. Let's go to that last one. What's this stuff?
Where is Jesus when he's in the middle of this? He is in the middle of Agonia and you think you're
a Catholic, you're a Protestant and you know the agony. You're Mel Gibson and you know the agony.
You put it up and put it up on the screen and you know what you did? You lied because you don't read
Greek. You don't read classical texts. You have no idea who any of these thousand authors are. You
have no idea these thousands of pages. You have no idea. All you get is what you hear from a priest
or a preacher or when you pick up your book and King James molests you with his translation.
That's all you get. By the way, we're going to be done soon and not only with this episode but with
Satanic initiation and I am looking for students. I'm looking for students who are serious
and who want the tool. Who want the tool, right? I joked about Henry Cavill. I wouldn't
charge you in. I may charge you half. But that's a serious offer, Judy. That's a serious offer. But
I'm looking for the best of the best. I'm looking for Samurai is what I'm looking for.
I'm looking for Ronan and I'm looking to train them. So anybody who's interested, anybody who's
interested needs to find me. Go to the next one. Jesus is an agony people. What is his agony? What
is the agony really? It's a contrast, a contest or a struggle. Notice they put gymnastic exercises.
What is that all going to do? What is that all going to do? It is a place up here where you go
and Jesus is there as a magus with his children who are drugged. This, take it down. This is the
reality. This is the reality of what you've got in Christianity. This is the real that I'm bringing
you today. I want you to see Jesus for the person that he was, for the person that he was.
I want you to see him with the people that he worked with. I want you to know whether you're
Christian or Jew, Muslim, atheist. It's the same group. You're all atheists. I want you to see
Jesus for who he is. It looks like we don't have Gnostic tonight. Gnostic was going to tell you about
Epiminides. Perhaps he'll call up. It's time now Gnostic to come up. I'll give him two minutes,
but he may tell you about Epiminides with his quote that Paul uses. It turns out people that
that quote is from, do we send him? Okay. I'll assume he can't make it, but he had an excellent
point. That's that we have a source. It comes through Fodius quoting somebody. Tall of me,
somebody or else. Anyhow, by the way, there are thousands of these unknown people from Antiquity
who an author like Galen will say, the physician Andreas says in his great work, blah, blah,
blah. You didn't even know there was such thing as a dude named Andreas who was writing medical
documents, right? But yeah, he's there, right? And one of these talks about, one of these talks about
Epiminides quote and says, Hey, this thing is actually from Medea. Medea was the one who used
it. When Paul quotes Epiminides, he is quoting Medea directly. He is quoting Medea directly.
Yeah. When she called the Cretans liars because they had misjudged the contest.
Yeah. Paul quotes that through Epiminides, which is highly, highly ironic, beautiful and
ironic at the same time. Tonight, we got to see a little bit of Jesus. We got to see a little
testimony. We got to see who the man was, where he came from, what kind of life he was living,
what kind of life he was living. Now, we only have two sessions left. We only have one more
satanic initiation and we only have one more Bible study. So I will be bringing you on Friday,
the Omega. Thank you all for coming. Hail Satan.
Why did you ever change your name?
