Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that horc called destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Welcome to Season 2 of Lady Babylon's Satanic Initiation.
Tonight we will get a glimpse into the personal.
We're going to look at a woman learning the history of women.
We don't have much time so I'll make it brief.
Tonight I want you to know that I had a request sent to me this week.
One of many student requests of a person looking for someone to guide the research
of a sophomore in high school on a paper on the history of women in antiquity.
She sent the request to me specifically and not to other instructors on the place that I teach.
I wrote her back swiftly and with determination because I was asked as a graduate student
to come into the women's studies classes and to teach some women's studies from the sources that I work with.
The medical sources, pharmacological, the magic to bring those sources forward and to show people.
This is great opportunity for me to advance on who else would not want to learn.
In the email that I sent her back, I made it very clear that what she needed and what I could provide,
see if I was a good fit or not, was the sources that harbor these images of the ancient woman
and who she is, the sources themselves.
We don't want that lattice that's built up on scholarship.
Scholarship, great scholarship, modern scholarship on women.
We'll look at modern scholarship on women by talking about quoting Mary Beard,
who many of you have probably heard of.
She's associated with the classics department, or she was at one time, I don't know if she still is, Cambridge.
So a scholar of scholars, so before we quote Mary and bring her into this brawl,
my object is to teach you the sources, if you're my student, to give you the sources that you can work with them
via the instrument that I use, namely the ancient Greek.
This is standard classics protocol for, this is what we do, we translate.
Anyway, Mary Beard, how can she help me now to be able to give these the next generation of women, the history of women.
Sadly, the responsibility can fall short of the deliverance if we turn aside from the primary sources.
People want to give you theories, and this is where our public safety announcement comes in today.
People will want to give you theories, and theories are a whole, there's a market of them, and they drive an economy of scholars, academicians.
You will always have them with you.
Whatever society you're in, these people will exist, and their system is driven by their ideas.
The problem is, we come to the museum where we hold sacred the news.
We do not hold forward ideas or theories.
We look at the words.
We look at the last material expressions that we have surviving from these cultures.
That's what we look at.
I don't want you to have to go to a back alley with a stranger.
I don't want you to.
Tonight's question is, who is the one who is to be believed?
Is it the bald guy with the tattoos?
Or is it the Cambridge professor?
Who is also of high-ranking value within British aristocratic society?
Yes, who's more believable than that?
Yes, yes, the dame or the dude with the shaved head.
So you can be deceived.
You can be deceived.
You can think that you're getting a source, that's a legitimate source.
That person can tell you anything, then, if you've fallen into the trust.
Oh, it's okay.
I trust you.
What we do here is we insist upon our sources.
We insist upon our sources.
Don't tell me what your ideas are.
Tell me what the sources say.
Can we bring up the quotes from Mary Beard?
Yes, there is at first sight a rather impressive array of powerful female characters
in the repertoire of Greek myth and Greek art telling.
In life, ancient women had no formal political rights.
They had precious little economic or social independence.
And in some cities like Athens, respectable married women were almost never seen outside the home.
Any time that you have a generalization, I mean, how do you judge whether any of this is accurate?
Any time you have a generalization about antiquity, you're talking about two millennia of time
and you're talking about dozens and dozens of independent cultures.
Oh, my goodness, to say that to give a generalization, it doesn't matter what it's about.
Now, this happens to you all the time if you're in church.
It happens to you in church because remember, this is how it starts.
This is how you end up in the back alley.
Okay, so I'm telling you, these are the lines that start the process.
In biblical times, everybody sat on their hands all lunch and whistled Dixie.
Yes, you might believe that from an authority.
You might believe that.
But if you hear the generalization, realize generalizations never hold up in history.
They never hold up.
You can talk about cycles.
You can talk about repetition.
You can talk about trends, but you cannot hold a generality up.
Anytime a scholar comes to you and says, all blanks did this, you know that they have an agenda to push.
Something's being pushed.
When I taught the section of the women's studies course that I taught, I brought all the concrete in.
I want you to see these women.
These are the women I want you to see from antiquity.
Give us the list of women, please.
Yes, starting with women.
Yes.
Who else do we bring you?
You need to see midwives.
You need to see the teachers.
You need to see doctors.
You need to see priestesses.
You need to see Queens.
Let's throw them into why not a social club here.
They're fantastic.
Anybody else?
Oh, of course.
The witches.
The witches.
Let's not forget the witches because everything is coming from the witches.
It's all coming back from the witches are lying through the cave.
Here's the pharmacology.
It's the pharmacology.
Bring up the second quote of Mary Beard, please.
Yes.
Athene drama.
And the Greek imagination has offered our main imaginations a whole series of unforgettable
women.
Names like Medea, Clytemnestra, or Antigone, among many others can still ring a loud bell
for us.
They are not, however, role models for anybody far from it.
Please pull up.
Now, again, you're sitting there.
You're sitting there and you're saying these are the words of wisdom from Cambridge, from
