and sources what are easily accessible and now, now,
in our day and age now, sources are accessible, aren't they?
You didn't, you used to have to go to the library.
You used to have to go get order books and take a good while
to do a good amount of research.
Nowadays, you can get that done on you, in your hand, can't you?
Yeah.
So in these academic circles, why is it the case that this is
taboo and we cannot talk about it or discuss it, not even raise
it to up for discussion?
Just even by, like, intellectual people will not allow this
taboo subject of drugs.
And they've tried to change the word, don't you?
They'll change the word to antheogen and we'll change the
word to make it a little bit more acceptable to discuss.
And that's done, that's done wonders, hasn't it, for the
discussion, changing the word other than drugs.
Because as soon as somebody mentions drugs, it's like,
ah, nobody does drugs.
Don't do drugs.
Drugs are bad.
It's like a Nancy Reagan period, isn't it?
Yeah, I think it's, I think it's the built-in anti-drug
culture that we've got, but I think it's also the fault of
the, it's partially the fault of the academicians that they
don't study certain fields because their job is to carve out
something that they can stand on the top of the hill.
I was there, right?
I lived with them, I ate with them, I worked with them.
Your job is to find some hill somewhere where you can
distinguish yourself.
Anybody else who comes up the side of that hill, you knock
them down, right?
These are my ideas.
This is my, that's, no, that's not what you do.
That's not what you need.
And you don't need that from me or Karl Ruck or anyone else.
You need the sources and now you have access to them.
If you want to look up these drugs, you have diascorities
sitting there.
Go look up the drugs.
Go look up what the women are recommending you do with the
drugs.
Go look up any, any cases of abortion.
What happens?
Look up the gynecologists, find them.
You can find them.
They're out there, right?
Not out, not all of it's been translated yet.
Not all of it's been translated.
And that's the only, that's the only reason I say you've got to
go to the instrument.
You've got to have that instrument.
You've got to have that ability to pick up the New Testament
and read it.
It's the same for the seminarians.
If you can't read that thing, if you don't know what those
word means, if you're just going off and interlinear, this is
how they do seminaries.
They give you the Greek on one line in English, English right
above it.
Boom.
Well, what are you doing then?
You're not really doing anything.
You are memorizing a preset definition.
Let me give you the example logos.
I hope this will, I hope this will reach people logos because
it's common.
Everybody will translate this as word and everybody is wrong.
Everybody is wrong.
A seasoned classicist will tell you.
No, logos doesn't mean word.
That means an accounting or a reckoning.
And this word flows through philosophy, through
pre-Socratic philosophy.
It flows into an area of specialty.
Yeah.
Where when somebody comes up and says in the beginning was the
logos, you're not going to understand what it means.
If you think it means word.
You cannot read those texts.
So when you come along as a pastor or as a classicist like
Mary Beard, if you come along and you say, oh, I'm going to
tell you what this means and you use that interlinear
translation and it's not because you've been reading Greek.
If you haven't read Plato as a pastor, if you haven't read
Hippocrates, don't tell me about Luke.
Don't tell me a darn thing about Luke.
If you haven't read Hippocrates, you don't know what.
Oh, yeah, you don't know.
Drugs.
Drugs again, right?
If you don't know those topics, don't talk about the
frankincense.
Don't talk about the Magi.
If you don't know who the Magi were, if you haven't read Cal,
if your pastor hasn't read Caldean philosophy.
Caldean philosophy.
Caldean incantations.
Then forget about it.
You're not going to understand the Magi.
You're not going to know what that star was and you can have
all the crazy ideas in your head you want.
But don't blame those original sources.
This is your fault.
You're the one who sat there in the audience and you listen
to Mary, right?
You didn't go back to those sources.
Stand up.
Ask Mary.
Give us the source and why is it?
Why is this source talk about a woman as a physician?
Why does it talk about a woman as a physician?
Who's this?
