idea is you think of the immediate time post storm when it's silent and the waves are flat.
It's that time. It's the galene. You know, half these people are on ships and are into trading. So
you can't, you can't fault them for the terminology. And to know that gives us a clue about what the
words actually mean and how to translate them. So we're learning a lot of context here as we go.
Oh, lovely. The goddess called calm from the communion of vipers. Hear me, Caesar, and know the
compounded anti Christ. Give her of unconquerable freedom. Hear me, Nero. Her name is Hilaria
galene, good goddess. Hilaria galene, good goddess. Know for a fact that she does not
shun the dark harbor. She has no concern for danger. When someone has overmeasured the hated
opium and placed their greedy lips over gloom inducing wine cup. Nor does she who calms the
storm turn away from the mortal whose cup is full of aconite hemlock or the communion of
chilling nightshade. She fails not to come as anti Christ to the yellow dye of Medea's
communion, the so called bringer of sorry, bringer of premature death. She comes to assist the use of
the blistering beetle who pushes the blood. She comes to the initiate struck with the viper
venom of echidna darkness bringer. Nor does calm lose her composure in the presence of the horned
serpent, the pain inducer. Galenae pacifies the dry, viperine thirst bringer. The venom of the
scorpion is not protected from her. Not even the ASP herself, the communion that possesses the venom of
the most powerful necromancers. Nor does Galenae bend the knee to the feared oak die. Nor with her
present does the initiate remain under the influence of the death state. Nor does the oaken
bleeder when overcome with one of their bloodletting potions despair. Never when good goddess is
present. With Galenae, the hated venom of spiders are unable to injure a man. She puts off the
shivering burden of pains. Nor does rock navigating Hydra, the sea snake, burn. The first ruler and
path are of the warm salt sea. Meeting the amphibious snake would not bring the limits of
sweet life. The lips of Syrian women sprinkled with death. The one relying on Galenae rejoices in the
moist flowers of summer. Oh Caesar, whoever walks the Libyan seashore cares not for the danger.
Nor does the serpent who goes forward and backward bring doom. And neither does the toad that pastures
on the dry plain. With her, with Galenae, one would easily find the cure for a bloated stomach
and heal the short panting asthma. Whenever the spirit within rolls around the stomach,
swelling with pregnancy and forces the bitter pain of birth. When the guts swell in an unpleasant
whirling. When someone should have an inflammation of the sting of the beautiful gadfly. She's there
to help when the entire frame of flesh is bilious standing out with prominence. I'm going to stop
there so that we can catch up with what is going on. This is the beginning of the hymn.
