to Lady Babylon. Thank you for joining us tonight. We're in for a real treat. We have
a special guest star. Everybody please welcome Antichrist. We're going to meet him for the
first time. Yes, fantastic. And we will be looking at some questions. We have a real
special thing tonight. I'm going to press ahead with the translation of the formula
of the cup. The cup. Whose cup? Christ's cup.
So people were telling me they were especially interested in kind of plumbing the depths
of the hardcore pharmacology. They want to know about this cult operation. They want
to know what it's doing. People told me they liked the presentation that was my translation
of Revelation 17. Yes, using the orphic terms. So it's a translation for those ears to hear
using auto kerns, Vox Orphica. Yes, so people like that. So I'm going to bring you something
very similar tonight to meet your tastes. And it's time for us to meet the Antichrist.
I'm going to do is go ahead and put the text up. We've all seen the Andromachus text. This
is Nero's just by way of reminder. This is Nero's arch doctor, arch physician. And he
is in the midst of bringing this formula back this him. Yes, this cult ritual. Nero wants
this stuff. Yes. So we're going to look at the beginning of the translation, starting
and ending at the same point, the Christ and the Antichrist. And I want you to realize
that I'm choosing my words very carefully, because the Christ and Antichrist are the
dote and antidote within the mystery. So when Jesus is saying that he is that, he is not
pulling it out of thin air. Where does it come from? Where does this term come from?
I tell everybody, no room for guessing here. We don't want any sort of ideas or general
theories or, you know, we're not here to develop theory. Yeah, we're here to bring you the
evidence. So let's look at the evidence from this preserved in this Nero to see what they're
doing at the time or what the cults are like. So I just flashed the Greek up you up to you.
I'm going to read the translation that I call the goddess called calm from the communion of
vipers. And I am using the title that is given with the text. So here is the text itself. I want
to read you from the Christ to the Antichrist. And of course, realize that this Christ, what is
Christ at its basis, just realistically and rationally and, and actuality. What is the
actuality of Christ is the one who has been stung by the gadfly. Creo in its oldest form means
the one who's stung by the gadfly. The one what's that word for gadfly? It's oyster. Right. The one
who has the oysters, right? You and I would say estrus. Yeah, the one who has that. There is an
antidote of calming that we call galene. That just means the calm sea waves, the calm storm. The
