and you've done all the fasting and all the you know particular drug regimen that you're supposed
to be doing right depending on whatever the locality was wherever it was you know the plants that are
used there in those locations. Okay. So yeah notice by the way too the wonderful variety of plants
that we're dealing with that the glane is the glane is a remember the glane is an antidote right
and so he is the glane is actually going to be used for the person who is put into that death
state. If you don't have the glane on board you're not coming out you're not coming out of the death
state. That's all part of the death and resurrection cult that we are in. All right. We're opening
you up bringing you into the reality so that you may be born again. The way you don't see it but
the way is embedded in this poem. Yeah it's embedded the way. Fantastic. So there's a couple
points I want to make. The potion is the cup and that cup is that cup of pornea that we're using
right. It's coming from her dark harbor and remember that dark harbor the word for harbour
there is the word for vagina. Yes yes mm-hmm the yes the flowers that are in and when I say yeah
the flowers that are there that we pictured those flowers are the vagina right the Victorians
even knew that and wrote it down right that's where we get our knowledge of it right. Wait a
minute this is the word that they're using for the labia. Yes right exactly so it's joined there
the pornea is part of it. Remember Jehovah is a misogynist extraordinaire right there's a reason
that we have to kick out that Lady Babylon right yeah there's a reason it she works she is the cup
that brings us the communion yes and with the combination of her Christ and her Antichrist
you can perform this right which will enable you to wake up to the reality you go somewhere
and you'll come back you'll be horrified you'll be amazed you'll be stupefied life changing
you quit your drinking you know you swear off your gambling you know right right and you begin to
live a life of the way right right yes the life of the way it's embedded in the Greek that I just
read you it's embedded in that Greek I want to make a couple of points with our last 10 minutes
here I want I want you to notice that and by the way the dark harbor is associated with specific
divinities specific divinities so we have to be careful there right look at what they're using
opium okay nobody's surprised they're using opium there's Virgil tells us how to grow opium
you know so opium opium opium it's everywhere they're mixing it in everything right so what do
you think they get their concepts of stupor from right there's this state that you can enter into
when you're you know chasing the dragon if you will uh you enter a state of yes um I have one
victorian to find it as a sullen a state of being sullen um yes perhaps that was his opinion
he probably was chasing the dragon though so maybe he knows anyway um we have opium and we have uh
