Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'
ddei, fe ydych
Night we're gonna look at Zoe's tree, I wouldn't jump right into things.
And I know that you're excited, and I know that you've looked at some of the background...
and that these are not brand new sources for you,
and a lot of you out there are ready.
But, I'm gonna trip you up,
and I'm going to bring you something that you probably haven't considered.
And this is a document that is part of a collection of...
of Greco-Roman magical papyri discovered from Egypt and you know somebody's somebody's garbage heap.
Yeah, and these are fantastic excerpts from the first century BC to Anno Domini fourth, fourth century roughly somewhere in that range.
It's a range of material and if you're really, really good with the Greek, you can distinguish between which texts are earlier and which are later.
So how do we, how do we get here and what does this have to do with the tree of Zoe?
So if we're going to find the tree of Zoe, you have to be within the garden.
And so today we're going to go meet someone who works in the garden.
Yeah, he is called a root cutter, but he has a very specific method for harvesting the daimones, the powers of the plants.
And it's very, it's a beautiful kind of mixture of religion and botany and chemistry and oracular vision all in one.
I call it the spirit of Oman, not because I am Oman, but because that is what the text calls itself.
It is the spirit of Oman.
It's nice.
Let's go. Let's just go there now for our initial text.
Could you call up the spirit of Oman, please?
Yeah, yeah.
Here's the Greek.
So I just want to show you.
I'll be working.
I'll be working with.
Yeah, pull that down.
Just by way of introduction, I worked with John Scarborough at University of Wisconsin Madison in the history of pharmacy.
And I was in the classics department there and he did the medical side.
So in addition to Madison, he did the drugs.
He did a lot of research on the drugs and he was a translator for the modern, the only modern edition in English that exists of these magical papyri.
Yeah, of these magical papyri.
And that's the Hans Dieter Betts edition.
Anyway, John Scarborough was one of those translators.
And yeah, we had a lot of fun.
We had a lot of fun talking about the nuances of the Greek and how hard it is to translate some of these texts.
It's brilliant stuff.
But that's how we get to these texts in the first place.
And so we're there.
We're going to bring.
I'm going to bring you a root cutter.
When somebody told me when the head of the department at University of Wisconsin told me that the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
With the drugs, right?
They just wouldn't do such a thing.
I started looking and I'm trying to break through to a populace of people that I think is now the time to break through.
They're bringing to see the value of these drugs in medicine.
So we're experiencing really a psychedelic renaissance, right?
Get our drugs banner up there.
Yes, it's a psychedelic renaissance.
So I'm taking you back to somebody who was there, who was collecting and using drugs in ritual.
Yes, the Romans would do such a thing.
And they did such a thing a lot.
And why don't we know this as moderns?
Why is it that Harvard keeps fingering us, right?
Why do they keep doing this?
Because these texts are not, they're hard, right?
You're going to have some botanical knowledge.
You're going to have some medical knowledge.
You have to, it's too much science.
And so it's much easier if you're at Harvard to read Homer than it is to read some obscure magical author who may be composing a beautiful dactylichexameter.
But you're just, you just don't want to go there.
And they're going to start going there.
A professor told me, a professor from Brown told me it would take 10 years.
So I want to take you ahead to that place where that gardener is.
And I want to look at that gardener.
So let's just pull up, I'm going to pull up the Hans Dieter Betts.
Now our translation by O'Neil, I think this was done.
They don't, they don't translate the word rootcutter.
I'll show you it in the text.
He translates it herbalist.
The word is literally a rootcutter.
What is a rootcutter?
These are weird, weird, weird people, right?
Rootcutters are the ones that go out and they paint their bodies and they perform nocturnal rituals, right?
And they harvest, where they harvest their drugs and they imbue their drugs with the life of the dimod.
Yeah, it's, it's another one of these, if you're a goace, you understand it.
It's another one of these art that the suns of God passed on to their offspring.
Yeah, this pharma case, right?
Yeah, this sorcery.
So I'm giving you original sorcery.
I want us to look at this guy at the rootcutter and tell him how we get to the tree of Zoe.
We have to be facing Adam, right?
We have to be facing Adam.
So I want you to face her mentally in these images that we're about to run through.
But let's, before his cadaver gets too cold, let's pull him out here.
And let's get him on the show.
Can you bring up the Hans Dierbett text, please, in the English? Thank you.
Yeah, I want to read this one.
Is that, I'm sorry, let me just, yes, there we go.
So I'm going to read this to you and I'm going to stop a couple of times and make a couple of comments from the Greek things that are relevant.
Yeah, so let's go.
Gorgiousness and gorgiosity.
And you know, in order to get there, we need to go through the dark harbour.
So I will show you the dark harbour's relevance in just one minute.
But let's read together, shall we?
Among the Egyptians, herbs are always obtained like this.
The herbalist, there's our rootcutter.
The herbalist first purifies his own body.
First he sprinkles with natrin and fumigates the herb with resin from a pine tree after carrying it around the place three times.
Burning kiffy and pouring the libation of milk as he prays, he pulls up the plant while invoking by name
the daimon to whom the herb is being dedicated.
Isn't that nice?
And calling upon him to be more effective for the use for which is being acquired.
So this is, this is somebody that we're collecting, you know, we're in the process of collecting plants.
All right, we're hanging out with somebody who now has a vast botanical knowledge and knows what plants do what to you.
And on top of that, we've put on this, this natrin, right?
Which is just sodium bicarbonate, right?
It's just, it's just baking soda.
You know, and anyway, but for some reason we're sending ourselves to these plants and you see this a lot with the different rootcutters.
You can find other rootcutters, other places.
You need to know that Sophocles was writing, he wrote a trilogy, one of the titles of which is the rootcutters.
So this is a fantastically important area in antiquity.
Euripides mother is one of these rootcutters.
Yeah, a risotomist, if you want to use the term that comes directly from the Greek.
Good, the risotomoi, the rootcutters is an entire place.
So we have this individual, this occupation, who is getting himself ready to collect these plants and to be able to.
And what's he going, what's he going to do?
Look at the invocation that comes up.
He speaks over any herb generally at the moment of picking is as follows, right?
Now here we go.
Here's the part.
If you're performing, if you're involved in the Saturnian magic, or if you're performing satanic magic, you are now entering the images in order to unlock the potential of the diamond.
You have to have these things in your head.
It's quantum physics.
Do I understand it?
No.
The symbol in on the Vatican said you have to work or trust the allegory.
Right.
Right.
That's what's that's what's that's how it works.
Okay, so sit with the image.
What images you were sown by Kronos.
Why don't you I'm going to read this and I want you to bring up the images please.
