Hey everybody, I wanted to read a little bit from Sufism and Surrealism by Adonis.
Book is brilliant, just amazing.
It makes me wish I'd read vast quantities of Sufi mystics.
It is possible to describe the experience of writing, the experience of the writer as
an experience of death in the Sufi sense of the word, death of the social-external world
with its different levels and relationships for the sake of life in the universal internal
world.
Our writing has to transcend the apparent and demolish it.
It has to go beyond the language of the transparent and demolish it.
One of the signs of decay in poetic writing in the modern world is the supremacy of literal
language, the supremacy of tradition and terms.
We transcend the world of the apparent with the language itself.
We intoxicate it.
We must create a delirium in the language, which corresponds to the delirium of experience.
It is true to say that every Sufi writer aspires to discover the universal language, which
expresses the correspondence between what is infinite meaning and what is finite image.
This language speaks without the intervention of reason.
It is a language that dazzles the reader.
It transports him to the infinite.
And as the Sufi is intoxicated, his language is intoxicated as well.
He creates a particular delirium for the language within his delirium.
He expresses man's delirium through delirious language.
The language must come out of itself in the same way as the Sufi comes out of himself.
This intoxicated language is the language of metaphor, figurative speech.
This language enables someone who is elsewhere in the abstract or concealed world to cross
over into our world the apparent.
The language permits us to place the infinite in the finite, as Baudelaire says.
The mystery, the infinite, the unknown, is not a point we can reach at which knowledge
ends.
On the contrary, it is movable.
Each time we discover something about it, the things that depend, the things that demand
to be known increase.
It is not possible to arrive at a complete understanding of the mystery.
Thus, the language, however delirious it is, does not establish true relationships between
the self and the other, the self and the mystery.
The self and the universe, but establishes only figurative relationships.
Figurative language, according to the Sufi experience, is a bridge that links the visible
to the invisible, the known to the mysterious, and the goal is to reveal the unknown, so
the image, strictly speaking, is only a particular invention.
It is therefore not a simile produced by comparison or analogy, but a figure of speech
produced by bridging two distant worlds close together and conjoining them so that they
become one.
Therefore, the image is not an artificial or a technical way of expression.
In other words, it is not explanatory or rhetorical, but it is primordial.
It bursts forth with the same force as poetical intuition.
The power of the image and its richness lie in the type of relationships that it creates
or reveals between these two worlds and which it leaves at the same time as it is unable
to gather them rationally, i.e. unable to domesticate and make them conform to perceptible reality.
They are real since they reveal essential origins, but at the same time they escape from tangible
reality since they allude to what transcends it.
Therefore they are not descriptive, but they are like a light that penetrates and reveals.
They are a way toward the unknown.
In this sense, they generate shock and summon up a new sensitivity.
This helps us to understand how poetry in the Sufi experience is not literary in the
conventional sense of the word, but it is an inquiry into the essence of man and existence
and a desire to change the image of the world.
In brief, it is a refashioning of man and existence.
The image here is a transfer.
It transcends and changes.
This takes us on to dream, vision, shoth, and madness, which in the poetical Sufi experience
represents a means of expression.
I just lost my light.
Another form of language contained within the language which helps to reveal man and
existence in a deeper, richer, and more complete way.
As a means of discovery, they form a way of understanding truths that cannot be understood
logically or rationally.
Reason and logic know only perceptible things or the abstract, and therefore the images
that emanate from them are non-evocative because they distinguish between the visible
and the invisible, while the figurative images of Sufism bring together the tangible and
the abstract, the apparent and the concealed, the known, and the unknown.
The image in Sufi figurative language is not an isolated part in a sentence or an expression.
It does not originate out of a desire to embellish or to persuade and provoke, which leaves
us on the surface of reality, but is an organic part of every macrocosm.
These are people and places and subjects and events and actions.
They link us to symbol and myth because they originate from this ascending, descending
dialectic between God and man, between invisible reality and visible reality.
They are charged with dreams and irrational elements such as magic and hallucinations
and madness and shoth and ecstasy.
In Sufi experience, the unseen, the mystery, is the most profound because it is the origin,
therefore trying to understand what is visible is only trying to understand the superficial
and external.
The soul is not superficial, but extends endlessly in depth and breadth.
The value of the expression lies in the extent to which it reveals this scope and its relationships,
in the extent to which it reveals the infinite dimension in man and the world.
The constant movement of discovering the infinite contains a continuous demolition of forms,
or it has not been fixed in form.
That is because form, like image, in this movement is a pure invention, which is not manufactured
or borrowed.
It is not a covering or a wrap or a receptacle.
It is the manner and process of our thoughts.
It is a structure of relationships between words.
In essence, the apparent, in figurative language, is not what speaks, but the inner meaning.
The image is not what writes, but rather the meaning.
The Sufi is the other, the objective other in figurative language.
At the moment he is subjective, and because of that, he is not the one who speaks in meaning
and writes in the image, rather the meaning is what makes him speak and write.
He is not the one who thinks and writes, rather he is the one who is thought about and who
is written about.
One thinks me, as Rimbaud said at a later time.
