Hello everyone. Hello to you.
It is a sunny, warm afternoon here in San Francisco.
As I am creating this recording.
And I don't yet have a clear map of what I intend to explore or
in English euphemistically cover.
It's kind of a strange euphemism because usually to cover is to obscure or to hide.
So I guess the modal utility of this euphemism
is something like it resembles completeness.
A blanket could be understood to pervade over the entire
thunderfucking understructure of what it conceals.
The water here at the newly renamed Blue Heron Lake previously
We could call it the lake previously known as Stowe.
It's far too green and in fact far too blue-green.
Much more colorful than it should be.
And this is almost certainly because chemical agents
have been placed into the water by probably largely misguided institutions
in order to quote control the growth of algae.
Woe be unto any feature of nature that some ridiculous human institution
decides it is authorized to control.
One of the important stories about this that I was exposed to
involves
an Indian tribe or possibly a consortium of tribes
who traditionally hunt buffalo or bison.
And apparently at some point in not too distant history
may have to contact some ridiculous organization
or even more ridiculously named organization
such as the Bureau of Land Management or some wildlife
controlling nonsense place.
And so they applied to the dumb white colonizing people
who really know doodly squat about buffalo in the words of Kurt Vonnegut.
And broad tragedy there from ensued.
The wildlife possibly, I don't even know what to say here,
the ridiculousness is so thick that it's very difficult for me to continue
without just losing my mind, what is left of my mind.
They were told by whatever estranged from nature idiots
they were forced to consult that they would be given permission to hunt the buffalo
but only to hunt the elder non-reproductive males.
In other words the big old bull elephants.
So they hunted up some of them big old bull elephants as instructed.
The result was that the herds of the elephants, excuse me,
actually while I was speaking I saw a picture of an elephant on a package on the ground
and I was also thinking of bull elephants.
The herds of the bison that suffered the loss of many or most of their elder bulls,
the whole herds died the next winter.
So the dumb colonial American bureaucrats were really concerned about the longevity of the herds.
So they wanted to make sure that no bison capable of reproducing were killed
in order, you know, not entirely unreasonable hope
that the herds would continue to reproduce in a healthy and prosperous way
and thus be assured of longevity.
This illustrates the difference between actual understanding of living places and creatures
and what I'm going to call representational knowledge of them.
Because the representational knowledge fails to preserve
what we might think of as either extremely important features necessary to preserve
or possibly even the most important features.
It's certainly the non-killing.
They just put their nose out of the eyes and they just stayed there frozen.
They were like alive, you know?
It's very interesting.
It's so funny because I'm in San Francisco, there are many tourists, right?
And so there's a group of tourists.
I can't clearly identify their accent or the accent of the woman who was speaking.
What she was talking about was that she had become aware that turtles under some circumstances,
I didn't hear the whole talk, but apparently could create a situation where their snout
is above the surface of the water but they themselves are frozen in the ice.
And in this way can survive freezing or something similar.
And this is the kind of knowledge that representational sentients find very contagious.
And I have just become complicit in making an idea contagious
without actually knowing whether there's any validity to it
but trusting in general in the verity of the person speaking.
At least the intentional verity, the intent to say true things.
And the problem becomes for us humans the same kind of a problem that killed those herds.
We have institutions and organizations that know nothing of what it is truly important to know about being human
but know lots of little mechanical things like we have cells and reproduce.
We have immune systems.
I was speaking the other night with a friend.
New friend.
And he was talking of a tragedy that occurred with one of his closest friends.
Young woman, you know, otherwise healthy in all appearances.
She was vaccinated and shortly thereafter was married
and died of heart failure in her 30s.
I have had various perspectives on the safety and or efficacy of the vaccines
and I would argue the public face of most of science and some of medicine declared safe and effective.
I have myself clearly suffered severe side effects that may kill me or last the rest of my life
in the administration of the booster which I took somewhat naively, ironically enough.
The first dose didn't seem to produce any lasting problems that I could discern.
But you can see the problem here, right?
The people who not only don't know but are not trying to know
because with the vaccines politics and economics crashed into science
and what came out the other end definitely was not science.
Was not science in the sense of actually gathering the data carefully.
Was not science in the sense of carefully administering extreme caution
to any substance that will be injected into hundreds of millions or perhaps a billion people
and bluntly failing completely to conduct anything resembling adequate trials.
And I don't care what the counter arguments are.
I understand there was a house on fire situation. I don't care.
When one house is on fire you don't just spray something that will kill the whole neighborhood
over the coming few months because you're not sure how to put the fire out
or maybe the whole city or possibly the whole planet.
Now I'm not going to talk at length about the vaccine. It's not my goal today.
Or the vaccines.
But the idea that they were safe and or effective
I guess you can always dial what safe means down so low
that anything qualifies or you can just change the meaning of safety
since there's a threat and the threat is really scary.
It doesn't you know anything that helps is good and safe.
And there's a further problem here which I'll highlight just before I exit the topic
as Brett Weinstein has been very courageously declaring
in the aftermath of this actual fiasco
that probably killed or disabled more than a million people
maybe as many as five over time an unknown number.
We're not trying to gather the data.
There's no one out there. There's no system in place.
The various system is garbage.
There's no system in place to help us understand what actually took place.
What actually happened here.
In case this isn't obvious I am not an anti-vaxxer.
Vaccines are a profoundly important technological tool
in an age where we live in herd like proximity to each other.
Unless we want to just sort of dismiss medical technology altogether
or count on some earlier morph of it such as traditional Chinese medicine
or shamans and so forth which at our scale seems impractical.
I must admit in my brief experience with hospitalization
due specifically to the administration of the booster
the idea that that is where we put our sick people
that is where we go to heal is basically like being consigned to hell.
It is a terrible place.
It could be vastly worse than it usually is for sure it could be
but it's very bad and miserable to be there.
I understand why my father when he was dying of COVID
waited until the last possible moment to go to the hospital
even though earlier treatment could conceivably have saved his life
if the treatments were themselves effective.
Rather than determining what effective treatments were
the way triage doctors do treatment became a political issue
where doctors were prohibited from employing the intelligences we pay them to employ
in order to actually perceive, not declare, perceive
what treatments might be more useful than our standard treatment models
which let's face it lots of people died under millions again
millions of people died under these treatment methods.
So the doctors were prohibited from being doctors
and effectively their role was transformed from physician into sycophant.
You will treat only with these four drugs, blah blah.
You know, slaves or something.
That's one of the dumbest things you could do during a pandemic.
It would be hard to pick a dumber thing to do.
I guess one thing you could try is just actually snuff everyone who gets the illness.
Yeah, we could do human culling.
That might be dumber.
Or, you know, slightly less tragic but similarly absurdly ridiculous.
We could just ship all the people who got sick off to some place where they can't infect anyone else
except other people who are already sick.
Which by the way is pretty much what our hospitals look like.
The one place you do not want to go when you are feeling poorly
is the place where everyone around you is also feeling poorly
and is, you know, bleeding from the head or coughing up viscera, you know, dissolved viscera and so forth.
Yeah, worst place to be if you're having, if you're frightened or concerned about your health is a hospital.
Though, you know, granting at the same time that when what we call medical science actually does succeed
the success tends to be quite amazing and relieving.
When I went there, the treatments they offered seemed at least as dangerous as the condition that I was experiencing.
I refused them.
Governments, our government, the government of the United States
is not doing its job by doing the post-mortem on the vaccine situation.
And it's not post-mortem because we're still in like booster five or six or whatever, who knows.
And many immunologists at the beginning of the, or during the year or two into the pandemic
I used to listen to podcasts with collections of immunologists who were studying COVID
and the only thing they were really, they really thought might be helpful
was something we'd call a whole, a whole vaccine, excuse me, a whole virus vaccine.
And they were furious that governments were pretending, ours particularly,
they were acting as if infection with COVID did not confer immunity, any degree of immunity, or a reasonable degree,
which is completely fucking ridiculously stupid.
So, you know, the parable about the buffaloes, humans will think, ah, yes, the humans suck at understanding animals.
No, they suck at understanding organisms.
Our collectives are not oriented to relate with living places, beings, or planets survivably.
They are oriented to relate with them economically as structured fictions that can be manipulated to stack up cash in banks,
cash being a representation of value, right?
No, you cannot. That's not the way Thailand works.
I just heard someone yelling into their phone, no, you cannot. That's not the way Thailand works.
As if there's a way Thailand works.
Language is so fucking confusingly deceptive, my God.
It really is a thunder fucking under structure for living worlds and particularly human cognition, at least around here.
I imagine there could be worlds on which, nah, it's hard.
I guess there could be places where representational cognitive habits and structures that resemble those we rely on as humans
don't snuff the planet and the people using them, but I suspect they're very uncommon for a simple reason.
Actual intelligences based knowledge on relation, not derivation, not dead representations.
And the shun phoneme, T-I-O-N, or A-T-I-O-N.
There's a kind of a magic in that phoneme.
It means to gather something together at a point represented by the T.
The at, A-T, is to gather together at a point.
And the ion is the radiating particles emanating from that point.
At ion, asian, relation, interpretation, representation, preservation, derivation, so forth.
There's a sort of magic inside the English alphabet which I'd be happy to teach to my views about interested parties as I was taught.
But again, that's not my goal today.
What I was actually thinking, which is very strange in one sense and perfectly natural in another,
is that in the non-aristotelian logic of Alfred Korzybski, I am not a man.
And it's true because most of what I might be cannot be a man.
I am not a representation. I am not a word. I am not a concept.
Whatever I might be or become should mostly be outside of language completely.
And I tend to think of something like a cone pointing downward where one of the points that cone forms is my physical body.
And in the cone there are various organs, intelligences, or maybe singular intelligence.
But I don't think so.
Whatever what you would see in the cone would depend on the angle of perspective.
And the body would be a transceiver.
If you imagine a non-physical octopus with a single physical tentacle in the physical context of time space,
then I am that little tentacle. But the tentacle is not me.
Now, I don't know, is my pinky me?
If I were to be divided from it, I would certainly be very upset.
And I would be likely to feel that I had been deprived of something integral to my person.
Although I think like I am a man.
And I speak as if I am an American English speaking man.
American by birth.
I don't. The part of me that feels for example like an American is extremely small.
The part of me that feels like a man much vaster.
But the part of me that feels like a being or an organism is a million fold vaster than the part of me that feels like a man.
And I've spoken of this before.
So I think what I am is a kind of an experiment and probably a learning experiment that happens in a particular kind of context
and somehow edifies something that isn't my body and isn't necessarily in my body, but is associated with my body.
So for example, it is obvious to me that my consciousness, so to speak, the Derenish consciousness can travel without my body traveling.
Can far see without me traveling to another place physically.
But most of the actual experience that I have of the traveling consciousness, which is, you know, let's face it relatively little.
A little bit. Not none, but a little bit.
In almost all of the experiences of traveling where my body is for example supine asleep on the couch or whatever.
The thing that travels doesn't really identify as me, as Deren.
There's either no Deren content whatsoever, or there's very modest Deren history, persona, thought, language, all these things.
And that's quite fascinating. You know, I've been listening over the past couple days to both interviews with both Bob Monroe and Tom Campbell.
And Tom seems to be of the opinion that Tom's a simulationist, right?
He thinks this is all. This is all being rendered only when observed, right? The system renders only that which is observed.
So you're not even there unless something's observing you.
I think the perspective is useful and interesting. I don't think it's true yet.
I don't intend to treat my life as if something like that is true.
Tom, who clearly does, seems to succeed relatively effectively using such a purview.
It works for him.
I just don't buy it. I think whatever's going on is far.
I mean, there's sort of one fundamental question, which is, is existence personal or not?
And in most of the views of many travelers out of the body, it's not.
But it's possible that the perspective deprives itself of personation.
And it's also much easier.
There are certain kinds of problems, mostly having to do with terror.
And if there's one thing we will feel terror about, it's anything that resembles the oncoming train in the tunnel of our lives that is death.
Anything that has that stink or reminds us of death were likely to recoil.
And this is part of why meditators can get stuck, right?
They often approach liberation at least once or twice in their early training if they're diligent, sometimes even if they're not.
And then they immediately recoil.
The first question is something like, what is going on?
And then the next move is, like, the first question is, you know, insight begins to arise as awareness and consciousness is what is happening?
And then the second thing is, fuck this, right? I'm out.
And they, you know, go right back to the cage, so to speak.
And I have some experience with that myself.
Often what happens to me is, oh, this is very strange.
And then a feeling of wonder and then immediately a feeling of terror.
I remember one experience where I was probably sitting up in my astral body while I was asleep in my physical body.
And I could see the room.
My girlfriend was asleep to my left.
I could see the particular lay of her hair on the pillow.
And I could see the room as if it were well lit and as if I could see the whole room at once from a point, you know, near where my body or head was.
And first there was like the sense of, wow, this is really, I didn't know I was, I didn't know I was asleep.
I thought I was awake. I thought I had woken.
And I thought, this is really great.
This is great.
And then there was a sense of wonder and kind of a sense of awe.
But then the next thing I felt or sensed, it was as if I was the only being in the universe.
I've never had a feeling like that before, though, you know, in some of our human experiences of isolation and loneliness and so forth, we may approach that kind of very painful to our humanity feeling.
It's very weird.
That feeling was terrifying.
The feeling of utter aloneness.
There never was anyone else, there never is anything else there cannot be.
There is only this consciousness, me.
And that scared me.
Oh, my God.
With that I rushed back into my sleeping body and opened my eyes.
And as I recall, nothing changed.
Opening my eyes had no effect on the visual situation.
That's what I recall.
I don't know, you know, what actually happened. I have no idea.
I don't, first of all, if reality is this, he mustn't, I have no idea why he would use the concept simulation.
And you have the same problem with the concept hologram.
A simulation must be a simulation of something.
And there must also be a simulator.
And there has to be some way of, quote, running, unquote, the simulation.
So this model seems to ironize the mysteries.
The mysteries of origin.
Nature, participation, and so forth.
I like a lot of what Tom Campbell has to say.
And he's obviously deeply experienced.
So I'm not going to, I'm not, right, in this domain.
So I'm not going to try to put him down or say his perspective isn't useful.
It's clearly very useful.
I just doubt it.
I don't know that reality or existence or the universe or so forth is personal.
But as an embodied human, it feels personal to me.
Those people laughing must feel that it's personal or it couldn't be funny.
What Tom and Bob both agree on is that our human birth is a, it's basically like a preschool.
We're here to, we're here to learn and grow.
But we're also, I strongly suspect there's something a little weirder going on that I like,
that is at least implied by what they say, which is that it's as if the universe grew a new layer.
And we are here in part to explore the layer, but in part to import into this layer the knowledge of the
original layers beneath or beyond it.
That's my own gloss on what they said.
And that seems commensurate with much of what I myself have managed to un-conceal.
To discover.
If covering something was so good, why is discovering so much better?
I'm a little too warm today. I've got too much clothing on.
Here in San Francisco, through most of the year, you will prosper.
You'll be physically comfortable in accordance with the number of layers you are carrying or wearing.
To, you know, to a degree, three, four, somewhere in there.
I am not merely a man, though I do ID, quote, unquote.
God.
As far as I am concerned, from a biological perspective, there are precisely two human genders.
One capable of reproduction, one not.
And nature is not commonly, it's obvious in nature there's wiggle room around categories.
There's a kind of quantum fuzziness to definition where our definitions apply to a part of the curve where most instances of what is being referred to
cluster.
This is how language generalizes in order to specify categories and members of categories and so forth.
I recently had a very modern and peculiar experience.
A friend of mine invited me to a local spa, which I had not been to before.
It's in a not great part of town that used to be a terrible part of town when I first moved here, China Basin, I guess.
And it's called Archimedes Banya.
I guess a banya is a word in some language about something.
A place, a kind of a place where people bathe together or something.
And I was pretty nervous about going, to be honest.
To see on set of COVID, I've become fairly crowd avoidant.
And this presents a variety of social problems for me at my age.
But in this case, I decided that it was more important to see my friend and his friend than to preserve my customary cautions.
Prior to going, I read reviews.
Some of them were positive, but many were negative.
And the negative ones pointed out two specific, or maybe three specific problems.
One was that the place wasn't kept very clean.
One was that they let too many people in.
And one complained of the often mean-spirited tyranny of one of the workers there,
which I got to taste a little bit of when I was there.
They weren't wrong.
Although I also think that his superficial seeming severity was partly ingest.
But it wasn't all ingest.
And as he belonged to a marginalized ethnic group,
one might interpret it as, I've got to admit,
if, for example, my skin color was green,
and I was in a room filled with people whose skin color is orange,
and there are no green people there.
And the orange-colored people represent whatever you might imagine the wealthy or elite to represent.
And I had power over them in that context.
It might be difficult not to exercise a little bit of it.
I might struggle myself.
But yeah, the reviews weren't wrong.
At least about the peculiarly motivated overseer of the spa.
I enjoyed it.
It seemed clean enough.
And it was a little too crowded, maybe, but not much.
It was all right.
Dangerous to be in a hot, steamy environment, though I don't know chlorine's effects on,
I don't know, airborne chlorine gas's effects on humans or viruses.
And airborne chlorine gas kills humans, but in very small quantities it's a reasonable antiseptic.
So yeah, I actually had quite a good time there.
My friend was preoccupied, but his friend was brilliant,
and they were here to see the, like, a three- or four-day symposium at CIIS
with Ian McGillchrist and John Vervakey and others,
which I myself would have attended.
I wasn't able to get a ticket.
I went to the spa, and I am not uncomfortable.
Although these days I'm fat, so I'm a little bit embarrassed.
And I'm just talking about myself, not other people.
I'm overweight by my own standards.
But I've long been comfortable being naked around others,
and I've always thought nakedness was kind of a cool thing that could be introduced
into the bizarrely over-structured context of our common experience.
So when I was younger, me and my friends used to go streaking.
We would find things to do where, yeah, I mean, we had all kinds of adventures,
various unusual adventures in which we introduced being naked.
So I was a little concerned about my being overweight and body image.
But it's been quite a long time since I've been to anything like that.
We have another bathhouse here, at least one.
There used to be many.
There used to be a sort of scene here in San Francisco where bathhouses were a sort of way
to engage in public sexuality, primarily among gay men.
I don't know if there's any of that going on these days.
I'm sure it's against the law.
But we have another bathhouse here called the Kabuki that I've been to a few times
and always really enjoyed it.
And I did enjoy my time at the bathhouse.
But I don't mean but as in however.
I mean, but as in also here.
I saw something in person for the first time.
I saw a phenomenon in person for the first time that I'd really only seen in things like, what,
erotic cartoons or something.
There was what appeared to be a woman with very ample breasts who had a penis.
And she appeared to be there with a man who had a vagina as if they were a couple.
And to be clear, in such environments one respects basic principles of visual privacy and so forth.
One does not stare and goggle or oogle.
One keeps one's eyes sort of at eye level.
So, you know, mostly I did that.
But it seemed clear to me that the male appearing person had an actual vagina,
which personally I don't really care what one's politics are.
I'm not going to agree that there's no difference between an actual vagina and vaginaplasty.
I will never agree.
And if somebody says to me, well look like we're friends and I need you to treat me as if I have an actual vagina.
Okay, I might.
Under certain kinds of circumstances I might agree to play along nicely.
But I think the man had an actual vagina and the woman certainly appeared to have an actual penis,
though again I didn't perform a close inspection.
And I didn't feel uncomfortable about that.
I didn't feel judgmental.
It was kind of like that moment when I awoke, right?
And I opened my eyes and nothing changed.
There was kind of a sense of wonder.
And there was a comedian in the back of my mind going, oh how fucking 2024 of you.
Nothing in me was felt offended or judgmental.
In fact I guess if someone had said, you know, if somebody...
The problem is that the scene is so artificial in a way.
But if somebody said like, how do you feel?
I might say something like, am I required to have a feeling about this?
What's the authority here?
If someone asked me how I felt in the actual situation as I experienced it,
I would say something like slightly bemused.
Wonder if that young injured raven will prosper.
I've seen him around. He got his right wing hurt.
Now I bring this up in the context of I am not a man, right?
Because on the one hand there's a sort of a natural rebellious inclination
to push against the constraints of categories and social constructs.
And if by gender we mean persona, then there's a billion genders.
But if by gender we mean biology, there are two.
For humans.
Edge case is not withstanding.
And again, as I said earlier with categories, there's always a little fuzz around the edges.
It's not explicit.
But what you can say is that there are things like there are no alligators which are birds.
Now then people will say, well, you know, those herons at the lake are the descendants of dinosaurs.
So that reptiles become birds.
I mean, what I'm trying to say is that the categories as they exist.
A guy just walked by me with a shirt that I sort of identify with.
And this is the power of advertising.
It said kind of fit, kind of fat.
Which I might identify with.
I work pretty hard to stay fit.
You know, I can keep up with you on a hike, but I'm carrying 20 extra pounds probably at the moment.
And by the way, you can see how that statement blurs two categories together, right?
Kind of male, kind of female.
No problem there.
But to outlaw the use of the word woman or man in academic contexts because could produce, you know, undesirable feelings in edge case psyches, right?
Great shirt.
One of you guys wearing a breakfast of champions shirt, alluding to Kurt Vonnegut earlier in the conversation.
Sorry, I'm going to be in a bit of a noisier area for a minute here.
You know, I'm very careful and curious about language categories, semantics, linguistics, psycholinguistics, neurolinguistic programming, hypnosis, all these things.
I mean, they're part of my domain of active study.
So, for me, that we decide to create linguistic categories that oppose or violate relatively strict categories such as those we might find in science or in the language itself.
No problem, right?
I just have different, I have, I can maintain different bubbles for different purposes.
If humans want to talk, if humans want to play social justice warrior, they'll find a willing combatant in me.
And if they want to talk about biology, then there's no problem understanding what the hell we're talking about.
Both things can exist.
If people say we want to be called this and that, I'm going to not have too much trouble going along with them.
But if they then want to prosecute others who don't speak that way, I will fight them.
And I don't rise to battle easily.
But policing, I mean, this is a kind of thought policing, right?
Where it's not just what you're not supposed to say, it's what you're not supposed to think.
And it's very ironic to see a disease that looks like that rising in the left.
One would expect this from the right, but it's almost as if the left has been inoculated with a schizo gene
that will shatter it into little bits, each pointing fingers at the others.
So I'm not a fan of that.
But as far as the people in the spa go, that was a very bemusing experience for me.
Unexpected.
When I was at the spas before, they were never coed.
There was a coed day, but you had to wear clothes.
And this spa is clothing optional and coed.
And by the way, if there's no genders, there's no such thing as coed.
And if the genders are explicit, we have other weird problems.
It's funny, you know, if I were sharp, I'd have staggeringly insightful things to say about this.
A peculiar feature of our modernity.
And at the moment, I'm speaking much more like a common person.
Like the man that I claim I'm not nearly.
I've always been particularly, I feel particularly comfortable around gay men.
I've had experiences of profound discomfort around gay women who were clearly upset at the fact of my masculinity.
Of course, not all of them are.
But some of those experiences were quite catastrophic for me.
I've generally found a feeling of communal bliss with creative intellectual minds.
And if one end of the spectrum is macho and the other end of the spectrum is feminine,
I have bits of me on the macho side, but a lot of me is on the feminine side.
I'm a feeling, intimacy, relation, creativity, play, oriented spirit.
That doesn't interfere with me being a man or being seen as a man.
And rather than go around dictating what other people should see when they look at me,
I trust them to form their own perspectives.
In language, if one is a male and says, I live in San Francisco,
many common people will immediately suspect or contrive an image where,
oh, I must be gay, but why would a straight guy live in San Francisco, for example, this kind of contrivance?
Which I, you know, they get over it.
I can imagine a situation where I could become very militant and go around declaring, for example,
I belong to the class of persons who identify as messianic.
So I want you to see me as a messiah or identify with a class of persons known as comedians.
So, you know, don't go around taking me seriously.
Very strange situation, as you can see from just imagining it.
The other day I was walking up the street in my neighbor, who I've known probably for 30 years.
My neighbor Steve, he had just come back from the corner market.
And he had a tube of chips.
And he said, you know, have you tried these?
And he offered me a few.
And I was like, oh, yeah, Pringles is like, no, they're like holistic version of Pringles.
And, you know, it was really the best kind of advertising, which isn't really advertising at all.
Someone just gives you something, and then thereafter you just fail to want something other than that.
So last night I was laying in bed wishing that I had these The Good Crisp Company chips.
So I just acquired some.
And, you know, the secret of marketing is to create desire and then fulfill it.
My son proposed a more nefarious version.
Create desire, fulfill it once or twice to the very expensive, lavish product.
Like, if you could determine whether someone's buying your product for the first time or not,
this would be very powerful in a marketing sense because you could deliver a relatively unforgettable experience the first time.
And then over preceding moments, or excuse me, yes, over future moments,
just keep delivering a less nutritious, you know, less expensive to produce.
You just keep dragging the bar down.
And then what you'll get is people buying it out of nostalgia for that experience that they remember as fundamental.
So they just keep trying to catch up to that memory of the first time,
which of course never happens and recedes into the distance with every new purchase.
And you might think, well, there are no companies doing that.
Now all the companies are doing that.
They just find a different dimension in which to deprive us of what we remember.
I myself am working on a product and the other day someone asked me,
well, what does it cost?
And I said, it's something that you won't miss and we prefer not to declare.
Which of course could be everything.
Because if we deprive you of everything, you won't be missing anything anymore.
There won't be anything to miss it with.
Thank you for joining me for this extremely ironic episode of Darren Blathers Into His Microphone.
I'm grateful for those of you who support my work by listening or participating.
And I wish you every beautiful thing in your precious human life.
But particularly insight and loving kindness from other living beings.
Bye-bye for now. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
