Hello, everybody. Hello to you personally, because it's very unlikely, given the size
of the modest size of my audience, that any two people would be listening to the recording
such that the timing of the recording would match for each of them in their time-space
location. It is possible, and it's probably a bit more likely than I imagine. So, hello,
listener. Hello to you. Where you are while you're listening. Welcome. It's a gusty Sunday
afternoon here in the city named after Francis of Assisi, I suspect, who was well known as a friend
and companion to the organisms, the animals, the plants, probably the insects. I always find it
strange when a person professes biophilia, the adoration of living beings, or of organismal
living beings, but somehow excludes the insects, who are in a way staggeringly older than most
animal species. If we look at time as a function of population and the generational iterative
pulse, if I ask questions about the number of generations of turtles, first of all,
these questions are going to be foundationally unanswerable. What we're going to get are
approximations based on data, and there's lots of data we don't have as a species, or
even that it's not possible by any ordinary empirical means to produce to get. So, I ask
questions about, for example, generations of elephants, relatively long-lived species,
not entirely dissimilar to humans in terms of their longevity, and I'm not sure what their
generative cycles are like. In other words, for example, given a group of 100 elephants,
how many new elephants per year do you get, and so forth. There's also a problem where
that I don't think there's a mathematical solution for, although there are functional
solutions, there's a problem where, obviously, if you go back in time for population dynamics,
the number of progenitors appears to exponentially, I think, I think it's exponentially, I could be
wrong about that, grow larger, so that it looks like one, you know, and the number of
ancestors of a currently extant organism become infinite as you go backwards. There's some
technique by which we reduce that number. I cannot recall it at the moment. It has to do with
an analysis. So, one thing it has to do with is subtracting ancestors for multiple children,
I think, but I'm not an expert on this. The problem has long bothered me because in trying to
determine, in trying to get a hold of a number that resembles something like biological time,
since each distinct organism is a unique participant in the temporal manifold, undergoing
locally unique changes, generating unique ancestors, affecting other creatures and
situations uniquely, and also being affected this way. It turns out that biological time is very
strange stuff. One could understand it as a form of compression or exponentiation. My point, though,
before I get to bird walkie here early in the conversation is that the number of fruit flies
that have existed, for example, must catastrophically dwarf the number of elephants that have existed.
So, if, in order to understand biorelational time, we count the number of fruit flies per minute,
per second, per year, in which fruit fly time, quote unquote, is passing. The mode of time that fruit
flies biorelationally comprise, the mode of time that elephants comprise, we discover that the fruit
flies are, in fact, vastly older than the flat age of the universe. Vastly, like probably many factors
of the age. And if we're concerned with something resembling evolutionary change or the development
and mutation of genome sets, this is the kind of time we need to be thinking about. Of course,
humans often have pretty much the dumbest reasons for considering these matters.
Hey, that's what.
So, the insects are ancient, ancient, ancient, beyond imagining, especially as
if we, you know, clade them up and say, like, well, we're going to talk about all the insects,
all the different forms of them, including the stuff we don't usually think, you know,
taxonomically, we might think of as different, for example, centipedes, scorpions, spiders.
These are not true insects, quote unquote, according to our taxonomies.
But we would collect those all together. I promise you, the age is probably
billions of trillions of life years in those creatures, so ignoring them.
And also, without them, there are no animals, right? So you have a direct link to origin
in relationships that are really important. It's funny. Oh, yeah, the ways of knowing.
And what was I thinking about? It's weird.
My mind has traveled since I began this recording in such a fashion that for the moment,
I cannot locate the thread that it was my intention. Okay, wait, now I see. Oh, yeah.
Okay, so now I think I have recovered the original thread.
So the humans have what we might call ways of knowing.
And these are specific branches on the tree of knowledge. And I'm not necessarily speaking of the
one referenced in Genesis, though at the same time, perhaps I am a bit.
And lots of these ways are abstract. Some of them are not particularly abstract.
For example, biology, pretty abstract.
History, very abstract.
The broad array of science is mostly abstract.
Philosophy, psychology, social studies, mathematics,
mechanics. These are branches on the tree.
Presuming that there's a single tree we're talking about.
But then you have things like dance, traditional knowledge, ceremony, ritual, religion.
These are also ways of knowing.
And then things get a little stranger because there are orders on the tree.
So for example, there is the order of representational cognition,
which will include nearly all of most of the branches.
Let me just check a couple things here.
That seems to be working.
So some of these topics, particularly philosophy and psychology,
and to some degree biology, though we might find out that many of the branches intersect
beyond their superficial layer, like beneath their superficial layer, they intersect.
At the superficial layer, they're highly representational, which means they're conceptual
and linguistic and taxonomic and abstract and model, fraught. They're filled with models.
Beneath that something stranger and more interesting starts to happen.
So for example, obviously, psychology, for example,
gives us models and perspectives on our interiority. And what we might refer to as the psyche,
which is obviously the first part of the name of the discipline. Similarly, psychiatry.
These start to explore the confusing and often nonsensical,
in other words, certainly not merely rational aspects of our interiority.
It's not clear to me what animals and insects experience, though I do believe it's possible
to directly share in that experience. It's certainly possible to relationally share that
experience. But by directly, I mean the employment of a faculty in human beings
that allows us to participate in the interiority of other beings, not merely model it.
We know that humans can have theory of mind and things like this. Talking about something much
different, a faculty science would, a modern science would almost unanimously disavow.
A faculty which theory of mind is probably the remnant of.
In terms of understanding human interiority, modern science perhaps has a grasp on one to
7% of the terrain at best. We're talking about an array of layered infinities
similar to the universe. And the lens with which you approach it will radically delimit what you
can see or understand or become aware of. And humans, moderns particularly,
especially at the clade level or cohort level where science is done, they tend to use singular
lenses, which is ridiculous, like a primary or singular purpose of orientation.
And that purpose of orientation is often deconstructive, tears things apart.
Humans are weird. They often do things that are completely inexplicable.
Deconstructive and utilitarian. What's the function?
And then also extractive. What can we get, do, own, dominate,
given some understanding of something we're observing?
These perspectives mostly make us dumber. Continue over time to evict us from relation
and participation with life and its origins and produce monumental libraries and abstract
knowledge mechanism and the results of the inaction of those things, which are
generally omnicidal. They obliterate life and its bases.
And they're omnicidal precisely because they're disembodied and disembodying.
So at the superficial layer of the tree of human knowledge, you have these
abstract forms that I enumerated previously. And then underneath them you start to get stuff
that deals with
you start to get stuff that's fairly met that at least might be metacognitive.
It can examine cognition, linguistics, psycholinguistics,
traditions of meditation,
that begin to produce lenses
that might allow us to see more deeply into the structured habits we are most often
kind of entrapped in, in a way that
resembles how trains follow tracks.
Do you think there's a danger with that? It's difficult
for us.
Unless we are granted an experience of liberation from the templates we tend to follow
in thought, relation, and behavior.
Even if we are given some liberation, right? For example,
there's something unusual about the onset
of romantic thoughts, feelings, and experiences.
There's a feeling often described as being on top of the world
as if some kind of dominant position is powerful.
I've never heard someone say
I was so excited I felt beneath the world.
Like I was holding the world up.
On top of implies
liberation
from
subjugation to be subject to the world.
Psychologists and people like
his name escapes me.
It's where we get the
the idea of the hero's journey from
modernly.
Perhaps his name will arise in my mind.
Many of these people will tell us that
such ecstatic
and perhaps limer and sladen
emotions
are the result of evolutionary processes, the necessity of reproduction, physical
reproduction, and so forth.
The man I was thinking of
sometimes it's you know we imagine that it's only good to successfully remember.
It's not good to not remember.
But not being able to remember actually conveys other possibilities.
It creates a different array of potentials in consciousness.
And this is part of what I mean by metacognition.
I remember him saying on stage one night
in a lecture about the hero's journey
he sort of poo-pooed the whole romantic
situation claiming that once you see into its structure and function
you'll retreat from that naturally retreat.
High into what?
I guess more or less platonic relationships.
And I can understand the perspective.
I can see I can see all the trouble of romance.
But I don't think it's nearly the flush of neurotransmitters
and the transition of them doubt it.
That's probably involved.
I'm not saying that's not going on.
But it isn't just that that's going on.
And my point was that
in the early days of romantic
excitement, enthusiasm,
there's a feeling of freedom often.
An empowerment of liberation.
Of together we will rise above all obstacles.
We will carry each other to the sky.
We will all of these things.
And I don't think those feelings are merely constructs
or merely the result of chemical changes and so forth.
I don't think so.
Closely linked with them perhaps.
Correlated with, yes.
Causal, not sure.
I think something else is also going on.
It's a kind of reunion where the two lineages of those lovers
are getting together in a superposition
above the singular identity of the lovers.
And they're having a kind of a grand reunion.
They're having something like a relational orgasm.
You know, vast lineages of animal progenitors,
insect progenitors, living place progenitors,
human progenitors, non corporeal progenitors.
They are recognizing one another through the localization
of the individual humans that are falling in love
or have become overwhelmed by adoration, mutual adoration.
Very complex situation going on there.
Certainly not limited to neurotransmitters
and the ephemeral joy of rubbing flowers together.
Now, of course, people who are more,
like less relationship oriented and more sex oriented,
there's still a backdrop of those meta,
meta to our theories features.
It turns out that the nature of human love relationships
is itself a meta topic with many, you know, complex branches
that we could explore. We can explore. They're available.
We have access to them should we decide that that
terrain is fascinating or compelling for some reason.
And pretty easy to see why it's compelling.
We would not be here if that weren't happening.
Our parents would not have generated us.
The branch of the tree of knowledge we call religion is very peculiar.
And poses itself in a very strange way,
a way that resembles the pose of science and the pose of mathematics
or the poses of science and mathematics.
It poses itself
as the super topic.
Doesn't matter what the ways of knowing are.
Obey God. It's all taken care of. Obey the scripture. Obey the rules.
Obey the principles. Obey the language. Obey the songs.
And it doesn't, there's no way of knowing that means anything
in comparison to this, not science, not math, not religion,
outside of ours, not philosophy, not nothing.
From, you know, some perspectives on the topic, not all of them.
It poses as a super topic.
And science has inherited that pose.
Even though the word science doesn't actually, it's not actually connected to...
Pardon me, ma'am. It's okay.
In fact, the word science is very confusing when left undefined.
Let's see what I can make of it.
The branches of the tree of human knowledge
that pose themselves on
as reliable and dependable in a way other branches are not,
based on their relationship with what we call data or information.
Based on what we would think of as empirical standards of truth testing.
All right, so you can't, in science, for example, we imagine anyway,
that you can't get away with making shit up.
Because your data, anyone can mine that data themselves.
And anyone or any group of humans can use the data
to support or to attack what we call hypo-theses.
Now, let's be really clear about what hypo means.
Because the position of both religious thought and science
is that of a hyper-thesis.
A thesis that encompasses all possible theses.
So when we say the word science,
we're referring to a way of knowing that poses as a hyper-thesis.
Hypo means less than.
Hyper means inflated, inflamed, bigger than too much.
Testing, okay, took a little break there.
In western, in modern western thought, apparently, at least according to Owen Barfield,
who I think probably knows something about what he was writing about.
He talks about a problem that arose around the time of Galileo, where previously
hypo-theses, lesser theses,
were understood to be perspectival prostheses valued not primarily
for their truthful depiction of situations, transformations, identities, qualities,
sequences, and so forth, but rather for the insight one could gain by entertaining them
in consciousness. What Galileo did was to collapse that and begin, in a sense,
the reign of scientific authority,
resulting from a hypothesis which, at least superficially, appeared equivalent to the facts,
captures and displays the facts. It was this feature of Galileo's
work that troubled the church, and it troubled the church because it was an assault
on their hyper-theory, and not just their hyper-theory, but their self-authorization,
and their auto-authority, autocratic authority, over
not merely the facts, but what?
What is the authoritative perspective and the protective concern with the conservation
of authorization in human, in systems of human thought, in social systems,
in political systems, in military systems, right? All of these authorizations are
held beneath the flag of the Catholic Church
and other churches in other places.
So it appears that it was this that aroused the ire
and surveillance and damnation that descended on Galileo, not that, not so much, which is what
we usually hear, that the idea that the planets orbit each other or orbit the sun, I meant,
not that idea. That idea was perhaps modestly radical in its assertion at that time,
but had been asserted long before that by people like Copernicus and others,
vastly predating Galileo and probably radically predating Copernicus.
So the problem is here that the church could prophetically see, in a sense, a future in which
the hyper-thesis would be transferred from religion to this new thing, this sort of new thing,
new version of an old thing called science.
Now, if you go to, if you go to the remnants of older indigenous traditions,
ancient, perhaps ancient indigenous traditions, you'll find that they have something that vaguely
resembles science in some aspects of its inaction, embodiment, history, tradition, and so forth.
And there are different kinds of resemblance. There's a resemblance in which
something kind of like empirical observation ensues.
But there's sciences, there's also another aspect which is more or less relational and
participatory, and this aspect becomes often alive and transmitted generation to generation
in what we in the West refer to as ceremony and or ritual. I assure you that whatever the heck
the indigenous people were actually doing prior to their encounters with the strangely abstract
representational nonsense and also projection of hyper-theoretical authority, whatever they were
doing before all of that, our language is poorly English, very poorly
endowed to describe or reveal that to us. I don't trust these words ceremony or ritual to
encompass what they, what they may claim, what some may claim they refer to in indigenous cultures,
but they also had hyper-theories.
And perhaps the word in English that closest, that comes closest or is at least starts out somewhat
close to descriptive capacity is tradition. But even this word means something very different
in English, I think. The word religion fails, the word tradition fails, the word ceremony
perhaps a little closer in some ways, but fails, the word ritual, you know, close in some ways,
but fails. The phrase way of life gets closer
or way of relation in way of staying in relation with relation
closer.
I think Barfield in his book, Saving the Appearances, which I recommend you all read.
Every one of you should read this book. You should read it six times or read it and memorize the damn thing.
He might call it participation.
Now what I was thinking of earlier, because I style myself under the rubric cognitive
activist in some branches of my strange little brain or mind, what I was thinking of earlier
were topics that were meta or
progenerative of other topics, right? There are topics inside human cognition
underneath the tree of knowledge before the branches that are very profound.
It's reasonably clear that other organisms
have, not have, experience something resembling self-awareness.
This doesn't mean that there are two of them like there are in humans
as evinced by the letter W in our alphabet, right, which begins six of the seven question words,
primary question words.
As if we have to make a duplicate of ourselves and only then
can we begin resolving the strange problem produced by that first move
as evinced in questions such as which came first, the chicken or the egg, or what is the sound of
one hand clapping and so forth. This cognitive doubling, this capacity to imagine
that there are two of me, one of which has a question and another of which
poses responses to it and so forth.
Very, very peculiar problem. But when I began this recording,
it's actually true that I cannot remember the original motivation.
And it almost doesn't matter because that original motivation was like the first stage of a rocket.
It gets altitude and then it no longer is important, it contributes.
And we think, we tend to think, and it's not unreasonable to think,
that a higher position gives you better, you know, a new perspective. There are stories
of indigenous populations in Africa, for example, that lived in a valley. I remember a story about
an indigenous population who lived in a valley. And when white people, you know, colonizing European
people, showed up there, they asked the man, you know, are you aware that you live in a valley?
They didn't know what a valley was. And when they were taken up the sides of mountains they'd long
been familiar with, which I think, you know, had been associated with the gods and death and so
forth, but then abjectly terrified of what they saw from up there.
And did not venture for quite some time to refuse to venture out of the valley.
Well, this is an anecdotal story. I suspect that I'm remembering it
from, I mean, I suspect that the source is likely to be Edmund Carpenter, a brilliant anthropologist.
Working primarily, I think, in the 50s, 60s and 70s. And by the way, if you can get a hold of any of
Edmund's stuff in writing, by all means, do so.
Books such as They Became, What They Beheld.
Can I remember any of his other titles?
I don't even know what to say, actually. There is a family walking here
that is very unusual and profound, but I can't really think of a reasonable way to characterize
what renders them thus. I'm stumped.
The father is leading the charge. He has a black velvet coat and a hat such as a
practitioner of Osh, no, a practitioner of
certain spiritual arts from Africa might wear.
Ah, okay. So,
religion poses as a hyper-topic. Notice that philosophy poses as a hyper-topic because
philosophy examines how we think about, evaluate, value, or dismiss ways of knowing ideas, thoughts,
all these things.
So, there are branches on the tree that lead to hyper-topics both
sort of down the tree, sort of thinking not necessarily outside or inside the box,
thinking about how boxes arise in the first place.
And then above the tree, they give us a superposition over all the branches.
And science as a way of knowing has inherited or appropriated, in a way,
the authorizations that might ordinarily and had certainly previously in relatively modern history
belonged to religion. Of course, in many cultures, there were things like kings, queens, and chiefs,
though the latter word is different than the first two.
There's a difference between, for example,
being seen as the incarnate soul of a people, a village, a tribe.
There is a difference between that and the idea of one who dictates to others.
And long associated with kings and queens is this
principle of measurement, which turns out to be bizarrely important in physics and science
and math. Notice that over time, the science developed the concept of accurate measurement
was transferred from religious or monarchic authorities
to a putative or nominal discipline called science.
Now in modernity, in our experiences moderns,
the word science has many, many senses.
On hearing the rhythmic
linguistic
of a rap artist such as Aesop Rocks, one might declare this man is putting down some science.
And strangely, the way that idea gets
into popular
exchange relates to the authorization to speak about hypertopics. I was listening to
a song last yesterday evening that was sort of rap-ish metal.
I wonder if I could remember any parts of it.
It was paraprophetic about apocalypses.
Title waves were spreading from the US to the UK. This was all rendered in
rap, you know, syllabilisms.
It was fabulous. It was really,
there was an image of Poseidon riding waves trident in hand. There were all these profoundly
evocative sequences of words and fricative
cascades, right? Cascades of sharp
endings of words, each one somehow producing like an exhortative enthusiasm.
It's funny, I'm not able to remember the lyrics. It's a song I've only heard a few times,
though I really like it. I've listened to very little rap, I mostly find it offensive
to my musical sensibilities and my poetic sensibilities.
Though there are exceptions.
For a long time now, the thoroughfare I'm walking on has been closed to vehicular
traffic reclaimed by pedestrians, which I think is wonderful.
It's a major
thoroughfare in Golden Gate Park.
And obviously if I had my way, all roads would be closed to traffic.
Or there would be very few roads
on which traffic was common, which I guess people would say,
well no one would be able to get anywhere. Yeah, we'd probably be better off
at this point in history for sure.
Hypertopics. So it turns out that there was a fascination with hypertopics long ago.
Clearly Socrates, in his concerns with
Mayutics, the midwifery of insight and an amnesis, and also his concerns with philosophy and
not just dialectics, but there's another word that means a mutual conversational inquiry.
The gods and their nature were hypertopics, and I think for saying something that resembles
even the gods are not free to dictate the true and the untrue. They are subject to
they cannot change truth, and this is what was selected to charge him with impiety.
For which he was executed, though they did offer him the option of amputating
his most precious relationships and suffering exile rather than death.
There are features of mathematics
that surely comprise hypertopics, and the entire subject of geometry is one of them.
Plato was aware of this. There were religions that arose or rather conspiratorial societies that
arose that orbited the enlightened study of geometry, and what I mean by enlightened is
that it was not merely an abstract study, it was a study of the relationship
between origin, the origins of minds, minds themselves, certain features of math,
and certain features of geometry. There were mystery schools and so on.
As I've mentioned many times before, in human thought,
in human society, in human history,
for as long as we've been
subject to, affected by, and productive of, language, spoken language,
we necessarily inherit a structural situation.
There must, in linguistics, some of this must be known. There must be no
enculature for this, but as someone who's studied topics that may emerge from semantics
and linguistics and psycholinguistics, it eventually became profoundly obvious to me that
there's a strange and powerful structure that underlies language, and thus must also underlie
religion and science and hypertopics themselves, and what I'm going to speak about next is a
hypertopic, because it gives us a glimpse into foundational principles that underlie
the possibility of conceptual thought, and particularly our lexicons, and in the lexicons,
the lexicon being the library of words and forms of speech,
natural to some given system, for example, modern English.
So there's a structural feature of our lexicons that also has fundamentally to do with categories,
not just the word lists, not just the dictionaries.
And I've spoken of this many times previously, but there's a structure
that resembles the structure of knowledge. The hypertopics are what I would call uniphores,
a couple of examples of uniphores. So
if words are the branches of the tree of a language,
the dictionary would comprise the trunk,
and so the dictionary is hyper to any word. The lexicon is hyper to any
instance of language, and language is hypo to the lexicon.
Similarly, there are conceptual foundations that are not ordinarily acknowledged by common
speakers, and there may be words, there may be words for these that I don't know, and if any of
you know the words for these things that I will describe, please enlighten me. I would very much
like to know, and rather than presuming that I have original knowledge, I'm much more inclined
at this point to think that I may have discovered something previously well known to experts
in grammar and linguistics, but
there are concepts that are primordial, they are root concepts in language and without them,
we would not be able to derive identity conceptually or representationally.
These words I call holophores,
they are words like, they are actually not the words, they are the concepts
pointed at by words like friend, food, mother, mirror, dream,
sky, like all of these, you have to kind of know what the world is, you have to have some sort of
world concept, before
prior to the possibility of making meaningful linguistic constructs, so for example, language is a
holophore, you have to know something about why would anyone make face noises like this
and what the face noises are intended to do and so forth,
so there are the, and you know what is the world, what is a friend, what is food, what is mother,
what is safety, what is threat, what is danger, all these things,
so there are many holophores and in a way, there is no canonical list,
but the most important things about being human are holophores and each language transmits
an often dangerous, at least in English, very dangerous
misunderstanding or mis-presentation of the holophores, older languages such as Arabic and
Hebrew and Sanskrit, Aramaic, perhaps certain African languages or indigenous languages,
they are much, much more intelligent about how they encode holophores
and then there are unophores, right, which are the actual super topics,
the universe, God, these are two common unophores, the word everything, the word everyone,
these point at unophoric elements that are necessary to the structure of conceptual thought.
There must be concepts in linguistic that match these that aren't, these are, these are neologisms
I invented when suddenly the structure of conceptual thought was available to my,
the structure of language and conceptual thought was available to my awareness
and I forged these words to point at features that I was aware of that I could see from outside
language itself
and what we're speaking of here is a hyper topic because it is both within
and beyond conceptual, ordinary conceptual perspective
so what I was concerned about when I began this recording, what I was interested in
was exploring the before of branches on the tree of knowledge
ways of knowing
that
precede the differentiation
it's funny to precede
it made me think of
the first sprout from the seed of a tree
which seems to, if we could watch a time lapse, dig downward
while at the same time pushing
it's opposing
it's opposing feature, skyward toward the light
it's very profound
this thing, the root grows down into darkness, moisture, soil
thereby pressing
the opposing aspect upwards into the atmosphere
and where there is day and night
this figure is a hyper topic
and points at the power of metaphor in language and thought, conceptual thought, to illuminate
that which declarative thought almost never is capable of approaching
declarative language, analytical language
though analytical language can also reveal to us the structure of metaphor
very difficult to make metaphors about the structure of metaphor
we might want a deconstructive, brilliantly analytical
perspective to help us to see
it's really useful to have both, right?
you need the figurative metaphoric intelligence
and you need the deconstructive analytical intelligence
like two wings on a bird
in a sense, for spoken and written language
there is a metatopic that most of us have not been trained in
that is very important to acquire training in if one wishes to communicate profoundly and effectively
even as an author of fictions
and it's the topic of rhetoric
which is the lexicon of what we would think of as figures of speech
which could be understood from a non-linguistic perspective
as the shapes of structure in language
almost like the puzzle shape, the different kinds of puzzle shapes
you can produce and how they fit together
the anatomy of not so much words but sequences, chunks of words
there were times and it may still be true
in history where rhetoric was taught to children
institutionally
but primarily it was taught to the children of the elite
and rarely taught to the children of the poor
unless their parents, having been thus educated, transmitted this knowledge to them
I'm ready to wind up the recording here but before I do I'm going to mention
a book that has become a sort of mimetic success recently
and I'm not yet sure what I think of it
but I find some of the concepts within it enlightening and inspiring
and it's a book called the dawn of everything
one of the authors is David Graeber
other author is also David but I cannot recall his last name
and in the beginning of the book they assert
that much of what we've been told about the human nature
by modern historians and some you know modern being like 500 years something like this
is wrong
and one of the things they said they included a quote from I think it was Benjamin Franklin
that I will paraphrase here
the Indian people when we adopt them into our society
and grant them you know the status of citizens and so forth
presuming that that ever happened
maybe that statement isn't included
but we you know we provisionally grant them some status in our culture
at the first opportunity
where they are allowed to interact with their people
again and particularly should they engage in ceremony
they will not return to our our society
almost invariably none of them
none of them will return
and he mentions that at the same time
people from our society who have been captured by the Indians
and have joined their society
will generally refuse to return to ours no matter what
boons or benefits you know even if there's in a state worth a million dollars
awaiting them back in who knows where Philadelphia
they will not return
and it is claimed that that that the primary reason
which should be obvious
is that our roles and identities in society in civilization civil society are phony
they're fake they're costumes
they're counterfeits of our humanity that we must constantly keep up this appearance of
to our great impoverishment relationally socially developmentally
you know in our society people die inside themselves of loneliness
in open view
of thousands of other people
the the interior poverty of our modern civilizations is exceeded
only by the appearance of external wealth
in a conversation with a friend last night you know I wrote an essay called
the factories of emptiness death in a fictional nation which you can find on my medium page if
you care to peruse it there's some fucking function there's some disease in our society that
which you know is fundamentally extractive in its relation to our interiority
and ends up killing people who are famous right
Jimi Hendrix, Judy Garland, lots and lots of people those two examples doesn't kill everyone
outright and some people survive the exporting of their interiority
into public view that results in fame but many many don't
it's obvious that
what is extractively
propagated in public view influencers and so on
often represents the death or the falsification of our humanity our creativity
our what should actually be influential
that that dies stillborn in the swarming mass of media objects and photographs and
representations of excellence that never there existed in our time anyone who can fake excellence
well enough or produce it within the confines of the market system that builds sports heroes and
fashion heroes and so forth a great big white dog just running into the field
and it's it's almost as if a snowstorm had legs it's really great to watch it or a cloud
it's awesome
I was struck very deeply by this concept
that I'm here elucidating when I was reading their the beginnings of their book the other night
and I will surely have more to say about it but for now I want to thank you all for joining me
please like comment or share this recording or any of my recordings if you find them valuable
strangely I too must compete
in the bizarre market produced by the internet youtube facebook and so on
um if I am to gain the opportunities
to enact the principles that I speak of in my recordings
so in any way that you might feel inclined to to support my work I am very grateful for that support
even if it is merely uh you're listening so thank you for joining me
I look forward to learning together again very soon and I wish you amazing dreams
wonderful relationships and a beautiful way of life bye bye for now
