Hello, everybody.
Out for a walk this afternoon in the Botanical Gardens.
Let me get a little mic noise, wind sound, background noise.
Hope you'll bear with me on that.
Too much I can do about it.
So today, I have in mind to speak around the topics of purpose, desire, romance, sex and
love, and if I'm lucky, courtship.
So I think most people who know me much at all have classified me as a romantic, and
it's probably given my own experience of desire and romance.
It's probably an understatement.
At my core, I can be different ways and different times and different circumstances, just like
all of us, but I think my roots are deeply romantic and they were informed, perhaps to
some degree, by stories in childhood, fairy tales like Snow White and Sleeping Beauty and
other similar things.
I think when I was a child, I sort of had a crush on the tooth fairy and I used to try
to convince her to appear to me when I had lost a tooth.
It's funny remembering something like that changed me in the moment.
Just having these memories changed my thought form, the form of my thinking, my interiority
shifted back to memory from exposition.
And this is the kind of shift that's very important to be able to pay attention to and
to be aware of.
Even if one is expositing, if that's the right word, deposit outwardly.
So yeah, being profoundly romantic placed me in a different category from most of my
peers and other children in my youth so that it led to a variety of tragedies for me.
That wasn't the only thing it led to.
I was very romantic, quite young, so I could develop wild enchantments with the girls that
I liked best in my school.
And that was okay mostly though, got dangerous as we got a little older.
And some of my early experiences were profoundly confusing.
But I'm not really interested in talking a lot about me.
What I want to talk about is purpose.
So underneath our ordinary everyday mind there's something like a matrix, matrix of habituated
purpose of inspirations and inhibitions.
And before we do anything at all, but particularly before we think, analyze, evaluate, compare,
most of us will begin almost always with some kind of a purpose of envelope or orientation.
And when we are thinking or evaluating or criticizing or seeking something, even if
it's something very simple, for example, I'm going to do my dishes or take my dishes to
the kitchen, right, something very simple, seemingly simple, actually not so simple.
Try to take your dishes to the kitchen as any animal other than a human and you'll find,
firstly, you have no dishes, secondly, you have no kitchen, thirdly, you probably have
no hands.
And carrying and or washing dishes would be an extremely confusing idea for 99.9 percent
of the organisms that ever lived on earth.
Before we begin to move our minds at all, there's a purpose of aura.
And usually we relate with all of this stuff quite habitually and very unconsciously.
Part of that's good or beneficial anyway, because if we had to be conscious of all of
the things that we've learned to do as humans, we'd probably fail at a lot of them.
Our bodies and our minds and perhaps even our souls are profoundly capable of a non-ordinary
kind of learning, the kind that makes it easy for you to walk once you've mastered it.
Now in the beginning, we tried to walk consciously.
We had a goal and the goal was to stand up without falling over and then to put one foot
in front of the other.
And as we began to master these abilities, they became embodied, we might say, in our
nervous systems.
And once embodied, consciousness is no longer important, at least not in the same way.
Though we may be conscious of walking, we're not conscious of the probably nearly infinite
number of moment to moment adjustments, rebalances, energy exchanges among muscle systems, all
kinds of stuff that's going on.
Just as we don't, you know, there's some things we don't really have to learn how to
do with our minds at all, like digesting food.
We do have to learn to eat food.
We have to learn, for example, how to eat food in a way that works, so that we don't
hurt ourselves by our tongue, by our cheek, swallow something that hasn't been chewed
enough for us to swallow it safely, and so on.
And some of that's probably inherited, as well as the propensity to get up off all fours
and walk about.
And when you think about it, it's a really astonishing thing that any animal ever pursued
that path evolutionarily, but ours did.
The really astonishing thing about purpose is that when we're unconscious of it, we're
mostly led around by the nose, so to speak, by purpose of habits, right?
When we compare, evaluate, decide whether we like something or agree with it or not.
This purpose of foundation, the habits that we formed, they tend to just operate unconsciously.
But in thinking, speaking, with language, we also find ourselves in a strange situation
where layered histories of the evolution of these features of our ability, our volition
tends to largely disappear, though there's traces of it there, and we rely primarily
then on habits.
So if somebody makes an argument, for example, the argument that COVID doesn't exist, it's
just an idea that people are circulating to gain power and profit.
My habitual, my habits of evaluation, thought, awareness of language, and awareness of purpose
come into play.
And mostly, I'll depend on habits familiar to me, that tends to be easier, it's less
energy-intensive, less attention-intensive, and unless I'm really deeply engaged for some
reason, I'll probably play the way that I usually do with whatever degree of sophistication
I've been able to introduce, and in this case, by sophistication, I mean something like intelligent
clarity rather than unnecessary complexity, which is sometimes how that word is used.
And so, like nearly everyone, even though my habits may be different, in some places
more developed, in others still naive, in others still forming, I'll rely on what's
familiar, and I'll take positions, let's see here, I'm not going to sneeze into the
mic, so I managed to meet that just in time.
So unless I'm aware of my habits, and the ways in which they aid and blind me at the
same time, I'll probably just do the things I'm used to doing with my mind, attention,
thought, consideration, so forth.
But the strange thing about purpose is that it changes our experience and the forms of
mind that we're capable of entertaining.
And so these invisible purpose of networks, we might say, matrices, that are part of the
history of the development of our memory, both embodied memory and cognitive memory.
These purposes will determine the possibility spectrum for our capacities for learning,
discovery, insight, correction of beliefs that are either extremely untrustworthy, wrong,
useful, outmoded, archaic, and so on.
Some of the archaic stuff's good.
We don't want to just throw things away because we've decided, oh, it's 2021, I shouldn't
be thinking thus and such.
And by the way, there's an evaluation.
So you can see how the purpose in that evaluation is something like, oh, get with modernity,
why don't you?
And it's not a particularly trustworthy purpose.
And many of our purpose of orientations are almost like voices from crowds that aren't
present here now.
We've inherited them.
Get with the program.
That's a trope in English.
Get with modernity.
It's a trope.
Nobody's saying that.
What kind of an idea is that?
Is that even meaningful?
What does it mean?
And of course, we may mean something by it if we use this trope, but someone else hearing
it may take something completely different from what we've said, especially if there
isn't much shared context or if the context has been compromised.
Before we move our minds or attentions, we have purposes.
And even in the moment-to-moment flow of thoughts, feelings, emotions, desires, likes
and dislikes, there's a constant sort of flow and transformation of purpose of imperatives
some of which conflict, some of which don't affect each other at all, and some of which
harmonize.
And the voices or possible judgments or evaluations of near and distant others are a primary consideration
for an animal as social as we are, and when I say we're social, I mean fundamentally.
We're missing out on probably 90% of what we can be as humans because our social aspect
has been captured and compromised and rebranded and sold back to us in counterfeits and so
on.
It doesn't mean we have to continue playing that game, but in the contexts that we find
ourselves, we will be surrounded by games like this most of the time unless we're very
lucky or unless we intentionally produce a context in which this is not the case, right,
where we can authentically explore what it means to be human and have minds and be able
to use language and have hands and so on.
And when we don't do that together, or if something intrudes and overwhelms our experience
and memory of doing that together, we become disoriented, and then, of course, our purpose
of interior and our motivations and orientations can be captured for the sake of commerce or
mediating in some way, usually very poorly, the pain of isolation that we're likely to
feel in situations like that.
When we become aware of the profound influence of purpose on every moment of our thought
awareness experience, we gain what one might call degrees of liberty that were previously
lost or compromised.
For only when we can direct our attentions and concerns with awareness, trustworthy awareness,
including our intuition, our feelings in our bodies, things that thinking in language
only partially and poorly capture or encompass, then we can choose different species, different
forms of possibility for transformation, for learning, for growth, for development, for
discovery, for wonder, for reverence, for love, for relation.
And our purposes don't merely steer the metaphoric boat of consciousness, they determine what
kind of water it's floating on.
That's how profound the situation really is.
And that water we could think of as forms of awareness, forms of consciousness, capacities
for recognition, understanding, insight, learning, development.
And most of what we inherit is relatively crude in these domains, with the exception
that's sometimes dangerous of highly developed methods and modes, models and so on, that
we may find in academic contexts, or if we are autodidactic, if we're self-teaching,
in our own explorations beyond the book, beyond the classroom, in the living world.
A world that to me appears both to my thought and interiority as deeply in souled, a world
of myriad souls transforming one another over time.
And I don't have to know precisely what I mean by soul to say such a thing.
So I was thinking the other day, of course it's Valentine's Day, and really what's going
on in nature, though every form of creature in every different place has its own kind
of internal calendar, if you will, the sense of when it is the appropriate time to pursue
some goal or activity, behavior, including reproduction.
Many of the creatures in nature where I live now are preparing to reproduce.
And that means that birds and other animals are pairing up, insects are doing their thing,
getting busy, trees are flowering before they produce foliage or needles in some cases.
There's a whole lot of reproductive activity going on.
No accident that Valentine's Day happens in the part of the year when it does.
No accident that Easter, a feast that is associated with our capacity to collect eggs from birds
at that time of year.
You can see how the rebranding took place.
The other night I was thinking about human love in courtship, and of course what I know
of this is deeply colored by my own nature and experience, however modest that may be
compared to others.
In our age of convenience, we've lost access to forms of knowing, behavior, relational
development and insight that are fundamental to our nature as human beings.
And of course, each person embodies this quite uniquely.
Some people will be found, you know, there's some cohort of people that inhabit the statistical
median or something like this, the average.
But even those people, each one of them is unique.
They've uniquely embodied the assets our development has preserved and handed on to new
generations over time.
And I'm reminded that there are some humans that desire eternal life.
I guess they think what they want is for their body and ego to survive forever.
That would suck a lot in lots of ways, but the thing they're overlooking is if you had
a choice what you'd want is a body that was prepared for the world now, because the world
now is not anything like the world of merely 200 years ago.
When there were no cars, no computers, well, let's see, 1820, yeah, no telephones, no radios,
no light bulbs, no electricity.
So just a couple of hundred years ago, this was a different planet, staggeringly different
planet.
And the organisms were still thriving ecstatically, the ecologies, the forests, the oceans, because
we had not yet developed machines with which to process them into profit and commodity.
Now, I often, because of my peculiar circumstances in life, I've had a chance to reflect on and
explore dimensions of human intimacy that might otherwise be off the table.
The reason that they're scarce is complex, the reasons are complex, but the rapid collapse
of relationships into transactions and representations is a primary factor in what most of us will
experience, you know, again, uniquely according to context, place, who we're with, what's
going on, what are we chasing, and you can see the purpose of underpinnings there, right?
What's going on?
Well, that's a lot of purpose getting enacted, right, contexts and relationships, similar.
But unfortunately, we find ourselves in streams, rivers, gushers of purpose of imperatives,
that we did not really agree to or understand prior to being subjected to them or to being
subscribing to them either, you know, half intentionally or somewhat resistently.
I'm pausing here to say hello to someone I love, and even though this someone is a plant
and probably doesn't understand my language, I think I can speak with it and be heard with
it and hear with my heart instead, with my spirit, my essence.
When I come to this part of the garden, I have little adventures, even while I'm making
videos, talking and learning.
So here for the moment, I have a couple of companions, some Corvids.
The male is particularly adventurous and he likes to have some experiments.
The female, for her part, is much more cautious and hitchhikes on the male's intrepid, adventurous
nature, and that works out well for both of them because he hitchhikes on her reservations.
So together, you can see they might somewhat resemble some of the differences between our
cerebral hemispheres, the male being much more like our right hemisphere and the female
perhaps more like, I actually got that wrong, the male much more like our left hemisphere,
I often confuse these things, and the female perhaps much more like, in her behavior, the
feeling, the feelings and priorities and purposes of the right hemisphere, left side of the
body.
Now watch the birds very closely and you can see that they too are lateralized to some
degree because they use, they'll turn their head to use different eyes for different things.
They'll often check threats with their right eye, left hemisphere, but they'll look for
opportunities or friends with their left eye, and so if they want a moment of warmth, they
might perch so that I am on their left, and then fluff up and enjoy companionship.
Oh, there's a large great blue heron here in a place where I very rarely see one, standing
right in the middle of the path, and it's probably at least three and a half feet tall,
and I'm curious about what it's doing in the middle of the path, for I've never seen
a heron just standing there like that, so tall, it's an astonishing being, so much we
can learn from the animals who are indeed vastly older than our species.
I'm hesitant to proceed, perhaps I'll pause for a moment and return.
The heron is feeding on worms and insects in the grass.
Such an incredible creature.
I feel profoundly lucky and grateful to see it alive.
It had some difficulty swallowing an insect, so there was a lot of head-shaking and neck-twisting.
I think the fish are much slipperier and they don't have legs.
I'm just trying to be respectful because the bird is hunting, and you can see that
my purpose has changed when I saw the bird.
Now I've been thinking a lot about romance and to some degree about sexuality, and I want
to make a clear distinction before I begin.
Some of what I may have to say could sound familiar because there are branches of human
endeavor that focus on human sexuality and the energetic nature, not merely on human
sexuality, but on the energetic nature of sex and reproduction.
There are what we usually think of as spiritual traditions, like Tantra, surprising that in
2021 our machines are still so loud, obnoxious, and devastating, but maybe that surprise is
based on a presumption that something else might have prevailed.
Due to my own circumstances, I've had the great good fortune in some ways of developing
some relationships, many different kinds, but the kinds that I'm concerned with here
are the kinds where there's some kind of mutual eros, eros, attraction, desire.
And the specific kinds of desire that are relevant to sexuality are ancient and profound.
And ordinarily, if I'm in a context where I can be with a woman that I like and I'm
attracted to and I want to, I feel that I want to get to know her with the senses of
my body and my heart, presuming that we're both on a similar page in that regard.
If we're in close proximity, there will be some modest degree of courtship or play, but
if we're close together, it's fairly unlikely, if we both really like each other, that we're
not going to kiss.
And if we kiss, it's unlikely that that will not proceed to caresses and beyond.
And of course, none of the things that I'm saying here are explicitly facts, their tendencies.
And each person or couple will have a unique path in those tendencies.
But most of them, given the opportunity, will soon be rubbing their flowers together and
hopefully having orgasms.
Well, almost certainly for the male.
Maybe the hopefully is more for the female.
It's very surprising the amount of noise here today.
It's very hard on the animals and birds and insects, for all of them are extremely sensitive.
Think of bats with their sensitive hearing or dogs with their sensitive hearing and smell.
To their senses, we are blind.
Dogs don't merely smell what's there.
They smell what's been there and when it was there.
Bats hear shapes floating in the atmosphere.
Of course, they touch those shapes with their voices, a very intimate thing, our voices.
So my point is that given the opportunity and the fact that I'm an adult and relatively
available to becoming enchanted with a woman, most likely what will happen if we're together
is we'll do the beast with two backs thing.
And courtship doesn't necessarily end there, but the field of play transforms dramatically
once actual sex is taking place.
And it becomes very easy for people to rely on the immediate gratification of rubbing
our flowers together and to ignore or leave aside a lot of the other opportunities.
We hear in old stories narratives where lovers either couldn't be together or some choice
they had made prevented them from rubbing their flowers together or rather putting one of
the flowers inside the other and so on and so forth.
And these old stories may seem strange to many of us, but the reason these stories exist
has to do with something very few of us probably have much experience of.
It has to do with the kinds of possibilities, purposes, and opportunities that emerge when
a couple for various reasons decides not to rub their flowers together.
And sometimes this is because they're not proximate, right?
They're not actually together in space time.
But that's not the only reason.
And this might be a little bit of why sexuality acquired in religious contexts, very peculiar
ethical and moral shading.
Now that's a much more complex topic and I won't be able to encompass that one.
What I want to talk about is what happens if for one reason or another two people are
really enchanted with each other, but resist the immediate gratifications of sex and orgasm.
And one of the things that happens is that courtship begins to become a very profound
path with lots of unexpected pleasures, senses, insights, reverence, wonder, awe.
And I don't want anyone to make the mistake of thinking that I have a moral argument here
because as far as the morality of sex in general goes, it's really complicated.
I don't have anything clear to say.
We humans invest our attention and capacities in all kinds of different ways.
Some of them are surely not good.
They blind us or drag us to a lower tier of development and behavior and understanding.
And some of those, when they become addictive, continually drag us like gravity back toward
repeating behaviors that become less and less fulfilling, less and less nourishing, sometimes
often actually overtly toxic as we proceed.
And that's a real problem for just about everybody.
Whether it's food, television, video games, drugs, isolation, sex, dominance, inhibition,
yes, we can become addicted to inhibition.
So what I'm really trying to do, my goal here anyway, is to shine a light in a direction
we're unused to looking at, perhaps partly because of our modernity.
And having had experience of relationships where sexuality was either, how should I talk
about this?
We're actually having sex together was not going on.
And where we weren't playing sexually with each other to produce orgasms.
And certainly all of that's enjoyable, I mean, when it's enjoyable.
I'm less prepared for this topic than I imagined.
Nonetheless, I'm brave enough to proceed.
What I discovered over time is that there are whole forests of faculties that come to
life when we're loving someone deeply and we're not having sex.
Our interiority becomes very profoundly involved and what we might feel as a relatively ordinary
experience of attraction or desire can become inflamed in ways that are unimaginable to
those who've not experienced them.
And so I'm a proponent of courtship because even if I'm in some relationship that may
become physically sexual, I find that there's a broad array of benefits and opportunities
that are inclined to disappear when we begin having physical sex.
And others can develop and it's certainly possible to have deeply fulfilling sexual
and romantic relationships.
Again, I'm not attempting to cast judgment on that.
Rather, I want to point at doorways that are easily overlooked and forgotten to experiences
that not only can hold a candle to the relatively staggering effects of orgasm, they can make
orgasm seem a bit trivial in comparison.
Of course, it's really quite simple to just go for the known stuff, right?
Go for the stuff you know feels good, presuming that sex and orgasm are good feelings and
they're quite conflicted for most of us.
Unfortunately, we've acquired layers and layers of bizarre sort of programming malware, if
you will, from our cultures that often deprive us of opportunities for growth, development,
discovery, creativity, play, ecstasy.
What I wanted to say was that if we're really after ecstasy, we might want to take a long
slow look at what it's like to be in a relationship where both of the partners deeply physically
desire each other, but resist having actual sex and resist the urge to engage in the dance
that results in orgasm.
Not many of my essays are very popular, but there was a magical event some years ago where
in the night I had reached out into the Cognizium of Living Beings of Earth and asked for help.
And it wasn't just because I wanted help, it was because I love them.
I adore them, I live for them.
And the next morning, a local astrologer with a large following named Rob Brezny, a very
fascinating individual, shared one of my essays on the profound opportunities that we've
failed to explore in terms of intimacy.
And I think, I can't remember the title at the moment, but it was something like, there's
something far beyond orgasm.
And over the next few days, that essay got 30,000 views.
So somebody must have found the idea quite interesting.
And I think it's because there's secret knowledge hidden in our bodies, hidden from our conscious
awareness about these matters.
Our bodies know they have other potentials.
And some of them, where we defined ourselves suddenly exposed to these without preparation,
we would certainly be astonished to our core, but we would also find ourselves in a situation
where it would be extremely difficult to think that there aren't such things as souls, whatever
they may be, because our souls would transform in the ecstasy of adoring someone with whom
we're not yet having sex.
Now I don't know what happened historically, and I'm sure just about everything happened
historically, not one or two things.
But it does seem clear that there were people who were aware of these things.
And so, rather than immediately moving towards sex and or marriage, they engaged in long
ecstatic courtships, affairs of the heart that for one reason or another could not be
consummated, or sexually consummated, or where the partners chose another path, a path beyond
orgasm.
Now all of this may sound highly theoretical or even academic, if you've not experienced
it.
But I suspect that if you think back over situations in which you were madly enchanted with someone,
you may find some consonance with my topic and my path within it.
You may find in your memory situations where, particularly when you were quite young, you
were madly in love and sex wasn't even on the table.
And I've had many experiences of this because sexually I was a somewhat late bloomer compared
to my cohort, but I could be madly in love without any idea of sex.
When I was little, I had no ideas about sex, none.
I didn't understand what it was about at all, but I could still become wildly infatuated,
perhaps confusedly, with a girl who seemed to be that shining destination that my soul
longed for.
So I think us moderns were really missing out on most of, well we're missing out on most
of our humanity because we're deeply social and without contexts that invite us into the
exploration and expression of these deep social inheritances that are natural to the animal
we are, however uniquely they may be embodied in different people.
We can't find ourselves and the selves that we know as isolates are an entirely different
kind of animal than the selves that we know in relation.
Noise goes on.
It's funny how the machines interrupt and desynchronize and toxically intrude on our
interiorities and intimacies.
So much more profound for the birds and animals who've long communicated in networks with
voices in real time and now often cannot hear each other.
If any creatures have suffered, well all the creatures have suffered, but I'm particularly
concerned about the cetaceans and the ocean, the dolphins and whales.
Eros is deep and broad and the tiny slice that emerges from physical sexuality is itself
deep and broad.
One moment.
I'm going to pause here for a second.
Too many sirens and horns along with a bunch of other noise.
The slice of our inclinations and faculties that are associated with Eros that is directly
physically sexual is quite narrow compared to the broad range of what's available to
us as human beings.
And unless we have the opportunity to engage in and experience and explore courtship, we're
unlikely to discover this.
Though sometimes couples who have been together and are then separated for a time by circumstances
or work or war or misadventure will discover some of the depth and opportunity and senses
and faculties and ecstasies that lie outside our common ideas about sex and love.
And these are infinitely broad and rich and deep.
When we are separated, there's a chance that courtship will begin again.
And like I said, I'm a big proponent and it's not merely in sex or love that courtship
is important as we can see if we look at the different kinds of relationships we are involved
in.
There's something resembling courtship, perhaps it's an analogue or a counterfeit in attempting
to acquire a job or buy a house or a car really when we buy anything.
Courtship like many of our other capacities has been deeply captured and compromised by
the systems and layers of structured transactions that comprise our society.
Some part of me was academically thinking, Darren, you're talking about the politics
of ecstasy, except I'm not trying to talk about the politics of anything.
I'm really trying to share a perspective that I find compelling and astonishing.
I'll never forget some of the experiences that I've had almost accidentally with loving
other people and not just sexually because I can deeply fall in love in a non-erotic
way and I speak just for myself here with a man or an elder or a dog or a bird or a
child or a tree and I don't go around trying to have sex with everything that I love, tend
to reserve that again myself for women.
So there's all different kinds of flavors of eros and we feel eros differently with
each person and even in each moment.
But some of the experiences I've had staggered my imagination and were in their own unique
ways at least as shocking and overpowering as a physical orgasm might be.
There are other kinds of orgasm.
I remember seeing a video a long time ago, a meme-like video on the internet where a
woman and her boyfriend were riding a kind of a ferris wheel that for parts of the circle
the gravity disappears and so they're in free fall.
When the girl began having a series of orgasms, which isn't terribly surprising, it's like
our pelvis and our lower abdomen that feels that loss of gravity and is transformed by
it.
She started having really extreme orgasms and I think I remember her saying something
to him like, wow, I wish it could be like this when we were together.
I'm like, that guy must have been destroyed.
A ferris wheel outperformed him.
But there you can see that there's something going on that we're not aware of.
She wasn't having orgasms because her vagina was being stimulated or penetrated.
She was having orgasms because her relationship with gravity had transformed in an unexpected
way and her body responded to that with orgasm.
And so I think there's a forest of ecstasies that we're largely unfamiliar with because
we never find ourselves in contexts where they are catalyzed.
And deep reverent courtship is one of those contexts, whether it's intentional or accidental.
There's a universe of unexplored ecstasies associated with our humanity and our bodies
but unless we're very lucky or very curious, we will overlook.
And the power of physical orgasm is gravidic.
Few of us, given the opportunity to have loving intercourse with someone we adore, will continuously
resist that urge.
Why would we do that?
Just seems like depriving ourselves of pleasure and intimacy and not entirely untrue.
But it's almost like someone tasted strawberries and decided that all other fruit was uninteresting.
This is the problem that we have.
Physical orgasm that we have during sex or sex play is really overwhelming and it's
very near at hand if we both decide that that's what we'd like to do together.
So it's a weird idea but physical orgasm is really the low-hanging fruit of ecstasy.
And as we become familiar with it, and women and men tend to be different in lots and lots
of ways that I will not hear catalog, but as we become familiar with it, men I think
much more so than women, us poor guys, we're just not as diverse and complex as women and
again I'm speaking in broad generalities which there are endless exceptions to.
But us men can become very single-minded about such matters and most of us, with some exceptions,
are unaware that there are other fruit.
Chewing on a sour grass stem.
It's really good, very sour, quite crunchy.
It's interesting, I associate crunchiness with fried things, but this is a very crunchy
living thing.
And of course apples are crunchy and so on.
Now you can see how this is related to my earlier introductory talk on purpose.
Most of the women, many of the women that I speak with, which isn't a huge cohort, find
it extremely troubling that they're viewed as sexual objects or sexual targets, or targets
of the unwanted sexual attention of men in general.
And that's another really deep and complex topic that I don't intend to encompass.
Nonetheless it's important to introduce it because there's a good reason
for the embedded caution of females, lots of good reasons, or rather evolutionary purposes,
developmental purposes, emotional purposes.
But in the broad spectrum of humans you'll find every possible behavior, not just those
that I'm brushing briefly past in my talk.
It's probably true that many lovers who identified as gay or lesbian or queer, transgender, so
on, have had experiences of the other kinds of ecstasy, the other kinds of erotic ecstasies
that I've been speaking towards.
In some cases to be discovered as a man having sex with another man would get you killed
or castrated or tortured or imprisoned and in many parts of the world that's still true.
Although too with women, though somewhat less so with the men, it's right on the surface
of things.
And some of these couples discovered glades in the forests of ecstasy that others who
could more freely engage in physical love were bound to overlook.
And when I say there's lots of kinds of orgasm, I don't mean four or five, I mean hundreds.
In a sense to be embodied is fundamentally ecstatic.
Children experience this all the time.
A lot of that ecstasy gets inhibited, misdirected, redirected, captured, compromised, and so
on as we get older, which is a tragedy I'd love to remedy.
And actually in general humans suck at talking about sex.
Again, there are exceptions.
They also suck at thinking about sex because they have structured imperatives and frameworks
that have been embedded in our consciousness that have nothing to do at all really with
our sexuality except that they inhibit it and redirect it.
And that's a real tragedy.
So the purpose, you know the problem for many women and for many men too, but on the other
side of it is that the quote-unquote average guy isn't particularly deep, probably has
a relatively narrow range of skills and thinking, feeling, and is very attracted to the possibility
of physical sex.
And this may have nothing to do with the goal of having a relationship.
But for those of us who are relationally oriented, there's a wonderful universe of unexplored
territory in the domain that I've somewhat clumsily referred to as courtship by which
I mean the playful mutual engagement in the ecstasies of adoration and discovery and love
and mutual care and protection, healing and comfort.
And if the strong gravity of physical sex overwhelms this, then most of us are evicted
from that garden, sometimes for life.
So I wanted to take a moment and sing the praises of long courtships and even of something
like sexual fasting where although we can have sex, we choose to engage in other ways
so that that doesn't become the easily accessed replacement for deep intimate awareness, adoration,
love, wonder, discovery, invention, exploration.
And if we have that as our purpose, we're going to be living in a very different world
than we might otherwise be used to.
There are so many, there's a library of possibilities there, just waiting for those attentive and
curious and passionate enough to explore them together.
I guess before I go, I want to sing the praises of one other feature of eros, which is just
relational eros.
I can be madly in love with someone who, relationally, or I don't think of them as a sexual partner,
but I think of them as a companion in the way that I did when I was a child before I
had any understanding of sexuality at all.
And it's so profound to have a companion like this.
The intimacies we have known are radically different from those with whom I've pursued
physical relationship.
So many of those were also beautiful.
And when I think of eros, I don't just think, I think of desire.
You know, there's something resembling eros with food, so it's not surprising that there's
an explosion of food porn over the past ten years.
And there's an eros of this living place, and there's the eros of the companions I have
here.
And it's deep and rich, but it's not precisely sexual, it's relational.
And so just as there are libraries of ecstatic experience that our ordinary habits and behavior
may occlude, so too there are deep relational intimacies in companionship that we see presented
to us in stories and films, and we find profoundly moving and may experience some sense of loss
when we are exposed to these stories and films.
You may wonder, well, where in my life is the true companion, or the team, the cohort,
the tribe that can draw me out from my relatively impoverished isolation into the richest and
deepest opportunities of my humanity and heart, and developmental urges?
I hear a woodpecker, and I'm pretty sure that it's making a mating call in the way
it's tapping on the wood.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to further explorations and learning very soon.
Your companions and relationships be deep and rich and fulfilling far beyond the confused
froth on the surface of our modern world.
