Hello.
Hello, Luca.
I'm here with my friend Luca Raid.
Is that how you say your last name?
It depends where we are. Raid in the U.S.
but rather would be the technical Dutch conversation.
Excellent. Thank you.
And we're just going to.
We've had some astonishing conversations historically.
And I'm really looking forward to just getting a little bit into
each other's minds here today and some of the things that
fascinate us.
Yeah, same here.
Thanks for having me.
My pleasure.
Yeah, so we're going to explore a little bit about language,
humans, sociology, and maybe we'll get into some other
philosophical and or spiritual topics.
Tell me a little bit about your history, a little bit about your
childhood, your interest as a kid, how those developed into your
adolescence, some young adulthood.
Yeah.
Well, I am from five cultures, all five of which failed to
properly grasp me into themselves and they all interfered with
each other.
So that gave me both the curse and the blessing of being
cultureless as I entered adulthood.
So that both enabled me to kind of see between the cracks and
feel a bit more deeply into what was happening inside of me and
around me.
And I guess the freedom, which I'm increasingly appreciating to
build my own home and construct my own culture.
So my dad is Dutch from middle class Dutch.
And my mother is Austrian from a minor aristocracy stretching
back to Italy.
We have paintings of very emotionless looking ancestors on the
wall looking very repressed.
So there's a very strong kind of the really repressive European,
the repressive strain of European culture has entered me through
that.
But my grandmother on my mom's side was American.
So there was a race of American influence there.
And then there are all these interferences start happening.
So my grandfather on my mom's side was a diplomat.
So my mom grew up in Iran and India and, you know,
culture is coming in.
And my uncle was doing psychedelics in Goa.
So there were, there were all these things coming in already,
like kind of starting to break the top down ancestral structure
that otherwise would have just kept propagating.
And then in me, I did my high school in Brazil.
My dad was also a diplomat.
So a lot of my close friends were Brazilian.
So there was a lot of the kind of chiller Latin culture.
And my parents lived in the US in New York for four years right
before I was born.
And that really, my mom became a dancer there.
Like she'd never really done dancing before.
And by the end she was doing choreographies.
My dad also loosened up a bit.
So there are all these cultures kind of intertwining and they all
tried in different ways to claim me for their own, so to say.
And my, my behavioral body adopted pieces of each of these.
But yeah, they all interfered.
And it's not that they were different, but there was like
opposition, you know, one would have a different behavioral
norm from the other.
And then that would play itself out like in my body and in my,
like literally moment to moment as I was interacting with people.
And so yeah, that's that kind of gestated.
And I didn't really kind of crystallize until I got to college
and in the US and America's frontier openness, so to say,
messed with my, with my mind in a good way and created the space
for things to open up.
And I tried psychedelics and met people who are very, you know,
explorative, shall we say, of their own existences.
And that's the moment when the little breakages that had happened
throughout my childhood and growing up crystallized into some
more permanent opening into which I could enter and become,
I guess, the explorative, wisp, amoeba thing that is that I am now become.
What were some of the seminal events that you remember in your teen
life as yours first getting, you know, I don't know when your
academic interests began or how they began, but anything significant
in your life history that you feel catalyzed your concerns and
your fascination for philosophical, linguistic and spiritual matters?
Yeah, I mean, what immediately pops out the most prominent one,
which is I discovered the science fiction author Peter F. Hamilton.
I don't know if you've heard of him.
No, I haven't.
I'm a science fiction, but I haven't read him.
Highly recommended.
Yeah, really amazing.
Even now I still recently read a new book of his and it's still
really, really gripped me.
And that what that did to me is it was it was a 500 year future 500 years.
And there was a timeline trajectory of how that future had developed
from the current day.
And it felt like the inevitable progression of how the world would go.
Obviously now I don't feel that anymore because my I've developed my thoughts,
but as a teen, it totally reshaped my idea for my alright,
the world will stay pretty much as it is with some, you know,
we'll have flying cars or something.
I didn't have exposure to really grand ideas.
And then when I read that, I was like, oh, shit, like we maybe we would,
you know, genetically engineer ourselves to become in symbiosis with the
biological world around us.
And, you know, traveling to space.
I mean, that's obviously an obvious one, but in the particular way,
the nuanced way that he was describing it in this book.
And then there were also like spirits from the dead coming back and all kinds
of things that more than anything else just broke the linear thread that I had
of what the future could be that was unconsciously adopted from the world
around me.
And even though the trajectory that Peter of Hamilton presents is not a
realistic path necessarily.
Just having a thread that's like so sideways from the main one also opens
this entire space.
So that was I had like a weekend in which I was barely sleeping just like,
oh my God, oh my God, one of those, one of those kinds of weekends.
Yeah.
And were you reading what other authors influence to you?
Well, a lot.
So there's no I could give a comprehensive list, but just some that kind of
adjacent perhaps to Peter of Hamilton.
I'm Rand actually with Atlas shrugged, not necessarily her philosophy,
like I don't necessarily bind to her philosophy as a whole.
But Atlas shrugged also had this kind of influence where it broke the institutional
narratives of how reality is, right?
As humans were just Cods basically in this big civilizational infrastructure.
And that's how it is.
And there's a very top down flow of authority and legitimacy.
And so that was how I grew up and my parents and everyone around me like was
unconsciously embedded in that.
And I'm Rand helps me break that and be like, oh, we're actually.
Well, at the time I was thinking we're we're human beings and now I'm more
thinking we're organisms.
So it's even a layer below just human beings or alive organisms as we are
who are part of a civilization, but we're not dictated by the civilization.
And that that breakage is create the amount of space that that creates is
absolutely incredible.
Internally, like not just in action, but also just in one's perceptual
experience of the world and how language begins to change.
How social relations become like thicker and more meaningful.
Because they themselves are the full thing rather than being part of this
huge system.
So yeah, all kinds of things started changing about what was your age then.
I think Peter Hamilton was around 13 that I first started reading it.
And then the yeah, 1415 like more and more influences started coming in.
Did you have any non ordinary experiences during your childhood or
adolescence that stand out to you.
Define non ordinary experiences.
Yeah, it can be difficult.
Yeah, any unusual dreaming experiences or perhaps a significant illness accident
or injury or something that left you with questions about spirituality,
religion, before life, after death, any events that you recall.
So this could be as simple as a very unusual dream.
Yeah, well, two dreams come to mind.
One is not so much a dream, but like occurring states during kind of
pre sleep.
In which my, I guess my proprioceptive model got super warped.
So suddenly my arm would be like the size of the universe and the rest of
my body like a dot and then it would morph.
It was like in 5D and the three dimensional world was like it was embedded
in five dimensions basically.
I don't really know how to describe it.
And your age.
I mean, I had that like kind of throughout, you know, like it wasn't like a
single event, but I guess from what I remember it started.
Definitely after 13, like probably 14 or 15.
And these are experiences that happen between being awake and being asleep
generally.
Yeah, yeah.
And sometimes in dreams as well to some extent, but in dreams they were,
they weren't as as encompassing as in the, in the awake to sleep and
literally it's not like I could still feel my leg and also feel that my leg
had changed proportions.
It's like my actual leg had was changed in proportions.
I didn't have a normal sense of my body left except this weird warping.
And actually I think that's one of the reasons that topology really gripped
me.
And that was the area in math that I was, that I developed the most in when I
was in college because that's very much your shifting dimensions in beyond
three dimensions.
You're shifting in all kinds of dimensions, different spatial systems.
So I think the connection there is and not just topology also just general
thinking about the world of which topology is maybe the foundation in some
in some sense.
Yes, this is a central topic for me because I think we're
most of us are pretty deeply scripted to generalize or take what I call the
worst common denominator when we're thinking about a topic or, you know,
anything from film to people in general to some cohort of people.
Often we are, we make, we can make some very clumsy generalizations.
And I always like to remember that humans are a topology.
I may want to point out something about the valleys, you know, but there's
always going to be mountains too, right?
Regardless of whether we place the, we place the value on the valleys, you
know, whether we say the low terrain is good or the high terrain is good.
Either way.
Yeah.
And then even within, let's say you're on the peak and you're talking about it,
even within there, the, when you zoom in, it starts getting weird.
Oh, like it's not just, all these weird shapes start happening, which is a
very theoretical way of putting it.
But practically it just means if you look at a thing, the more you look at
it and the deeper you get into looking at it and the kind of broader your
perceptual state as you look at it, the more it starts getting confusing
basically.
Everything starts kind of dissolving and then the confusion is a different
kind of clarity, but it feels different.
Ah, I follow.
I think.
So like, it sounds like you're saying something like, as you behold
something in your vision, when you begin to pay very close attention to it,
it changes what you see changes the scope of your vision changes.
What details emerge that you can sense can change something like this.
Yeah, exactly.
And that last thing is key is that also your, your whole perception, not
just your vision, but also your bodily sensations and how you're reacting to
that thing.
You start noticing the perception of your reaction to that.
And then there you find all kinds of confusing surprises.
You almost, like in every moment in some sense, like all of experiences, if
you go deep enough, like all of experience kind of emerges from it.
It's true.
Yes.
Well, I think ordinarily in casual participation, you know, we may be
kind of asleep.
Yeah.
And so when we start really paying attention and being present and our
curiosity is awakened and our passion is awakened, then it's a completely
different inner landscape, relational landscape.
Yeah.
So I was really quite astonished in our first conversation.
And I believe you were in Portugal.
Yeah, still in Portugal now.
Is that where you are now?
Okay, great.
I'm in San Francisco.
I was astonished at some of the insights you had about.
It's difficult to just draw a circle around the topic somehow, but it was
about some of the problems that face us as moderns, you know, humans living in
this time in the world that we're in.
And also some of the perennial problems that have kind of plagued our
societies, if you will.
And it seemed to me that you had a very deep
inspiration
around trying to establish something, a sort of a game B situation, right?
Like we're all playing game A.
It's a pretty shitty game.
There must be a better game we could play.
And I think that's something that interests both of us.
And so you seem to have some ideas about game B.
Maybe before we get there, talk to people a little bit about where your
fascination with language comes from and what drives your passion in chasing
the questions that you have around what I call representational cognition.
Yeah, I love that.
Yeah, well with the game B, first of all, I don't like the word game B actually.
I like what it's pointing to.
And in theory, it's an okay name, but I think in practice it gets us into this.
And it re-calcifies the cognitive perspective where it's conceptual like,
oh, game A has this structure, game B has this structure,
or like robots choosing a structure.
So for that reason, I try to steer.
And I see that happening a lot when game B is used by people talking about game B.
I see this insidious effect happening a lot.
So I almost prefer to keep it like nameless, like just call it a different thing
every time almost, to acknowledge that it is a nameless, non-conceptual reality,
an alternative that's non-conceptual.
A way of being that's non-conceptual.
Intrinsically, there's still concepts inside of it, but contained within it, you know,
they're not dominating it the way that game A is dominated by the conceptual structures.
I understand your reticence there, and I share it.
It was just the clumsy misnomer.
Yeah, I think it's okay to use occasionally as one of several names, you know,
and then keep changing the name, and then there's no issue.
Game B, sorry, not Plan B.
Yeah, and the language question.
Yes, back to your fascination with language, which is something I think we deeply share.
Yes, yes.
I mean, one of the things that blew my mind is that we've had very similar ideas,
and it was amazing to meet another person who had clearly seen some of the things
that fascinate, confuse, and thrill me.
But from his own perspective, and so there's so much new,
for me, there was so much novelty there, right?
Very similar concerns and perspectives, but a very different sort of the person behind them
and your interest in them was unique enough to make it really exciting for me.
So yeah, let's talk a little bit about language, wherever you want to go.
I just want to say vice versa with the writing.
Yeah, I really appreciate your, also your Facebook posts.
The same as you're saying, like you're writing is different from mine.
So when I read it, it's like new things happen, you know,
but new things in the same domain in which I've already gone really deep.
And that's a really rare thing for that kind of, that kind of thing to happen.
Yes, yes, we agree about that.
Yeah, so the, well, it's a really rich question.
So let's see how I enter it.
Well, language, I was just thinking maybe a week ago, actually, maybe I'll start there.
I was appreciating how I've been gifted the tool of language, you know,
by all kinds of the civilization I'm in, the education where I was able to learn language,
all the books I had access to, all the people who wrote those books,
just a lot of different things that enabled me as an organism, as a human being,
who could have been alive when there was no developed language to have language as a tool,
almost like a physical tool, like I can shape my environment with it, myself with it.
And it does kind of feel almost physical to me.
And I don't think that's even metaphorical because it does, when you speak language,
it does actually enter another person's like literal nervous system and like it literally has physical changes.
And then they'll conduct physical actions, you know, slightly differently and very different.
So I think it is like a literally indirect, no, a literal physical thing that's just more subtle than a hammer,
but it's as physical and the same with yourself.
It's funny, I rarely think of it that way, but it's very clear that it is thus now that I'm seeing it that way through your eyes.
Please continue.
Yeah, and also on myself, so I like write a lot of stuff, you know, poetry and general reflections, etc.
Like lists of things, you know, as a lot of people do.
And then reading it, like when I reread it, it actually affects me strongly.
It's like, especially if it's been a while, you know, and then I read it again.
It's not just a reminder of something, it's it actually tangibly changes my state.
So, yeah, in a sense through language, like I've partially created what I am now.
Partially, of course, like there's so many things that go into us that is way beyond our control.
So there's no illusion here of being able to fully create myself.
But there is some, you know, pretty intense aspect of that that through language is enabled and in the world around me.
So, yeah, I think the physical quality is the main thing that makes me treated very gravely and seriously and and exploratively, I guess.
Yeah, because it has this physical quality, so to say, it's not a symbolic system that's embedded in something beyond me that I am borrowing.
I feel like this is how I maybe used to feel about language and I sense that a lot of other people feel this way that it's almost like a borrowed thing that is beyond us, right?
There's the dictionaries and the corpus of language, which is we're borrowing and we get to use it almost outside of our core selves.
And yeah, so I don't know exactly how what sparked it.
I guess I have some ideas of the key events, but over time I've come to own language as I use it as a physical tool that is like a hammer created by a blacksmith, maybe, you know, it's definitely not something I've generated.
But it is the thing that I now have and can change and use in new ways and different ways that maybe go way beyond like the language was originally created for us.
So that I think that pretty much gets at the core of it.
Do you get the sense that I guess there's there's many different ways that we can think about language in general and specific features of language, but
I think I was fascinated by language, primarily through my exposure to science fiction.
So I was reading science fiction from the time I was about six.
And by the time I was a teenager, I'd probably read a couple hundred books.
And almost all of it sci-fi.
So I was just starving for that particular.
I loved the prophetic minds of the science fiction authors.
And I was profoundly confused about how they could have formed such minds.
Like, it occurred to me that this is the kind of mind I would like to have, but I can't imagine ever having it.
As I began writing poetry, my late teens, it would be a while yet before I become sort of more technically interested in language and linguistics and semantics.
But probably in my early 20s, I began to, in my writing, have a very unusual relationship with it in the sense that I sort of became a wild experimentalist and was trying to do the strangest things I could think up to do with language and writing.
And the reason that I mentioned these things is.
Do you think about the metaphysical problems of why there's an animal running around on the face of this planet that's essentially a formally representational cognitive that uses things like sentences and build tools and I mean, does this question ever bother you?
Do you ever bother you? Do you ever wonder?
I think part of what I'm asking you is, talk about your metaphysical relationship with language in any way that feels comfortable for a minute.
Where does this stuff come from?
Is it just humans goofing around down here? Is there something more going on?
Give me the skinny.
That's a great question.
Yeah, really important and challenging question that there's like maybe not a, well, yeah, we don't have like an agreed upon answer in the world.
Well, I think there's a lot of different directions I could go with this, you know, a lot of different thoughts and feelings about it.
A thing that recently have been, well, maybe like probably two, three years already that it's been a bit alive and then recently it's really come more alive is the feeling.
So I studied ecology and evolutionary biology was my main thing during college.
There was it was an aft psychology ecology and evolutionary biology in a trio of a self made major.
So that influences my thinking quite a bit.
But the thing as I left the kind of purely cognitive conceptual realms of university and came out into the world and all that knowledge started meshing with actual lived reality.
I started noticing a feeling that's only increased since then that there's what I call like a colonizing society that is an organism that that were hosts of like the way that we were also host viruses.
And because we're so intensely social.
There, there's space in that sociality for, for like an actual other organisms to exist that are maybe quite as cohesive and coherent as a human being is, but then again a human ourselves are also getting replaced, you know, all the time.
So we're not actually that cohesive either in some sense.
But it's probably still less cohesive than that. But nevertheless, it does have a real coherence that can be evolutionarily selected upon, I would say.
And there's there's various different theories on this but it's not really, it hasn't really developed enough for there to be a scientific consensus on it.
There's a lot of theories in that direction.
And it's kind of like post human so humans were the apex predators for a while, and we still kind of are but now there's this colonizing society, which happened to emerge in Europe, but it could have emerged in other places.
And which which it's obviously calling you know we all know about external colonization.
It is. Yes, very strongly so. Yes.
And it's it kind of eats up the lives of us as our organisms and doesn't replace but yeah like sits on top of those lives and converts them into its own existence.
And there's a watch videos of like parasitic organism like wasps being parasitized and caterpillars and stuff, you can get like this really vivid visual image if you just YouTube it, which of course it's not as intense for us like we still have more.
We're not just dead with things coming out of us, but there is a very strong I would say like literal parallel between that and language is is really interesting.
In that regard because it's both part of that colonization through language is how a ton of that colonization happens, like without language I don't think this colonizing society organism would exist, but at the same time, it's
I mean a liberatory tool you could say it's a bit of a cliche term to use I guess, but we can also through it create communication channels between each other as humans that subvert that organism right that colonizing society organism and create like a resonance
space together where we're where we can create something something you not something you some something where our values as individual human beings are what are defining how we're existing together, rather than this top down colonization, wiping out our
own internal lives and what we actually care about. It's kind of yeah from our internal lives that the that our collective being is is determined on both on a small scale you know two people, you know groups and to some extent society but it has to start on a smaller
scale I would say.
I agree. So, I remember when I first began to think about related topics.
I came up with some language, and I was surprised to see that you kind of very similar perspective with your own ways of speaking about it so the three concepts were that the human minds form a network.
It's something like a network right they're connected, and they have physical and non physical parts of the network right the Internet is sort of a physical part, but people dreaming at night in the same house is a non physical part, or maybe even on the same
So that network I called the cognizium.
The connecting elements in the network I call the mimula is physical mimula and non physical mimula, but then something lives in the mimula.
And the thing that lives in the mimula is the colonizing force which I call thrifts.
Basically just ideas mean in the simplest sense. There's many ways we could talk about about them and give examples of them but the religions are thrifts, the corporations are thrifts the governments, even if the religions have some sort of core
trust for the metaphysical, you know, feature, they're still highly colonizing, right there, they're, they're weaponized, the surface layer of the religions is highly weaponized.
Yeah, it's weaponized for the sake of conversion.
Inversion, right.
Yeah, religions.
They're, you know, they're proselytizing and so on.
So, I see the same kind of problem.
It looks like a really deadly problem to me. What happens over time is that key features of our potential for insight group behavior communal behavior, learning self fulfillment and all these kinds of things.
They get pretty severely compromised by the load that we're carrying from society, history, culture, tradition, commerce, war, you know, all these things.
And the thrifts are highly aggressive. And basically they compete for dominance in the Mimula and for reproduction in humans, sort of the simple resources that they are most interested in.
I'm not, I'm not sure that I think of them as organisms, but they can be, they can be evolutionarily selected. This is the problem so that they become more adapted compromising humans and also sort of putting the humans to work on their behalf, which is really bizarre
because it starts to look like a metaphysical problem at this point, because something has captured the humans, and it isn't the humans. It's something in the humans, right, in their ways of thinking and behaving and relating.
That's structured, right, you can, you can point it out, you can say that you can sort of dissect it and say like okay, here's the human over here, and this is the crap they're carrying, you know.
It's a really bizarre situation.
And I was startled that you seem to be aware of something very similar.
So kind of sit around obsessing about this, I study it because I'm interested in understanding if it's possible to introduce something medicinal.
Right, something that would liberate us from this problem. And I think even having the idea that it exists is the beginning of something medicinal.
If you don't see that it exists, then it's fairly difficult to acquire any degree of immunity to it.
We've got about four minutes before the segment ends. So anything you want to add in the next few minutes.
It might be the perfect amount of time for kind of describing my experience of this medicinal alternative, which in one word is God, but there's a lot of gaffy has to be said there.
So I think Christianity was the beginning rather than the end of our birthing of God, and I think God is emergent rather than prior.
So the way that God was conceived in Christianity and, you know, in general, like not just God, but also God's in different religions.
And, you know, even in most indigenous religions, as far as I'm aware, is that they exist prior to humans or above humans somehow and they created the world and humans.
And but there is some kind of divine force that I feel like most people have experienced at least a very small piece of, and some people have experienced in a more substantial form.
And it does seem to just keep happening, you know, like throughout history, there it seems to be a thing.
Somehow there is that's the sounds kind of weird to put it that way, but I think that's the only way to describe it. And I think Christianity was was like, kind of recognizing and kind of a very hazy confused attempt to start to to and also recognition that
that is the power which can free us from thrifts because Christianity originally was was like a rebel, like a very small scale, like underground anti Roman Empire.
Right.
It was very different from what Christianity is now.
Yeah, I mean, the religions sort of pose the same problem in the religions that the thrifts are simply the evil.
Right. Yeah, the religions are there to supposed to be the medicine against the evil.
Right.
It takes the this, the religion as it gets structured takes the original inspiration that of like recognizing whatever this divinity thing is, or love and more and more realizing it's like somehow love, just the as a now not directed but just like a feeling
of a field of love that one can tap into some people that discovered that and then it got clamped down by the religious structure that converted into a thrift and kind of neutered its effect as a result.
Yes, I just want to say about this emergent thing because that was for me that really like changed my relation to this really profoundly.
And if it's top down, it's like, oh, you're you're submitting to an authority. And then it kind of it loses the whole freedom aspect because it just becomes another top down thrift or, you know, colonizing situation.
But it's actually emergent in that it's a thing that has emerged as a maybe as a thrift you could say I don't know.
We're running out. Okay, cool. Well, we have a great jumping off point.
Yes, so hold that thought it's emergent.
I'll send you a new link shortly.
Sounds good.
