I like to say that the individual is a lethal fiction, which is a play on the idea that
the individual is a legal fiction. It is interesting that we call corporations legal
fictions. But the reason that I say that the individual is a lethal fiction, or that I like
to sometimes say that, is a bit more complicated. And it has to do with the difference between
an authentically intelligent human collective that those people live, invent, sustain, and
themselves made and voluntarily joined with, and asked, the difference between an authentic
collective and a fictional one. So it kind of matters what an individual is kind of matters,
or rather depends upon the nature of the context in which we make them a member, whether by word
or in truth, or living, or whatever. So that the idea of an individual just as an abstract thing
is a deadly fiction. There's no such thing you've never seen one. There's no person that is
themselves by themselves. They didn't become themselves by themselves, they didn't make
themselves, feed themselves, grow mind and isolation, and so on. There is no such thing as
an individual. All of us are in what we refer to as culture. And that is in what we refer
to as nature, whether we like to pretend that that's true or not. So what is an individual?
Is there such a thing? And what does it mean to be or have a self? We are trained to think
and speak as though we as individuals possess certain traits, qualities that can be analyzed,
skill, intelligence, weight, height, beauty, athletic facility, and so on. And in a culture
that has become dominated by the analytical paradigm, and the promise of making it a kind
of a universal thing in every dimension of our lives, especially in the cities, we're
playing with a lot of very dangerous material that I think we don't understand the psychological
and human and ecological effects of. But how do we figure out what it means to be an individual?
What if someone doesn't know? What if someone said, well, I don't know what it means to
be an individual? Help me understand what you mean by this word. What if someone who came
from a place where everyone was always together, and even when they weren't, they still kind
of were, so that none of them really thought of themselves as individuals, but rather as,
well, appendages. Yeah, like my hand is of me. So they all thought of themselves as the
appendage of a not thought of but knew themselves this way. And so I didn't know what we meant
by an individual. What could we tell them a separate person? Really, that sounds terrifying.
So they would think of chopping off one of the fingers. And then asking yourself questions
about what it would think and do what kinds of qualities it would have by itself, right?
And that to those people would seem absurd. And what I'd like us to consider together is that we truly are,
like those people in my figure, that can only be individuals within an authentic context,
that is humane and ecologically and relationally intelligent, self correcting, that breaks up
and comes back together and doesn't just play one song over and over, right? So we have the idea of an
individual and that idea is a fiction. Even though it's a physical fact that you are separate,
and since you belong to no authentic collective other than your friends and family and such,
probably maybe you do. You will not be protected or sustained or known as one of. You will not
be seen as you or of us, which is perhaps one of the most important experiences for human
beings to have, to belong. And not to belong provisionally or by contract, by obligation,
by law, by necessity or by birth, not to belong by random facts or by, how should we put it,
but to belong in truth and to be a full member to have agency and meaning in endeavors and teams
and groups, families, tribes that matter and are real and are not led by fictions and are not
based on what we consume together. Be that be sports, drugs, religious fictions, scientific
paradigms, the newest philosophy of unity on the market, transcendence, ascension, near death
experience, you name it, right? We find a million kind of ways to come together and exchange
wilder fictions, but none of our fundamental communities are authentic. And so we hear a
lot of talk about people think this, people do that. These people think this way, those people
think that way. Meanwhile, there's nothing underneath all those people that's, how should
we put it, true, that we can trust, that we can trust ecologically, right, in the sense
of life on earth, that we can trust as animals, in the sense that it's not deadly poisonous
to animals, because we're animals. And in the sense of humanity, in that it's human and doesn't
put fictions over lives and intelligence, and doesn't put technology over lives and
intelligence, and doesn't put ideas over lives and intelligence, but keeps those lives and
intelligences first, sees relation first, and frameworks third or something, right? So
we've kind of got the opposite of that pretty much everywhere. So that even the people who
embody the agents of false collectives are doubly or trickly false within them. Thus,
our police aren't police. Our government, our governors are not governors. Our political
system isn't a political system. Our Christianity isn't Christianity. Our feminism isn't feminism.
I mean, it's just everything instantly kind of counterfeits itself, the moment that we
start trying to collect around the topic, because our fundamental connection is missing,
or counterfeited, fictional, the fact that we are all Americans, quote unquote, because
we happen to have, we happen to live on this continent at this moment in time, together.
We've fictionally drawn boundaries and such, and it's just kind of a massive cluster fork
of competing fictions, and then we have some mask in that, and that mask is our individuality
that we're supposed to defend and celebrate, advertise, protect, and so on, I guess, or
something. Therapy's really cool because it's about the relationship between the mask
and all the fictional overlays. So, that's kind of crazy. The idea of therapy is that
you can fix the mask so that it won't so severely conflict with all those fictions that you can't
survive it anymore. That's interesting. And so you're going to have to go work in those fictions
to make the money, to pay for the therapy, to adjust your mask so that it won't conflict
so much with the fictions you have to work to pay the therapist for, that you can't survive it.
That sounds like a great idea. So, anyway, we have all these overlays, right? We're living
in a real biological world, and then because we're representational animals, we have all
these fictional overlays. And we've always, you know, had some, and we've got a lot more
today, especially with the onset of the quote information age. We keep making new layers,
right? Stratified layers of cultural overlays, representational schemas, systems, ideas,
algorithms, sciences, religions, philosophies, and so on, traditions. So, the individual,
how does it exist? Since it's buried in all those overlays and swarming, all those things
are swarming all around it. I mean, you couldn't stop naming all the different fictions. You
wouldn't be able to get done, even for that a child is exposed to, right? And so what are
they exposed to that we can trust? Well, in the human world, very, very little, because
again, they're not going to have a basis to stand on from which to be able to reliably
interpret it. So without that basis, even books of great intelligence, even mathematics,
even the arts, even the sciences, become dangerous, because what's the basis from which we'll
approach these things for what the purpose is? And what's going to happen is they're always
going to be the purposes of the overlays and the fictional culture and such. Therefore,
we're not going to be able to trust them. They're going to be internally conflicted.
So the individual has the same problem with trying to figure out who he or she is, who
they are. And a million overlays are conflicting with it. So there's actually kind of no way
that's going to be an individual. You're going to decide what you'll do and what you won't
do within the overlays and kind of wear those clothes and talk that talk and do those things
and belong to a group of friends and people who think like you, maybe. And perhaps you'll
include a few people who don't think quite exactly like you, but close enough that you
don't have to do anything and something like that. But that's not individuality. That's
actually something very confusing and different. So it looks like in order to have individuals,
you have to have authentic cultures, or at least a collection of people who've come together
authentically and intelligently not to agree with each other or celebrate each other or
aggrandize each other, but to learn to see and to grow and maybe to accomplish a very
important task. There are examples of such collectives. They're uncommon, but they can
also spring up at random when there's a problem. Sometimes we form them fluidly. And for a
brief moment inside those collectives, real human individuals emerge, actual people. But
most of the time it's impossible for us to be individuals because we need a context that
encourages the full dimensionality of what it means to be human and alive and intelligent.
And because most of the contexts have 90% of those options shut off and the remaining
10% counterfeited, we aren't individuals. We're depersonated. We've been depersonated
and we'll kind of grab on to whatever sort of little pieces of personation-like representations
we can get from the overlays, you know, and can tattoo those on ourselves and advertise
them to the world and such. And to try and have some sense of our own, the spirit of our
personation into life and intelligence, awareness, consciousness, dreaming, love, discovery, mutual
rescue, wonder, nature. So there are all the people that we talk about most people and
all this kind of thing. They're kind of proto people because we don't know what they would
do in a context that was real. They might not act anything like that. Criminals and
reprobates, crazy, insane Republicans, flippy, dippy, hippie kind of, you know, whatever
you want to make up names for people and call them, however you want to diminish them or
classify them. The really weird thing is, and all of the times we say like most people this,
those people that, we're really, we're not talking about people at all. We're talking
about, first of all, just an idea in our minds of what we think, you know, thought people. So
these aren't actually really people at all we're talking about. But we're thinking about people
that have no context, like people decontexted to people, right? People in general. But everybody
is different in different contexts. And we can invent and change all those contexts together.
We're not just subject to contexts, even though language and our tradition of expectation
perhaps inclines us in this direction. No, we are capable of transforming any context
instantaneously. We are the ones who generate the reference frame, its purpose of anchors,
its orientations, all these things. And a single person can transform a planet, can transform
the context of the planet, if they, how should we put it, have the right relational senses
in play. Because what most people are doing is reacting to joining and objecting and fighting
for and against a bunch of pieces of the overlay. And this will never succeed, unfortunately.
It will generate more overlay as anyone should see. So we have to make a kind of different
move. We have to make a move in a different dimension. We have to establish contexts in which
we can personate authentically together, which we won't depersonate each other. And in which
we won't be made to impersonate half human versions of things we never wanted to be in
contexts that are so conflicted that we can't even do that correctly. So I think what an
individual starts to look like is somebody in a constellation of meaningful intelligent
relationships with nature, other people, purpose, learning, skill, play, creativity.
An individual, really, you're going to need something like that to ever see what one looks
like. And so if you're looking at any person who's not looking like that, not looking like
a member of a rich constellation, a vitally human, vitally ecologically relational, intelligent
people, you know, heartfelt, creative, curious, learning oriented. These are people who will
not value opinions much and will probably not have a lot of beliefs. These are people so
quickly learning that they flow through change. They transform rapidly, learn very quickly
together. If you're seeing someone in that kind of a context, now you've gotten something
like an individual. But if you take any person and make any of those relationships fake or
give them precedences from the culture, fictions, jobs, money, economy, drugs, and so on, sex,
whatever it takes to corrupt it, now you're getting much less of an individual. And as
the entire context gets counterfeited seven ways to Sunday, what you have is sort of the
victim of that. Many remaining individuality in there is thin and heroic, unless you've
got a very unusual person who can resist or even, how should we put it, manipulate the
overlays. And then there are those whose humanity is so deep and strong that they can just stand
by them, in all cases. Those kinds of individuals are rare, there are a few of them. But even
those people are deeply, deeply in love with nature and humanity, intelligence, the origins
that become the word we've shamed as liberty and other such matters. So I don't think we're
individuals until we invent contexts in which we can intelligently become them. And we do
that in places in culture, it's not like there are none. One imagines a quintet playing in
the afternoon in an urban center, perhaps original classical music, or one imagines a moment where
people have come together and there's some kind of culture jamming going on, they're kind of
hacking the culture and transforming the space into intelligence and play together unexpectedly.
There are classrooms where something more like the origins of learning together is going on.
There are rare shining students who can transform, who can bring an entire classroom back to life.
And so too, there are teachers. But even those students and those teachers are members of a
constellation. And it's the constellation that you're seeing when it appears that an individual is
shining. So are there individuals? Do we really have distinct minds? Well, that's an interesting
question. Is your mind the same if I put someone else with you? Anyone else? And will it change
depending on who that person is? So is it true that you have a mind? That you have a mind that has
certain qualities that you can depend on these qualities as language and tradition like us to
think? Is it true that you've got a mind? And only that, if it were true that you have a mind,
like we say in English, which sounds ridiculous, who is it that is the possessor? Because
that implies that something that is not your mind is you and possesses a mind as like an extra
feature. But is that true? Would that make any sense? So let's just say that, for example,
you're a comatose. And so let's also say that you're never going to wake up. In this case,
not you, but let's say that some person in a thought experiment is a comatose and they're
never going to wake up. Are they a you? Now, if they wake up, they are a you. They have a mind.
But if they don't wake up, are they still, what kind of, what is the status of the self there?
It's highly theoretical, whatever it is, because we won't be able to ask them. We'll have to wonder
outside, right? So we're going to probably have to just make stuff up. And we might not be entirely
wrong about all the things we make up, but we should neither should we depend on them very much
for we cannot check. So do you have a mind? And if I put you in a battleground, do you have
the mind that you have if I put you in a boring classroom? Is that the same mind that you have
if I put you in the most amazing moment in a classroom you've ever had? Is it the same mind
you have when you're doing something you like, or when you're doing something you don't like?
Do you have a mind? And if there are animals nearby, do you have the same mind? What if there is a
bee? What if there is, you know, a bird? What if there is a tiger? So not only that, did you get a
mind by yourself? And do you only think about you in your mind? So do you never think about other
situations, animals, people, blah, blah, blah? Because if you think about other people, or if you
think about, for example, some people have an unfortunate problem with this, if you think about
how other people may be thinking of you, uh oh, then you realize that your mind is really
interested in other minds and other people, and maybe even animals and living places and
machines that simulate them and all kinds of things. And that's probably because you don't
just have one. Maybe what you're doing isn't like having. Maybe, although your mind and your habits
with it tend to look stable in a certain way to your history, over history and such, right?
Maybe there's a lot more there than meets the eye of our language and thinking. I'd like to suggest
there is. So I think what happens more than we have a mind is that we compose minds together in
contexts according to what is proximate to our attention and urgent to our desire and stuff. So I
think we sort of keep assembling different kinds of minds on the fly, and we have habits about how
we do that that are personal, but the potentials of each person are fairly unlimited in the right
kinds of contexts where cooperation or cooperative competition even is the norm rather than focus
on individuals, which is the way we tend to approach it. So I don't think we have minds. I think our
minds are a constellation of relationships and histories that are really very elaborate and
change dramatically in different contexts. And by the way, they change in a certain way under
analysis so that whenever we're trying to analyze those minds, we're going to get kind of weird results
even if the minds don't know they're being analyzed. And analysis itself produces a rather disembodied
perspective to begin with that while useful in its narrow fields of application becomes a bit
confusing and tyrannical when it escapes them. Before I close, I'm going to touch briefly on the
question of what could a soul be? What is the intellect? What is that with which you can tell
whether something is true or not, whether it is beautiful or not, whether you like it or not,
whether you recognize it or not? What is it? What is that with which you laugh when a joke gets
through to you? What is that which makes you cry when deep feelings are aroused? And what is meant
by this idea of a soul? Could you have a soul? And might it be something you could lose? Or could it
be threatened? Or could it be rewarded? So now if you have a soul, like if you have individuality,
which again, I think we've seen is really kind of a questionable idea, although it's you got physical
individuality, that's deceptive compared to our human nature and the real situation of relation
on earth for organisms and people with hearts and minds. So do we have a separate soul? Now if we do,
then of course it can be threatened and we can be told there are rewards for it and such like that.
We can be told it can live eternally or maybe perish or possibly be tormented, rewarded and so on.
But what if we don't? What if our soul is a constellation of other lives and our position of reference
to that constellation? So it's obviously a constellation. I have a specific link to every organism on this planet
and so do you. And that's probably the most fundamental identity that I have in truth. The most trustworthy,
absolutely true fact about who and what I am. I have a connection to every animal in the earth,
every ecology. And then I have a specific connection to every human being in all of human history.
And then I have closer and closer rings of connection until you get a very small constellation of those people
who've been close to my life, who I've impacted so to speak, or who my existence has informed
and whose existence has informed mine. And so too I have relationships with temporal situations,
context moments. I have a specific temporal relationship to every moment in terrestrial history at least.
But when we start getting close to the people and the animals and the living environments that I have emerged with
and from and as, we start to understand something about my soul. My soul is the living places and beings
and relationships in whom I have brought soul into, and who have brought soul into me.
So it's not something that I have, right? It's more something that I express. The index finger of a hand
doesn't have its own soul. What the hand is used for and does expresses the soul of the index finger, yeah.
So like, I don't really, though I can understand and very much identify with the idea of a separate soul
because I'm a regular person, raised in Western America, everything I see in nature implies something else.
And not just in nature, things I've seen beyond nature too. Very clearly seem to imply that a soul is a way of being in an as-relation
and it is also something like a way of travel in an as-relation.
And it depends upon the relationships closest to one's own heart, origin, life, places, the animals and so on.
So for me, it's a change in constellation and it's really the whole history of life on Earth.
But if you want to get, you know, close to me, my little portion of that, so to speak, it doesn't belong to me.
Indeed, what I have over it is conservatorship. I have been blessed in my toy that I'm making here
with the capacity to invent and enact soulfulness as Darren.
In a milieu so exotically beautiful, so incredibly alive and true that such an opportunity is an unimaginable grace.
And though in my regular human thinking and, you know, in relation with the, with culture and the overlays and the internet and jobs and fear and such,
I forget all of that. Fundamentally, I sense that a soul is something we are doing and not something we possess.
And so that I do not have one, I become one. Or not, I become one, I become, what is the right word? It's not a one.
I become the flowing of soul or something like this. Yeah.
I'm, forgive me, my words are failing, failing me at the moment.
That's probably appropriate when speaking of such matters.
But what I'm trying to get at is just that it is a capacity of agency that's local to my mind and life rather than a possession that will,
that I have now or will depart or can be tortured or preserved.
Well, no, it's a pattern in a vast web of relationships. Yes.
And so I can't have that any more than a drop can have the, a drop of water can have the ocean. Right.
And there's another very significant facet of this idea, which is similarly true of the intellect.
We imagine that they're locals stuck inside us a possession. They are nothing like this. They're vehicles for travel.
And there is a dimension in which the intellect can travel that is alive and itself more than intelligent.
And the same is true of the soul. The soul's dimension is nature. It is meant to fly. It is a flying part of you.
And so to the intellect. But these matters are much more complex. We'll leave them for another time.
Perhaps for the moment, I've at least brought into question how we tend to think about people, right?
Because they don't tend to become people until you give them a context in which they can authentically personate. Yeah.
So they're kind of in a proto state until then. And we have to make that context and how we are depersonated and then must impersonate people
and how it's not going to work. How therapy is a little bit weird about that.
And then the intellect. That with which we represent and think and use language.
And how this, and ideas from the intellect tend to stand over our intelligence and form cultural overlays,
and bury us in all of that. So it's really hard to discover who to be, how to be, what to be.
And then finally, the soul. We don't possess it, but it is actually related to how we are in relation.
And thus you don't have one that's getting stained or marked or counted. It is a way of being or not.
Being some other way, which definitely can become accounting and is likely to do so.
And perhaps we've raised some questions about the possession, the possession aspect of qualities, right?
The qualities are associated with people, when really it's kinds of potential.
And most of it remains hidden until there's a context appropriate for it to emerge.
Until then, what will we see? I don't know, symptoms of its absence?
If we think those are people, we ourselves have become quite confused.
Perhaps by creating contexts that are authentic, challenging, mutual, cooperatively competitive, and ecologically intimate.
We will have a chance to discover what it might mean to be an individual.
And what it might mean to be a part of a collective that was noble and true enough to stand in violation of nearly everything else we've seen.
Again, with few and wonderful exceptions. Perhaps we'll find ways to become more of those together. Thanks.
