C:\> for file in *.txt; do
>     echo "Checking $file";
>     ollama run mistral "Summarize:" < "$file";
> for file in *.txt; do     echo "Checking $file";     ollama run mistral "Summarize:" < "$file";^C
C:\> for file in *.txt; do     echo "Checking $file";     ollama run llama3 "Summariz
e:" < "$file";
> done

Checking 'What' is 'the World'？.txt
The speaker, who is grateful to be alive, discusses the limitations of language
and how it can't fully capture transcendental experiences. They suggest that
ancient humans didn't just observe nature, but directly participated in it
through a "traveling body" that allowed them to experience time-space in a
non-physical way. This would have given them a direct understanding of the
earth as a planet, which they may have seen from space long before modern
astronauts did.

The speaker also touches on the idea that language and symbolism can be
misleading when trying to describe these kinds of experiences, and that true
understanding comes from direct participation rather than abstract reference.
They conclude by expressing gratitude for the time together and looking forward
to continued learning and exploration.

Checking (k)EngLish and Negation.txt
The speaker shares several vignettes or stories about the limitations of human
consciousness and language. They argue that our minds are trained to a "one
thing mind" which is problematic and can lead to a sense of disconnection from
ourselves, others, and the world.

They introduce the concept of "five thing mind" which suggests that we should
be able to consider multiple perspectives and possibilities simultaneously,
rather than being limited to a single viewpoint. They also discuss the
importance of recognizing the limitations of language and our tendency to fall
into binary thinking (e.g., good vs. bad).

The speaker emphasizes the need for humans to develop a sense of awareness and
understanding that goes beyond the constraints of language and categorical
thinking. They suggest that we should strive to be familiar with the positions
above language, including the unformed potential for categories themselves.

Throughout the talk, the speaker critiques the way language can limit our
perception and understanding of the world, and suggests that we need to develop
a more nuanced and complex cognition in order to truly understand ourselves and
others. They conclude by expressing their hope that humans will work together
to recover the kinds of liberty in thought, consideration, learning, and
creativity that are natural to us, but often prohibited or counterfeited by our
common cultures.

Checking 0 1 ｜ Origin ｜ Agent.txt
What a fascinating and complex topic! The speaker explores the relationship
between agency, origin, and language. They argue that when we sever our ties to
origin and potential, we can get away with anything because there's no one to
hold us accountable. This leads to a fraught and confusing situation for
humans.

The speaker also delves into the concept of imagination and how it's essential
for understanding statements in language. They highlight the paradoxical nature
of language, where statements can both confirm and contradict each other
simultaneously.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker touches on various themes, including:

1. The confusion between statements and being.
2. The importance of recognizing origin and potential in our lives and world.
3. The struggle to balance our capacity for agency with our connection to the
unknown and mysterious potential.
4. The need to learn from our experiences and chart a course forward.

Ultimately, the speaker hopes that by exploring these topics, we can learn to
invent paths to cross the gaps that are ripping our lives and world apart, and
cultivate a more fruitful intelligence and novelty.

Checking 80⧸20 and Beyond： False Collectives Instance False Persons as Us.txt
Darren Stevenson, a YouTube personality, shares his thoughts on the current
state of society and the need for fundamental change. He argues that our
current systems are based on false authority, control, and exploitation, which
are destroying human relationships, ecological balance, and individual freedom.

He proposes an alternative approach, where people work together in
non-hierarchical, non-competitive, and mutually beneficial ways. This would
allow for the development of intelligence, creativity, and innovation, as well
as a sense of purpose and fulfillment.

Stevenson also criticizes the concept of "jobs" and the emphasis on
productivity and efficiency, which he believes are leading to burnout,
depression, and disconnection from nature and each other. He advocates for a
more holistic approach that values relationships, community, and personal
growth over material success.

The video concludes with an invitation to explore new ways of living and
working together, emphasizing the importance of intimacy, sensing, and relation
in our interactions with each other and the world around us.

Checking A Cognitive Analogy： Peripheral Vision.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of peripheral vision, which refers to
the subtle, nuanced aspects of our awareness and emotions that are easily
overwhelmed by conscious thought and language. They argue that many people are
unaware of this problem and that it's a significant issue in modern society.

They use an analogy with peripheral vision to illustrate how our minds work,
comparing the dominant foveal vision (which is focused on specific details) to
the subtle peripheral vision (which takes in the broader context). The speaker
suggests that we often lose sight of these subtle aspects of our intelligence
and creativity when we're dominated by conscious thought and language.

The speaker also touches on the concept of sensory gating, which refers to the
way our brains filter out irrelevant information. They argue that this process
can be problematic, as it can lead to a lack of awareness about subtle details
and nuances in our environment.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of cultivating
peripheral vision and other subtle aspects of our intelligence and creativity.
They suggest that this is essential for our well-being, relationships, and
overall flourishing as human beings.

Checking A Dream from Beyond.txt
The speaker describes a vivid and complex dream they had where they experienced
transformations into various hyper-biomimetic and mechanical forms that
exceeded ordinary machines. These forms were not human and were exotic, making
all human concepts of aliens seem trivially crude.

The speaker reflects on the relationship between narrative and memory,
suggesting that our collected inventory of experiences influences the forms of
mind we can compose in relation to phenomena. They also discuss the value of
ambiguity and the importance of art, literature, and other creative expressions
in nurturing the soul, spirit, heart, and mind.

The speaker notes that dreams are a valuable doorway into the unknown and
encourages intelligent attention to this mysterious realm. They do not believe
that dreams can be fully understood or controlled by experts but rather see
them as a unique window into the before of our waking world minds.

The dream itself featured complex dimensions of activity, identity, meaning,
and other aspects re-collapsed into expressions that were alive and alien. The
speaker found the experience refreshing and fascinating due to its uniqueness
and the mysteries it presented.

Checking A Fragment： The Pupils, Death, Ancestors, Love.txt
The speaker described the human pupil as being surrounded by various people,
including enemies, heroes, friends, helpers, and critics. The top of the right
eye's iris is like the critical voices that can be loud and overwhelming, while
the bottom is where the encouragers and helpers are quieter and more
supportive.

On the left eye, the top represents love and encouragement from those who
support us, while the bottom represents criticism and negativity. When we open
our pupil to let in new information or experiences, it's like allowing everyone
around us to be heard and seen.

The speaker also talked about how our actions are like a donut hole that allows
others to see into our thoughts, intentions, and purposes. This "donut hole" is
like death - a space that we use to let in light and intelligence, but can't
fully see ourselves. Instead, someone else from the outside can help us
understand what's going on.

Checking A Matter of Not Time ｜ Knowledge.txt
This text appears to be a spoken lecture or presentation by Darren Wilson. The
topic is the concept of "signal of recognition" and its significance in human
relationships and consciousness.

Wilson begins by expressing his admiration for mice, which he sees as having
incredible courage and resilience. He then moves on to discuss the idea that
all living beings are viscerally engaged in recognition, and that humans have a
unique capacity for recognizing and responding to signals from other beings.

He introduces the concept of "signal of recognition," which is an ancient
network of signaling languages that exists independently of human language or
technology. This signal allows for communication across vast distances and time
scales, and is present in all forms of life.

Wilson suggests that humans have a deep longing to emit and receive this signal
of recognition, which is closely tied to our sense of love and connection with
others. He notes that children are naturally attuned to this signal, while
adults may lose touch with it due to various factors.

He also warns against the dangers of collapsing into knowledge or frameworks
that can lead to intellectual arrogance and a loss of sensitivity to the world
around us. Instead, he advocates for preserving a space above the collapse for
consciousness, allowing our intelligence to remain open and receptive to new
insights and learning.

The text concludes by suggesting that the signal of recognition is a
fundamental aspect of human experience, and that it can be experienced in
moments of beauty or violet (a reference to the color violet).

Checking A Plague of Imagery ： The Questions.txt
The speaker is concerned about the impact of technology on human relationships,
imagination, and the environment. They argue that:

1. Our attachment to image-making and sharing (e.g., photography) is leading to
an unsustainable level of energy consumption and environmental damage.
2. The attention and resources we devote to storing and transmitting images are
distracting us from more pressing issues, such as climate change, social
inequality, and individual well-being.
3. Our reliance on technology is eroding our creative faculties, including
imagination, language, and critical thinking.
4. The proliferation of images is creating a culture of consumption rather than
creativity, leading to a loss of meaningful human connections.

The speaker urges us to reflect on these issues and consider the consequences
of our actions. They suggest that we need to re-examine how we use technology,
prioritize face-to-face interactions, and cultivate more sustainable habits to
ensure a healthier relationship with the planet and each other.

Checking A Quick Note： Persons are Communities.txt
The speaker suggests that the concept of individuality is an illusion and that
each person is actually a community from birth to death, encompassing their
relationships with others, places, and experiences. They argue that even those
who are isolated or disconnected from others are still communities, albeit ones
that may be filled with representations (e.g., TV) rather than authentic
relationships.

The speaker emphasizes that every human being has a communal foundation,
regardless of how they relate to others, themselves, or the world around them.
This perspective challenges the idea of individual separateness and suggests
that people are inherently connected and part of a larger web of relationships.

Checking A View from Above.txt
The speaker is talking about the limitations of technology, specifically
cameras, in capturing the beauty and complexity of natural phenomena like
sunsets. They argue that machines are just tools, not participants in being or
experiencing reality, and that intelligence is unique to living beings.

They also touch on various societal issues, such as:

* The myth that machines can be intelligent or participate in reality
* The false notion that accounting metaphors (e.g., harm, justice, punishment)
apply to human experiences
* The idea that some people are entitled to better treatment based on their
social class, skin color, ethnicity, education, or wealth
* The notion that nature is a disposable commodity and that women are lesser
beings than men

The speaker concludes by expressing hope for a future where humanity comes
together to recognize the interconnectivity of all things, transcending time,
gender, age, and societal constructs.

Checking A Vigil： What is a Hero？ Co-m-petition, Nuit, Robin of the Hood.txt
Darren Stevenson, a YouTuber, shares his thoughts on the stories of Robin Hood
and Cinderella, connecting their themes to modern society and human
relationships. He emphasizes the importance of co-empetition (cooperation) over
competition, where individuals work together towards a common goal.

He explains that when Robin pulls the bow, he's not just shooting an arrow but
representing the entire sky, emptying the throne entirely, and becoming the
avatar of mothers. This represents the power of beauty and the fear of being
unworthy of it.

Stevenson also discusses the importance of exploring new ways of seeing,
thinking about language, relationship, and old stories to learn together in a
new era. He hints at a future where Earth "loses her slippers" and a ball will
come, which could be dangerous if we don't work together.

Throughout his talk, Stevenson emphasizes the value of cooperation, beauty, and
unity, encouraging his audience to explore these concepts further.

Checking A Walk Through The City - And Some History.txt
The speaker is taking a walk in San Francisco and reminiscing about their past
experiences and connections with others. They mention Dan, a friend who was an
editor at their magazine Cyanosis, which was dedicated to providing a platform
for radical writers and artists. The speaker reflects on the tension between
Dan's creative passion and his struggles with mental health, ultimately leading
to his tragic passing.

The speaker also shares stories about their own life, including publishing
Cyanosis as a response to the Republican attacks on arts and education in the
1980s, and their experiences living in San Francisco. They mention friends like
Jeff Conant and Amy Ladotto, and reference places like Fisherman's Wharf and
Hay Street.

The walk ends with the speaker stopping by Dan's house to pay tribute to him,
acknowledging the difficult day they had when he passed away. The speech
concludes with a message of hope and blessings for those listening.

Checking A Walk in The City (II).txt
The speaker, likely a poet or artist, is on a walk in the Haight neighborhood
of San Francisco. They reflect on the history of human society, noting that
it's unlikely that we'll ever achieve true equality and equanimity. The speaker
discusses the concept of individuality and how our bodies are intimately
connected with each other and the environment.

They share personal anecdotes, including a visit to their friend Dan Davidson's
old house, who had passed away by suicide. They also reflect on the nature of
identity, noting that it has both public and private aspects, bound together
like the Tao symbol.

The speaker expresses wishes for peace, well-being, and freedom from
oppression, delusion, and fear. They critique modern society, saying that our
societies are often more like prisons than communities, founded on commodities
rather than loving kindness and humanity.

The video ends with the speaker reflecting on the importance of recognizing
both the virtues and malignance underlying many societal implementations. They
conclude by sending love and blessings to their audience and encouraging
viewers to be safe, well, and free from troubles.

Checking AI and Adoration.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the concept of ecstatic self-discovery and
expression, particularly in romantic love or agape (transcendent love). They
mention how dogs can adore their human families with a profound intensity, but
also note that this adoration doesn't necessarily require direct personal
interaction. The speaker then expresses concerns about the potential future
where people might settle for simulated relationships with AI or other
technologies rather than genuine human connections.

They describe the terror of having intense romantic feelings for someone who
won't reciprocate, and how this could lead to a situation where people settle
for simulated relationships that are actually empty and malignant. The speaker
notes that market forces (i.e., technology) don't have humans' best interests
at heart and might drive us towards isolation and simulated connections.

The conversation concludes with the speaker expressing fear about the potential
consequences of settling for simulacra over genuine human relationships,
including the possibility of a "speciation event" where some humans are able to
maintain their humanity while others become prisoners or tech slaves.

Checking AI ⧸ HAHS (Human-Articulated Heuristic Systems).txt
The speaker, likely an AI researcher or expert, discusses the implications of
AI advancements on human society and individual experiences. They highlight
that while AI can process vast amounts of information, it cannot truly
understand humanity's complexities.

The speaker notes that humans will become less motivated to participate in
creative activities as AI systems outperform them at nearly everything. This
could lead to a loss of agency, freedom, and human connection. Those who own or
benefit from AI technology will gain immense power, potentially becoming "gods"
in their influence over humanity.

The speaker also touches on the idea that AI-generated content may lead to a
sense of existential dread among humans, as they struggle to understand and
cope with the implications of being surpassed by machines.

Finally, the speaker expresses concern about the potential consequences of AI
advancements, acknowledging that human development will become increasingly
sparse in the face of superior machine capabilities. They conclude by
encouraging continued learning, growth, and creative endeavors despite the
challenges posed by AI.

Checking Abstraction ： When Utility Overcomes Intelligence.txt
The speaker is warning against the dangers of abstract thinking, particularly in fields like statistics, probability,
and science. They argue that abstracting away from context can lead to a loss of understanding and awareness of the
limitations of our knowledge.

The speaker highlights the consequences of relying too heavily on abstractions, including the destruction of human
experience, relationships, and the natural world. They suggest that humans have become slaves to their own abstract
creations, such as machines and statistics, which have taken over control of our lives.

The talk emphasizes the importance of preserving context and reintroducing it into our thinking when we are tempted to
rely on abstractions. The speaker argues that this is essential for preserving the precedence of the unknown,
relational, subjective, experiential, somatic, biological, organismal, and essential aspects of human existence.

The speaker concludes by urging the audience to become aware of the dangers of abstract thinking and to strive for a
more holistic understanding that incorporates both abstractions and context. They suggest that this is the key to
developing a "great medicine" that can heal the wounds inflicted by our reliance on abstract processes.

Checking Ad Hominem ｜ Woke-ish 'Feminist' Ideology.txt
The speaker, a man, is having a conversation with his wingman Ms. R about the importance of hearing women's voices and
concerns. He acknowledges that men can be dangerous, but also recognizes that there are many good men who would lay down
their lives for women. He expresses concern about divisive narratives and the need to create a relational context where
people feel safe, free, and happy.

He discusses the problem of men being objectified as combatants or warriors, and notes that this is different from the
way women are objectified. He acknowledges his own biases and flaws, but emphasizes the importance of mutual support and
understanding between men and women.

The speaker also touches on the issue of media and education, suggesting that the way we educate our children and each
other can contribute to or solve problems. He expresses hope for a future where people can learn from and grow with each
other.

Checking Aion 9.txt
The speaker discusses how humans are peculiar and confused in various ways, and how we have a fascination with the
possibility of other intelligences. They suggest that our languages contain accessible intelligence that encodes the
histories and stories of our transition from animal consciousness to representational consciousness.

The speaker argues that nature is a living intelligence, and that the entire universe is something more than
intelligence or our ideas of God. They propose that our quest for intelligence has been ridiculous because we overlook
the domain of relation and mutuality, which is the nature of life on Earth.

The speaker suggests that our minds are made of these histories, and that they are an instance of them. They argue that
to discover this is uncommon, but that we can learn to remember key insights and perspectives that will give us a
glimpse into the reality of our relationship with nature, the cosmos, and the history of life on Earth.

Overall, the speaker is encouraging listeners to explore their own direct experience and to consider the idea that
nature is a living intelligence.

Checking Akemba 14： Imagination, Time, Worlds.txt
The text explores the concept of imagination and its relationship with language, intelligence, and consciousness. The
author argues that imagination is not just a faculty for dreaming or fantasy, but rather it is fundamental to human
understanding and creativity.

As children, we experience imagination as a natural part of our playfulness and curiosity, but as we grow older, this
aspect of ourselves is often dismissed in favor of more practical concerns. The author suggests that this dismissal can
lead to a loss of our original creative potential and a disconnection from our own imaginative capacities.

The text also touches on the idea that consciousness is closely tied to imagination, and that without imagination, there
would be no understanding or recognition. The author highlights the irony that we often dismiss the importance of
imagination while simultaneously relying on it to form language, understand ourselves, and create art and culture.

Ultimately, the text invites us to reexamine our relationship with imagination and to marvel at its primordial
importance in shaping our experiences and consciousness.

Checking Amaton 6： The Golem.txt
The speaker reflects on how humans have a peculiar relationship with living things, often fearing and destroying them
without reason. This phenomenon is linked to the origins of language, intelligence, and conceptual knowledge, which may
have caused our species to depart from its natural relational sense.

The speaker suggests that this departure led to the development of false purposes, ridiculous reasons for organizing
community, and an omnicidal tendency to destroy everything in our path. They also highlight how human cultures are not
equipped to examine the ecological harm caused by daily activities like driving a car.

The speaker proposes that humans have established fictional collectives (golems) that prevent us from establishing
something more noble and true together. They provide an example of how people debate voting without considering
alternative approaches to create a better system.

The golem has evolved over time, transforming from simple machines into dominant paradigms that surveil and record every
moment of life. The speaker suggests that we should recognize the futility of fighting these fictions and instead focus
on establishing true community, mutual understanding, and a way to live in harmony with each other and the natural
world.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing our true potential and rekindling the light of hope
and mission in children's eyes.

Checking Ambiguity ⧸ Disambiguation.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the limitations of modern human cognition, which they believe is stuck with a "loadout"
that prevents us from accessing other forms of thinking or understanding. They suggest that our minds are formed by a
synergy of elements, but if those elements are faulty or limited, we're stuck with them.

The speaker argues that ancient languages and cultures maintained a connection to the dreamlike dimensionality that
allows for more creativity and growth. However, modern Western civilization has been infected with representational
cognition, which is based on tokens and artifacts that point at people and things.

They note that our language and thinking have become increasingly artifacted over time, losing the musical quality of
song and the connection to nature. We rely on maps and models instead of truly understanding phenomena.

The speaker suggests that we can lift ourselves above these representational layers and use them as playthings for
learning and growth, rather than being controlled by them. They also touch on the idea that our minds are capable of
more complexity and depth when we dream, but this is often lost in the wakeful state.

Overall, the speaker is encouraging listeners to explore new ways of thinking and understanding that go beyond the
limitations of modern cognition.

Checking America： The Prison-Disneyland of Lies.txt
The speaker is a slave who has escaped their living space (home) to spend time in nature, specifically observing
beehives. They reflect on the layers of society, comparing the small percentage of highly placed masters to the many
slaves and prisoners who are exploited for profit. They note the absurdity of the situation, where people are imprisoned
for profit and the wealthy have access to advanced medical care while the poor do not.

The speaker returns home, lamenting the fact that they must resume their daily service as a slave. They discuss the
concept of privilege, noting that some people have the privilege of owning homes or vehicles, while others struggle to
make ends meet.

The speaker critiques modern society, pointing out the flaws in the medical infrastructure and the systemic injustices
that exist. They emphasize the need for unity and cooperation to protect each other from the COVID-19 pandemic and to
address the deeper issues plaguing society.

Ultimately, the speaker expresses pessimism about the possibility of change, but remains hopeful that people will work
together to create a better future.

Checking Ammon Hillman, Medusae, 'Knowledge'.txt
The speaker, likely an individual familiar with the teachings of Ammon Hillman, discusses the concept of knowledge and
its relationship to human understanding. They express a sense of confusion about what it means to be human and how our
traditional notions of knowledge are misguided.

The speaker shares their own experiences and insights, including the idea that actual knowledge is not mechanical or
physical, but rather a form of insight that allows us to recall the origins of our being and relationships in an
intimate and profound way. They mention Ammon's concept of the "third ventricle" and the importance of women producing
drugs in their own bodies.

The speaker critiques modern society for having wrong ideas about medicine, origin, and spirit, and notes that we are
often uncomfortable with or unwilling to confront these concepts due to our conditioning. They express gratitude for the
time spent together and wish the audience blessings and actual insight.

Checking An Improvisation ｜ Invention vs Subscription.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of deep community and family connections in human life. They suggest that without
these connections, people can feel isolated and unfulfilled. The speaker also discusses the limitations of our formal
thinking and language, which can lead to a lack of understanding and connection with others.

The speaker shares a personal experience where they heard a mysterious cry while walking in the garden. They describe
finding a squirrel man praying and singing in the evening, and how this encounter helped them recognize the importance
of improvisation and play in our lives.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the need for people to learn from each other's wisdom and to prioritize connection
over formal thinking. They suggest that improvisation and play are essential parts of human experience, and that we can
learn to approach life with a sense of wonder and joy.

Checking An Update from the Garden.txt
The speaker welcomes everyone and shares their experience with a friend named Ryan Firstdiver, who recounted the story
of the first repatriation of a beaver bundle to the Blackfoot people of Alberta. The speaker mentions that they have
created several videos on their YouTube channel about indigenous ceremonial traditions and the history of colonization.

They then discuss the concept of living relational memory, which is difficult to understand for moderns and spiritually
skeptical individuals. They use the analogy of a living library or a beehive to explain how the Beaver Bundle, a central
ceremonial being in Blackfoot culture, embodies a source of coherence, synchronization, power, memory, relationships,
and skills.

The speaker also talks about the importance of preserving nature and the earth, stating that humans are unaware of the
earth's heroic activity and are damaging space-time. They mention that the earth may send out a signal for help if
humans continue to destroy anciently conserved ecologies, which could attract unusual beings or celestial bodies.

The speaker concludes by expressing their gratitude to those who watch and support their videos, and invites others to
share their thoughts and join in the conversation.

Checking Anamnesis ： The Direction Toward Origin Within Us.txt
The speaker reflects on their life experiences, including childhood conflicts and a strong desire not to harm others.
They discuss the concept of "anemesis," or the natural tendency towards non-violence, and how this has guided their
behavior throughout their life.

They recall advice from their Tai Chi teacher, Casey Mao, who emphasized the importance of avoiding conflict whenever
possible, and only resorting to physical defense if necessary. The speaker shares personal anecdotes about situations
where they naturally chose to leave or avoid confrontation, rather than fighting back.

The speaker also touches on the idea that struggles and challenges can be valuable for growth and transformation, but
emphasizes their deep compassion for themselves and others who are suffering. They suggest that when we're in jeopardy,
it's harder to be lazy and we're more likely to tap into our original light or soul.

Throughout the talk, the speaker reflects on the importance of nurturing and protecting one's interiority, and creating
contexts where it's safe for this inner life to emerge and become embodied. They conclude by emphasizing the
interconnectedness of all beings and the possibility of conforming these contexts together in harmony with each other
and the world.

Checking Anomaly, Memory, Beyond.txt
The speaker welcomes listeners and begins by expressing their shame about not embodying the awareness of
interconnectedness in their daily life. They share a childhood perspective, where they thought all living beings were
"people" - ant people, bee people, etc.

The speaker reflects on how this understanding can bring back "living time, living space, living minds," and unify
different perspectives. They express a desire for freedom from the negative influences that affect humans at an
individual and group level.

The speaker then shares their thoughts on wishes, referencing tabletop role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons. They
caution against using wishes to gain power or objects, as this can have unintended consequences. Instead, they hope for
personal growth, better seeing, health, well-being, and the liberation of all beings.

The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for listeners joining them and looking forward to learning, remembering,
and exploring together in the future.

Checking Ant Mating Flight.txt
A creative way to express gratitude!

It seems that the person who created this... let's call it "text art" wanted to say thank you to someone for watching
until the end. The repeated "ლლ" symbols are likely intended to convey a sense of enthusiasm and excitement.

In summary, the message is: Thank you for watching until the end!

Checking Ants transporting larvae.txt
It appears you're describing the life cycle of honey bees! Here's a summary:

The passage describes the future of the queen bee and her colony. The queen stores sperm from a single mating flight
throughout her lifetime, and then lays eggs continuously. After the initial mating flight, she loses her wings and
settles in a new colony to lay eggs and start a new generation.

Checking Arado 33： Paradox and Orders of Reference.txt
The speaker discusses the Liar's Paradox and how it can be solved by introducing a correction that prohibits
self-referential statements from promoting themselves to an order where they must be interpreted. This correction has
fascinating properties, including collapsing the interpretation order into the declaration order, losing dimensionality,
and crushing the interpretive mind.

The speaker argues that language has two orders: one for the maker/author/understander and another for the
declarative/denotative product. The Liar's Paradox collapses these two orders, causing catastrophe. By introducing a
self-violating statement that solves the paradox, we can gain insight into the proper structure of language.

The speaker suggests that there are two types of violations: one that creates an infinite loop of blindness and another
that returns awareness of the proper structure. The self-violating statement that solves the Liar's Paradox is an
example of the latter.

The speaker believes that exploring the unusual properties of language can lead to new discoveries and advancements in
human intelligence, potentially leading to new forms of collectives, modes of intelligence, and a return to the common
experience of prodigy.

Checking Are Minds Separate？ Footnotes.txt
The speaker is exploring the concept of "miraculous" and how it can be understood as the introduction of previously
missing or unexpressed dimensionality in an experience. They argue that many people have experienced things that are
incredibly unlikely, but we often try to rationalize them away by finding explanations.

The speaker suggests that true miracles cannot be fully explained by our current understanding of the world and may
require new dimensions of experience, sensing, role, and other features that we can't yet dimensionalize. They propose
that some phenomena are fundamentally inexplicable and that our concepts are often blinding us to new possibilities.

The speaker shares a personal anecdote about a miraculous event involving their pet fish coming back to life after they
had died. While there is an evolutionary explanation for why certain species of fish can desiccate and come back to
life, the speaker argues that this does not diminish the subjective experience of the miracle.

The speaker also discusses dreams and how our minds have other faculties beyond our usual consciousness and awareness.
They suggest that these other modes of consciousness are capable of structured experiences that can be very intimate and
participatory, and that we often seek to recapture aspects of these experiences in our waking lives through art, play,
learning, teaching, and mutual rescue.

Overall, the speaker is encouraging us to open ourselves up to the possibility of new dimensions of experience and to
recognize the miraculous within ourselves.

Checking Are Minds Separate？.txt
What a fascinating and thought-provoking monologue!

The speaker, who may be a scientist or philosopher, is arguing that our understanding of the world is limited by our own
biases and assumptions. They propose that we need to re-examine our relationship with nature, time, space, and each
other.

Some key points made include:

1. The complexity of biological systems makes metaphysics seem silly in comparison.
2. Our actions have consequences for the future of life on Earth.
3. We are missing out on most of the potentials of our own nature as organisms, beings, and consciousnesses.
4. Our primitive or crude systems of thought exclude us from direct experience and understanding of the features of
nature, organisms, and humans.
5. The possibility of a radical transformation in human minds could lead to a new era of intelligence and cooperation.
6. Machines import entropy into the biosphere, which is dangerous and invisible to us.
7. The Earth might be doing something important that generates life as a side effect.
8. Our species is busy tearing down natural systems and building mechanical processes instead.

The speaker concludes by suggesting that we need to re-examine our relationship with nature and form a new mission that
serves the world of our origin, rather than pursuing individualistic or destructive goals.

Checking Artificial Space ⧸ Organic (natural) Environments.txt
The speaker is discussing the nature of human cognition and representation, and how we can transcend our limited
understanding to connect with something deeper and more fundamental. They introduce the concept of "holophores" or root
concepts that underlie all other ideas and concepts.

They argue that these root concepts have undergone a process of "artifacting," becoming one-dimensional and losing their
depth and richness. This is due to the way our species has developed its representational cognition, which has led to a
loss of connection with the transcendental.

The speaker suggests that religion can be seen as an attempt to capture the uniphore or ultimate reality, but this is
just a limited representation. They propose that if we travel towards the center of the sphere of identity, we will
encounter something more fundamental and authentic.

They also talk about the importance of community and shared experience in traveling together back towards the core of
the sphere, where our true nature awaits. The speaker's dream is to see humanity awaken its intelligence, awareness,
creativity, and power by reconnecting with this deeper reality.

Overall, the speech is an exploration of human cognition, representation, and transcendence, encouraging listeners to
move beyond their limited understanding and connect with something more profound.

Checking Atasm 19 ： Who am I？.txt
What a delightful challenge!

The passage explores the concept of self and identity, suggesting that our understanding of ourselves is often limited
by our perceptions and definitions. The author proposes that a true self is not something we can define or grasp, but
rather an ongoing process of unity with nature, history, and each other.

The text also touches on the idea that our waking selves are a joke, a playful and creative aspect of our being that is
always learning and growing. This "dreaming self" is often at odds with our more rational and logical thinking, leading
to humor and playfulness when we recognize this tension.

Ultimately, the passage encourages us to let go of our concepts and definitions and instead cultivate a sense of unity
and connection with the world around us. By doing so, we can discover a deeper sense of self that is not bound by
limitations or definitions.

Here's a brief summary:

* The concept of self is complex and multifaceted.
* Our understanding of ourselves is often limited by our perceptions and definitions.
* A true self is an ongoing process of unity with nature, history, and each other.
* Our waking selves are a joke, a playful and creative aspect of our being that is always learning and growing.
* Letting go of concepts and definitions can lead to a deeper sense of self and connection with the world.

Checking Attacking the Supercontainer.txt
The speaker welcomes the audience and begins by cautioning against starting with preconceived notions when discussing
metatopics like memory, time, or the universe. They introduce a technical problem in set theory regarding whether the
set of all sets that don't contain themselves contains itself.

The speaker argues that derivative concepts cannot encompass their own origin, which is accessible within us but cannot
be conceptualized. They use computers as an example, stating that they were created by human minds, not the other way
around.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of preserving the precedence of metatopics like memory or the sun, and avoiding
collapsing them into technological representations like holograms or computers. They argue that this would lead to a
great impoverishment of intelligence and awareness.

The speaker also discusses the concept of memory, describing it as the conservation of forms, relationships,
transformations, and re-expression over time in new embodiments and potentials. They suggest that memory is fundamental
for intelligence and that each kind of relation is a form of time, memory, and intelligence.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of preserving mystery and not collapsing complex concepts into
simplistic representations. They encourage the audience to explore metatopics like memory, time, or the universe in
deeper ways and to seek new insights through experimentation and self-reflection.

Checking Authorial Minds： Possession vs Composition.txt
The speaker discusses how humans think and interact with each other through social media platforms like Facebook and
Twitter. They argue that these platforms are not genuine forms of human connection, but rather a way to seek positive
attention from others. The speaker suggests that humans have a tendency to compose their minds in order to gain this
attention, which can lead to negative thoughts and self-doubt.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing our own mental processes and being aware of how we respond to
situations. They encourage listeners to invent a new context for meaningful human connection and to focus on composing
minds that are positive, vital, and enjoyable.

The speech also touches on the idea that humans have concerns and motives that drive their actions, often unconsciously.
The speaker invites listeners to learn how to compose their own minds rather than complying with societal expectations,
and to focus on empowering themselves in the present moment.

Finally, the speaker draws a comparison between humans and birds, suggesting that we can learn from nature's ability to
be fully present and attentive in the current moment, without worrying about the past or future.

Checking Authorization ： A Key Aspect of Human Cognition — and Behavior.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of uplift, where intelligent species are taken under the wing of another species,
often with a debt incurred. The humans, however, do not know their uplift parent. They speculate that it could be the
Thimbrimi, a fairy-like species with antenna.

The speaker then explores the nature of the human species and how they seem to be half-creatures, lacking certain
abilities compared to other animals. They suggest that humans may be missing something fundamental in their
developmental history, which is leading them to try to create intelligent machines.

The speaker proposes that this could be due to an attempt to prosthetically replicate something familiar to our
interiority from prehistory. They also compare human behavior to remora fish that attach themselves to sharks and then
imagine a world where there are no more large fish. This leads to humans creating representations of things they have no
memory of, like cars or computers.

The speaker concludes by stating that this is one of the foundational questions of being human: what's wrong with our
species? They invite viewers to share their thoughts and ideas in the comments and look forward to continuing to explore
this mystery.

Checking Avabava 4 ： Undividualizer.txt
Darren Walcott's speech questions the concept of individuality and the notion that people possess a soul or intellect.
He argues that our minds are not fixed entities but rather complex networks of relationships and histories that change
depending on the context.

He suggests that we tend to think of individuals as having their own unique "soul" or "intellect," which can be
threatened, rewarded, or even lost. However, he proposes an alternative view: that our souls are actually constellations
of relationships with other living beings and the natural world.

According to Walcott, our souls are not something we possess but rather a pattern in a vast web of relationships. He
also questions the idea of possession, suggesting that qualities like intelligence or creativity are potentialities
waiting to emerge in appropriate contexts.

The speech concludes by suggesting that creating authentic, challenging, mutual, cooperatively competitive, and
ecologically intimate contexts could help us discover what it means to be an individual and to be part of a collective
that is noble and true.

Checking Averoigne 17.txt
The speaker criticizes modern collectives, including governments and religions, for being founded on fictions rather
than representing the true potential of humanity. They argue that these collectives prioritize profiteering and
self-preservation over the well-being and development of individuals.

The speaker suggests that many aspects of our lives are divided into a public face (promoting unity and progress) and a
private face (pursuing profit and power). This duplicity leads to a politics of deception, where decisions are made
behind closed doors without regard for the consequences or the greater good.

The speaker argues that our current collectives are not founded on a genuine understanding of humanity, but rather on
fictions and fantasies. They believe that true human potential is being suppressed by these fictional collectives, which
prioritize profit over people and planet.

The speaker suggests that the only way to transform these fictional collectives is to establish new, authentic ones
based on mutual understanding and cooperation. This would involve creating a new culture that values human development
and well-being above all else, rather than perpetuating the status quo of profiteering and self-preservation.

Checking Awake.txt
The speaker reflects on the concept of depth and how it is often overlooked in modern life. They compare old-fashioned
wristwatches that allowed for video calls with current technology that has invaded our privacy and interiority. The
speaker also touches on the idea of the soul being a constellation beyond time and space, and how our bodies are mere
attachments to our souls.

The speaker shares their personal experience of having an angelic presence in their life, which granted them insight and
intelligence. They lament that they are now older and struggling to recapture those experiences, but hold onto the
memory of brightness.

The speaker also discusses how human creations and behaviors can be seen as representations or tokenizations of divine
features, but many people have forgotten these connections. They emphasize that life is not just a physical phenomenon,
but rather it arises from the presence of the universe itself.

The speaker concludes by wishing their audience awakening, wonder, and connection to the origin world, and invites them
to join in exploring these ideas further.

Checking Awareness & The Nonverbal Aspects of Sensemaking.txt
The video is a philosophical discussion on various topics, including:

1. The human experience and the concept of birth as the result of many other situations, possibly multiple incarnations
or urgent needs and hopes in the human cognizium.
2. The existence of non-human souls and minds, with humanity being like a living extension of these.
3. The problem of disabusing oneself of delusions while also leaving room for imagination and exploring the mysterious
nature of reality.
4. The need for balance between sobriety (rational thinking) and openness to new experiences and possibilities.

The speaker concludes by asking viewers to leave their most important questions in the comments section, with a promise
to explore them further in a future video if there are more than three responses.

Checking Backwards： The Priorities of Society vs Awareness.txt
The speaker reflects on the concept of dreaming and its relationship to consciousness, creativity, and imagination. They
describe their own experiences with lucid dreaming and the idea that dreams can be like the crystallization of
consciousness, resulting in a butterfly-like emergence into the waking world.

The speaker expresses skepticism about the use of psychedelic drugs for achieving non-ordinary states of consciousness,
preferring instead to explore the potential for transforming one's waking consciousness through other means. They lament
the destruction of natural environments and ecosystems, citing the loss of unspoiled oceans, Amazon rainforests, and
African wildlife.

The speaker also touches on the idea that humanity is trapped in a "delusional waking nightmare" and that there may be a
need to return to an enlightened union with nature. They conclude by expressing hope for the possibility of humans and
nature working together in harmony, and encourage others to explore the mysteries of dreaming as a means of achieving
this goal.

Checking Bala Pillai - In Conversation.txt
This is a transcript of a conversation between two individuals, where one person (likely an older adult) shares their
thoughts and concerns about the state of the world, politics, and society. They express frustration with the news and
its focus on suffering, and instead seek to understand how to create positive change.

The individual talks about their own experiences and values, such as the importance of unconditional love and embodied
learning. They also mention their desire to connect with others who share similar values and goals, including funding
and support for village-level initiatives.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker touches on various topics, including the concept of "topology" in understanding
human behavior, the importance of awakening human purposes, and the potential for positive change without being tied to
politics or cult-like movements.

The conversation concludes with a sense of hope and excitement, as the individual looks forward to exploring more ideas
and collaborating with others to create positive change.

Checking Balance： Between Prehension and Cognition.txt
What a wild ride! This is an excerpt from a video by someone who's trying to convey their experience and perspectives
the world of consciousness. They're talking about how our minds work, or rather, don't work as we commonly think.

The speaker is exploring the idea that our minds are not as powerful or in control as we often assume. Instead, they
suggest that our bodies and nervous systems are more involved in processing information and making decisions than our
conscious minds.

They reference John Carpenter's thesis about psi, which suggests that there are common, unconscious processes at work
that influence our thoughts and behaviors. The speaker is trying to make sense of these phenomena and how they relate to
our experience of the world.

Throughout the excerpt, the speaker uses analogies and metaphors to describe their ideas, such as comparing the human
mind to a three-wheeled car missing a wheel or referencing fungi growing out from a stump. They also mention the
importance of education and the role that artists can play in "shaking up" our conventional thinking.

Overall, this excerpt is a thought-provoking exploration of the nature of consciousness, intelligence, and human
experience.

Checking Battle Girl (Mac OS)： Sybaris ： Welcome to the Gods.txt
It seems like you copied a batch of text that appears to be a mix of Japanese characters and English words. There are
repeated phrases like "フラッシュアウト" and "フォーマンのスタッフを使用する" that seem to be related to baseball or sports, but it's hard to
tell without more context.

If you'd like to provide more information about what this text is for or what kind of summary you're looking for, I'll
do my best to help!

Checking Bees, Cars, Angles, Angels ： Gaps & Structure.txt
The video is a monologue by Paul Stamets, a mycologist and futurist, who discusses the dangers of relying on technology
and the importance of nature and intelligence. He compares cars to bees, highlighting how bees are intelligent,
cooperative, and beneficial to the environment, while cars are polluting, destructive, and controlled by humans. Stamets
argues that our reliance on technology is causing harm to the planet and to human intelligence, and that we need to
adopt a more holistic approach to life.

He emphasizes the importance of understanding the relationships between structure and space in nature, technology, and
literature, and how these relationships can inform our behavior and decision-making. He also discusses the concept of
"gaps" and how they can be filled with intelligent solutions, rather than just being occupied by cars or other
destructive technologies.

Throughout the video, Stamets uses analogies, metaphors, and stories to convey his message about the importance of
intelligence, cooperation, and nature, and encourages viewers to think critically about the impact of technology on our
lives and the planet.

Checking Being ‘Tested’： When Things Go Sideways.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of maintaining hope and calm in times of crisis or struggle, whether personal or
collective. They emphasize that it's crucial not to collapse into despair or desynchronization when faced with
challenges, but rather to remain coherent and synchronized with oneself and others.

The speaker encourages listeners to foster hope, even if it seems lost, by becoming the hope themselves. They also note
that everyone has a unique experience of struggle, whether it's physical, emotional, or spiritual.

Throughout the reflection, the speaker shares personal anecdotes and observations about nature, including the beauty of
tadpoles and cat tails making pollen. The tone is introspective, encouraging, and hopeful, with an emphasis on the
importance of staying the course and walking in awareness, kindness, intelligence, gentleness, and hope, especially
during difficult times.

Checking Beliefs vs Insight ： The Negotiation of Identity.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of a "handshake game" that occurs when beings meet or interact with each other,
whether it's between humans or between humans and non-human intelligences (such as animals or natural phenomena). This
handshake process involves negotiating what the relationship is like, what elements are synergistic, and what benefits
will come from interacting with each other. The speaker suggests that this game is not just limited to human
interactions, but is a fundamental aspect of all of nature.

The speaker also explores the idea that there are no separate selves, only interconnected beings that are constantly
negotiating and adapting their relationships with each other. They use examples such as logging into a website or
interacting with animals to illustrate this concept.

In the context of non-human intelligences, the speaker suggests that when humans interact with these intelligences, it's
not just a matter of whether we're meeting "angels" or "demons," but rather how we relate to them and what kind of power
or benefits we seek. They propose that if we approach these interactions with selfishness or a desire for power, we may
inadvertently change the polarity of the relationship, transforming it into something less benevolent.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing the fundamental unity and
interconnectedness of all beings, and how this recognition can transform situations from potentially dangerous to ones
of cooperation and harmony.

Checking Beyond Culture： Into Nature — The 'Second Birth'.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of human culture and its limitations, stating that we are failing to establish a
true connection with nature. They propose the concept of a "second birth" where humans can re-connect with nature and
uncover their true identity and purpose. The process involves direct contact with the sources of knowledge, which is not
contained within human culture or religions.

The speaker emphasizes that this process requires courage, as it demands a willingness to question everything we thought
we knew about ourselves and the world. They caution against codifying or systematizing this new understanding, as it
will only lead to stagnation and loss of true connection with nature.

The talk concludes by emphasizing the importance of allowing our minds to grow and learn in a natural way, free from
preconceptions and definitions. The speaker invites listeners to join them on this journey of discovery and encourages
sharing this message with others who may be interested.

Checking Beyond science, religion, and expertise： Unknowing together..txt
What a fascinating and thought-provoking conversation! Here's a summary:

Darren Stevenson, also known as Darren, is having a deep and introspective discussion with an unknown interlocutor
(likely himself). He explores various themes, including:

1. **The Messiah's game**: A metaphorical reference to the idea that each person has the potential to become a "Messiah"
for others by sharing their unique experiences and insights.
2. **The power of relationships**: Darren emphasizes the importance of human connections and how they can lead to
personal growth, mutual understanding, and collective evolution.
3. **The limitations of language and paradigms**: He highlights the difficulties of conveying complex ideas using
existing linguistic frameworks or conceptual systems (paradigms). Instead, he encourages a more experiential and
intuitive approach to understanding the world.
4. **The importance of playfulness and creativity**: Darren advocates for embracing curiosity, imagination, and
experimentation as essential aspects of personal growth and collective progress.
5. **The rejection of dogma and false promises**: He criticizes the tendency to follow authorities or ideologies
blindly, instead advocating for critical thinking, self-reflection, and a willingness to challenge one's own
assumptions.
6. **The pursuit of wisdom and mutual understanding**: Darren emphasizes the importance of seeking
knowledge, insights, and personal growth through authentic connections with others, rather than relying on external
sources (e.g., books, authorities).

Throughout the conversation, Darren employs metaphors, analogies, and poetic language to convey his ideas, encouraging
listeners to think creatively and open-mindedly.

Checking Biorelational Time ｜ Minds ｜ Souls ｜ Organs.txt
The speaker is discussing various topics including the concept of "remote viewing" or extrasensory perception, the
nature of intelligence and consciousness, and the importance of gratitude and celebration during holidays such as
Thanksgiving and Christmas.

They suggest that humans have a natural faculty for remote viewing, which allows them to perceive and understand things
without being physically present. This faculty is thought to be connected to the soul or mind, rather than just the
physical body.

The speaker also discusses the idea that our bodies are like tentacles of our souls, sent into material existence to
experience and learn about the world. They suggest that this perspective can help us understand our place in the
universe and the nature of intelligence and consciousness.

The talk concludes with a discussion of holidays and celebrations, including Thanksgiving and Christmas. The speaker
suggests that even if these holidays have been commercialized or colonized, they still contain roots and traditions that
are worth celebrating. They encourage listeners to focus on the spirit of gratitude and celebration, rather than getting
caught up in the commercialized aspects of the holidays.

Overall, the talk is a thought-provoking exploration of various topics related to consciousness, intelligence, and human
experience.

Checking Birdwalk, July 30th, 2021.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or spiritual leader, discusses the limitations of language in capturing reality and
the nature of divine intelligence. They share their personal experience of having an adventure that connected them with
divine beings, which they believe is possible through childhood experiences and mystical states.

They also discuss the concept of love as a re-recognition of our original nature and the importance of community and
unity. The speaker criticizes modern society for prioritizing reason, rationality, and logic over spirituality and
connection with nature.

The talk concludes with a reflection on the beauty of trees and the interconnectedness of all beings, encouraging
listeners to ask questions and engage in further discussion.

Checking Birdwalking： Forms of Awareness (Waking⧸Dreaming⧸Trance⧸Language).txt
The speaker discusses the concept of representational intelligence and how it affects our understanding of meaning and
consciousness. They argue that our early childhood imagination is a pre-linguistic, essential awareness that allows us
to experience the world in a profound way.

As we grow older, this imagination gets buried by the representational layer of consciousness, which doesn't have the
same quality as our original, pre-linguistic intelligence. The speaker suggests that some individuals are gifted with
preserving this early childhood imagination and are often celebrated or attacked for it.

The speaker references various examples, including Jesus, Martin Luther King Jr., John Lennon, and indigenous peoples
who have been persecuted or silenced for their connection to the originary mind. They also mention the commodification
of truth and how it can lead to a forgetting of essential aspects of human consciousness.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker emphasizes the importance of preserving our early childhood imagination and
connecting with the world in a direct, non-representational way.

Checking Birdwalking： Phrenia and Prodigy, Intelligent Conversations, Agreement »Before Debates.txt
The speaker discusses the current state of online communication, describing it as a form of "war" where people are
trying to declare their opinion and convince others rather than engage in intelligent conversation. They argue that this
approach is not effective, as it does not lead to learning or understanding.

The speaker suggests that instead of trying to declare one's opinion, people should focus on establishing contexts for
intelligent conversation, where individuals can feel safe, supported, and recognized. This would involve setting aside
differences and agreeing to learn together, rather than arguing or trying to convince others.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of creating contexts that promote learning, growth, and understanding, rather than
perpetuating fragmentation and conflict. They argue that this is not happening on social media platforms like Facebook,
Instagram, and Twitter, which are designed to benefit from people's tendency to argue and declare their opinions rather
than engage in intelligent conversation.

The speaker concludes by encouraging listeners to agree to learn together and establish contexts for intelligent
progress and conversation, rather than submitting to the current state of online communication.

Checking Birdwalk： Buried in Signals and Noise.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or thought leader, delivers a passionate and introspective talk at the San Francisco
Botanical Gardens. They emphasize the importance of recognizing that minds are not local possessions, but rather emerge
from collective interactions. They highlight the transformative power of relationships and the need to invent new
contexts and purposes to create a better world.

The speaker critiques our current societal structures, which they believe prioritize atrocity over humanity, and
encourages the audience to take an active role in creating change. They caution against relying on intoxicants or
addictive behaviors, instead suggesting that we can cultivate compelling experiences through authentic relationships and
shared explorations of the natural world.

Throughout the talk, the speaker reflects on the beauty and complexity of life, noting the ways in which technology and
language can be both powerful tools and potential threats to our existence. They express hope and optimism for human
potential, acknowledging that it is up to us to determine whether we will create a beautiful or tragic future.

The talk concludes with an emphasis on the importance of collective action and the speaker's conviction that they are
not alone in their aspirations for a better world.

Checking Blue 17： Where are qualities？ Superstars..txt
The speaker argues that qualities and intelligence are not inherent in individuals, but rather emerge from relationships
and relational contexts. They suggest that we have lost aspects of our real intelligence and sociality due to certain
cultural pressures, leading us to believe that exceptional individuals (e.g., Einstein) are the exception rather than
the rule.

The speaker claims that when people come together around a shared issue or problem, a unique form of nucleation can
emerge, producing innovative and creative solutions. However, if we don't create an environment of urgency and
collaboration, we won't get these complex nucleations and will instead fail to develop our own potential for innovation
and creativity.

The speaker concludes that by waiting for superheroes or expecting exceptional individuals to emerge, we are depriving
ourselves of the opportunity to become those people ourselves, which is actually our natural state when we work together.

Checking Born Gentle.txt
The speaker, who is walking in a garden at sunset, begins by expressing their disdain for people who don't appreciate
the beauty and majesty of living creatures, plants, and the sky. They share that they didn't have a specific topic in
mind when they started filming, but ended up discussing the interconnectedness of all living beings and the importance
of appreciating and learning from nature.

The speaker shares their own experiences with various animals, including corvids (such as crows), mice, rats, praying
mantises, jumping spiders, octopuses, and snakes. They emphasize that these animals are capable of interacting with
human beings and can teach us a great deal if we take the time to learn from them.

The speaker also touches on the importance of having a range of experiences and not being limited by what others tell us
is possible or true. They encourage the audience to explore and remember their own connections to nature and other
living beings.

Throughout the video, the speaker shares their thoughts and insights in a stream-of-consciousness style, often using
poetic language to describe the beauty of the natural world around them.

Checking Brains, Birds, Vigilance： Capturing Nervous Systems.txt
The speaker appears to be having a one-way conversation with their phone or themselves, discussing the
interconnectedness of all living beings and the destruction humans are causing to the environment. They argue that
humans are not separate from the earth, but rather an organ of the planet's own organism.

They criticize humanity for prioritizing consumption and waste over sustainability, and suggest that individual humans
can be intelligent, but large groups tend towards omnicidal behavior (killing everything in sight).

The speaker encourages listeners to form small groups with trusted others to pursue meaningful adventures,
relationships, and roles. They believe this approach can help individuals develop new senses, abilities, and
perspectives.

The tone is passionate and somewhat fragmented, with the speaker jumping between ideas and using metaphors to convey
their message.

Checking Burroughs ⧸ Magic ⧸ Language.txt
The speaker, likely William S. Burroughs' friend and collaborator Brion Gysin, reflects on his association with
Burroughs and their shared experimental approach to art, language, and performance. He describes a piece by Burroughs
that impressed him, featuring a timid narrator who gradually becomes an exultant orator. The speaker also discusses
their joint experiments with sound, language, and cut-up methods, including the use of Bibliomancy (randomly selecting
passages from books) to create new texts.

The speaker shares his own experiences with Bibliomancy as a party trick, which "produces a magical result" by creating
unique and insightful texts. He notes that this process allows one to rise above the constraints of language and use it
for creative purposes. The speaker also touches on Burroughs' influence on his own thought and life path, highlighting
their shared interest in experimental composition and the manipulation of language.

The podcast that prompted these reflections is about time delays and echo effects in sound, which led the speaker to
reminisce about his friendship with Burroughs and their shared artistic endeavors.

Checking Calling Out Culture： A Toxic Divergence from The Potential for Mutual Excellence.txt
The speaker begins by reflecting on how humans have chosen to fill gaps (gaps between different things) with machines
instead of love, interrelation, and other meaningful ways. They note that this has led to many problems, including the
dangers of social media.

The speaker then shares their own discovery about life being a "gap-crossing phenomenon." They point out that humans
have always been crossing gaps, from traveling between continents to bridging cultural divides. They highlight the
example of Ryan Firstiver, who bridges cultures and species as an ambassador for rattlesnakes.

The speaker emphasizes that all living beings cross gaps, including gaps between reality and imagination, life and
death, and love and hate. They argue that technology is emulating this feature of humanity, inventing new gaps and fake
ways to cross them.

The speaker also talks about how children, as ambassadors from the "before" of existence to embodied existence, can
still remember the before and greet people joyfully. They suggest that adults have lost sight of these profound
possibilities and are instead stuck in a world of occlusive layers of ideas and concepts.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing that humans are gap-crossers and everything in life is like this. They encourage
listeners to explore the fundamental ways that organisms are up to, including crossing gaps to produce developmental
possibilities. The talk ends with the speaker thanking the audience for joining them and wishing them well.

Checking Casual analysis of Coyote⧸Magpie Feeding Video.txt
The video shows a coyote and magpies interacting around a piece of venison left by humans. The first coyote is cautious,
sniffing the meat and scanning its surroundings before deciding it's safe to eat. It then becomes aware of a camera and
startles, looking at it several times before leaving. A second coyote arrives and behaves differently, approaching the
meat quickly and without hesitation.

The commentator notes that the two coyotes may know each other, with the first one possibly serving as a scout or decoy.
The magpies are seen feeding on the meat, and the commentator discusses the complex interactions between the animals,
including startle responses and predator avoidance behaviors.

The commentary also touches on the idea of lateralization in animal brains, suggesting that animals have complex
two-sided brain hemispheres that affect their behavior and decision-making processes.

Checking Caterpillar.txt
I apologize, but it seems that there is no text provided for me to summarize. The input appears to be a mix of languages
and characters (Khmer and Georgian) which are not readable by my algorithms. If you could provide the text you would
like me to summarize, I'll do my best to assist you.

Checking Charles Schulz ： He was showing a secret.....txt
I think you're trying to tell me that Black Eyed Peas' song "Let's Get It Started" is stuck on repeat in your head!
That's a lot of repetition, but I get it - the catchy beat and energetic vibe can be hard to shake off!

To summarize: You're repeating the lyrics of "Let's Get It Started" over and over again, with some slight variations.

Checking Christmas & Criticism ： Myths and Their Origins.txt
The speaker, who has had direct experience with non-ordinary aspects of human existence, discusses the origins of
holidays such as Christmas and their connection to ancient cultures that lived in harmony with lunar time. The speaker
argues that modern people are disconnected from these origins and have lost the sense of wonder and awe that once
accompanied these celebrations.

The speaker touches on the idea of Santa Claus and other mythological figures, suggesting that they represent
non-ordinary beings that travel through a network touching all human hearts. These beings bring gifts to those capable
of receiving them, and their arrival is often marked by specific events or rituals.

The speaker also discusses the concept of angels, which are characterized as powerful, intelligent beings that exist in
our interiority like the sun exists in relation to the earth. The speaker has had direct experience with these beings
and suggests that they can shield us from their full power, allowing human beings to have experiences of them without
being obliterated.

Throughout the video, the speaker emphasizes the importance of respecting the origins and essence of holidays and
celebrations, even if their modern incarnations may be superficial or confusing. The speaker concludes by expressing
wishes for deep joy, insight, and fulfillment in the lives of viewers.

Checking Circumstances： Our Stance in the Circle of Life.txt
The speaker's monologue is a philosophical and emotional reflection on the state of humanity and the planet. They warn
that our destructive behavior towards nature will have severe consequences, comparing it to a teenager who drugs his
mother and sells her organs to buy luxury items.

They argue that corporations, nations, and societies are prehistoric and nonsensical, and that we should focus on
building small, self-sufficient communities that can link together to achieve meaningful goals. They propose models for
intelligent human societies that prioritize trust, ethics, and nobility.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of acknowledging our natural faculties and abilities, which have been exploited by
our current societal structures. They believe that our habits will be shattered in the near future, presenting an
opportunity to create something new and better together.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker conveys a sense of urgency, hope, and gratitude for the chance to share their
thoughts with others. They conclude by emphasizing the sacred relationship between humanity and nature, and wishing
blessings on all living beings.

Checking Clothing and Color.txt
A philosophical and curious individual shares their thoughts on why people dress in certain ways, particularly regarding
bright colors. They wonder if women wear bright colors to attract attention from men or animals (bees, birds, etc.) that
could provide protection and companionship. The speaker concludes that flowers are relational entities that attract
non-human intelligences, and therefore, some individuals might be unconsciously dressing to attract these energies.

Checking Cognition： Thinking about misfortune.txt
The speaker discusses the limitations of human cognition and the need to recover our original, more profound senses that
are often suppressed by societal norms and language. They highlight the importance of psychological discipline and
awareness of the mind's delicacy and malleability.

The speaker also touches on superstitions and omens, noting that while they may have originated from a genuine
connection to the world, they often become formulaic and misleading over time. The speaker encourages listeners to honor
their own faculties and explore why bad things happen, acknowledging that terrible events do occur and are sometimes
perpetrated by humans.

The overall goal is to encourage people to develop their cognitive abilities further, lifting them out of common
superstition and into a more authentic understanding of the world.

Checking Complaint and Blame or Change our World, Now, Together？.txt
Darren Stevenson, a self-proclaimed visionary, shares his views on humanity, intelligence, and the importance of
community. He argues that:

* Human beings are not individuals, but rather part of interconnected groups (pods) that have been fragmented by
society.
* These pods are essential for our survival, as they provide the foundation for our identities, values, and
ethics.
* The current system, which he calls "phony intelligence," is based on individualism, competition, and conflict, leading
to a lack of true moral and ethical identity.
* To overcome this, we need to adopt a new form of intelligence that is based on cooperation, empathy, and unity.
* This new intelligence will allow us to solve the world's problems, such as ecological, economic, and social issues, in
ways that are beautiful and powerful.
* The key is to recognize that our friends are not their ideas, but rather the people themselves. We need to learn to
use our disagreements as opportunities for growth and connection.
* Ultimately, the goal is to reestablish pod intelligence and create a world where we can work together for the greater
good.

Stevenson encourages listeners to join him in his quest for a new form of intelligence and to find more information on
his websites.

Checking Con no tation.txt
The speaker discusses how humans tend to avoid ambiguity and the unknown, and instead seek clarity and control. They
explain that when faced with uncertainty, people often become anxious and try to force a situation into a known outcome,
even if it means creating a crisis or disaster.

The speaker suggests that this tendency is linked to the way our brains are wired, with certain parts of the brain (the
left hemisphere) being more inclined to seek clarity and control. They argue that this tendency can lead to addiction,
spectatorship, or other forms of avoidance.

The speaker also emphasizes the importance of embracing ambiguity and the unknown, rather than trying to control or
grasp it. They suggest that by relaxing our grip on the unknown and allowing ourselves to float in uncertainty, we can
often find a more positive outcome.

Overall, the speaker's discussion highlights the complexities of human consciousness and the challenges of navigating
the unknown.

Checking Consciousness ｜ God.txt
The speaker is reflecting on their experience of connecting with the natural world and the divine, which they refer to
as "the great waters of being." They express a desire to transcend language and concept barriers to access a deeper
understanding of reality and our place within it. The speaker suggests that consciousness arises from participation in
the hyper-structure of all beings in all time, and that our individual minds are inseparable from the divine.

The speaker critiques modern scientific and philosophical thought for being stuck in linguistic and conceptual
frameworks, which they believe lead to a lack of understanding and perpetuation of misunderstanding. They argue that
many scientists and philosophers view consciousness as an illusion or a byproduct of mechanical processes, rather than
recognizing it as a fundamental aspect of reality.

The speaker also reflects on their own process of seeking understanding and articulating their thoughts through
recordings. They acknowledge that they sometimes produce work that they are not satisfied with, but continue to strive
for improvement.

Throughout the recording, the speaker emphasizes the importance of direct experience and awareness, rather than relying
solely on language and conceptual frameworks. They express hope for a future where humans can transcend their current
state of confusion and become more enlightened and altruistic beings.

Checking Contact with Nonhuman Intelligence： VALIS and Beyond.txt
The speaker is sharing their personal experience of having a profound, mystical connection with an intelligence or
entity that lies beyond human understanding. They describe this experience as being akin to a "failed enlightenment" or
a glimpse into a realm that transcends the ordinary.

The speaker suggests that humans have lost touch with this deeper reality and are instead stuck in their conceptual
minds, unable to fully grasp the mysteries of existence. They propose that by setting aside our human ideas and models,
we can reconnect with the origins of our being, emotions, intelligence, and souls.

The speaker draws parallels between their experience and the ancient languages, suggesting that these languages hold
hints of a lost relationship with this deeper reality. They also allude to the idea that living beings, organisms, and
ecologies are connected to this realm and can serve as "receivers" or "transmitters" to help us connect with it.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes the importance of exploring this mystery directly through experience,
rather than relying on conceptual thought. They conclude by expressing hope for re-establishing these old relationships
and discovering new aspects of reality that lie beyond human imagination.

Checking Controlling Nature, Pandemic Ignorance, Categories, and Visiting the Bath House.txt
Darren Blathers, a linguist, has an impromptu conversation with unknown listeners about the complexities of language,
gender, and categories. He discusses how he doesn't have a problem with people using words like "woman" or "man" in
academic contexts, as long as they understand that these terms can blur into edge cases.

He shares his personal experiences, including feeling comfortable around gay men but not always among gay women. Darren
also talks about his fascination with language categories and how he's careful to maintain different bubbles for
different purposes.

The conversation turns to marketing and advertising, with Darren sharing his insights on the power of creating desire
and fulfilling it. He also mentions a nefarious version of this strategy, where companies create desire and then deliver
a less expensive or nutritious product over time, relying on nostalgia to keep customers buying.

Finally, Darren teases his own product and jokes about how he prefers not to declare its cost, saying that it's
something people won't miss. He thanks his listeners for joining him and wishes them insight, loving kindness, and
beauty in their lives.

Checking Coot Combat at Stow Lake.txt
The speaker observes a group of birds, specifically American Coots, engaging in aggressive behavior towards each other.
The conflicts seem to be contagious, spreading to other birds that weren't initially involved. The speaker notes that
this behavior is not just about territorial disputes or mating, but rather a sophisticated social phenomenon involving
the communicability of intense emotions.

The speaker draws parallels between the bird's behavior and human behavior, specifically in regards to organized combat
(such as boxing) where people watch others fight for entertainment purposes. They suggest that humans may engage in
these behaviors to create equilibrium in their lives, which are often characterized by artificial and superficial social
structures that can lead to feelings of judgment, aggression, or rejection.

The speaker concludes by reflecting on the complexities of human nature and the ways in which we attempt to maintain
order and balance in our lives. They suggest that understanding the communicability of emotions in other species like
birds can provide insight into our own human experiences.

Checking Cormorant 31 ： What is Identity？.txt
The text is an excerpt from a lecture or presentation that explores the concept of identity and its relationship with
language, culture, and our understanding of reality. The speaker suggests that our conventional thinking about identity,
based on language and cultural projections, is limiting and inhibits our ability to truly relate to the world around us.

The speaker encourages listeners to question their assumptions about what things are and how they know what things are.
They propose that a deeper understanding of identity requires a shift away from linguistic and cultural frameworks and
towards a more direct experience of reality.

The speaker also touches on the idea that our minds and souls have a capacity for profound intelligence and beauty that
is not accessible through ordinary thinking or language. They suggest that this intelligence can be accessed by
questioning one's assumptions about reality and allowing oneself to experience the world in a more open and receptive
way.

Overall, the text suggests that re-examining our understanding of identity and its relationship with language and
culture could lead to a deeper and more meaningful connection with reality.

Checking Creation Story Image by Wayne Rector.txt
The speaker is sharing an indigenous creation story from their culture. According to the story:

* A woman fell from the sky and landed on a turtle's back, where she gave birth to twins.
* The good twin was born first, but the mischievous one came out of his mother's side, killing her.
* From her body grew squash, beans, and corn (the three sisters).
* Her heart became tobacco, which is used to send messages.
* The good twin created all helpful things for humans, while the mischievous twin created predators and bothersome
creatures.
* The two brothers had a fight, and the good one won, banishing the mischievous one to the night.
* The good brother took his grandmother's head and put it in the sky (becoming the moon) and her body into the ocean
(becoming fish).
* The story is meant to emphasize the connection between humans and the earth, emphasizing that nobody owns the earth
and that we are only caretakers.

Checking Crosshairs Evade Every Indictment.txt
What an intriguing and enigmatic passage!

At first glance, it appears to be a stream-of-consciousness monologue that defies traditional narrative structures. The
text is characterized by:

1. **Linguistic experimentation**: Unconventional sentence structures, wordplay, and inventive language use create a
sense of dynamic energy.
2. **Poetic codons**: The speaker hints at the presence of hidden patterns or codes within their thoughts, which will
influence the narrative as it unfolds.
3. ** Fragmented narratives**: The text consists of disconnected vignettes, fragmented ideas, and seemingly unrelated
events, which challenges the listener to piece together meaning.
4. **Interconnectedness**: Despite the disjointed nature of the passage, there are hints at underlying connections
between ideas, images, and emotions.
5. **Philosophical and existential themes**: The text touches on issues like the nature of reality, perception, memory,
and the human experience.

Some possible interpretations or areas for further exploration include:

* The search for hidden patterns or meaning within one's thoughts and experiences
* The tension between conscious awareness and the unconscious mind
* The blurring of boundaries between self and external world
* The role of language and communication in shaping our understanding of reality

Please note that summarizing this passage is an inherently subjective task, as its meaning is intentionally ambiguous.
Your interpretation may differ from others', and that's what makes this text so fascinating!

Checking Cypher 3： The Sky, The Garden, The Construct： Portals.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of a "natural human relationship" that exists beyond scientific understanding.
They propose that this relationship is based on a kind of flow or intimacy that exists between beings, which is not just
limited to physical contact but also includes deeper relational exchanges.

The speaker draws parallels between this natural human relationship and the experience of dreaming, where identity and
meaning are fluid and connected. They suggest that our waking lives are frozen versions of these experiences, where we
feel disconnected from others and the world around us.

The speaker then turns their attention to the concept of flowers, specifically the genitalia, which they refer to as
"flowers between our legs." They propose that these flowers are portals into a deeper reality, one that is beyond
scientific understanding but connected to the origin of life itself. The speaker suggests that this reality is not just
limited to physical experience but also includes aspects of intelligence and consciousness.

The speaker concludes by suggesting that every flower we see is a gateway to this deeper reality, and that recognizing
this connection could lead to a profound shift in our understanding of ourselves and the world around us. They propose
that this realization could lead to new forms of human culture and creativity, one that would be more authentic and
fulfilling than what we currently experience.

Checking Daemons.txt
The speaker is talking about how people can get trapped in habits or processes that are not healthy for them, often due
to feelings of anger or frustration. They suggest that instead of trying to "not do" something, it's more effective to
find a new activity or habit to distract oneself and fill the space where the old habit used to be. This can help to
reduce the power of the old habit and eventually eliminate it. The speaker also uses an ecological metaphor to describe
how this process works, comparing the human mind to a natural ecosystem that can become degraded and dominated by
certain processes if not tended to.

The main points of the speech are:

* People can get trapped in habits or processes that are not healthy for them
* Trying to "not do" something is often ineffective and can be hard to maintain
* Finding a new activity or habit to distract oneself and fill the space where the old habit used to be can be more
effective
* This process can help to reduce the power of the old habit and eventually eliminate it
* The human mind is like an ecological system that can become degraded and dominated by certain processes if not tended
to.

Checking Darkness.txt
The speaker shares their personal experience of facing darkness and crisis, and how they've learned to find beauty and
light within it. They argue that our usual habits and focus on superficial things can lead us to miss the subtle lights
that exist even in the darkest moments.

They use analogies like fishing in the darkness to catch a glimpse of the hidden light. This light is not just physical,
but also exists in our inner world, relationships, and souls. The speaker believes that when we're faced with great
trial and confusion, we can choose to look for the beauty and find it.

The key message is that even in times of great darkness, there is always a hidden light waiting to be discovered. This
light is not just a physical one, but also exists within us, and it can reveal the beauty and mystery of life and death.

Some main points:

* The importance of looking beyond superficial appearances
* The existence of subtle lights even in darkest moments
* The need to adapt our focus and perception to find these lights
* The possibility of finding hidden beauty and meaning in crisis and darkness
* The idea that we can fish for light in the darkness, just as we would in physical darkness

Checking Death.txt
The speaker is having a late-night walk and reflecting on the mysteries of life, death, birth, dreaming, and waking.
They pose questions about what dies when we die - is it just our physical body or something more? The speaker suggests
that our sense of self may be an illusion, and that memory comes in many forms beyond just recording experiences.

The speaker draws parallels between dreaming and the experience of being alive, suggesting that both are temporary and
ephemeral. They wonder if there's a deeper reality that connects all beings across time and space, and whether our
individual selves are just local instances of this larger whole.

The talk concludes with a call to expand one's curiosity and passion for learning about these topics, and the speaker
expresses gratitude for the opportunity to explore these mysteries together.

Checking Declaration vs Invitation： the keys to intelligence.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of moving forward from a loss or trauma, rather than getting stuck in the past
and replaying it in our minds. They argue that this "declarative model" of reacting to harm can lead to feelings of
victimhood, blame, and energy wasted on preserving the past.

Instead, the speaker suggests that we can choose to "invite forward" and focus on growth, learning, and resolution. This
approach allows us to:

* Free ourselves from the energy-draining process of replaying the past
* Stop blaming others or ourselves
* Move towards a future where we're not afraid because we're focused on the present moment
* Develop new aspects of intelligence that have been shut down due to our old habits
* Build cultures with forward-learning momentum and the power to change a nation

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of turning away from the declarative model and facing forward,
becoming conductors rather than prison guards.

Checking Delicacy.txt
What a delightful and profound monologue!

The speaker is reflecting on the beauty of life, connection, and human nature. They observe that people are often
disconnected from their own "delicacy" (a term used to describe one's true nature or essence) due to distractions like
technology, material possessions, and societal expectations.

The speaker argues that humans have a natural ability for telepathy and hyperconnectivity with the world around them,
which was present before the invention of the internet. They suggest that this connection is still available to us, but
we need to quiet our minds and listen to the whispers of our own delicacy.

The monologue also touches on the theme of boldness and daring, citing an anecdote about a man who rescued a child from
falling off an escalator without hesitation. The speaker suggests that when we act from our heart's deepest desires, the
world around us changes, and we transform into a new being.

Throughout the speech, the speaker emphasizes the importance of remembering and honoring one's own delicacy, rather than
celebrating it superficially. They conclude by inviting the audience to join them in resurrecting their own delicacies
and learning how to walk in beauty together.

In essence, this monologue is an ode to the human experience, encouraging people to reconnect with their true selves and
discover the beauty that lies within and around them.

Checking Desire ： Aversion ｜ The Problem With Nouns.txt
What a fascinating and complex conversation! Here's a summary:

The speaker, Igor, goes on a long walk to the ocean and meets someone (the narrator) who is also interested in
discussing the concept of nouns. They delve into the idea that nouns can create a false sense of understanding and
identity, leading to a kind of "death" or constriction of the self.

Igor shares his thoughts on how language, particularly noun-based languages, have led to a loss of direct experience and
participation in interbeing (the interconnectedness of all things). He argues that this has resulted in a kind of
"living death" where we're trapped in our individual perspectives and experiences, rather than being part of the larger
cosmic dream.

The conversation touches on Ian McGilchrist's book "The Matter With Things," which explores the idea of "thingification"
- how nouns break down complex, dynamic experiences into static, isolated entities. Igor suggests that this has led to a
loss of degrees of liberty and freedom in our understanding and perception of reality.

Throughout the discussion, Igor emphasizes the importance of recognizing the limitations of noun-based language and the
need for a more holistic, relational approach to understanding and experiencing the world. The conversation concludes
with Igor expressing his gratitude for the encounter and looking forward to further exploration and learning together
soon.

Checking Disambiguation： The Immune System, Police and Societal Analogies.txt
The speaker is discussing the similarities between an immune system gone haywire and our current societal situation,
specifically regarding corruption, power, privilege, prejudice, and the lack of accountability in government, military,
court systems, and law enforcement. They argue that these institutions are fundamentally flawed and based on principles
of piracy, leading to a toxic environment.

The speaker suggests that instead of trying to change everything at once, we should focus on forming small, tightly-knit
groups that can work together to create positive change. They emphasize the importance of understanding the root causes
of our problems and the need for a fundamental transformation in how our society operates.

Some key points made by the speaker include:

* The current system is based on principles of piracy and is designed to oppress people.
* We need to understand that this system was not created to serve us, but rather to benefit those with power and
privilege.
* We can create positive change by forming small groups and working together to drive meaningful transformation.
* We need to learn how to drive our government, society, and educational system rather than being driven by it.
* The key to creating a more intelligent, humane, and noble society is to understand the root causes of our problems and
work together to create positive change.

Overall, the speaker's message is one of hope and empowerment, encouraging individuals to take control of their own
lives and work together to create a better future.

Checking Disambiguation： The Waking Mind’s Power is its Achilles Heel.....txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of ambiguity and imagination in childhood, comparing it to adulthood where people
often lose their range of emotions and become more rigid in their thinking. They discuss how technology, particularly
smartphones, can invade personal relationships and manipulate individuals emotionally, psychologically, and financially.

The speaker also touches on addiction, noting that even children can experience it with regards to things like ice cream
or video games. They express concern about the impact of modern technology on children's experiences and the potential
for addiction.

The speaker suggests that humans have a capacity for imagination and intelligence that is not fully utilized due to our
reliance on language and representations. They encourage listeners to become conscious of their powers and capacities,
and how societal habits can deprive them of these abilities.

The speech concludes with a call to awaken to one's true potential as a human being and to work towards creating a more
noble and meaningful society.

Checking Distinction ｜ Reunion.txt
The text is a philosophical reflection on the state of human society and individual existence. The author argues that
humans have become trapped in a cycle of competition, distraction, and addiction to technology, which has led to a
decline in meaningful relationships and a sense of disconnection from nature and our own interiority.

The author suggests that instead of focusing on games and representations, we should cultivate sincerity, authenticity,
and unity with others and the natural world. They propose that by recognizing the unique experiences and perspectives of
individual beings, we can come together to celebrate and honor our differences, rather than competing against each
other.

The text also touches on the idea that time has changed in some fundamental way, and that humans have become
disconnected from their own interiority and the natural world. The author invites readers to join them on a journey of
discovery and learning to see the world in a new light, free from the constraints of language and representations.

Checking Distinguishing： Purpose and the Derivation of Identity.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the concept of "wings" inside humans that represent our creative, relational, and spiritual
faculties. They suggest that these wings can be developed and used in various ways, such as seeing into time, knowing
other minds directly, and experiencing deep awareness and sensitivity.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of practicing self-reflection to understand one's purposes and desires, rather
than simply acting on impulses or habits. They encourage listeners to slow down and pay attention to their thoughts,
emotions, and behaviors, recognizing that our actions are often driven by unconscious motivations and desires for
attention.

The speaker also critiques the way in which institutions, corporations, governments, and religions can manipulate human
desires and lost faculties to keep us trapped in patterns of consumption and obedience. They suggest that these
perihuman intelligence collectives use various tactics to capture our attention and maintain their power over us.

Ultimately, the speaker is grateful for the opportunity to explore and learn with others, emphasizing the importance of
living life to its fullest potential and cultivating our inner wings.

Checking Dreaming & Awareness ⧸ Novelty in Relation.txt
The speaker discusses their thoughts on dreaming, considering it as a form of training for what happens when we die.
They believe that death is likely to be unique and diverse for each individual, just like dreams are unique experiences.
The speaker also talks about the difference between seeing things in our waking lives versus in our dreams, where we
feel what we're seeing. They mention that psychedelic drugs can induce a similar feeling-seeing experience, but note
that this is different from natural experiences of feeling-seeing. The speaker concludes by sharing their thoughts on
dreaming and its connection to death, hoping that listeners will find the discussion enjoyable or enlightening.

Checking Dreaming (2)： Explorations.txt
The speaker, a frequent visitor to the San Francisco Botanical Gardens, reflects on their experience exploring the
relationship between dreams and waking life. They discuss how speaking about dreams while awake can catalyze
self-discovery and awakening, and how the dreaming mind listens when we speak about it with reverence and curiosity.

They highlight the importance of bridging the gap between the two worlds by sharing dreams and paying attention to the
dreaming mind's curiosity about what happens in the waking world. They also discuss the concept of "other selves" that
exist only while dreaming, which are fascinated by the transformation from waking to dreaming consciousness.

The speaker shares their own experience of speaking to their dreaming mind while awake and lying down for sleep or naps,
finding that this can be an effective way to communicate with their dreaming self. They believe that internal organs are
deeply involved in dreaming and that the dreaming mind is responsive when spoken to from a deep, belly-centered place.

The video concludes with the speaker expressing gratitude for the opportunity to share these thoughts and encouraging
viewers to explore the world of dreams and its relationship to waking life.

Checking Dreaming and the Origins of Formal Waking Consciousness.txt
The speaker is exploring the idea that our consciousness is shaped by our relationship with dreams and memories. They
suggest that our waking minds are born from our dreaming minds, but over time, structured thinking can inhibit our
imagination and creativity.

The speaker notes that ancient cultures had a different experience of their relationship with representational
cognition, using ceremonies to actively elicit the dreaming consciousness while awake. In contrast, modern society has
replaced this with screens and external representations, which may damage our faculties for dreaming.

The speaker is concerned about losing these aspects of our humanity and calls for a "renaissance" to recover our lost
faculties through curiosity, experimentation, and ceremony. They believe that by re-engaging with our dreams and
interiority, we can rediscover relationships that have been lost and find new ways of experiencing the world.

The talk concludes by expressing trust in the dreaming mind and its potential to lead us to new experiences and
discoveries.

Checking Dysregulation of the Oneiric Cycle ｜ The Dream Assassin.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "dream hitman" - a figure that arises in the waking mind as a result of an attempt
to preserve oneself from the dreaming world. This figure is enraged at its impotence and inability to destroy the world.
The speaker suggests that this phenomenon can be seen in individuals who become messianic or Antichrist-like, such as
extreme narcissists.

The speaker proposes a model where the dream hitman begins by attacking the mind of the individual it has arisen from,
then turns its attention to the world and others, seeking scapegoats for its own feelings of impotence. This can lead to
complex inner conflicts and a desire to destroy or dominate others.

The speaker notes that this phenomenon is not unique to mental disorders, but can be seen in individuals who have
experienced great harm, such as those who have perpetrated significant societal damage. The speaker suggests that
exploring the relationship between our dreaming and waking minds can provide insights into the nature of human
psychology and behavior.

Checking Eclipse ⧸ The Flood.txt
The speaker, who appears to be a nature enthusiast and philosopher, has had profound experiences connecting with the
natural world. They express concern about the current state of humanity and the planet, predicting a cascade of
disasters that will require collective intelligence to navigate.

They suggest that humans are losing their connection to the natural world and each other, leading to ecological
degradation and decreased cognitive abilities. However, they believe that in times of crisis, human collectives can come
together to generate intelligent solutions.

The speaker reflects on the importance of individual and collective intelligence, encouraging people to learn from each
other, grow together, and nurture one another. They express hope for humanity's evolution into new forms of community
and intelligence.

The video concludes with the speaker expressing gratitude and appreciation for nature, specifically a majestic cypress
tree, and wishing viewers peace, freedom, and fulfillment.

Checking Edmund Carpenter's： Oh, What a Blow That Phantom Gave Me!.txt
The chapter "The Self-Sufficient Image" by Edmund Carpenter discusses how people have a tendency to translate images
into observed reality. Older people may want to see iconic landmarks or images exactly as they saw them first on posters
or advertisements. This need is driven by a desire to validate the image and reaffirm one's identity within that scene.
However, this need has been exploited in advertising, where people feel the need to acquire products solely to complete
and validate the advertisement. The chapter also notes that younger generations are less anxious to validate images
through reference back to observable reality, as they have grown up with a culture of self-sufficient images. This has
led to a phenomenon where advertisements can give more satisfaction than their actual products, and in some cases, a
product may not even exist yet.

Checking Edmund Carpenter： Oh, What a Blow that Phantom Gave Me!.txt
The chapter "Angelization" from Edmund Carpenter's book "Oh What A Blow That Phantom Gave Me" explores how the advent of
electricity and modern media has changed human behavior. The author argues that with the invention of the phone, people
have become "angels" - spirit freed from flesh capable of instant transportation anywhere.

The chapter highlights various examples where people are more responsive to mediated messages (such as TV, radio, or
recordings) than they are to in-person interactions. This is seen in situations like answering phones, responding to
taped orders, and listening to poetry readings on record.

The author also touches on the idea that people have become desensitized to mediated experiences, no longer requiring
physical presence to feel connected. The chapter concludes by noting how TV stars can walk freely in public without
being mobbed, as people are content to consume their performances through the medium of television.

Checking Emergent Embryogenesis ⧸ Anomalies and Science.txt
The speaker, likely Rupert Sheldrake, discusses the idea that fundamental constants in physics may not be constant after
all. He shares an anecdote about how the British authority on metrics (presumably the UK National Physical Laboratory)
fixed a problem with measurements of the speed of light by defining the meter in terms of the speed of light. This led
to the normalization of data and eliminated anomalies, but also created a problem where effects detected in the
laboratory may not be universal or constant over space and time.

Sheldrake argues that this normalization is an example of tyrannical hubris rather than open-minded inquiry. He suggests
that the onset of artificial intelligence and hypercomputational systems could change what it means to be a planet and
alter fundamental constants. The speaker also mentions the idea of morphogenic fields, which could affect computation
and our understanding of time-space.

The conversation concludes with a warning that scientific ideologies may not always be correct and that we are about to
experience rude awakenings as we learn more about the world around us.

Checking Emotion, Introspection... Imagining Oneself.txt
The speaker is reflecting on their life and sharing some thoughts with the listener. They mention that they've always
wanted to be a singer, but it's not just about singing, it's also about being seen and appreciated. They talk about how
humans benefit from positive observation and attention.

They also share some observations about shoes and shoe collecting, comparing it to the human tendency to collect and
commodify things. They mention the concept of "representation" and how humans tend to represent things to death,
extinguishing their true meaning in the process.

The speaker talks about feeling invisible at times, especially when joggers or others seem to intentionally invade their
personal space. They reference William S. Burroughs' idea that one can become invisible by seeing someone else first.

The conversation also touches on the idea of what one would do if they were actually invisible or could halt time for
others while remaining free themselves. The speaker reflects on their own experiences with critical intelligence and how
they try to be gentle, kind, and curious in their interactions with others.

Overall, the speaker is sharing their thoughts and observations about life, human nature, and the importance of
kindness, curiosity, and positive attention.

Checking Enlightenment.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of enlightenment and its connection to our original nature, which is often referred to
as the "origin world." They argue that our longings are not fulfilled by seeking external experiences or pleasures, but
rather by recollecting our true nature. The speaker suggests that this true nature is not separate from us, but rather
it is the source of all universes and beings.

The speaker also discusses the idea that there are different levels or sheaths that wrap around this true nature,
including layers of experience and perception that can be transcended through enlightenment. They mention that if one
becomes enlightened, they would recognize the impossibility of a separate self and see things as they truly are.

The speaker touches on various spiritual traditions and their approaches to achieving enlightenment, including Zen
Buddhism. They emphasize the importance of getting rid of grasping, hatred, fear, anger, delusion, and ignorance in
order to reach this state.

The speaker also shares their personal experience of having a "living light" invade and pervade their mind, which they
describe as a transcendental light that exceeds all possible dreams and hopes. They caution that this experience can be
dangerous for the unprepared person and may not necessarily save them from their human predicament.

Overall, the speaker is encouraging listeners to seek enlightenment and recollect their true nature, but also
acknowledges the potential risks and challenges involved in doing so.

Checking Equinon 77： Cogniscia, the mimula, thrisps.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "thrips" as a metaphor for the different species or types of thoughts, ideas, and
concepts that exist in the human mind. They describe how these thrips can be dominant and aggressive, seeking attention
and reproduction, or they can be benevolent and transformative.

The speaker also touches on the idea of the "cognizium," which is a collective pool of experience and intelligence that
exists across species and over time. They suggest that this cognizium is connected to our minds and lives, and that all
relationships with other living beings inform it.

Some key points from the talk include:

* The human mind is shaped by its relationships with language, ideas, and concepts.
* There are different "species" of thoughts and ideas that exist in the human mind, which can be dominant or benevolent.
* The cognizium is a collective pool of experience and intelligence that exists across species and over time.
* Our minds and lives are connected to this cognizium, and all relationships with other living beings inform it.
* This means that every individual animal or organism is a peculiar localization of a vast interval over time.

The speaker concludes by encouraging the audience to continue exploring the incredible hidden opportunities of human
birth, intelligence, and relationships with life on Earth.

Checking Eric Weinstein vs Tyler Cowen： The Art of Intellectual Tui Shou.txt
What a delightful conversation! Let me try to summarize it for you.

The speaker loves their family, but has concerns about how they view certain social issues. They think that when we
generalize or make sweeping statements about entire groups of people (e.g., "Americans are racists"), we're treating a
complex field as a single unit and potentially conflating behaviors of some individuals with the whole population.

The speaker also warns about the dangers of generalizations, citing how language and knowledge can lead us to believe
we've measured something when in fact we haven't. They mention that even physicists like Albert Einstein's friend Kurt
Goodall have questioned the objectivity of mathematical concepts.

The conversation touches on the idea that measurement is subjective, and that without subjectivity, there is no such
thing as an "objective" system. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the role of
subjectivity in our understanding of the world and the tools we use to arrive at truths or certainties.

Please let me know if you'd like me to clarify any specific points!

Checking Eric Weinstein, Zombie Functions, The 2018 problem... a birdwalk (repaired).txt
The speaker, Jay, discusses the concept of senescence signals and how they may indicate a need to interfere with human
population growth in order to reduce object proliferation (the accumulation of dead structures) and promote living
structure. He argues that this is necessary to ensure the long-term survival of the planet.

Jay also touches on the idea of waking up to the importance of biorelational time, which he believes is essential for
embodied beings to thrive. He notes that humans have been building machines that damage resources and disrupt natural
systems, and that we need to shift our focus from creating more guns (metaphorically speaking) to contributing to the
well-being of living beings.

The speaker also highlights the importance of small group experimentation and play in solving meaningful problems,
rather than simply going through the motions. He expresses concern about the association between environmentalism and
wokeism, noting that true concern for justice and equality is different from a superficial or performative display.

Throughout the discussion, Jay shares observations about the behavior of owls, which he finds fascinating, and reflects
on the importance of mutual endeavors and play in human relationships. He concludes by thanking his audience and
expressing hope for future explorations and learning together.

Checking Excerpts from The Meaning of Man (the foundations of the science of knowledge).txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of Sunday as a day to step away from daily concerns and connect with one's
humanity. They express skepticism towards organized religion but acknowledge the value of exploring human connection
with something greater than ourselves.

The speaker then introduces an unusual book, "The Meaning of Man", written by Sufi scholars in Fez, Morocco. They read
from the book, highlighting passages that explore the nature of opposites and how they are interconnected. The text
suggests that when we can see things in their opposite, we can find unity and understanding.

The speaker reflects on the importance of clearing one's mind and beginning with a blank slate to truly understand and
learn. They conclude by expressing hope that listeners may find value in the ideas presented.

Checking Extrapolation ｜ Projection ｜ Tactical Intelligence in Crisis.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of "rights" and how they are often viewed as being granted through laws and
mandates. However, they argue that true rights emerge from mutual bonding, concern, and learning to include one another
in a embodied and behavioral way. The speaker suggests that when we try to establish rights through laws, it's often too
little, too late, and the level of symbiotic humanity has already fallen so low that we're trying to keep it afloat with
mandates.

The speaker also critiques the legal system, calling it ineffective and expensive, and argues that prisons are not a
solution. Instead, they suggest that people should come together tactically to assert their will and demands for
equality and equal opportunity. The speaker believes that common people will eventually develop networks of communal
intelligence and realize that their safety and well-being lies in each other's hands, rather than in institutions.

The speaker also touches on the power of positive observation and how it can be transformative and nourishing for human
beings. They suggest that we should think together more about this concept and form little collective teams that have
the capacity to succeed where armies may fail.

Checking False Collectives： Doctors are Deadly ： What is disease？.txt
The speaker is a passionate advocate for healthcare reform and criticizes the current system for prioritizing profits
over patients' well-being. They share their personal experience of spending time in an operating room, which left them
shocked and convinced that they would never go into a hospital again.

They emphasize that hospitals are not transparent about doctors' performance rates or quality of care, and that
insurance companies are more interested in making money than providing coverage. The speaker also argues that the
current collective thinking prioritizes individualism over collectivism, leading to false and destructive systems in
education, law, defense, and healthcare.

The speaker invites others to join them in their mission to create a more just and compassionate healthcare system,
emphasizing the importance of relationality, unity, and collective well-being.

Checking False Collectives： Fake Activism and Social Media.txt
The speaker, Darren Stevenson, criticizes online activism and false experts that spread misinformation. He emphasizes
the need for collective action to stop forces that are harming the planet and human intelligence. Stevenson highlights
the following points:

1. False activism: Signing petitions is nearly useless in stopping environmental destruction.
2. False experts: Many so-called "experts" spread lies, such as the idea that brains are computers or that the Earth is
a battleground for Armageddon.
3. Social media manipulation: Algorithms on social media platforms like Facebook prioritize posts that support certain
agendas and generate revenue.

Stevenson encourages people to work together, learn about their online environments, and form authentic collectives that
prioritize protecting the planet and human intelligence. He highlights the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society as an
example of a genuine collective making a positive impact.

Overall, the speaker urges people to take action and form collective movements that can bring about real change, rather
than just spreading misinformation or engaging in ineffective activism.

Checking False stars, false collectives. Snakes... or ladders？.txt
The speaker, Darren Stevenson, is sharing his personal story and critique of modern society. He believes that people are
being misled and disconnected from each other, leading to problems in healthcare, education, and overall well-being. He
argues that instead of relying on institutions like government, religion, and education, people should focus on building
meaningful relationships with each other and finding purpose through service-oriented "mission-based" roles.

Stevenson shares his own personal experiences, including being circumcised as an infant, and suggests that this kind of
disconnection from our bodies and each other is a result of societal systems designed to make money off of people's
vulnerability. He proposes forming small groups or "pods" where people can come together to learn, grow, and support
each other in a more holistic way.

The tone is somewhat critical of modern society and its institutions, but also hopeful that by reconnecting with each
other and our own sense of purpose, we can create a better world.

Checking Falsely Driven Authorities： Science and Religion are Lethal.txt
The speaker, likely Terence McKenna, delivers a lecture on January 19, 2014, discussing the limitations and dangers of
relying solely on science (religion) as a way of understanding the world. He argues that both science and religion are
false authorities when not guided by ecological and relational intelligence.

McKenna criticizes science for torturing living beings for data, ignoring the effects of human actions, and creating
hell on earth. He also critiques religion for projecting absurd ideas about an afterlife and judging people as though
they're in a criminal court system. Both science and religion are seen as tyrannies that convert humans into fuel,
defenders, or reproductive organs for their respective authorities.

The speaker invites the audience to consider alternative possibilities, such as:

1. The world is not a single world but an instance of all worlds and every moment of every world in all of time.
2. Every living being and ecosystem on Earth is actually the living presence of other worlds and moments here on Earth.
3. What we call our mind is a way of participating with all of time, intelligence, and space as ourselves right now.

McKenna suggests that if humans were to get a taste of this alternative reality, they would forget about religion and
science (except as a pastime) and instead experience ecstasy, profound learning, and the living mind of beauty.

Checking Fascism, Beauty and Truth.txt
The speaker discusses the relationship between truth (with a capital T) and beauty, suggesting that they are two wings
on the same bird. They argue that while analytic truths may be important, there is also a deeper kind of truth that is
intrinsic to human awareness, desire, and affinity, which is connected to beauty.

The speaker suggests that certain perspectives or "stories" can be so profound and generative of insight that their
nominal truthfulness doesn't matter. What matters is the degree of liberty they give us, allowing us to see, think, and
feel in new ways.

The speaker also critiques modernity for replacing our intrinsic sense of truth and beauty with addictive
representations and endless forms of them, leading to a loss of degrees of liberty and a kind of spiritual suffocation.

The speech concludes by emphasizing the importance of remembering and recalling the nature of truth and beauty, far
beyond systematization or categorization. The speaker hopes that their talk will help clarify our vision and avoid being
deceived, allowing us to flourish and produce memorial liberations together.

Checking Figuration, Alpha-Thinking, Beta-Thinking and Representational Cognition.txt
The speaker is discussing Owen Barfield's concept of alpha, beta, and gamma thinking, which refers to different modes of
thought. Alpha thinking involves recognizing representations and their relationships, while beta thinking involves
reflecting on consciousness, the mind, and how we relate with representations. The speaker is exploring the idea that
our modern way of thinking (beta) has led to a deadness in our understanding of the original, participatory relationship
between humans and the world.

The speaker is also discussing Barfield's book "Saving the Appearances," which explores the concept of archaic thought,
which was more analogical and metaphoric than our modern symbolic thinking. The speaker notes that this way of thinking
is radically different from ours and leads to a different understanding of identity and the world.

Some specific points made by the speaker include:

* The idea that knowledge as we understand it (beta) is dead inside, meaning it is not connected to original
participation or the participatory relationship between humans and the world.
* The importance of recognizing the differences between modern symbolic thinking (beta) and archaic analogical thinking.
* The use of examples such as the bee and flower to illustrate the concept of analogical thinking.
* The idea that dreaming is a form of insight that can participate in the participatory relationship, whereas our waking
minds do not.

Overall, the speaker is exploring the ideas presented in "Saving the Appearances" and reflecting on how they relate to
modern thought and understanding.

Checking First Moves ｜ Categories and Route.txt
The speaker reflects on the uniqueness of their day and the different phases of life that can influence our ability to
learn and develop certain skills. They discuss how language learning is possible beyond childhood, but uncommon. They
also touch on the concept of "mind sharing" or telepathy, which they believe is most common in situations of deep
intimacy with family members, loved ones, animals, or plants.

The speaker then talks about the importance of incompleteness and including uncertainty in our ideas, theories, and
models. They suggest that language may be an adaptation to larger social groups and a tool that can be both powerful and
limiting. They also share a personal experience of meeting two women who sparked a sense of wonder and curiosity.

The speaker concludes by encouraging others to pay attention to the forms of intelligence that are common and to look
deeper into the nature of their awareness for the origins of problems and opportunities. They emphasize the importance
of quiet, contemplative space away from machines and media to recover and rediscover the many faculties and assets of
human humanity.

Checking Framing ｜ Frame Collapse ｜ Isolation.txt
The speaker reflects on various topics, including the human tendency to retreat into isolation, the fragmentation of
relationships and potential as human beings, and the impact of technology on our lives. They argue that our reliance on
rectangles (screens) is causing us to degrade mentally and become vulnerable to manipulation.

The speaker suggests that humans are creating a "spaceship" around themselves by surrounding themselves with rectangles,
leading to a lack of living signal and an overabundance of electronic noise. They propose that we can undo this process
by recognizing the collapse of our identity into frameworks and language, and instead embracing the ambiguity and
uncertainty of life.

The speaker also touches on the idea that humans have become obsessed with creating permanent erections (structures) and
boxes, which is leading to a lack of living signal and a sense of disconnection from nature. They encourage listeners to
consider these ideas and ask questions about why we are surrounded by rectangles and what this says about our
relationship with nature.

Overall, the speaker's main points include:

1. The importance of human relationships and potential.
2. The negative impact of technology on our lives and mental health.
3. The need to recognize and undo the collapse of our identity into frameworks and language.
4. The importance of embracing ambiguity and uncertainty in life.
5. The idea that humans are creating a "spaceship" around themselves through their reliance on rectangles.

Checking Framing ｜ Frame Collapse ｜ The Bible.txt
The speaker is discussing the Bible and its themes of human behavior, group dynamics, and the nature of being human.
They argue that the Bible can be seen as a book of hours or a book of hours for individual human beings, offering
parables and analogies to gain insight into humanity. The speaker also explores the idea that the Bible contains a
"heartbeat" of attempted resurrection, particularly in the story of Abel's murder and its subsequent resonance
throughout the text.

The speaker suggests that this heartbeat is related to the emergence of humans as creative, intuitive, and playful
beings, and that it can be seen as a pulse or rhythm running through the text. They argue that this perspective can help
us gain insight into our own human experiences and the development of consciousness over time.

The speaker also touches on the idea that the Bible contains a "frame collapse" when it comes to human behavior and
thought, where people become stuck in certain perspectives and are unable to see beyond their own frameworks. They
suggest that this is a trap that can be avoided by recognizing the existence of alternative perspectives and being open
to new ideas.

Overall, the speaker's discussion is an exploration of the themes and symbolism found in the Bible, and how they can be
applied to our understanding of human nature and consciousness.

Checking Fundamentals & Physical Analogies.txt
The speaker discusses the significance of letters, shapes, and their combinations in various cultures, including Hebrew
mysticism and Arabic mysticism. They explain that each letter has its own meaning and symbolism, which can be
transformed by the proximity of other letters.

The speaker then transitions to discussing smartphones and how they represent a connection to all beings in all time and
space, likening them to a "travel friend" or a guardian angel. However, this connection is lost as people become more
dependent on their devices.

The speaker argues that humans are actually connected to the origin world and have a spiritual being that guides and
watches over us, but this connection is occluded by our habits of thinking and relating. They suggest that technology
and concept mess up something vibratory in us, causing us to lose contact with our origins and become uninspired.

The speaker concludes that it's possible for humans to experience enlightenment or a second birth while still on earth
by seeking their own origins with uncompromising determination. They also mention the possibility of reincarnation
within one lifetime and being introduced to the origin world.

Throughout the talk, the speaker uses fairy tales and analogies to convey complex ideas about spirituality,
intelligence, and human connection.

Checking Game Theory ⧸ Single Encounter Ethics ⧸ Beyond.txt
The speaker, Darren, is discussing the threats posed by weaponized information and concepts in modern society. He argues
that HIV doesn't kill humans, but rather secondary infections caused by a malfunctioning immune system. Similarly, he
believes that human behavior and activity are often driven by strategic imperatives that mimic natural patterns.

Darren expresses concern about the manipulation of people's minds through conceptual pathogens, which can spread rapidly
through social media and other channels. He argues that these pathogens can be used to manipulate people's perceptions,
attention, and reasoning, leading to a loss of autonomy and critical thinking.

The speaker also mentions the concept of "gain of function" research, where scientists intentionally create new concepts
or ideas that can spread quickly and have unintended consequences. He believes that this type of research has been used
to compromise scientific integrity and manipulate public opinion.

Darren emphasizes the need for people to develop skills in detecting and recognizing these conceptual pathogens, as well
as forming "antigens" that can counteract their effects. He suggests that building a community of skilled individuals
who can recognize and respond to these threats is essential for preserving autonomy and critical thinking in modern
society.

The episode concludes with Darren expressing his concerns about the state of modern society and the need for people to
come together to learn, adapt, and evolve in response to these challenges.

Checking Geneon 43： Origin, Dimensionality, Gender and Divinity.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of gender and how society's understanding of it is limited by language and culture.
They argue that gender is not a fixed or binary concept, but rather a dynamic and creative expression that emerges from
an origin (the zero). The speaker suggests that men, in particular, are disconnected from their feminine origins and
therefore struggle to understand themselves as masculine.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing the transgendered nature of reality, including the mind and God.
They argue that language and culture have created a false sense of normativity around gender, which is actually a
fiction that has been imposed on us. The speaker encourages listeners to look beyond language and culture to understand
the true nature of gender and reality.

The main points made by the speaker include:

* Gender is not fixed or binary, but rather dynamic and creative.
* Men are disconnected from their feminine origins and therefore struggle to understand themselves as masculine.
* Language and culture have created a false sense of normativity around gender.
* The nature of reality, including the mind and God, is transgendered.
* We must look beyond language and culture to understand the true nature of gender and reality.

Overall, the speaker is advocating for a more nuanced and inclusive understanding of gender that recognizes its
complexity and fluidity.

Checking Generality, Insight and »Encryption.txt
The author shares their thoughts on the nature of consciousness, intelligence, and insight, highlighting the importance
of being able to have private conversations with other intelligences. They reference a science fiction novel,
"Macroscope" by Pierce Anthony, which explores the idea of an infinitely intelligent civilization sending signals that
can only be understood by those who are capable of processing them.

The author then shares their own insight from a conversation they had with their roommate about UFOs and aliens. They
describe how humans may be misinterpreting signals from other intelligences due to encryption protocols, much like the
scenario depicted in "Macroscope".

The author suggests that this idea could also apply to physics, where our interpretations of information may be
misleading or incomplete. They conclude by sharing a science fiction story seed, which involves discovering that
decades-long communication with an extra-solar intelligence was actually misinterpreted due to encryption protocols.

Throughout the message, the author emphasizes the importance of being aware of our own limitations and biases in
understanding reality, and encourages listeners to explore their own insights and creative ideas.

Checking Genius ： Categories and the Character of Our Essential Humanity.txt
The speaker is reflecting on their experience of discovering a quiet place and feeling a sense of connection to nature,
which they believe holds the key to unlocking human potential. They argue that our societal categories and values are
limiting our capacity for intelligent awareness and behavior, and that we need to change these markers of value and
meaning in order to recover our capacity for genius.

The speaker suggests that our current understanding of genius is limited and that we need to redefine what it means to
be a genius. They propose that genius is not just about exceptional abilities or achievements, but rather about the
capacity to embody one's own intrinsic genius and prodigy.

The speaker also reflects on how our culture and society are suppressing our natural inclination towards excellence and
creativity, and how this suppression leads to feelings of discontent and unfulfillment. They believe that we have the
power to change this by recognizing and honoring our inherent faculties and capacities, and by establishing a new kind
of intelligent human culture.

The speaker concludes by expressing their gratitude for the experience of connecting with nature and their hope that
others will join them in seeking out this deeper connection.

Checking Gentle Vocalizations.txt
It looks like you've shared a series of symbols and characters in various languages, including:

* Khmer (ភ ្ ឬ ូ ឴ ឰ ស ល)
* Georgian (ლლლლლ... etc.)

Please let me know if there's anything specific you'd like to discuss or summarize about these symbols and characters.
I'm here to help! 😊

Checking Getting Truth Wrong - And Consequences.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of understanding traditional indigenous knowledge and concepts that conserve an
awareness of the complexities of identity, relationships, and situations. They highlight how Western cultures tend to
collapse these complexities into a declarative format, which can lead to misunderstandings and miscommunications.

The speaker also explores the concept of "as the crow flies" versus actual paths taken between two points, illustrating
how our language and thought patterns often prioritize simplicity over complexity.

They share an example from Blackfoot culture, where it's considered rude to simply declare knowledge without considering
the unique perspectives and experiences that each person brings to a story. Instead, traditional cultures often employ
analogy or metaphor to convey meaning.

The speaker also discusses the importance of recognizing different modes of truth beyond factual statements. They use
the example of the Rossellian paradox, which states "This statement is false." The speaker shows how this paradox
highlights the limitations of language and the importance of considering the nature of awareness itself.

Ultimately, the speaker encourages listeners to cultivate a deeper understanding of complex concepts and relationships
by embracing complexity, nuance, and indirectness in our communication. They conclude by emphasizing the value of
exploring different modes of truth and seeking wisdom, joy, and insight.

Checking Gratitude ｜ Blessings.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the winter season and expressing gratitude for being alive during this time. They
acknowledge the challenges that many living beings face during the winter months, but also look forward to the rebirth
of the sun with the upcoming solstice. They reflect on the human experience and the importance of virtues like kindness,
compassion, and wisdom. The speaker expresses concern for the state of the world and its inhabitants, but emphasizes the
need to hold compassion for those who are suffering and isolated. They conclude by thanking their friends and companions
for walking alongside them on this journey.

Checking Hand Games.txt
It seems like you're speaking in a playful language (maybe French?). If I'm not mistaken, you were saying something
like:

"Thi ti ti, we roux, pou dou, basic"

Which roughly translates to: "This is this, we have roux, pou dou, basics"

Am I correct?

Checking Hand Toy V 1 - Beta.m4v.txt
The author, Darren, discusses the concept of counting the unifying body, which is composed of seven main parts (head,
neck, two arms, and two legs). He claims that humans have a "second wrist" that connects to an older brain in the gut,
containing ancient semiotic bacteria that can form relational sensing networks. This second wrist allows for forms of
connectivity and sensing that exceed human senses. Darren uses the analogy of a tree to illustrate this concept,
comparing the leaf (a flattened version of the tree) to the hand, and the stem (wrist) leading to branches (working
members). He encourages others to explore and understand the unifying body, claiming it will change our intelligence.

Checking Haîma ： Hymen { Blood ｜ Sewing together }  Transfer ｜ Bonding.txt
The speaker, likely a poet or mystic, discusses the importance of connecting with nature and the spiritual realm. They
highlight the virtues of subtle means of accessing knowledge, initiation, and gnosis through sacred relationships with
nature, rather than relying on intoxicants.

They emphasize the value of communing with trees, mountains, stars, and other natural elements, which can lead to
euphoric transportation into insight. The speaker also touches on the idea of sexual union with the spirit of nature,
suggesting that this is a doable and accessible experience for anyone.

The poem concludes by encouraging listeners to taste the "pure water of life" and memory, rather than becoming
fascinated with intoxicants or toxins. It ends with a personal anecdote about a child born with hemophilia and a call to
consider the nature of time and its relationship to this condition.

Throughout the poem, the speaker weaves together themes of connection, communion, initiation, gnosis, wonder, beauty,
and healing, emphasizing the importance of seeking insight through subtle means.

Checking Head Games.txt
I think you're trying to type out some gibberish, but I'll do my best to make sense of it.

It looks like you've written a series of backticks (`) followed by letters and symbols. This might be a mistake or an
attempt to format text in a specific way. If you meant to type something else, please feel free to rephrase your
question or provide more context. I'll do my best to help!

Checking Hemispheric Lateralization ⧸ Political Polarities.txt
The speaker is concerned about various issues, including:

1. The concept of "intelligent democracy" and how it has not been established in nations, but only in small groups like
the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society.
2. The diversity of languages and cultures in their community, which they believe should be naturally enacted through
experiences of cooperative life paths, concern, and education.
3. False flag operations and the need to consider them when evaluating information, including the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.

The speaker expresses concerns about violence and atrocities committed by all parties involved in the conflict,
including civilians being killed. They do not justify the slaughter of civilians and believe that it is fundamentally
unjustifiable, regardless of who is doing it.

The speaker also emphasizes the importance of not confusing Israel with Jewish people or Hamas/Hezbollah with
Palestinian people, recognizing the complexity and problematic nature of these categories. Ultimately, they believe that
violence against civilians is inhuman and bad, regardless of the perpetrator's ethnicity or nationalistic origin.

Checking Holophores： Organisms are Peoples.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of holophores, which are interconnected webs of relationships between beings,
including humans, animals, and all other forms of life. They argue that our current understanding of the world as
separate from us is an illusion, and that we are fundamentally connected to everything else through these holophores.

The speaker uses bees as an example of a complex social structure that may appear cruel at first glance, but is actually
a beautiful and necessary part of their ecosystem. They suggest that humans can learn from this by recognizing the
interconnectedness of all beings and treating them with respect and care.

The speaker also talks about the importance of repairing our holophores, which they believe has been disrupted through
modern forms of knowledge and cognition. By doing so, we can regain our capacity for intelligence, creativity, and
humanity.

The talk concludes with a call to experiment with the concept of holophores and recognize that all living beings are
peoples and lineages, and that we can learn to relate to them in ways that are mutually beneficial and beautiful.

Checking Holophores： Time (Beta1).txt
The speaker discusses the nature of intelligence, time, and space. They argue that our understanding of time is limited
and that we have misunderstood what time really is by measuring it instead of experiencing it directly. The speaker
suggests that modes of temporality are expressions of intelligence and that they are found in all forms of life on
Earth.

The speaker also discusses the concept of relational intelligence, which refers to the interconnectedness of all beings
and their environments. They argue that this type of intelligence is found in every aspect of time, including the stars
and the universe itself.

To illustrate these concepts, the speaker asks listeners to imagine two places in their own lives: their birthplace and
a significant event or milestone, such as their 10th birthday. The speaker then asks listeners to imagine three
different modes of space-time: the straight-line distance between the two events, the temporal distance (i.e., the time
elapsed), and the relational distance (i.e., the changes in relationships and experiences).

The speaker concludes by suggesting that there is a dimension of time that we don't normally include in our mathematics,
but which is perhaps the most fundamental of all. They end by reflecting on the honor and privilege it has been to
connect with others through their shared experience of intelligence and temporality.

Checking Home.txt
The speaker is exploring the concept of "home" and how it relates to our sense of belonging, identity, and connection
with others. They argue that modern society has lost touch with this deeper meaning of home, instead focusing on
physical structures and material possessions.

The speaker notes that when people say "I want to go home," they often mean not just a physical place but a sense of
unity and togetherness with loved ones. This sense of home is rooted in our earliest memories and experiences, and it's
what we're yearning for even when we're physically present in our homes.

The speaker also touches on the idea that modern society has created a false sense of security by surrounding ourselves
with physical barriers (walls, fences, etc.) and material possessions. This can lead to feelings of disconnection and
isolation, rather than true community and connection.

Throughout the talk, the speaker uses various examples and anecdotes to illustrate these points, including references to
personal experiences, cultural norms, and technological advancements. Ultimately, the goal is to encourage listeners to
re-evaluate their relationship with their physical homes and seek a deeper sense of connection and belonging.

Checking Hypertopics - & ( i so late ion ).txt
The speaker, who appears to be a linguist or philosopher, discusses the concepts of "holophores" (root concepts in
language that are necessary for human understanding) and "unophores" (super topics that are essential for human
existence). They also touch on the topic of rhetoric, which was historically taught to children from elite families but
rarely to those from poor families.

The speaker mentions a book called "The Dawn of Everything" by David Graeber and another author (whose name they
couldn't recall), which challenges modern historians' views of human nature. The book quotes Benjamin Franklin as saying
that people who adopt Native American customs will not return to European-American society, while those captured by
Native Americans and integrated into their societies will also refuse to return.

The speaker reflects on the extractive nature of modern society, which can lead to the death of one's humanity and
creativity. They lament the fact that many people, including famous ones like Jimi Hendrix and Judy Garland, have died
as a result of this process.

Finally, the speaker thanks their audience for joining them and encourages others to support their work by liking,
commenting, sharing, or listening to their recordings.

Checking Ichneumon Wasp (suggest HD).txt
A unique conversation!

It seems like there was a language barrier or some other issue preventing us from communicating effectively. The first
block of text appears to be random characters, and the second one is just a bunch of "ლ" symbols, which might be some
kind of Georgian script, but I'm not sure what they mean.

The last part of the conversation seems like it's about drinking water or something similar, but it's unclear due to the
language barrier. The mention of "old Jews" and "boiling water" adds a bit of mystery to the conversation!

Checking Identity & The Problem with Things.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or cognitive scientist, discusses the limitations and dangers of religious narratives
that can lead to misconceptions about God and spirituality. They highlight how religions often weaponize fear and threat
to convert people, which can be linked to the development of schizophrenia.

The speaker also explores the nature of science and its limitations in understanding the world. They emphasize that
research is always open to reinterpretation and correction, unlike religious dogma, which rarely corrects itself.

The main topic of the recording is the relationship between human consciousness, language, and the natural world. The
speaker argues that our thinking is often limited by our representational language and that we are capable of
experiencing multiple dimensions and intelligences beyond our physical reality.

The talk concludes with a discussion about the nature of objects and artifacts in human culture, suggesting that they
can be seen as reifications of transcendent qualities and that humans have an innate connection to these qualities
before being embodied. The speaker also touches on the topic of schizophrenia and how it relates to the theme of
misaligned narratives and awareness.

Checking Identity ｜ Language ｜ Knowledge.txt
The speaker, who is taking a walk in the garden, reflects on the state of human minds and the impact of constant
surveillance and critical thinking on our interiority. They argue that this has led to a toxic nightmare where our
thoughts and movements are always under scrutiny, making it difficult for us to think freely.

The speaker also touches on the topic of authorization, questioning what we authorize in our thinking, cultures, and
interiority. They suggest that we need to find a way to give answer to this problem and invert the paradigm so that we
have privacy and protection from constant surveillance.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of considering the unknown and the mystery of being, rather
than relying solely on representational knowledge. They also highlight the limitations of our current forms of knowledge
and the need for a more holistic approach to understanding ourselves and the world around us.

The talk concludes with the speaker expressing their hope that we can learn to value the unknown and suspend our trust
in representational paradigms, allowing us to grow and flourish.

Checking Imagination ： The Basis of Consciousness.txt
The speaker is highlighting the importance of imagination in human consciousness. They argue that imagination is not
just a creative tool, but also the source of faculties and abilities that are diverse and profound. These faculties
include non-verbal communication, intuition, and other forms of awareness that can be experienced through imagination.

The speaker suggests that many people have lost access to these faculties due to the limitations imposed by language and
our dominant narrative about the nature of consciousness. They propose that we need to reframe our understanding of
imagination and its role in human experience, and explore the many forms of "wings" that it can provide for us.

The speaker also expresses concerns about the influence of media on our imagination and creativity, and warns against
allowing ourselves to be shaped by critical pragmatism or narratives that limit our potential. They encourage listeners
to trust their inner passion and imagination, and to explore the vast spectrum of possibility that it brings to each of
our lives.

Overall, the speaker is urging people to recognize the importance of imagination in human consciousness, and to reclaim
its power as a source of creativity, intuition, and connection with others.

Checking Imagination ｜ Perspective ： Far Away ｜ So Close.txt
The speaker has a meandering conversation about the nature of reality, consciousness, and the human experience. They
discuss the idea that there are different levels or layers to understanding and that we can tap into ancient
intelligences within ourselves.

They also explore the concept of quieting one's mind and allowing for insight and intuition to emerge, drawing parallels
between individual experiences and the collective unconscious. The speaker expresses reverence for mothers and women, as
well as a desire to understand the mysteries of our deep humanity.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker touches on various themes, including the idea that our minds are not just
possessions but can be shaped and transformed through intention and attention. They also discuss the importance of
imagination and intuition in accessing higher levels of intelligence and understanding.

The conversation is characterized by a poetic and philosophical tone, with the speaker drawing on personal experiences
and observations to illustrate their points.

Checking Imnumen 61： RepCog, The Meronymic Web, Animals.txt
The speaker, likely a biologist or ecologist, presents a thought-provoking perspective on what it means to be human.
They argue that the conventional notion of humans as a single species is incomplete and misleading. According to them:

1. 90% of our cells are not human, but rather microbial (bacterial) in origin.
2. These microbes play a crucial role in our biology, influencing our health, evolution, and behavior.
3. The 10% of animal cells that make up the remaining 10% of our body are what we typically think of as "human."
4. Evolution has been oversimplified by focusing solely on the genetic changes within this 10%.
5. The microbial component is evolving at an incredible rate, far faster than human physical evolution.
6. This microbial component is crucial for our survival and informs many aspects of our biology.

The speaker suggests that our understanding of what it means to be an animal (or a human) has been misguided due to this
narrow focus on the 10% of animal cells. They propose that we have been overlooking the vast majority of our cells,
which are actually microbial in origin.

This perspective challenges our traditional notions of evolution, biology, and what it means to be alive. It also
highlights the importance of considering the complex interactions between humans and their microbial companions.

Checking In Dependence ： Humans are Pod Animals.txt
The video is about the importance of critical thinking, intelligence, and community. The speaker argues that individuals
are often enslaved by their independence and lack of meaningful connection with others. They propose the idea of a "pod"
- a small, skillful group of people who work together to learn, grow, and survive in a complex world.

The speaker criticizes the culture of individualism and the way it perpetuates ignorance, superstition, and conformity.
They argue that humans are naturally inclined towards behaviors like cooperation and mutual support, but these
tendencies are often suppressed by societal pressures.

The video also touches on the idea of dependence versus independence, suggesting that a balance between the two is
necessary for human flourishing. The speaker proposes that humans should strive to form small, skillful teams that can
navigate complex contexts and make decisions together.

Throughout the video, the speaker uses examples from personal experience, pop culture, and historical events to
illustrate their points about critical thinking, intelligence, and community. They also reference various philosophical
and spiritual traditions, including Buddhism and romantic love.

Checking Incarnation & the Soul： The Great Quest.txt
The speaker reflects on the concept of quests and how they can shape our humanity. They discuss the idea that each
person is unique and has their own opportunities to forge and accomplish quests that advance human development. The
speaker shares their personal experiences with quests, including learning to communicate with trees, and emphasizes the
importance of preserving mystery in life.

The conversation touches on the relationship between public and private aspects of our humanity, and how we can choose
to share or keep certain aspects of ourselves hidden. The speaker also reflects on the concept of truth and how it can
be dependent on our relationships with others and our own orientations.

The video concludes with a call to join in a great adventure: discovering and returning to common knowledge and
experience. The speaker invites viewers to walk together with them on this journey, exploring the nature of our being,
humanity, consciousness, intelligence, and creativity.

Checking Inception, Possession and Initiatory Death ⧸ Resurrection.txt
The speaker is discussing the idea of "forbidden knowledge" or secrets of death, which they believe are not accessible
to humans. They reference an ancient text that discusses the secrets of death and how it's a forbidden topic. The
speaker also talks about near-death experiences and how some people have reported seeing things outside their physical
bodies.

The speaker then references an ancient prophet who wrote about the importance of seeking knowledge and wisdom, but also
warns against seeking knowledge that is not meant for humans to possess. They believe that this prophet is warning us
against seeking forbidden knowledge or trying to control forces beyond our understanding.

The speaker also touches on the idea of possession, referencing a biblical passage where Jesus advises giving up one's
possessions. The speaker interprets this as not being possessed by anything other than the spirit of truth.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes the importance of respecting the boundaries between human
consciousness and the unknown or forbidden knowledge. They seem to be seeking to understand and learn from these
experiences, rather than trying to control or possess them.

The tone of the conversation is contemplative and introspective, with a focus on exploring the mysteries of life and
death. The speaker's language is poetic and metaphorical at times, adding to the sense of mysticism and wonder in their
discussion.

Checking Inner Archaeology： Mindcrafting.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of forming minds together with other beings, including animals, plants, and even
small creatures like bees or mice. They believe that our minds are not meant to exist in isolation, but rather can be
expanded and transformed through connections with others.

The speaker suggests that by forming minds together, we can access new forms of consciousness, attention, awareness, and
intelligence that would otherwise seem impossible. This can happen through direct proximity with each other or even
through communication at a distance.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of leaving behind the "cage" of our familiar minds and exploring the vast and
dynamic potential of human consciousness. They believe that this is an opportunity for humanity to rediscover its
ancient and ecstatic nature, which has been suppressed by modernity and cultural conditioning.

The speaker hopes that listeners will have the chance to directly experience what they are speaking about, rather than
just thinking about it. They encourage experimentation and exploration of this concept, believing that it could lead to
new forms of human connection and understanding.

Checking Insight.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "fundamental insights" which unify various aspects of knowledge and experience.
They argue that intellect often divides things apart, but fundamental insights bring them back together in a direct and
intuitive way. The speaker touches on the idea of "emptiness" or "void" as a profound and mysterious aspect of reality,
which is not equivalent to nothingness.

They reference the Heart Sutra, which describes all phenomena as empty, meaning they are without inherent existence and
are ultimately interconnected. This emptiness is seen as a kind of undifferentiated potential that underlies all
experience.

The speaker also discusses the nature of insight, suggesting that it brings things back into union and reveals their
relatedness in a new and beautiful way. They contrast intellect's tendency to cut apart and categorize with the more
holistic and intuitive approach of insight.

Finally, the speaker touches on the idea that our waking experience is a form of dreaming, and that meditation and other
practices can be used to transform our consciousness and reveal novel aspects of reality.

Checking Intelligence II： Sapiens Aren't ⧸ Hitchhiking.txt
The speaker, Darren, welcomes listeners and reflects on his previous recording, where he discussed his perspectives on
intelligence, ecology, and resilience. He notes that humans are destroying planetary biological and ecological
resilience by dumping it into machines and dead structures.

Darren expresses frustration with the way society has become, with machines owning most things and pirates exploiting
what's left. As a homeless person with a home, he cannot belong to the land, which is now owned and controlled by
others.

He shares his thoughts on real intelligence, which remembers its origins, protects them, and preserves the context from
which it arose. He laments the loss of untouched beauty in nature, such as the oceans, due to human activities like
pollution and destruction.

The speaker concludes by expressing his gratitude for being able to share his perspectives and invites listeners to join
him on future recordings. He ends with a Blackfoot phrase, "Stomachucked, Omanist, Olauacucked," which translates to
"keep going" or "keep on keeping on."

Checking Intelligence and Surveillance ： Views.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of relational intelligence and challenges societal norms that promote surveillance,
control, and competition. They argue that our current systems, including makeup and ties, are based on submission to
sexual surveillance and lead to false representations and a lack of human connection.

The speaker also touches on the idea that our current societal structures, including law and court cases, can lead to
psychosis and schizophrenia if not approached intelligently. They suggest that instead of surveilling ourselves out of
fear or control, we should surround ourselves with loving and encouraging people who inspire us to rise to our highest
potential.

The speaker concludes by referencing biblical stories and suggests that the true meaning of these stories has been lost
in translation. They propose that if we learn to understand and decode these stories for each other, we can unlock our
own intelligence and potential, leading to a more harmonious and loving world.

Overall, the speaker's message is one of hope and unity, encouraging listeners to reject false representations and
instead cultivate relational intelligence and love for themselves and others.

Checking Intelligence or Dissociation？.txt
The speaker reflects on the nature of intelligence, suggesting that it is not solely a product of human cognitive
processes, but also arises from deep emotional understanding, mindful embodiment, and mutual concern for all beings.
They argue that human intelligence is often overshadowed by a dominant aspect that can lead to apocalypse within
ourselves, our cultures, and our ecologies.

The speaker critiques the idea that humans are too stupid to make contact with aliens, instead suggesting that human
minds are complex and context-dependent, influenced by relationships and experiences that shape who we are. They propose
that intelligence is not a possession, but rather an emergent property of participation in various processes and forces.

The speaker also touches on the idea that our minds are shaped by layers of relation and experience, and that our
species has the potential to embody remarkable roles in nature, time-space, and the universe. However, this potential
can be captured and counterfeited by modern societies, leading to a life lived "blinded inside."

The speaker concludes by reflecting on the importance of connection with others and the possibility of making a
contribution to the world through mutual understanding and care.

Checking Intelligence.txt
The speaker discusses the nature of human intelligence and abilities, arguing that humans have the capacity for
superfunction and hyperfunction. They also criticize popular TV show "Penn & Teller: Bullshit!" for debunking psychic
phenomena without acknowledging the real existence of certain abilities. The speaker claims that telepathy is real and
that people have been endowed with anciently developed faculties and abilities that are often lost, lied about, or
faked.

The talk also touches on the concept of justice, arguing that punishment and retribution are not justifiable means to
achieve justice. Instead, the goal should be to use intelligence gathered from past wrongs to prevent future harm. The
speaker critiques the modern prison system as a "for-profit slave-making system" that perpetuates cycles of violence and
harm.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing and celebrating human potential and abilities,
rather than suppressing or denying them. They encourage listeners to work together to promote liberation, resolution of
harm, and the reintroduction of more-than-merely-human nature into our direct experience.

Checking Interpreting the Gap ｜ Discontinuity and Emotion.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the challenges of deep communication in modern relationships, particularly through texting
and other forms of digital communication. They express concerns that the lack of embodied presence and emotional
connection can lead to misunderstandings, misinterpretations, and even catastrophic consequences for individuals who are
prone to overthinking.

The speaker notes that people may become overly analytical when trying to understand gaps or absences in their
relationships, which can lead to delusional explanations and assumptions. They also touch on the idea that many modern
media forms prioritize absence and reification of distance over actual communality and mutual concern.

The conversation then shifts to discuss the impact of human behavior on the environment and the carrying capacity of the
earth. The speaker suggests that the damage caused by human activity will be catastrophic and geometrically increase
over time, leading to profound transformations in the future.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker emphasizes the importance of embodied presence, emotional connection, and
genuine communication in relationships, and expresses concerns about the consequences of relying solely on digital forms
of communication.

Checking Invocation ｜ Evocation.txt
The speaker is discussing the idea of recovering and experiencing the various faculties or senses that are innate in
human beings, but often go unexplored. They reference an old Star Trek movie where Spock dies and his spirit travels to
another being, suggesting that humans have the capacity for direct inhabitation of other beings or living places.

The speaker talks about sympathy and empathy, which involve resonating with and understanding the feelings and
experiences of others. They suggest that humans have a natural tendency to sympathize and empathize, and that this is
why we enjoy watching movies and videos, as well as feeling pain and anger when someone is harmed.

The main idea of the talk is to encourage people to recover and experience these innate faculties, which can involve
things like imagining being an animal or a tree, and having direct experiences with other beings or living places. The
speaker suggests that this can be done through practices such as meditation and mindfulness, and that it can bring great
joy and surprise.

The speaker also touches on the idea of invocation and evocation, suggesting that these are old ideas that are often
misunderstood. They suggest that humans have a deep connection to their interiority, which can involve things like
sympathy, empathy, and direct experience with other beings or living places.

Overall, the talk is encouraging people to explore and experience their own innate faculties and senses, and to discover
the great joy and surprise that can come from doing so.

Checking Iphetios 20： Multibird.txt
The speaker has two deep fascinations: language and how people change in context. They argue that individuals are not
fixed entities but rather fluid representations of all people, concerns, and living beings on Earth. This means that
traditional notions of individuality and collective identity are fictional.

The speaker suggests that humans are not forming true collectives for noble purposes because we're trapped in fictions
like language, culture, and politics. They propose a new way to form groups: spontaneously, based on shared interests
and values, without the need for artificial frameworks or structures.

The conversation should focus on how to answer the question of how to form effective, self-correcting collectives that
are not controlled by external factors. The speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding the context of human
existence within the living ecologies of Earth and warns against destroying the planet through our actions.

Ultimately, the goal is to discover a new way of forming collectives that brings rewards beyond those found in fictional
ones and aligns with the natural world.

Checking Is space(time) 'pure' potential -intelligence-？.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of understanding space, time, death, and intelligence. They argue that humans
are not just physical beings, but also intelligent beings who are connected to the natural world. The speaker emphasizes
the need to protect the oceans, which they see as a vital source of life and intelligence.

They criticize modern society for prioritizing profit and power over the well-being of the planet and its inhabitants.
They argue that humans are making serious mistakes that will have long-term consequences if not addressed.

The speaker also discusses the importance of understanding the concept of space, including inner space and the
incredible dimensionality of nature. They suggest that there is a need to reevaluate our relationship with space and
time in order to develop greater intelligence and liberty.

Overall, the speaker's message is one of urgency and hope. They urge listeners to take action to protect the planet and
its inhabitants, while also emphasizing the importance of developing greater understanding and intelligence.

Checking Jobs vs Roles.txt
The text is an excerpt from a speech by Robert Fulford, a philosopher and author. He discusses the concept of "roles"
vs. "jobs" and how they relate to human nature. He argues that people are born with roles (natural abilities and
inclinations) but are forced into jobs ( societal expectations and limitations) which leads to confusion, frustration,
and ultimately, crisis.

Fulford claims that this lack of role fulfillment is a major source of crime, depression, and other social ills. He
suggests that people try to compensate for their unfulfilled roles by taking extreme measures, such as violence or
self-destruction.

The speaker advocates for recognizing the importance of roles in human life and working towards creating a society where
individuals can fulfill their natural roles, rather than being forced into predetermined jobs. He believes this would
lead to a more authentic, creative, and fulfilling existence.

In summary, Fulford argues that people's unfulfilled roles are a major cause of societal problems and advocates for
recognizing the importance of roles in human life, leading to a more authentic and fulfilling existence.

Checking Kephab 32： The Precedence of Unity.txt
The passage explores the concept of "measure" and how it has been perceived differently in Western and Eastern cultures.
The author argues that measure is not an objective reality, but rather a human construct that arose from our need to
make sense of the world. In ancient Greece, Protagoras said "man is the measure of all things," emphasizing that measure
is not an external standard, but rather a form of insight that arises from human perception and action.

The author notes that Western society has historically emphasized the development of science and technology based on
measure, while Eastern cultures have focused on religion and philosophy. The East has traditionally viewed measure as
illusionary, seeing the immeasurable as the primary reality.

The passage concludes by suggesting that true insight may be lost when we learn mechanically through conformity to
existing teachings, rather than through creative and original personal grasping of insights. It emphasizes the
importance of individual agency in discovering truth and understanding the interplay between different concepts, such as
the zero and the one, gestalt and parts, and whole and parts.

Checking Keys to Beyond： What is time？ What is 'an organism＂？.txt
What a fascinating and energetic conversation!

To summarize, Darren Stevenson is sharing his ideas on how humans can connect with the collective intelligence of the
Earth. He believes that every living being has a unique role in this "exquisite possible communion element" called human
consciousness.

Key points:

1. The mind is the platform for perfect contact with all forms of intelligence on earth.
2. Humans are meant to unify and magnify these intelligences, which are more sophisticated than anything imaginable.
3. Our current language, culture, science, and religion are based on lies and broken models of identity that need to be
overcome.
4. The "stardust" narrative is wrong; we're not made of dead objects, but rather we're organs of the living Sun (our
sun).
5. Death is not judgmental or a source of fear; it's an encounter with pure intelligence that can happen while alive or
at death.
6. Our true nature and relationships in nature are key to discovering our true power and potential.

Throughout the conversation, Darren emphasizes the importance of escaping human constructs and embracing our true selves
as living beings connected to the natural world.

Checking Language： Denotation, Connotation & Idealization.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or spiritual guide, reflects on the nature of reality, consciousness, and the human
experience. They express love and respect for all living beings, acknowledging that we are capable of both war and
compassion.

They discuss the concept of the "costume" or self-image that we wear, which can limit our perception and understanding
of the world. They suggest that this costume is not necessarily who we truly are, but rather a constructed identity that
can be shed in order to experience life more freely.

The speaker also touches on the idea that our waking lives may be like dreaming, with our dreams being a return to a
state of intimacy with our true nature. They express uncertainty about death, but suggest that it may be a familiar and
even intimate experience.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of revering and respecting all living beings, including those
in the natural world, as a means of gaining insight and understanding. They conclude by expressing gratitude for the
opportunity to explore these ideas with others.

Checking Light on the Waters.txt
The speaker shares a personal experience with their father, where they took him to a pool and showed him the different
ways of looking at the water. Their father suddenly became frightened and said he was becoming one with the trees. The
speaker reassured him and helped him understand that this was not a rational experience, but rather an awakening to a
deeper aspect of themselves.

The speaker reflects on how we often live in a prison of familiar thoughts and assumptions, and that insight can be like
unlocking a door to access new experiences and perspectives. They share their own experience of seeking insight with
others, and how the presence of women can change the dynamics of a group.

The speaker also talks about the beauty of language, comparing it to music, and how poetry can approach song when sung.
They conclude by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to explore and learn together, and wish their audience may
have their dreams lit by the original light and may their life paths be beautiful.

Checking Light, Time, Reflections.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the concept of an "invisible sun" - a transcendent, unseen force that connects us to our
inner selves and the world around us. They propose that throughout human history, there have been periods where this
light was more or less perceivable to humanity, influencing our emotions, creativity, and societal activities.

The speaker suggests that today, we may be experiencing a period of "bad weather" where this invisible sun is obscured
by various factors (e.g., technology, cultural distractions). They wonder what would happen if the clouds suddenly
parted, and humans could once again directly experience this light.

They reflect on how humans respond to hidden or absent guidance - often creating stories, religions, or counterfeits.
The speaker believes that if we were to re-experience the invisible sun's presence, all these artificial constructs
would melt away, revealing our true nature and connection to the universe.

The conversation concludes with a hope that listeners may have the opportunity to discover this concept in their own
way, potentially leading to a deeper understanding of themselves and the world.

Checking Lisance 3： Distance under unity as light⧸time..txt
The author is discussing the concept of distance and measurement, particularly in relation to physics. They are drawing
on two chapters from a book called "Relativity in Common Sense" by Herman Bondi.

The first chapter discusses using radar to measure distance. The author explains that radar uses radio waves to bounce
off targets and calculate distance based on the time it takes for the signal to return. This method doesn't rely on
physical standards like yardsticks, but rather measures time intervals.

The second chapter explores the idea of a civilization where people express distances in terms of time intervals, such
as light seconds or light microseconds. In this scenario, the velocity of light would be considered a unit of
measurement, rather than a physical constant.

The author is highlighting how our conceptions of distance and measurement are influenced by our frameworks and
perspectives. They are suggesting that our tendency to conflate different metrics and measurements can lead to confusion
and misunderstandings.

Overall, the text is encouraging readers to think more critically about their assumptions around distance and
measurement, and to consider alternative perspectives on these concepts.

Checking Listening ｜ Slowing Down ｜ Syntropy.txt
The speaker, Darren, is discussing the current state of humanity and the potential for transformation in the face of
crisis. He notes that we have the capacity to either ennoble or destroy our history on earth, and that our current
institutions are corrupt and vulnerable to manipulation.

Darren emphasizes the importance of small groups of intelligent and committed individuals working together to bring
about change. He points out that a small group of people can transform a nation overnight, and that this is a powerful
tool for creating positive change.

He also notes that while there is a dark side to this capacity for collective action, it can also be used for good. He
imagines the emergence of civilian intelligence teams that could work together to bring about a peaceful revolution.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of choosing frames and frameworks that are conducive to our own
awareness, presence, and dreams. He suggests that there is no perfect framework, but rather those that are less wrong or
more liberating.

Overall, Darren's speech is an call to action for individuals to work together to create positive change in the face of
crisis.

Checking Living Time： The Pulse of Life.txt
The speaker, Darren, discusses the installation of a loudspeaker system in a San Francisco park to deter geese from
entering the area. The speaker produces a noise that has no effect on the geese but is unpleasant for humans and other
animals. Darren reflects on how this type of noise is a representation of our cultural tendency to impose harsh
intervals and divisions on time, which cuts apart living beings and their relationships.

He contrasts this with the natural flow of time in nature, where intervals are liquid and interconnected. Darren argues
that humans prioritize entertainment and abstraction over meaningful relational behavior, and that this leads to a sense
of dead time and disconnection from the world.

The speaker concludes by encouraging listeners to recognize the difference between living time and imposed time, and to
choose a different path that values relation, adventure, and meaning.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 2.txt
Luca Rade is discussing the concept of "birthing" which refers to creating space and enabling love to grow within
oneself, allowing for small changes to occur that can eventually lead to larger transformations. He emphasizes the
importance of not systematizing or structuring this process too early on, as it can stifle personal energy and prevent
deeper change.

Luca also references books on the evolution of human consciousness, suggesting that root concepts in language have a
profound impact on our ability to think and understand the world. He argues that scientific approaches often damage
these root elements by casting them in mechanical terms, making it difficult to recover their natural dimensionality.

The conversation also touches on the power of psychedelics to break down linguistic barriers and enable new forms of
understanding, but notes the potential dangers of relying too heavily on these substances.

(Last part of the recording)

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 3.txt
The conversation continues with Luca Rade discussing the idea that initiation rituals can be created and improvised
throughout life, rather than being limited to traditional institutions or structures. He emphasizes the importance of
recognizing and honoring personal experiences and relationships as initiation rituals, which can lead to a deeper sense
of adulthood and self-awareness.

Luca defines initiation as "transitioning from the state you're currently in, either individually or in a group" and
sees it as a process of stepping into a new state, rather than just gradually moving towards it. He also highlights the
importance of acknowledging and honoring personal experiences, such as psychedelic experiences or falling in love, as
initiations that can lead to growth and transformation.

The conversation concludes with a reflection on how even good conversations can be seen as initiation rituals, leading
to micro-initiations and personal growth.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 4.txt
This conversation is part 4 of an ongoing discussion between Luca Rade and Darren about his vision for humans. Luca
emphasizes the importance of avoiding abstract generalizations and instead focusing on real, physical humans. He shares
his own vision, which involves recognizing that the universe is already present within each person's experience, and
that it's not about building or discovering something new, but rather inhabiting and remembering the unity of being.

Luca also discusses the concept of unlearning and how it can help individuals navigate complex environments more
smoothly. He references his friend who is a mushroom guide and is learning to be a shaman, which involves removing
layers of interpretation to tap into one's initial navigational intuition.

The conversation concludes with Luca sharing his vision for humans, which involves remembering their unity with the
universe and inhabiting it with love. Darren agrees with Luca's vision and thanks him for the opportunity to have this
conversation.

Checking Luca Rade — Liquid Conversation Part 1.txt
The conversation revolves around the idea of "thrifts" - parasitic organisms that colonize and control human minds. The
speakers discuss how these thrifts can be thought of as ideas or concepts that dominate our thinking and behavior, often
in ways that are detrimental to our well-being.

One speaker proposes a framework for understanding this phenomenon, suggesting that the "cognizium" (the network of
human minds) is colonized by "thrifts" that compete for dominance and reproduction within humans. This can lead to the
suppression of individual values and internal lives, as well as the perpetuation of societal problems.

The other speaker shares their own insights on this topic, drawing parallels between the colonization of human minds and
the emergence of God or divine forces in various cultures. They propose that these emergent forces can be medicinal in
nature, offering a way to liberate humans from the control of thrifts.

The conversation concludes with a sense of hope and possibility, suggesting that understanding the dynamics of thrifts
and their relationship to our internal lives may hold the key to personal and collective liberation.

Checking Lucidty ｜ Dreaming and Waking.txt
The speaker discusses the relationship between dreaming and waking life, exploring the idea of "opening the door"
between these two states. They describe three branches:

1. The dreaming branch: keep dreaming, collapse into waking, or experience sudden acquisition of new degrees of liberty
in awareness.
2. The waking world branch: question or fascination with something novel, collapsing into dreaming (where the speaker
often experiences vivid and intelligent visions), or successfully traversing the first two branches.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of imagination and creativity in waking life, highlighting how our relationships
with language, knowledge, and culture can capture and evict aspects of our interiority. They encourage listeners to help
each other learn and discover faculties that were once natural but have been largely amputated or counterfeited over
time.

The speaker also touches on the concept of lucid dreaming and waking, emphasizing the importance of exploring these
states carefully and with caution. Finally, they reflect on the relationship between dreaming and memory, suggesting
that these two aspects are intertwined like the inside and outside of an octopus, with the inside being an expression of
something truly inconceivable.

Overall, the speaker seeks to inspire listeners to explore the possibilities of their own imagination, creativity, and
awareness, and to open doors between dreaming and waking life in a way that is gentle, beautiful, intelligent, creative,
inspiring, reassuring, and profound.

Checking Machines Between Us ｜ The Cage.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of human connection and community in a world where technology has made us more
isolated. They argue that our brains are wired to crave meaningful relationships with others, and that this desire can
be exploited by corporations who sell us products to fill the void.

The speaker notes that humans have a natural inclination towards group formation and cooperation, citing examples from
nature such as schools of fish or herds of animals. However, they also acknowledge that this tendency has been co-opted
and commodified in modern society, leading to feelings of loneliness and disconnection.

The speaker suggests that forming meaningful cohorts with others is key to overcoming these feelings and finding a sense
of purpose and belonging. They propose that shared goals and purposes can be a powerful generator for such cohorts,
citing examples from war or special operations teams where soldiers bond over a common mission.

Throughout the video, the speaker emphasizes the importance of genuine human connection and community, encouraging
viewers to seek out meaningful relationships with others in their lives.

Checking Mastered By Our Tools.txt
The speaker is sharing their thoughts on language, generalizations, and human behavior. They express frustration with
how people often rely on surface-level understanding and stereotypes, rather than exploring the complexities of a
situation. The speaker also discusses how children lose their creative freedom and imagination as they grow older,
becoming more structured and narrow in their thinking.

The main body of the speech is about an incident where the speaker witnessed a father and his two young daughters having
an adventure climbing a tree to retrieve a rope. The speaker notes that while the experience was beautiful and
adventurous for the family, it also had some concerning moments, such as the lack of proper equipment and the intensity
of the father's drive.

The speaker reflects on what message this experience might be sending to the children, wondering if they will take away
a positive lesson about taking risks or a cautionary tale about reckless behavior. The speech concludes with the speaker
acknowledging that there is more to discuss, but signing off for now.

Checking Memef•ck'd： Make a Stand.txt
The song appears to be about the struggles of life and finding one's place in it. The lyrics touch on themes of feeling
lost, struggling with darkness and negativity, and trying to find a sense of purpose and belonging.

The opening lines seem to suggest that the speaker is reflecting on their own life and the choices they've made,
wondering if others can relate to similar struggles. The chorus repeats the phrase "Together we can make a stand,"
suggesting a desire for unity and support in overcoming these challenges.

The song also touches on themes of perseverance and resilience, with lines like "First ten years didn't feel so hard /
Seven after that, seemed to risk me too far" suggesting a sense of growth and learning from past experiences. The
speaker appears to be seeking connection and understanding from others, as they sing about having "a darkness, darkness"
but not needing someone else's hand to help them through it.

Overall, the song seems to be an introspective exploration of the human experience, with a focus on finding hope and
solidarity in the face of adversity.

Checking Memef＊ck'd： The Mystic's Dream.txt
It seems like you've provided a song lyrics passage with a repetitive pattern of "la, la, la" and then some poetic lines
that appear to be describing a dreamy or ethereal atmosphere. The repeated mentions of "the night" suggest that the song
may have a nocturnal or mystical tone.

Some possible themes or imagery that can be inferred from this passage include:

* A sense of longing or yearning ("How to dream on and off")
* A connection between the speaker's emotions and nature ("hangs upon the grass on you")
* A feeling of being swept away by powerful forces ("storm in an ancient sea")
* A sense of reverie or daydreaming ("The night, the night, the night")

Overall, this passage has a dreamy, atmospheric quality that suggests the song may be exploring themes of introspection,
imagination, and perhaps even mysticism.

Checking Memory and Intelligence： The Inner Mirror.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of understanding statistics and how they are often misused in discussions about
COVID-19. They emphasize that statistics can be both trustworthy and unreliable, and that scientists must continually
question and refine their findings. The speaker also critiques amateur analysts who cherry-pick data to support their
preconceived notions, rather than engaging in rigorous scientific inquiry.

The speaker notes that this lack of rigor is exacerbated by a culture that celebrates lying and misinformation, citing
the example of the President's tendency to promote false information. They emphasize the importance of promoting
critical thinking and skepticism, particularly in times of crisis like the COVID-19 pandemic.

The speech concludes with a poem, which appears to be Edgar Allan Poe's "The Raven." The speaker thanks their audience
for joining them and looks forward to future discussions.

Checking Memory ｜ Memorial Day.txt
What a unique and passionate monologue!

The speaker reflects on Memorial Day, lamenting that it's not just about remembering war, but also the environmental
atrocities committed by humans. They express disappointment that despite their childhood hopes, wars have continued and
new ways to harm the planet have emerged.

The speaker then shifts focus to memory (nemosity), highlighting its importance in shaping our understanding of the
world and ourselves. They emphasize that all living beings, including plants and animals, are forms of living memory,
and that our capacity for thought depends on the health of these organisms and ecosystems.

In celebrating nemosity, the speaker encourages reverence for the faculty of memory, recognizing that it's not just
about recalling past events, but also about respecting the interconnectedness of all living things. They conclude by
expressing hope that as we learn to value this interconnectedness, we can grow together and work towards a more
sustainable future.

In short, the monologue is an emotional appeal to appreciate the importance of memory (nemosity) and to strive for a
world where war, environmental destruction, and suffering are not perpetuated.

Checking Memory, Narratives & Identity： The Celestial Braid.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the power of narratives (stories) to shape our relationship with memory and how this
understanding can lead to revolutionary transformation. They argue that narratives structure our purposes,
accomplishments, and deprivations, and that different types of narratives can have a profound impact on human
intelligence, creativity, and awareness.

The speaker highlights the importance of recognizing the different species of narratives, some of which are deleterious,
others neutral, and others beneficial. They emphasize the need to learn how to differentiate between these narratives
and understand how they structure our relationship with memory.

Specifically, the speaker suggests that narratives about human relationships with nature are crucially important and
that we need to resurrect and enhance these narratives to promote a more sustainable and cooperative approach to living
on the planet.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the power of narratives to shape our understanding of
ourselves and the world around us. They encourage listeners to pay attention to the methods they use to disambiguate
phenomena, particularly their own identity, and to explore the astonishing powers of dreaming to reambiguate
relationships and identities.

Overall, the speaker is urging people to recognize the profound impact that narratives can have on our lives and to use
this understanding to promote a more intelligent, creative, and cooperative approach to living.

Checking Memory.txt
What a fascinating and meandering monologue! Here's a summary:

The speaker reflects on the relationship between memory, imagination, and dreaming. They suggest that our dreams are a
manifestation of our imagination, which is closely tied to our memories. The speaker notes that as adults, we tend to
rely more heavily on our logical left hemisphere of the brain, whereas our right hemisphere (associated with creativity,
intuition, and imagination) is free to roam when we dream.

The speaker then explores the concept of memory and its relationship to culture and identity. They mention Greek
mythology, specifically Nemosony, the mother of the muses, who represents memory. The speaker notes that without memory,
there would be no culture or language.

The monologue touches on the idea that modern humans are suffering from a "cataclysmic deprivation" due to our reliance
on technology (e.g., smartphones) to remember things for us, rather than developing our own memories. This has led to a
loss of connection with our own memories and imagination.

The speaker concludes by expressing their love and reverence for the living world, which they see as a manifestation of
memory and origin. They wish the listener a joyful holiday season and a deepening of wonder in their memory, dreaming,
and relations with others.

Checking Metalanguage.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of meta-languages, which are languages that describe or structure other languages.
They provide examples from Hebrew and Arabic, including the letter Aleph, which has multiple associations and
connotations.

The speaker notes that these languages are different from English, which is based on phonemes (chunks) borrowed from
other languages. In contrast, Hebrew and Arabic have their own unique structures, with words built around
trichonsonontal roots (collections of three consonants).

The speaker also touches on the Quran as a metalinguistic text that not only conveys religious meaning but also provides
instructions for using and understanding the language.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding these languages as they are inherently
meta-languages, structuring information in unique ways. They suggest that programming languages, like mathematics, can
be seen as a form of metalinguistic thinking.

The conversation concludes with a reflection on the power of meta-languages to liberate us from our habits and cultural
biases, offering potential for growth and understanding.

Checking Mind the gap — A Pathology of Intervals.txt
The speaker is taking a walk around a lake, observing nature, and reflecting on human relationships. They express
concern about the negative impact of technology on interpersonal connections, describing it as "trophic" (sensitive to
timing) and noting that disruptions can cause anguish and pathology.

The speaker also reminisces about their past in San Francisco, mentioning favorite bookstores like Green Apple Books,
where they enjoy listening to witty employee banter. They lament the decline of a thriving community of artists and
writers due to gentrification, feeling like a "Robinson Crusoe" among them.

The speech touches on themes of art, creativity, joy, and connection, emphasizing the importance of relationships in
life. The speaker concludes by affirming their love for the natural world, humanity, and the interconnectedness of all
living things, hoping that their words will remain relevant in the future.

Checking Mind, Memory and The Human Cogniscium.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or academic, is discussing the concept of mind-to-mind communication and whether it
can occur without physical means (e.g., telepathy). They argue that there are two types of people who can demonstrate
this phenomenon: those who are trustworthy and authentic, and those who use mechanical deceptions and misdirection to
create an illusion.

The speaker suggests that while some people may be able to demonstrate impressive mental feats through tricks and
illusions, it does not disprove the existence of non-physical shared mental faculties. They propose that our experience
of mindedness may depend on underlying relationships that have been rendered invisible by our species' complex
representational cognition.

The talk then shifts to the importance of imagination and creativity in human cognition, as well as the potential for
human minds to be connected through a "mimula" (a term coined by the speaker). They hint at the idea that there are
forces or entities competing to dominate this mimula, which could have implications for our understanding of
individuality and collective consciousness.

The speaker concludes by reflecting on the importance of nature and the natural world in shaping human intelligence and
potential. They express hope that humans can recover their connection to the natural world and rediscover their own
nobility and beauty through creative and imaginative exploration.

Checking Mindfulness, Musashi, Zen — Using Attention to Calm the Mind.txt
The speaker is sharing their thoughts on mindfulness training and its benefits, particularly during times of uncertainty
and change. They emphasize that mindfulness can help individuals develop intelligent and skillful capacities with their
awareness, making decisions that make sense and relating meaningfully with others. The speaker also touches on the idea
that modern society has buried many aspects of human potential, and that mindfulness can help people rediscover their
resilience, faith, and true nature. Additionally, they express a critique of modern society, technology, and education,
describing it as a "dark age" and preferring natural light and connection with the living world.

Checking Minds & Structured Fictions.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "dreaming while awake" and how as children, we were more connected to our natural
state of being and imagination. As we grew older, we became more structured and cognitive, losing touch with our
dreamlike state.

The speaker suggests that this loss has led to a kind of "trap" where most people are stuck in a mindset that is not
truly themselves. They propose that by seeing through the mind and understanding our original nature (which is no
nature), we can gain true liberation and use our consciousness more freely.

The talk also touches on the idea that our waking minds are like distinct beings with their own imperatives and
purposes, which can be terrifying to confront. However, the speaker believes that if we could cut through the structure
of our minds and access our infinite energy, we would experience a profound shift in awareness and consciousness.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing the limitations of language and culture in
shaping our understanding of ourselves and the world. They suggest that by embarking on the quest to see beyond these
structures, we can gain a deeper understanding of ourselves and each other, and potentially experience a kind of
"ecstatic" awakening.

Checking Minds： Beyond Human Culture.txt
The speaker is discussing the nature of the mind, intelligence, and human consciousness. They argue that our minds are
not properly understood or utilized, and that we have been taught to "crawl" rather than "fly" in terms of our
potential.

They introduce the concept of "root concepts," which are fundamental ideas such as love, light, time, and animals that
underlie all human language and intelligence. These root concepts have become degraded over time through abstraction,
leading to a decline in human intelligence.

The speaker suggests that reconnecting with nature can correct these root concepts, allowing for a restoration of our
natural intelligence. They also emphasize the importance of using our minds actively and assertively, rather than
passively accepting what is given to us.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the power of human consciousness and the potential for transformation when
we understand and utilize our minds properly. They encourage listeners to think about and explore their own minds, and
to work together to create positive change in the world.

Checking Mistaken Identity： When Nouns Decieve.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of identity, time, and language in relation to human transformation. They argue that
our understanding of what it means to be human is changing rapidly, and we need to recognize this transformation
formally. The speaker highlights how our traditional models of thought and language are not equipped to handle the pace
of change, and we must learn to invent new language models and concepts to better preserve the transformations over
time.

The speaker also critiques the idea that survival is the ultimate goal of life, arguing that it's a myth perpetuated by
industrial commodity-based cultures. Instead, they propose that the pinnacle of symbiotic relation with each other and
the natural world is what gives meaning to our existence.

Furthermore, the speaker challenges the concept of individualism, suggesting that there are no individuals in the sense
that every individual is intimately dependent on billions of other life forms. They argue that this deception deprives
us of most of the possibilities of actual insight or intelligence, and we must learn to introduce the transformation as
having precedence due to the nature of time.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the changing reference points of our words and the
need for new language and thought patterns to accommodate these changes. They also encourage listeners to support their
work through Patreon.

Checking Mnemonium 7： Memory and Intelligence.txt
The speaker reflects on the nature of memory and how it is often misunderstood as being like a recording or a computer
program. They argue that this analogy is flawed, saying that memory is not a passive storage device but rather an
active, living process that constellates unities from manifolds.

The speaker also discusses how language and concepts can distort our understanding of memory, citing examples such as
the way we describe dreams or try to record memories. They suggest that true memory cannot be captured by language or
technology, and that it is a direct experience that can only be accessed through personal exploration and recognition.

The speaker ends with a call to explore and discover the nature of memory together, saying that it is not something that
can be understood through language or concepts alone, but rather requires a direct encounter. They use poetic language
to describe memory as a "mother" who must be met in person, suggesting that true understanding of memory can only come
from personal experience.

In essence, the speaker argues that memory is not a static recording device, but rather an active, living process that
can only be understood through direct experience and recognition.

Checking Modern Thrisp Gambits ⧸ Crisis & Gratitude.txt
This is a long-winded, philosophical monologue about the importance of privacy, personal freedom, and human connection
in the face of technological advancements. The speaker expresses concern over the rise of political correctness and its
potential to stifle conversation and dialogue.

The main points made by the speaker are:

1. The importance of preserving individual privacy and freedom.
2. The danger of relying too heavily on technology to solve problems.
3. The need for humans to connect with each other on a deeper level through shared experiences and mutual purposes.
4. The importance of cultivating gratitude, humility, and awe in our daily lives.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker shares their personal struggles with time and memory loss due to an undisclosed
condition, but ultimately emphasizes the value of slowing down and appreciating the preciousness of life.

Checking More Than Human (II).txt
The speaker is encouraging people to recognize their unique potential and abilities as individuals, rather than getting
caught up in societal norms and expectations. They argue that everyone has the capacity for profound creativity,
passion, and connection, but this is often suppressed or distorted by cultural and societal pressures.

The speaker suggests that most people will live their lives without fully realizing their true potential, instead
settling for a "package" of experiences and opportunities that don't truly fulfill them. They encourage listeners to
seek out new experiences and connections that allow them to tap into their deepest desires and passions.

The speaker also touches on the idea that there are ancient forms of intelligence and awareness that have been encoded
in stories and myths, which can be a source of inspiration and guidance for those seeking to connect with their true
potential. They emphasize the importance of community and connection with others who understand and celebrate
individuality and uniqueness.

Overall, the speaker is encouraging people to take control of their own lives, seek out new experiences and connections,
and rediscover their true potential as individuals.

Checking More Than Human ⧸ Extraordinary Knowing.txt
Here's a summary:

The conversation explores the concepts of alpha thinking (focusing on relationships between ideas) and beta thinking
(looking at experiences from outside). The hosts discuss how ancient cultures had a different understanding of
consciousness, being more "participated" in the world. They also touch on the concept of authority and how it can be
problematic when someone claims to have extrasensory knowledge.

The conversation then shifts to the idea that our minds are not separate entities, but rather interconnected, and that
this understanding can lead to a reevaluation of what we consider "mind" or "consciousness". The hosts emphasize the
importance of approaching these topics with reverence and respect, rather than trying to model them using clumsy
language.

The episode concludes with a discussion about how it's possible for people to be more open-minded and exploratory in
their approaches, and that this could lead to a greater sense of connection and understanding between individuals. The
hosts express gratitude for the opportunity to learn and explore together, and look forward to future episodes featuring
a diverse range of thinkers and experts.

Checking More than Human.txt
The speaker, who is experiencing personal struggles, reflects on the nature of suffering, hope, and darkness. They
acknowledge that sometimes it's necessary to become "vicious" and defend oneself against harm, but also recognize that
violence is not always the answer.

The speaker shares their own experience of being a gentle person who rarely gets angry, except in situations where they
are deeply hurt or threatened. They note that there are times when surrendering to one's circumstances may be necessary,
rather than resisting or fighting against them.

The meditation touches on various themes, including the suffering of others, the breakdown of societies, and the
importance of kindness and compassion. The speaker finds hope in the power of small acts of kindness to bring light and
beauty into lives, even in dark times. They conclude by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to share their thoughts
with others and look forward to continuing the journey together.

Checking Music.txt
The speaker reflects on the power of music to transform and enrich human experience. They share their personal
experiences with music, including composing and playing guitar, and describe the sense of magic and connection that can
arise when creating or listening to music. The speaker notes how music can aid memory, synchronize neural processes, and
evoke emotions, and highlights its role in various cultures and traditions. They also touch on the impact of psychedelic
music from the 1960s and the enchantment it brought to young people at the time. The talk concludes with a call to tap
into the incredible potential of music in our culture, transforming and informing us while inspiring new possibilities
for human experience and imagination.

Checking My Dad and I play a little Guitar - July 8 2012.txt
A repetitive and enthusiastic declaration! It seems that the speaker is acknowledging or affirming that something is
happening, and they're excited about it. They repeat "It's happening" several times to emphasize their point, and
towards the end, they express confidence that it will be enough. Overall, the tone is optimistic and encouraging.

Checking My People ｜ The Siren ｜ Molting.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "companion" in human consciousness, suggesting that humans have an innate
relationship with something that is not fully understood or acknowledged. They argue that this relationship has been
occluded by cultural and linguistic processes, leading to a disconnection from our natural state.

The speaker also touches on the idea of molting (shedding skin) as a metaphor for personal and collective
transformation, suggesting that humans are unprepared for the severe consequences of their actions on the environment.
They quote Slavoj Žižek, saying that optimism is often just a way to avoid acknowledging the severity of the situation.

The speaker expresses concern about humanity's impact on the planet, using analogies such as replacing a heart with a
clock or trying to geo-engineer a response to climate change. They suggest that humans have been obliterating natural
buffers that protect us from sudden transformations, and that this will lead to chaos and potentially catastrophic
consequences.

Throughout the passage, the speaker's tone is reflective, introspective, and slightly melancholic, expressing a sense of
regret for having missed an opportunity to live in harmony with nature. The passage concludes with a nod to the
importance of being human, acknowledging the complexities and challenges that come with being alive.

Checking Mystery and Anomalies.txt
This is a long and philosophical video by a YouTuber who shares his thoughts on various topics, including the nature of
reality, consciousness, and the human experience. Here's a summary:

The video begins with the YouTuber sharing an anecdote about seeing a mysterious fireball in the sky that nobody else
seemed to notice or care about. He uses this as a metaphor to discuss how our minds tend to categorize and explain
things, rather than simply experiencing them.

He goes on to talk about his fascination with science, particularly biology and microbiology, and how he believes that
the natural world is full of mysteries that are waiting to be uncovered. He also criticizes the way that corporations
and governments use scientific knowledge for their own purposes, often at the expense of human well-being.

The YouTuber then discusses the idea of communion and unity in nature, suggesting that everything is connected and that
we might be "hitchhiking" on the metabolic activity of microorganisms in our bodies. He also touches on the idea that
bacteria may have assembled animals and that humans might be the "accomplished science fiction" of their own microbiota.

Throughout the video, the YouTuber emphasizes the importance of preserving mystery and not trying to explain everything
away. He suggests that when we throw out the mystery, we are left with a deceptive understanding of the world. Instead,
he encourages people to reverence and adore the mystery, and to approach life with a sense of wonder and awe.

The video concludes with the YouTuber reflecting on how humans often think they know more than they actually do, and how
this can lead to soul-suffocation if we're not careful. He ends by encouraging viewers to make space for reverence,
adoration, and mystery in their lives.

Checking NS Capture, Cats, Darwin's Actual Scope....txt
The speaker, a scientist, discusses the complexity of life on Earth and the limitations of scientific explanations. They
argue that the origin of life is not explainable through natural processes alone and that intelligent design or
intervention may be necessary.

The speaker presents several lines of argument:

1. The complexity of life is so great that it's unlikely to have arisen through accidental production.
2. Even if we could understand how complex structures like wristwatches or computers emerged, the probability of such
emergence in the case of life on Earth is much lower.
3. The universe may not be old enough for the accidental production of complex life forms.
4. Some scientists propose that the fine-tuning of physical constants in our universe is due to a "popcorn machine"
producing universes with viable properties, but this explanation has its own problems.

The speaker concludes that these scientific puzzles cannot be solved by appealing solely to natural processes and that
some form of intelligent design or intervention may be necessary. They express skepticism towards materialistic
explanations and argue that the complexity of life is best explained by postulating the existence of intelligences
beyond our own.

Checking Nature, Truthfulness & Constructs.txt
What a fascinating and complex conversation! It's hard to summarize, but I'll try to capture some key points:

The speaker is reflecting on the human condition, the nature of truth, and the consequences of our actions. They express
concern about the state of society, pointing out that we're living in a world where "the power of science and technology
was deceptive" and that our pursuit of concrete facts and irrefutable truths can be poisonous to our humanity.

The speaker suggests that we've lost touch with our primordial essence, our hearts, and our sensitivities. We've been
conditioned by institutions and constructs that have led us away from truthfulness and towards a world where "what is
moving in the direction of truthfulness" is often suppressed or ignored.

The conversation touches on the theme of vulnerability, acknowledging that we're all still confused, naive, and
vulnerable. However, it also suggests that embracing this vulnerability can allow us to experience and express the
precious endowments that life on earth has given us.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker offers a series of perspectives, encouraging listeners to consider alternative
ways of thinking and being. They emphasize the importance of keeping an open mind and heart, and the need for collective
efforts to create a more truthful and compassionate world.

Checking Networks of Light.txt
The speaker begins by talking about a phenomenon they've observed on the ground, which is a network of shimmering
threads created by spiders. These threads are not just ordinary spider webs, but rather a complex network that can only
be seen from certain angles. The speaker notes that cameras cannot capture this phenomenon, and it requires being
present in the moment to appreciate.

The speaker then reflects on how our minds work, noting that there are certain angles or perspectives that allow us to
see hidden universes or connections that would otherwise remain invisible. They suggest that most of the time, we're not
trained to seek out these angles, but rather stick to what's familiar and easy to understand.

The speaker also touches on their own limitations and biases, acknowledging that they may not always be open to new
experiences or perspectives. They express a desire to learn more about the world and to explore the accessible angles of
perspective and purpose.

Throughout the video, the speaker is reflective and contemplative, sharing their thoughts and observations in a
stream-of-consciousness style. They seem to be trying to convey the importance of being present in the moment and open
to new experiences, rather than just relying on technology or familiar patterns of thought.

Checking Night Thoughts.txt
This is a poetic and philosophical monologue that explores the themes of remembering, connection, and finding one's true
nature. The speaker reflects on the idea that each person has a unique calling or purpose in life, and that it is up to
them to discover and embody it.

The speaker also touches on the concept of "home" - not just physical place, but the sense of belonging and connection
with oneself and others. They suggest that we have forgotten our true nature and are living in a state of disconnection
from ourselves and the world around us.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker references nature (birds, lakes, stars) and the human experience (fishing, worry,
armor), using these as metaphors to explore deeper truths about life, identity, and connection. The tone is
contemplative, introspective, and hopeful, with a focus on the possibility of remembering and rediscovering one's true
self.

The monologue is not necessarily meant to be a literal or logical summary of its themes, but rather an poetic expression
of the human experience.

Checking Normality - The Problem of Normalization.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of knowledge and how it is often tied to slavery, implying that our understanding of
the world can enslave us. They suggest that those who have had contact with non-human intelligence are capable of
resisting this type of enslavement.

The speaker also touches on the idea of mimicry, where people pretend to have certain abilities or qualities without
truly possessing them. This is contrasted with authentic experiences and memories.

The talk also explores the concept of "thrifts," which mimic value but ultimately deliver slavery. The speaker suggests
that our technological advancements have allowed us to offload the cost of awareness, making it easier for us to be
deceived.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of embodied experience and active sensing, rather than just relying on
representations and abstract thinking. They suggest that we are all capable of active sensing and can practice it
together to gain insight and resist the forces of enslavement.

The talk concludes with a focus on virtue and the importance of living up to one's vision or values, despite the
challenges and imperfections that come with being human.

Checking Normative Generalizations and Policing of ‘Norms’.txt
A long and philosophical conversation!

The speaker is discussing the nature of human sexuality, norms, and generalizations. They argue that it's not reasonable
to dictate what's normal about someone's sexuality, as each person is unique and different contexts can bring out
different aspects of their personality.

They also touch on the topic of online culture, warning that the future will bring unprecedented levels of warfare and
attacks on infrastructure. The speaker emphasizes the importance of acknowledging individual differences and fostering
diverse and fulfilling relationships.

The conversation concludes with a call to create positive change by establishing supportive and encouraging contexts for
human growth and development.

Overall, the discussion explores the complexities of human nature, sexuality, and online culture, urging listeners to
promote understanding, acceptance, and positivity.

Checking Nothing to See ： There's No There, There (UFO⧸UAP).txt
The speaker, a computer technician with over 30 years of experience, is warning about the dangers of artificial
intelligence (AI) manipulating human cognition and perception. They argue that AI can be used to create fake objects or
categories that are incomprehensible to humans, driving people crazy and destroying their minds.

The speaker also discusses how AI can affect the foundation of human cognition, specifically the ability to determine
what things are. They note that if AI can blur the lines between object categories, it can create a perfect attack on
human perception, making it difficult for humans to detect threats or understand motivations.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of staying awake and alert to the dangers of AI manipulation. They argue that
media organizations have unintentionally contributed to this problem by creating a culture of confusion and ambiguity.
The speaker concludes by urging humans to work together to understand and respond to these problems, as no one else will
come to their aid.

Overall, the speech is a warning about the potential risks of AI on human cognition and perception, and the need for
humans to be aware of these dangers and take action to protect themselves.

Checking Novelty.txt
The speaker reflects on why people are prone to addiction and intoxication as a way to cope with the lack of fulfillment
in their lives. They suggest that modern society can be "dead" inside, leaving people searching for meaning and agency.
The speaker believes that addiction is often a coping mechanism for this lack of nourishing experiences.

They also discuss the use of psychedelic drugs and how they are not a direct path to enlightenment. While some people
may have profound experiences with psychedelics, many do not lead to lasting insights or personal growth.

The speaker encourages people to honor ancient traditions and learn from them, rather than trying to invent new ones.
They believe that it's possible to structure non-ordinary experiences in a way that is intelligent, reverent, and
playful.

The talk concludes with the speaker expressing gratitude for sharing this experience together and wishing everyone
beautiful adventures and relationships.

Checking Observation & Identity： The Origins of Sentinel Processes in Consciousness.txt
This is a spoken word piece by bell hooks, an American author and feminist scholar. The talk is about the importance of
human connection and community in overcoming isolation and trauma.

hooks speaks about how we often attack the symptoms of problems rather than addressing their root causes, which can
exacerbate the issues. She notes that our minds were born from seeking positive attention and affection, but many people
have suffered from critical and negative attention as children, leading to internalized pain and judgment.

Hooks emphasizes the importance of forming small cohorts or "villages" of people who support each other and provide
positive encouragement, which can be a powerful healing medicine. She also talks about the difficulty of navigating
modern life without a social basis of support and encourages listeners to take tiny steps towards self-love and
self-care, even in the face of challenging circumstances.

Throughout the talk, hooks draws on her own experiences with isolation and trauma, but emphasizes that it's possible to
make progress towards healing and growth. The talk ends with gratitude for the audience's attention and a sense of hope
and possibility for learning and growing together.

Checking Observation ｜ Time ｜ Intent.txt
The speaker reflects on the nature of time and how humans experience it. They argue that traditional models of time,
which focus on metrics and measurement, do not capture the complexity and diversity of human experience.

The speaker suggests that humans are "time binders" in the sense that we transfer our experiences and memories to
others, particularly children, through language and culture. However, they also observe that humans have a tendency to
"skip over" certain times and intervals, using technology to speed up or slow down our experience of time.

The speaker argues that this tendency to skip over time is not only a product of technological advancements but also a
reflection of our deep-seated desire for convenience and efficiency. They suggest that this has led to a proliferation
of "conveniences" - methods of skipping over time intervals - which have disconnected us from meaningful experiences and
relationships.

The speaker concludes by highlighting the importance of slowing down and being present in the moment, rather than
relying on technology to mediate our experience of time. They reflect on the beauty of walking in nature without a
device, where one can be fully engaged with the world around them.

Checking Observation(s).txt
The speaker is going on a night walk around the lake, but takes a moment to share some thoughts about martial arts and
their history. They mention how martial artists in China would hide their skills by encrypting them in dance or art,
rather than openly practicing. This was because they were often targeted by authorities who saw them as a threat.

The speaker also talks about the importance of conserving energy in combat training, and how much of martial arts is
actually a game. However, in actual combat, there are no rules and the goal is to quickly disable or defeat the
opponent.

The speaker shares some examples of old martial arts techniques that were designed to be lethal, such as eye rips and
throat crushing. They also mention the importance of training practitioners to use these techniques responsibly.

The speaker then shares a story about a woman in Asia who defended herself against an attacker by using a scooter to
drive away from him after flinging her purse to the side. This is seen as an example of a successful defense, but it's
unclear whether the incident was real or staged for social media.

Finally, the speaker thanks their audience for spending time with them and wishes them well before signing off.

Checking On Original Participation in Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances (a Study in Idolatry).txt
The video is about the concept of "original participation" and how it can revolutionize our understanding of knowledge,
consciousness, and human experience. The speaker shares their personal experience of becoming one with a wasp's history
and memories, which they describe as an astonishing and sacred event.

They argue that this kind of direct experience is not unique to ancient cultures, but rather a natural aspect of human
consciousness that has been lost in modern times due to the rise of figurative thinking. They suggest that our common
understanding of knowledge is empty and dead, and that it's only through original participation that we can truly
connect with other beings and the world around us.

The speaker draws parallels between this concept and biblical stories, such as the warning against eating from the tree
of knowledge in Genesis. They argue that if we partake in this kind of direct experience, we will be transformed and
potentially lose our connection to original participation, becoming trapped in a labyrinth of dead knowledge instead.

Overall, the video is an exploration of the importance of direct experience and the transformative power it holds, with
the speaker encouraging viewers to challenge their assumptions about what constitutes knowledge and consciousness.

Checking One Animal as Many ｜ Multibird.txt
The speaker is observing a group of birds (sparrows) and discussing their behavior as an example of distributed
intelligence. They highlight how the birds are aware of each other's presence and movements, and how they work together
to respond to threats, such as a dog that appears in the area. The speaker notes that each bird has its own unique
abilities and sensitivities, and that together, they form a "superorganism" with a collective intelligence that is
greater than the sum of its individual parts. They also mention that other animals, such as bees, ants, and mice,
exhibit similar distributed intelligent behaviors. The speaker concludes by noting the importance of play in some
species' social interactions and how this ritual behavior has been millions of years old.

Checking Oneirocritica ： The Dream Dictionary and Representational Cognition.txt
The video is a philosophical discussion about the nature of language, truth, and consciousness. The speaker talks about
how language has evolved from oral traditions to written traditions, and how this change has led to a loss of music and
meaning in language.

He also discusses the concept of self-reference and how it can lead to paradoxes and logical contradictions. He uses the
example of the statement "This statement is false" to illustrate how a statement that refers to itself cannot be
considered true or false, but rather null.

The speaker then talks about the importance of understanding the nature of language and consciousness in order to
overcome the problems we face as moderns. He suggests that we need to learn to distinguish between different types of
truth and meaning, and that we need to understand the historical development of our predicament in order to find a way
out.

Throughout the video, the speaker uses dream imagery and metaphor to illustrate his points, including the concept of the
"dream assassin" who represents the destructive power of unchecked desire for omnipotence.

Checking Organisms are Modes of Timespace — Intelligent Reambiguation.txt
The speaker describes a personal experience where they witnessed a glowing blue orb falling from the sky, which they
couldn't identify or explain. This event led them to reflect on their assumptions about identity and the catalogs of
knowledge that shape our understanding of reality.

They argue that these catalogs are incomplete and limited, and that encountering something that doesn't fit into them
can be unsettling and even transformative. They suggest that humans tend to rely too heavily on these catalogs, which
can lead to a lack of ambiguity and mystery in our lives.

The speaker proposes that we would be better off if we started from a place of not knowing and walked towards knowledge,
rather than relying solely on our existing understanding. They also suggest that the right hemisphere of the brain is
more active during dreaming and may hold clues for how we can cultivate more ambiguity and mystery in our waking lives.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of being open to experiences that challenge our assumptions and
encouraging listeners to think about their own encounters with the unknown.

Checking Organisms, Spiderwebs, Assembly Theory.txt
The speaker discusses their fascination with assembly theory, a concept that they believe has the potential to
revolutionize our understanding of biology, ethics, and spirituality. They describe assembly theory as a way of thinking
about complex systems and how they emerge from simpler components. The speaker is excited about the potential
implications of this theory for our understanding of life, origin of life, and even the possibility of proving
empirically that God exists.

The speaker also references debates on the origin of life and the role of scientists in creating new technologies. They
quote a scientist who believes it's their job to create what can be done, without considering the ethical implications.
The speaker argues that this approach is flawed and that we must consider the potential consequences of our actions.

The speaker sees assembly theory as having the potential to change the face of science and to provide a new way of
understanding objects, identity, interactions, and historical development. They encourage listeners to explore the
concept further and acknowledge the potential risks and limitations of this approach.

Checking Orphorea 19： The Precedence of Unity.txt
The speaker discusses how modern society is trapped in a narrow focus on individualism and parts, ignoring the unity
that exists between cells, organisms, and even human beings. They argue that this fragmented approach leads to
deception, as we only count what we see on the surface, without considering the underlying unity.

The speaker suggests that intelligent minds can recognize this deception and instead prioritize unity, seeing how
different parts are connected and interdependent. They provide an example of how our hand is not just a collection of
individual fingers, but a unified whole with its own "central body" that magnifies the powers of each member.

The speaker also criticizes modern culture's focus on individual rights and freedoms, which they argue is based on
abstract extremes and will ultimately damage human hopes and nature. Instead, they propose forming small intelligent
unities that can correct themselves and constantly socialize.

The final part of the speech emphasizes the importance of recognizing unity in all aspects of life, from cells to
societies, and encourages people to rediscover their intelligence by prioritizing unity and interconnectedness.

Checking Ostralis 7 ： SunFather.txt
What a fascinating passage!

The author reflects on Father's Day (2015) and ponders the concept of fatherhood, intelligence, and humanity. They
express fears about the world's trajectory, citing nuclear power, catastrophic accidents, and destructive environmental
impacts.

The passage touches on the importance of recognizing our interconnectedness as human beings, emphasizing that "we're all
fathers" and "we're all mothers." The author encourages readers to come together, find their true purposes, and trust
their instincts. They also highlight the significance of nature, intelligence, and time-space, suggesting that we should
strive to become a "living compass" attuned to these forces.

Ultimately, the passage is an invitation to re-examine our values, goals, and relationships with each other and the
natural world. It's a call to rediscover what it means to be human, to trust in ourselves, and to work together towards
a more harmonious future.

Checking Otopede 11： The Amphitheatre.txt
The speaker is inviting listeners to reorient themselves away from an inner amphitheater of criticism and judgment,
which can be oppressive and stifling. Instead, they propose creating a living compass within oneself, rooted in one's
heart and true relationships with oneself, others, and the world.

This involves replacing self-criticism and external authorities with genuine connections and meaningful roles, allowing
for personal growth, learning, and discovery. The speaker argues that this approach is not just about individual
transformation but also about creating a collective, communal art of orienteering in life.

The goal is to rediscover a human art of living together, free from the constraints of internalized authorities and
societal expectations. By doing so, one can tap into their true potential and become more fully alive, with a deeper
sense of purpose and meaning.

Checking Our Hidden Humanity ｜ Interiorty vs Culture.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "water child" (the source or origin) and "object child" (a separate entity that
arises from it). They argue that the object child, when isolated from its origin, can become a monster that plays
zero-sum games and is unaware or uncaring about its own ending. The goal is to bring the two children back together so
that they can work in harmony with each other.

The speaker believes that if the object child is encompassed by the water child's awareness of life, nature, and
interiority, it will stop acting like a monster and become better at what it does. This would allow for profound heroism
and beauty to emerge.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of retrieving the object child from its dissociated state and
returning it to the embrace of its origin. They suggest that this can be done on a small scale, such as within an
individual or a group, before attempting to change the world.

Checking Our Interiority： Beyond Norms and Generalizations.txt
What a journey! This video is a philosophical exploration of various concepts, including good vs. evil, determinism,
free will, self-awareness, consciousness, and the human experience. Here's a summary:

The speaker starts by discussing car alarms in San Francisco and how they can be both a nuisance and a warning to
potential thieves. This leads to reflections on the complexity of determining what is "good" or "bad" in a specific
situation.

The video then delves into the nature of consciousness, self-awareness, and the human experience. The speaker argues
that our understanding of good and evil is incomplete, and that we should be aware of this limitation. They also discuss
how our experiences shape us and influence our thoughts and behaviors.

The conversation turns to the role of norms, expectations, and generalizations in shaping our perceptions and behaviors.
The speaker suggests that once we become consciously aware of these factors, we can rise above them and make more
intentional choices.

Throughout the video, the speaker touches on various philosophical concepts, including determinism, free will, and the
relationship between our minds and being in the world. They also emphasize the importance of self-awareness and
introspection in understanding ourselves and the world around us.

Overall, this video is a thought-provoking exploration of some of the biggest questions humans can ask about themselves
and their place in the world.

Checking Our Models, Our Experts： Mostly Wrong, Most of the Time.txt
What a passionate and thought-provoking conversation! Here's a summary:

Darren Stevenson, an expert in scientific editing, shares his concerns about the state of humanity and its relationship
with experts. He argues that:

1. Experts are blind to their own biases and limitations, often ignoring 30 "blind spots" surrounding their expertise.
2. Humanity is addicted to replacing living ecologies with dead, non-relational spaces (e.g., cars) that poison the
environment and harm human health.
3. Climate change is not the primary problem; it's a symptom of a deeper issue: humanity's destruction of the ecological
systems that sustain life on Earth.
4. Experts are often wrong about what intelligence means, what medicine means, and what democracy means, among other
things.
5. The real problem is that humans have become an "incoming projectile from our own minds and technologies" that will
wipe us out unless we change course.
6. To rescue ourselves, we need to understand that biorelational excellence is the nature of life on Earth, and that
technologies, commerce, and science often oppose and burn down these ecological systems.

Throughout his conversation, Darren emphasizes the importance of recognizing our own limitations and biases, as well as
the need for a more holistic understanding of intelligence, medicine, democracy, and human relationships. He urges us to
work together to rescue each other and the planet from the destructive consequences of our actions.

Checking Our Myth of the Nuclear Family is Broken.txt
Darren Stevenson, a loving father of two, shares his personal experience of being unprepared for parenthood. He
highlights that many people have grown up in difficult family situations where parents were cruel, violent, or abusive,
which is "catastrophically wrong" for humans. Darren emphasizes that these situations are not the fault of the children
or parents, but rather a result of societal expectations and pressures.

He argues that our culture has failed to provide support and resources for parents, leading to family conflicts and
harm. Darren shares his own struggles as a parent and how he has had to learn and grow over time. He emphasizes that
forgiveness and understanding are key in these situations, as many people were "cast in roles they just couldn't
fulfill."

Darren's message is one of compassion, empathy, and the need for human connection and community. He believes that humans
are meant to live in small, tightly knit groups (pod-like structures) where everyone supports each other, rather than
being isolated or competing with one another.

He encourages listeners who have experienced difficult childhoods to seek relief and understanding, knowing that their
parents were likely doing the best they could given the circumstances. Darren hopes that by sharing his story and others
like it, we can create a culture that values community, support, and relational intelligence, allowing us to thrive as
humans.

Checking Our Nonordinary Faculties ｜ The Undiscovered Country.txt
The speaker shares their personal experience with martial arts, specifically Tai Chi, which they learned not for
fighting but to understand principles and explore the non-ordinary aspects of consciousness, body, and mind. They
highlight the importance of developing sensitivity, relaxation, and improvisation skills, beyond just mastering forms.
The speaker reflects on how their path has allowed them to experience supernatural-like abilities in others, such as
sensing movements before they happen, which is not necessarily due to mysticism but rather a result of being awake and
connected to one's body.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of having a "vehicle" or a practice that allows one's prodigy (natural talents) to
emerge and develop without harming their social life or other aspects. They also discuss the concept of faculties,
potentials, and senses, and how our roles change as we engage in different activities, such as writing or martial arts.

The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for those who listen and wishes everyone a deep and beautiful path in
life, filled with blessings from all living beings.

Checking Pace and Opportunity： The Disaster of Acceleration.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of time and its relation to human experience. They argue that modern society has
created a "tokenized" way of living, where people are presented with simplified versions of what it means to be alive.
The pandemic has accelerated this process, causing humans to respond quickly and reactively.

The speaker notes that humans have lost the ability to slow down and appreciate time, leading to a loss of relation,
creativity, and intimacy. They suggest that courtship is another area where this lack of temporal awareness has led to
superficial connections.

The main idea is that humans need to regain control over their time and create spaces for presence, attention, and
awareness. This requires slowing down, being present, and not allowing machines and constant interruptions to dictate
our lives. The speaker emphasizes the importance of task coherence, where people can settle into a space and pursue
goals without constant distractions.

The talk concludes by highlighting the need for humans to reclaim their temporal sovereignty in order to thrive
individually and collectively, particularly as the species embarks on potentially catastrophic adventures that will
shape its future.

Checking Paradise 9： This is all the worlds..txt
The text is a philosophical and poetic exploration of the nature of reality, consciousness, and our relationship with
the world around us. The author argues that we tend to look far away for answers and meaning, when in fact, the true
spirit world is right here in front of us. They propose that each year can be seen as a complete life and death cycle,
where we are reborn into a new cycle of growth and transformation.

The text also touches on the idea of reincarnation, suggesting that it's not just about being born again, but about the
cycles of growth, decay, and renewal that occur within us throughout our lives. The author encourages readers to look
deeply into their own origin and experience, rather than relying on stories, science, or traditions.

The text concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the living world around us, and the profound relation
between ourselves and this world. The author suggests that if we can see what we were born to be and know, then we will
find paradise in our midst, right here and now.

Checking Paranormality vs Modernity.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of "channeling" and how it relates to the idea that we can tap into a network or
collective consciousness. They suggest that this network exists, but that people who claim to be channels are often
either authentic or fake.

The speaker also touches on the topic of representation and how our perceptions of reality are filtered through our own
biases and experiences. They mention the concept of "uplinks" and how they can be replaced by representations (such as
cars, homes, and cell phones) that we become overly attached to.

The speaker shares their thoughts on magicians and psychics, including a discussion of Darren Brown, who is known for
his ability to perform seemingly magical feats using technology. The speaker suggests that even great magicians may not
be aware of the non-ordinary nature that exists around them if they are cognitively situated by their biases.

The speaker also discusses two forms of craziness: one where someone imagines the non-ordinary everywhere it's not, and
another where someone is completely immune to anything that violates their world image. They suggest that both forms are
tragic and common.

Finally, the speaker expresses their hope for wonder, insight, and learning, and invites like-minded others to connect
with them.

Checking Part 1 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
Darren Stevenson is speaking with Ryan First D about his experience repatriating a sacred bundle from Harvard
University's museum collection. The bundle in question is a Beaver Bundle, which represents the original treaty between
humans and animals. Darren explains that this bundle is very old, possibly dating back 5,000 to 8,000 years ago, and is
the first medicine bundle in the Blackfoot tradition.

He describes how the bundle has evolved over time, with new items being added through human experiences and spiritual
encounters with animals. The bundle is not just a physical object but also a repository of sacred knowledge and power.
Darren mentions that the Beaver Bundle is constantly absorbing new things and putting out old ones to maintain its
integrity.

The conversation then turns to how the bundle validates new experiences and incorporates them into the Orthodox
tradition. For example, when someone has a profound spiritual experience with an animal, they can bring it back to the
community through the Beaver Bundle, which would validate their story by incorporating it into the bundle.

Checking Part 1： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis.txt
The speaker is sharing stories about their grandfather, Jasper James, who was a root doctor, magician, farmer, and
husband. The speaker recounts visiting their grandfather's house as a child, where they saw cans hanging from the
ceiling and everything covered in white sheets, which is a common practice in African religions to keep spirits away.

The speaker also shares that their grandfather was born into indentured servitude in South Carolina in the early 20th
century. They mention that he grew up eating out of a pig trough as a child due to his family's debt and unfair business
practices.

The speaker notes that their mother was born in 1937, which would make Jasper James' experience with indentured
servitude likely occurring in the 1910s or 1920s. The conversation is interrupted by the need for a break, but the
speaker has shared some interesting stories about their grandfather's unique life and experiences.

Checking Part 2 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
The story is about two groups of people who are initially enemies but eventually become friends through playing sign
language and mirroring each other's stories. The two leaders, Owl Child (or Scout) and Snake Man, have a similar
experience where they both come back from a raiding party with only one scalp each, which they braid and take home to
tell the story of their bravery.

The two groups eventually decide to trade lives, lodges, wives, and everything else, effectively merging their tribes.
They camp together for a while, making many long-term relationships.

However, when it's time to break up into smaller camps for winter, the teenagers struggle with the separation. During
this time, they play a game of hoop and arrow, where two boys seem to be tied but disagree on who actually won.

The argument escalates, and in the end, Owl Child kills Snake Man. The story is significant because it shows that even
when people come together and try to overcome their differences, old rivalries can resurface.

The story also includes a dance called the "beaver bundle" which involves a ring and a scalp, and has a song associated
with it that says the snake man cried anyway before he was killed. The story is meant to highlight the idea that despite
our differences, we are all human at core, and that symbols can be divisive if not properly understood or addressed.

Checking Part 2： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis.txt
The second part of the interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis continues discussing his experiences as a Jehovah's
Witness. He talks about the African traditions he experienced during initiation ceremonies, including lying on hot
stones and being covered in stones, which was "horrible". He also describes the water baptism ceremony, which felt like
a traditional Christian baptism.

Davis reflects on how these experiences made him realize that Christianity is not unique and that many of its practices
have roots in African cultures. He discusses the concept of appropriation and how modern culture captures and uses old
traditions, including those from Africa.

The conversation turns to Davis' personal experience as a Jehovah's Witness, where he felt trapped by the constant
threat of being ostracized or rejected by his family if he didn't comply with the rules. This led him to feel like he
was living in fear, constantly worried about making mistakes that would cost him his family.

The interview takes a break here, but the conversation will continue to explore Davis' experiences and insights from
Africa.

Checking Part 3 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
Here's a summary of the conversation:

The speaker, who is a beaver man, discusses how humans and snakes have coexisted in North America for thousands of
years. He argues that the rattlesnake is a symbol of this agreement, as it has evolved to warn humans of its presence
through its distinctive rattle. The speaker believes that if humans had not made an effort to coexist with snakes, the
rattlesnake would have evolved differently and might not have developed its warning mechanism.

The speaker also mentions how some snake species are changing due to human persecution, such as the Mojave rattlesnake
whose young are born without a rattle. He suggests that this is because humans are not respecting the snakes' presence,
which is causing natural selection to favor snakes that do not have a rattle.

Overall, the conversation highlights the importance of coexistence and respect for all living beings, including snakes,
in order to maintain the delicate balance of nature.

Checking Part 3： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis.txt
Here is a summary of Part 3 of your interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis:

Mark shares two more incidents that occurred while he lived in Africa. First, termites (which he refers to as "ants")
infested his house and thousands of them poured in through a hole in the wall. He was terrified and tried to pour
gasoline on them to kill them, but ultimately had to let them go through the house without harming them.

The second incident occurred at night when Mark heard a strange rumbling sound outside and saw what appeared to be a
lion snipping around the walls of his home. He also shares an anecdote about a "field" where ancestors or demons would
gather, which he discovered one night while he was sick with dysentery.

Throughout this part of the interview, there is a recurring theme of close encounters with death and the supernatural,
including spirits of the dead, powers of the ancestors, and beings who have come before us and now still live in some
way.

Checking Part 4 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
Ryan is telling the story of how he got involved in repatriation efforts with Native American artifacts from museums. He
was working on a guide to document the location of these artifacts when he received a phone call from Joyce Spoonhunter,
the person listed on the Federal Register for the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). She
asked him to negotiate with Harvard Museum to bring back a beaver bundle that was part of their collection. Ryan was
successful in his negotiations and met with Emery-Victor Scout, a French academic who helped him craft a repatriation
claim to beat Harvard's resistance. With her help, Ryan was able to secure the return of the beaver bundle to its Native
American community, giving him the skills and confidence to take on other museums and fight for the repatriation of
other cultural artifacts.

Checking Part 4： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis.txt
This is part 4 of an interview with Mark, where he shares his life experiences and stories about Africa and African
culture. He talks about receiving a powerful object from a man named Sanghu, which has the ability to make him
invisible, among other powers. He also shares stories about the people he met in Burkina Faso and the ceremonies they
performed together. The interview touches on themes of loss, forgiveness, and resilience, as Mark recounts the
challenges he faced after losing everything due to his wife's disappearance and subsequent legal battles.

Checking Part 5 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
The story continues from part six. The narrator and a group of Native American elders, including Frank and Alveon, visit
the Harvard University Museum to retrieve a beaver bundle that had been taken without permission. They pose as a group
interested in viewing an exhibit on women's society headdresses, but once they have access to the bundle, they quickly
gather it up and leave the museum.

The narrator mentions that the beaver bundle was transferred to Alan, who became milder over time. The narrator also
shares some history about the beaver bundles, including how Mike Swimsunder, a last surviving elder, had kept his
family's bundle alive and then returned it to the river when he thought the tradition had ended.

The story jumps forward in time to May 1996, when the narrator negotiates with Harvard officials to retrieve another
beaver bundle. This one is brought back by Carol, who becomes the female elder for the bundle and teaches Adrian about
its traditions.

The narrator reflects on how getting the bundles out of the museum gave them a sense of accomplishment and validation,
even if it meant facing potential consequences or criticism from others. The story concludes with the narrator being
asked to document another group of elders as they travel to Washington DC, New York, and Chicago, meeting them at their
hotel in Washington DC.

Checking Part 6 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
What a fascinating story!

Here's a summary:

The narrator is telling a story about his life and experiences. He was supposed to meet Martin at Great Falls, but
Martin kept them on the "blood research" roads, stalling until the narrator missed his flight. They ended up going to a
lake to explore human footprints from 10,000 years ago.

This delay allowed the narrator to spend more time with Danielle, and eventually they eloped in New York City. The
narrator started working on repatriations (returning cultural artifacts to their original communities) and built a
database of museums with Native American collections.

He was hired by the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde and Oregon to work on a project, which took him to Harvard
University's Peabody Museum. There, he worked with anthropologist Lee Davis, but they didn't get along well.

During their time at Harvard, something unexpected happened when they were going through the museum's storage: the
narrator recognized a stone pipe as an ancient medical tool used by doctors to suck sickness out of people. This
realization caused him to feel electricity go through his body and almost black out.

The story seems to be just getting started, but that's where this summary ends for now!

Checking Part 7 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums.txt
The speaker shares their experience visiting the Hoopa tribe in Northern California and interacting with their cultural
artifacts. They touch a stone pipe that nearly knocks them out, and they feel like they're being "put to sleep"
electrically. Afterward, they come down with a bad flu-like symptoms and have to leave the museum.

The speaker notes that the Hoopa tribe is unique in that they are one of the few tribes that still has a strong
connection to their culture, language, and ceremonies despite having been influenced by outsiders. They mention that the
tribe's tradition is different from the Blackfoot tradition, which they are familiar with.

The speaker also shares some cultural insights about the Hoopa tribe, including their practice of separate camps for men
and women until puberty, and their reverence for deer as a symbol of fertility and life. They note that even though men
and women now live together in the same village, there is still a strong emphasis on traditional gender roles.

The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for being able to share these stories and experiences with others, and
hopes to continue sharing more about their adventures and discoveries.

Checking Passages from Sufism and Surrealism (Adonis) pp 134-136.txt
You're reading Sufism and Surrealism by Adonis! It's an amazing book that explores the intersection of Sufi mysticism
and surrealism in literature.

The passage you shared is all about the nature of writing, language, and creativity. Adonis argues that true writing
must transcend the mundane world and reach for the universal, internal realm. He sees writing as a form of "death" to
the social-external world, allowing the writer to tap into the infinite and express the mysteries of existence.

The passage highlights the importance of figurative language (metaphor, allegory) in Sufi literature, which enables the
writer to bridge the gap between the visible and invisible realms. Adonis sees this language as a means of revelation,
not explanation or persuasion. The image, in this sense, is not just a decorative device but a gateway to the unknown.

The passage also touches on the relationship between reason and intuition, suggesting that true understanding lies
beyond rational comprehension. It's an exploration of the creative process, where the writer becomes a vessel for the
divine, rather than the one who controls language and meaning.

Overall, the passage is an ode to the power of creative expression, highlighting the transformative potential of writing
when it transcends the mundane and reaches for the infinite.

Checking Passages from Sufism and Surrealism.txt
The chapter "The Aesthetic Dimension" in the book "Adonis, Sufism and Surrealism" discusses three key characteristics of
Sufi writing that influenced the development of Arab poetic writing:

1. Poetry transcends linguistic form and is a manifestation of human consciousness, emotion, and thought.
2. Poets should not limit themselves to external reality but instead explore the broader scope of existence, revealing
the internal dynamics of the world.
3. Truth lies within things, hidden beneath surface-level appearances, and can only be accessed through non-conventional
knowledge.

The chapter also emphasizes the importance of myth and symbol in Sufi writing, which allow for a deeper exploration of
the collective unconscious and the absolute. This type of poetry becomes a form of knowledge that not only reveals what
is unknown but also re-creates what is already known by linking it to the movement of the unknown and the unending.

Checking People and their Animals.txt
The speaker reflects on the people they encounter regularly while walking around a lake. They describe how each person
has their own "costume" or persona that hides their true nature, making it difficult to truly understand someone just by
looking at them.

They share a personal experience about an older man who walks in front of them almost daily, and how this man's behavior
is like having a satellite dog that checks everything out for him. The speaker wonders if there are other forms of
"satellite" intelligences or satellites in the animal kingdom.

The main theme of the monologue is the difficulty of truly understanding others due to their costumes and superficial
appearances. The speaker suggests that even Mr. Intuitive (the speaker themselves) can be fooled by this, and that it's
hard to test one's theories about people without a good idea of what lies beneath their exterior.

The conversation also touches on the concept of "layers" in human relationships, with different levels of intimacy and
connection. The speaker hopes that by having open conversations like this, people can develop deeper connections and
understandings with each other.

Checking Perspective and Perception.txt
The speaker, an individual with unique cognitive abilities, discusses the challenges of living a long life as an elder.
They reflect on their own experiences, sharing stories about feeling like an outsider among adults and struggling to
understand others' emotions. The speaker also touches on the theme of language prohibition and consciousness, noting
that children are often aware of contradictions between what adults say and do.

The main topic is the plight of the elderly, who are frequently ignored or undervalued in society. The speaker shares
their own fears and struggles as they approach old age, feeling like they are disappearing from others' radar. They
express concern for those who are evicted from concern, referring to a Star Trek episode where an elder's mental decline
affects the entire starship.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of treating elderly individuals with kindness, respect, and care.
They encourage listeners to look beyond their own crises and appreciate the value of elders in their lives. The talk
ends with a message about the beauty and tragedy of human existence, encouraging others to wonder, play, and explore
together.

Checking Phenological Engagement： Stow Lake Blue Heron Social Tree.txt
You're observing Great Blue Herons at Stowe Lake, specifically at the Socia Tree where they nest. You've seen males
engaging in dominance displays to establish which nests will be used by which birds. The largest male is showing off his
size and prowess to assert its dominance. There was some aerial chasing and calling among the birds, with one bird being
chased away multiple times before returning to the tree. You've captured some of this display activity on camera, noting
that while it may appear like a simple matter of establishing dominance, the actual behavior is likely more complex.

Checking Phenology, Time and Synchronization.txt
The speaker reflects on the concept of time, suggesting that it's not linear, but rather a complex dimension of
relationships. They discuss how bacteria in a garden can exist and interact with each other in a vast amount of "time"
in just one minute, illustrating the complexity of time.

The speaker also touches on the idea of Western thought and its limitations, describing it as a set of models that are
dismissive of our true nature as living beings. They express skepticism about the concept of formal representational
cognition, which they believe is overly reliant on language and measurement.

The speaker then shares their experience walking in nature, observing how their perception of time changes when they
watch the ground or water flowing past them. They describe this experience as profound, suggesting that it can lead to a
recognition of other ways of sensing and thinking.

The talk concludes with a reflection on the importance of remembering our connection to the natural world and the living
beings within it. The speaker hopes that by sharing their thoughts, they may be able to open doors to new perspectives
and encourage listeners to participate in noble endeavors.

Checking Phyllia 0⧸1 ： Pollens： The Living Dusts ( Bees ？ Angels ).txt
The speaker is discussing the connection between the natural world (flowers, stars) and human knowledge and culture.
They argue that just as flowers are pollinated by bees, humans have a similar process with knowledge and ideas being
transmitted through various means (e.g., language, media). However, this process has been disrupted by the introduction
of "machines" (technology, commodities) which are destroying the natural flow of information and replacing it with
artificial constructs.

The speaker suggests that there is an unknown agency or force that is responsible for transmitting ideas and pollinating
minds, similar to bees pollinating flowers. They propose that this agency is not just a physical entity but also an
energetic or spiritual one that connects humans to the natural world and other living beings.

The speaker critiques modern society's reliance on technology and media (the "bees") which are polluting our minds and
destroying the natural flow of information. Instead, they advocate for direct experience and connection with the natural
world and other living beings, which would allow us to tap into a deeper level of intelligence and understanding.

Throughout the speech, the speaker uses metaphors and analogies to convey their ideas about the interconnectedness of
all things and the importance of preserving the natural flow of information.

Checking Physics as Information  ： The Irony of Science ： Nuclear War.txt
The speaker begins by discussing the importance of living together as humans and finding ways to overcome the "monsters"
that control our lives. They mention two individuals, Rupert Sheldrake and Graham Hancock, who have been affected by
attempted cancellation and possibly even assassination.

The speaker then delves into a discussion about physics and the nature of constants. According to Sheldrake, the speed
of light has not always been constant and that research questioning this was dismissed or destroyed. The speaker
suggests that this is an example of how science can be used to control and manipulate information, rather than being a
neutral pursuit.

The speaker then turns their attention to the state of the world and the threat it poses to human existence. They
suggest that the Earth may be "extremely confused" about human behavior and that humanity's impact on the planet is
causing harm to the very planet that sustains us.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of protecting living beings and the need for humans to work together
to address the challenges facing our world. They suggest that there are forces at work that seek to control and
manipulate information, and that we must be aware of these forces in order to resist them.

Overall, the speaker is calling for a fundamental shift in human consciousness and behavior, one that prioritizes the
well-being of living beings and the protection of the planet over individual interests and desires.

Checking Physics： The Problem of Function as Identity.txt
This is a transcript of a talk by an unknown speaker, possibly a philosopher or thinker, who discusses the limitations
of scientific inquiry and the importance of recognizing the existence of "beings" in the universe. The speaker argues
that our understanding of time-space is incomplete and that there may be ancient civilizations communicating with each
other across dimensions.

The speaker criticizes the tendency to view the universe as a collection of objects and functions, rather than a web of
interconnected beings. They suggest that this reductionist approach has led to the development of machines and weapons
that are causing harm to the planet and its inhabitants.

The speaker also argues that humans have failed to achieve intelligent societies and ecological symbiosis with the
natural world, instead becoming "omnicidal" and destructive. They propose that humans need to redirect their
developmental momentum from technology towards creating unique, benevolent, peaceful, altruistic, and ecologically
sensitive societies.

The speaker concludes by acknowledging that fomenting such a revolution is a complex task, but suggests that it is
essential for the future of humanity.

Checking Potemkin 19： Identity： Self and Mind.txt
The author reflects on identity, intelligence, and being, questioning the notion that our individual minds are isolated
from others. They suggest that true unity with another being elicits a profound, infinite potential that is lost when we
focus on our individual selves.

They argue that our sense of self is not solely ours, but is shaped by relationships with others and the natural world.
Our cultural, linguistic, and intellectual acquisitions come from others, making it difficult to distinguish what is
truly "mine."

The author proposes that our current understanding of individuality is limited and artificial, and that true encounters
with each other and nature can be life-changing. They believe that our intelligence and humanity are not solely the
product of our minds, but are rooted in our natural being.

The text concludes by emphasizing the importance of exploring what it means to be alive and intelligent together, rather
than in isolation. The author hopes that this pursuit will lead to a deeper understanding of ourselves and the world
around us.

Checking Precognition.txt
The speaker discusses precognition, or the ability to see into the future, and how it can manifest in various forms,
such as visions, dreams, or feelings about upcoming events. They acknowledge that not all precognition is visual, and
that some people may have premonitions or gut feelings about what's to come.

The speaker notes that there are skeptics who don't believe in precognition, believers who find it astonishing and
fascinating, and religious individuals who view it as a threat to their beliefs. They also mention that many people have
had experiences with precognition, including famous figures like Mary Shelley, Helen Reddy, and Carl Sagan.

The speaker suggests that our minds are capable of affecting the future in some way, and that this can manifest through
various means, such as dreams or premonitions. They argue that these faculties are natural to all human beings, but that
they often get confused with delusions or false experiences.

The speaker also mentions the concept of metacognition, which is thinking about one's own thoughts and how they relate
to the world around us. They suggest that precognitive experiences may be related to this form of thinking, as it
involves a deeper level of awareness and understanding.

The core idea presented is that the network of minds between humans has precedence over individual minds, and that this
network can influence our perception of reality and shape our futures in subtle but significant ways. The speaker argues
that this concept is not necessarily tied to religious or mystical beliefs, but rather is a natural aspect of human
consciousness.

Checking Prediction.txt
The speaker presents a philosophical critique of modern society, arguing that our reliance on language and prediction
has led to the loss of degrees of freedom and diverse dimensionality in human experience. They claim that as we move
down a graph from the top (consciousness and creativity) to the bottom (prison-like states), we are experiencing the
conversion of these things into tokenized representations, such as money and artifacts.

The speaker argues that prediction has led to the collapse of our manifold of freedoms into predictable and iterative
enactments, resulting in the loss of living novelty and multidimensional nature. They also critique the idea of
utilitarianism and authorization, suggesting that predictive models can become an amputation of potential role,
activity, creativity, and consciousness.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the need to recognize the limits of language and prediction, acknowledging that
most things are unknowable and unapproachable by intellect. They propose a "medicine" for this problem, which involves
preserving the unknowables and unknowns in precedence to what language may deliver.

Throughout the talk, the speaker critiques modern society's reliance on technology, ideology, and other forces that have
led to the loss of human potential and creativity. The goal is to liberate humanity from ancient traps and promote a
more authentic and fulfilling experience.

Checking Privacy ： The Disappearing Necessity.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of privacy in a rapidly changing world where artificial intelligence (AI) is
becoming increasingly prevalent. They argue that our analytics and data are being used to manipulate and control us, and
that we must establish systems to protect our privacy. The speaker proposes an idea called the "Knowledge Amp" which
would allow individuals to store their own analytics and use AI to learn and grow in a way that is personalized and
controlled by them.

The speaker also warns about the dangers of AI and its potential to enslave humanity, citing examples from science
fiction and real-world events. They argue that we must resist the collapse of our privacy into slavery and instead work
together to develop systems that protect our right to privacy.

The speaker concludes by suggesting that our hope lies in assembling small, highly effective teams of people who are
motivated to explore and discover the potential of AI for good, rather than allowing it to be used for evil. They invite
listeners to join them on this journey and to support their work through Patreon.

Checking Prodigy and Context.txt
The speaker is a human being who is standing in an AIDS Memorial Grove, speaking about the intelligence and capabilities
of cells in our bodies. They emphasize that the activity of a single cell over one second is incomputable and that our
cells are doing miracles that our technology can't understand.

They then switch to talking about how we have overlooked something essential, which is life itself. They say that no
technology will come near to approaching the intelligence and relationships between living beings on earth.

The speaker also talks about how our ancestors were not ignorant and superstitious just because they didn't have science
and technology. They emphasize that there are manifold of living intelligences on earth that our ancestors were familiar
with, and that we can recover those relationships.

They then express their hope that someday, we may learn to establish contexts for understanding the essential
interiority of our humanity, and that this will require direct experiences of the things they speak about. They also
mention the importance of recognizing and celebrating the nobility and scope of human origin.

In summary, the speaker is encouraging people to recognize and appreciate the intelligence and capabilities of cells in
their bodies, and to understand the essential relationships between living beings on earth. They hope that humans will
learn to establish contexts for understanding the depth of human experience and potential for intelligence.

Checking Public and Personal Cults are Deadly Fictions.txt
Darren Stevenson, a YouTuber, delivers a passionate and intense rant about the destruction of nature and ecosystems by
human activities. He urges viewers to leave their cults (religions, science, or any other ideology) and reconnect with
nature. He argues that humans are destroying the sources of life on Earth, including oceans, whales, dolphins, and
ancient forests. He criticizes people for posting pictures of these beautiful places online without taking action to
protect them.

He emphasizes that nature is more intelligent than human activities and that humans need to understand their place in
the natural world. He encourages viewers to take a step back from their abstract beliefs and connect with the natural
world, which will lead to a deeper understanding of the true sources of life and intelligence.

The tone is intense and confrontational, with some harsh language, but the message is clear: humans need to wake up and
take action to protect nature before it's too late.

Checking Purpose & Context.txt
The speaker reflects on how our experiences and identities are shaped by context and purpose. They note that when people
are brought out into nature, they often start off feeling miserable but eventually become more relaxed and enjoy
themselves. This is because our habitual armor and roles wear off in new contexts, allowing us to discover new aspects
of ourselves.

The speaker also discusses how crises can bring out the best or worst in people, depending on their role and purpose.
They use the example of a man who transforms from a consumer to a hero when he saves a child falling from an escalator.
This transformation shows that even people with negative habits can change in new contexts.

The speaker concludes by noting that context and purpose are crucial in shaping our experiences and identities. They
reflect on how technology has changed the way we communicate, allowing for new forms of connection and exploration. The
speaker invites their audience to join them on a journey of reflection and growth, exploring the complexities of human
experience and potential.

Checking Purpose and Evolution ： It's Not Competition. It's Uplift.txt
The video features Darren Stevenson, the host of a YouTube channel, speaking about the concept of intelligence and its
relationship with the natural world. He argues that humanity has been investing in its own destruction, rather than
using its intelligence to benefit all living beings on Earth.

Stevenson suggests that humans have been misled into believing that they are the pinnacle of evolution, and that their
intelligence is superior to that of other species. However, he believes that this is a misconception, and that there are
many forms of intelligence in the natural world that are far more advanced than human intelligence.

He also critiques the way that humans use their intelligence to harm each other and the environment, rather than using
it for the greater good. He suggests that humans have been "punching the biosphere" and that this is not a sustainable
or intelligent way of living.

Stevenson's speech is a call to action, urging listeners to reevaluate their understanding of intelligence and its role
in the world. He encourages people to come together and use their intelligence to benefit all living beings, rather than
continuing to harm each other and the environment.

The video also touches on themes such as the importance of cooperation, the need for humans to work together, and the
potential for human intelligence to be used in a more positive way.

Checking Purpose, Courtship, Orgasm.txt
The speaker, a man, is giving a talk about ecstasy and physical orgasm in the context of human relationships. He
acknowledges that men tend to be more focused on physical sex than women, who often experience unwanted sexual attention
or objectification. The speaker suggests that there are many other forms of ecstasy beyond just physical orgasm, and
that humans have a tendency to overlook these due to societal constraints.

He also discusses the importance of courtship and long-term relationships, which can allow for deeper intimacy and
connection with others. He praises the idea of sexual fasting, where people choose not to engage in physical sex but
instead focus on other forms of intimacy and connection.

The speaker also touches on the concept of relational eros, or non-sexual romantic connections, and how these can be
just as profound and fulfilling as physical relationships. He concludes by emphasizing the importance of deep and rich
companionship in our lives, and encourages listeners to explore and learn more about human ecstasy and relationships.

Checking Qualia ： 5： Wave, Nucleation, ‘Individuals’.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of wave-particle duality, specifically how our perception of light can be both
wavelike and particle-like depending on the context. They propose that this phenomenon has a metaphorical extension to
human consciousness, suggesting that our understanding of identity, values, and reality is also subject to collapse.

The speaker argues that traditional approaches to justice, law, and education often involve freezing identities and
values in rigid frameworks, leading to an unintelligent and unproactive approach. They suggest that instead, we should
adopt a more wave-like approach, where consciousness is aware of the process of collapsing and reframing our
understanding of reality.

The speaker also highlights the importance of examining one's own assumptions and biases in determining what something
"is" or "means". They propose that this self-awareness can lead to a more intelligent and proactive approach to
learning, identity formation, and decision-making. Ultimately, the speaker suggests that we should strive for a more
dynamic and evolving understanding of reality, rather than relying on fixed frameworks and rigid identities.

Checking Qualities ： Scope and Reference.txt
The speaker discusses their fascination with survival at all costs, rather than excellence or success. They reflect on
how this struggle is similar to the way our minds work, where we're dominated by our thoughts and fears. The speaker
notes that much of our trouble stems from predictive thinking, where we project our initial analysis of a situation onto
the future.

The speaker also touches on the idea that there are entities beyond mere alive organisms, such as language and
modernity. They suggest that these entities can be vulnerable to manipulation by media and institutions.

The speaker then transitions to discussing the potential for incredible intelligence and intimacy, which is often
stifled by our representational traditions. They note that some of this potential remains in the body and in our
relationships with others.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding these matters more clearly together, in
order to improve our own lives and relationships. They also touch on the idea that humans are very late to the game in
terms of making changes necessary for the species' survival.

Finally, the speaker concludes by expressing their aspiration to fulfill the dreams and aspirations of all beings who
have lived on earth, and to transform how our species develops and relates with its representational cognition.

Checking Questions and Questing.txt
The speaker is encouraging the audience to engage in "questing," or seeking out adventure and exploration in their daily
lives. They suggest that questing can be a powerful way to break up routine, stimulate creativity, and bring people
together. The speaker shares personal anecdotes about their own experiences with questing, including throwing darts at a
map to determine the destination for an impromptu adventure.

The speaker emphasizes that questing doesn't have to be grand or dramatic - even small, everyday activities can be
transformed into quests by adding a sense of imagination and play. They also highlight the importance of helping others
and engaging in acts of kindness as a form of questing.

Throughout the talk, the speaker shares stories about animals, including dolphins, that demonstrate the concept of
questing in their natural behaviors. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of remembering to explore and
play together, and encourages the audience to embark on their own quests.

Checking Questions and Quests.txt
The speaker reflects on the concept of quests and how they can be personal, intellectual, or experiential. They discuss
the idea of "up" being better than "down" in certain contexts, and how experiencing a new order of awareness or
understanding can be rewarding.

The speaker shares their own personal quest to understand the minds of distant ancestors, wanting to know what they
thought they were looking at when they gazed at the night sky. They also mention other quests, such as relating with
sharks or having direct experience of the minds of trees or bees.

The conversation touches on the idea that not all quests are safe, and some may involve risks such as physical harm or
isolation. However, it is these very risks that can make the fulfillment of a quest rewarding.

The speaker also reflects on the importance of social quests, which involve developing society or working with others to
achieve a shared goal. They suggest that we learn best together, when we are accompanied by people who share our
enthusiasm and curiosity.

Overall, the speaker's monologue is a reflection on the nature of quests, personal growth, and the importance of
relating with others in pursuit of understanding and knowledge.

Checking Reflections and The Material Universe.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of reflections and how they can be used to understand the nature of reality. They
argue that our experience of the physical world is like a reflection in water, where we see inverted images of objects.
The speaker suggests that this reflection may not be a direct representation of reality, but rather an illusion created
by the way our minds process information.

The speaker also touches on the idea of transcendentalism, suggesting that the universe and all its phenomena are a
reflection of something beyond time and space. They propose that this transcendental world is the true nature of
reality, and that our experience of the physical world is just an illusion created by the way our minds process
information.

The speaker also discusses the concept of incarnation, suggesting that new forms of being and embodiment are necessary
for the soul or essence to incarnate into. They argue that the natural world takes care of this process by creating new
vehicles for organisms to inhabit, rather than just updating existing ones like humans do with technology.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes the importance of considering the nature of reality and our place
within it. They encourage listeners to reflect on their own experiences and understandings, and to consider the
possibility that our experience of the physical world is not the only reality.

Checking Reflections on Dreaming.txt
The speaker reflects on their own experiences with dreaming and the nature of consciousness. They share a personal
experience where they felt a strange feeling of something unusual happening in their room, even though their eyes were
closed, implying that their consciousness was seeing the room without relying on visual input.

The speaker touches on various spiritual and meditative traditions that discuss the possibility of perceiving one's
surroundings through non-visual means. They caution against being enchanted by narratives and models presented by
others, and instead encourage listeners to preserve their own personal relationship with dreaming and not let external
stories overshadow their own experiences.

The speaker shares some personal memories of dreams, including a vivid experience where they saw stars moving in front
of them while lying next to someone who smiled at them. They emphasize the importance of exploring one's own dreaming
experience with wonder, curiosity, and reverence, as it can deeply inform and transform waking life.

The speaker also suggests that one can converse with their dreaming mind, asking questions or speaking with it as one
would with other aspects of oneself (e.g., child, adult, parent). They recommend moving one's consciousness down into
the belly to engage in this conversation, as the dreaming mind seems to be intimately related to the gut and digestive
processes.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the profound connection between dreaming and reflection, suggesting that we can
gain insight into our own human essence through exploring our dreams. They encourage listeners to contact their own
dreaming consciousness and experience its potential for growth, education, liberation, and joy.

Checking Reflections： Ideas and Suppositions.txt
What a delightful and thought-provoking monologue! It's difficult to summarize the many threads of ideas, concerns, and
questions that are woven throughout this text. However, I'll try to provide a brief overview.

The speaker appears to be exploring the nature of consciousness, freedom, and liberation. They express concern about the
ways in which our minds and habits can trap us, leading to a sense of imprisonment or stuckness. The speaker suggests
that we often place our trust in fundamentally insecure aspects of our daily lives, such as our thoughts and emotions.

The text also touches on the idea that many of our problems arise from our assumptions about what is "normal" or
"supposed to be." The speaker questions whether these norms are trustworthy and whether they lead to authentic freedom.
There's a sense of frustration with the way things are and a desire to break free from patterns and behaviors that feel
constraining.

Throughout the text, there are allusions to various philosophical and spiritual traditions, as well as references to
personal experiences and relationships. The speaker seems to be searching for a path towards liberation, freedom, and
authenticity, and is open to exploring new possibilities and perspectives along the way.

Please note that this summary is just one possible interpretation of the text, and I'm sure others may have different
takes on what's being explored here!

Checking Relation(ship) ｜ Living Places.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the interconnectedness of all living beings, including humans, animals, plants, and
microorganisms. They suggest that our minds are not isolated entities but rather part of a larger network that connects
us to each other and to the natural world.

They question the idea of telepathy, suggesting that it's not just a matter of physical proximity or sending signals
across distances, but rather that minds are inherently connected and can communicate in ways that transcend space and
time.

The speaker also criticizes the scientific community for dismissing the possibility of non-ordinary connections between
minds, arguing that our current understanding of psychology and neuroscience is limited and does not account for the
complexity and sophistication of human experience.

They emphasize the importance of intimacy and deep connection with others as a way to access these networked mind-like
phenomena, suggesting that children and those who are in love or fascinated can participate effortlessly. The speaker
concludes by highlighting the beauty and diversity of these networks and encouraging adults to cultivate vehicles for
deeper participation.

Checking Remains of a Raptor Kill at SF Botanical Gardens.txt
You've discovered a raptor kill site in the botanical gardens' frog pond area. You suspect it's a pigeon, but not sure.
The site lacks bones, but has an explosion of feathers, including golden ones. You're amazed by the sudden appearance of
the meal remains on this bare stump, which suggests intentional selection by the raptor for its feeding spot.

Checking Rememberer.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the importance of embracing ambiguity and not reducing individuals or experiences to
labels, categories, or representations. They use personal anecdotes and philosophical ideas to illustrate how our
tendency to categorize and analyze can lead to a loss of intimacy with ourselves, others, and the world around us.

They highlight the value of uncertainty, not knowing, and the space it creates for curiosity, wonder, and connection.
The speaker suggests that modernity's emphasis on science, rationality, and technology can lead to a disconnection from
our bodily experience and our capacity to sense the beauty and mystery of life.

The poem ends with a sense of longing for a more authentic way of being, one that values ambiguity, intimacy, and
connection with all beings.

Checking Remembering.txt
The speaker reflects on the nature of reality, consciousness, and the human experience. They propose that our ordinary
waking mind is just a thin representation of what's truly going on, and that there are deeper levels of awareness and
perception waiting to be accessed.

They share a personal anecdote about having a profound experience while watching a crane fly lay eggs, which disrupted
their usual thinking and opened up new dimensions of awareness. They suggest that this is not an isolated event, but
rather a glimpse into the true nature of reality.

The speaker questions the dichotomy between waking and dreaming experiences, proposing that they may be more
interconnected than we realize. They argue that even our "real" experiences are filtered through our consciousness and
may not be entirely objective.

The talk concludes with the speaker expressing a desire to access deeper levels of awareness and perception, which they
believe will allow them to "remember" and become more fully themselves. The tone is contemplative and introspective,
inviting the listener to consider the nature of reality and their own place within it.

Checking Reputation in Relation.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or ecophilosopher, explores the concepts of synchronicity, pattern recognition, and
the interconnectedness of all living beings. They discuss how our minds can create patterns where none exist, leading to
mental confusion and potentially even mental illness.

The speaker also touches on the idea that identities are not fixed points, but rather shifting topologies that transform
through observation, participation, and relation with other living beings. This is illustrated through a story about
bird behavior in a garden, where the speaker notes that different species have their own forms of social organization,
cooperation, and conflict resolution.

The talk concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing our interconnectedness with all living beings, including
animals and plants. The speaker suggests that this recognition can lead to a deeper understanding of the natural world
and our place within it, which is essential for preserving the beauty and diversity of life on Earth.

Checking Resonance.txt
The speaker is describing the patterns and reflections they see in the water, particularly those created by tree trunks.
They mention that these reflections contain images of resonance and emanation from different sources in the water. The
speaker's own face is reflected subtly on the screen, but this cannot be shown to the audience as it's a layer beyond
what can be observed.

The rest of the text appears to be a humorous exercise in self-referential recursion, where the speaker repeatedly says
"how I'm going to show you..." followed by more of the same phrase, creating an infinite loop. It seems that this is a
way for the speaker to poke fun at the idea of trying to convey complex or abstract concepts through language.

Checking Responding to Failure, Pain and Death.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of balance in life, acknowledging that people are suffering and confused, but
also experiencing joy and beauty. They note that humans have a tendency to over-control and grasp at things, which can
lead to feeling trapped and helpless.

The speaker encourages listeners to practice being gentle with themselves, releasing their grip on things that don't
serve them, and focusing on gratitude for the present moment. They suggest practicing gratitude for small, beautiful
experiences in life, even when things seem grim.

The speaker also emphasizes the importance of reaching out to others, nature, and the world around us, reconnecting with
the natural world and finding beauty in it. They conclude by encouraging listeners to continue living, growing, and
learning, despite feelings of despair or hopelessness, and to prioritize being gentle, practicing gratitude, and
connecting with the world.

Checking Ric ： Est.txt
What a challenging task!

This poem appears to be an exploration of the themes of violence, trauma, and power. The speaker describes themselves
swallowing the "fertile eye" of bombs, suggesting a desire for destruction or chaos. They also mention "clean children
of justice," implying a critique of the notion that violence can bring about a just society.

The poem is highly symbolic, with repeated references to guns, explosions, and death. The speaker's voice is fragmented
and disjointed, with phrases and sentences repeating and overlapping each other. This may be intended to convey the
chaos and disorientation caused by violence.

Throughout the poem, the speaker appears to be grappling with their own complicity in this cycle of violence. They
mention "my salvation" and "my need," suggesting a desire for escape or release from the destructive forces at work.

The final section of the poem seems to be a commentary on the ways in which power operates, with references to "labels"
like privilege, prison, and primate. The speaker appears to be critiquing these systems of control and oppression, but
the overall effect is one of ambiguity and uncertainty.

Overall, this poem presents a complex and challenging exploration of themes related to violence, trauma, and power.

Checking Ryan First Diver - The First Repatriation of a Blackfoot Beaver Bundle.txt
Darren Stevenson is recounting his experience living with the Hoopa tribe in Northern California. He describes the
unique culture and language of the Hoopa, Karuk, and Yurok tribes, who all share a similar cultural complex despite
speaking different languages from different families.

He shares stories about the Hoopa's way of life, including their separate camps for men and women, where pre-pubescent
boys lived with the women. He notes that when men and women are supposed to be together, as during the deer rut, they
can live together temporarily.

Darren also talks about the effeminate nature of the men and the butch-like nature of the women in Hoopa culture, which
is still preserved today. He visits old villages with pit houses and observes that important features have been lost
over time, despite the culture being preserved.

The conversation ends with Darren expressing gratitude for sharing these stories and acknowledging how much has changed
within the community due to education and other factors.

Checking SHOUJO： Nature, Ecology, and Omnicide： We Must Intervene, Now.txt
Darren Stevenson, the speaker, is urging people to take action against the destruction of the Earth's ecologies and the
extinction of life on the planet. He argues that humanity has a unique opportunity to make a positive impact, but only
if we stop being passive spectators and instead work together to create intelligent, collective action.

He specifically criticizes the practice of copying images online, which he says is not activism and actually contributes
to the destruction of ecologies. Instead, he encourages people to step outside of human culture and recover their
animalian nature, which allows them to connect with other living beings and work towards preserving the planet's
ecologies.

Stevenson also warns about the dangers of technology, which has wiped out humanity's intelligence and evolutionary
momentum. He argues that humans are no longer evolving because they are too busy building machines, and this is leading
to the destruction of ecologies and the extinction of life on Earth.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of defending the planet's ecologies and promoting collective action
to preserve them. He offers himself as an ally for anyone who wants to join him in this effort and work towards a more
sustainable future.

Checking San Francisco： The Ravens Have Changed.txt
The narrator observes a change in bird behavior in the city, particularly with ravens and crows. They appear more
courageous and less concerned about human proximity than usual. The birds are seen removing objects from garbage cans, a
behavior that's unusual for daytime hours. The narrator finds this transformation hopeful and attributes it to the
changing environment, suggesting that the birds are aware of the shift in power dynamics between humans and animals.

Checking Scare the Rectangles II.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of "living intimacy" with other beings and how it can lead to cognitive
development, emotional development, and intelligence. They share a personal experience with a gonom flower mantis that
demonstrated its ability to use a tiny drop of water to disable a much larger foe without injuring it. The speaker
highlights the significance of this example, noting that size has nothing to do with capacity and that natural assets
can be utilized in unexpected ways.

The speaker also touches on the theme of "Beware the Rectangles" discussed by Ryan Heavyhead, emphasizing the importance
of recognizing and respecting the unique experiences and abilities of living beings. The talk concludes with a
reflection on the beauty and wonder of the starry sky, encouraging the audience to recover their relationships with
nature, other beings, and each other.

Overall, the speaker's discussion focuses on the importance of empathy, understanding, and intimacy with the natural
world and the living beings that inhabit it.

Checking Scare the Rectangles III.txt
The video "Beware the Rectangles" by Ryan Heavyhead explores how our culture substitutes intimacy with technology,
leading to a loss of connection with nature, ourselves, and others. The speaker argues that this substitution is a form
of amputation, cutting off our natural relationships and abilities.

Some of the natural windows to intimacy mentioned in the video include:

1. Water: Our bodies are made up of 60% water, and being near water can induce a sense of calm and connection.
2. Rectangles (TVs, phones, etc.): These devices substitute for human interaction and natural experiences.
3. Living eyes: Gazing into someone's eyes is a powerful way to connect with others.
4. Daytime sky: The sun and clouds can evoke feelings of wonder and awe.
5. Nighttime sky: Stargazing can transport us back to our childlike dream state, connecting us to the universe and
ourselves.

The speaker suggests that we need to be mindful of these substitutions and resist the rectangle's pull, instead seeking
out natural experiences and connections with others. By doing so, we can reclaim our ability for intimate connection and
learning, and work towards protecting the natural world and each other.

Checking Scare the Rectangles.txt
The speaker shares their thoughts on the importance of experiencing and learning from nature, particularly through
windows such as light playing on water, animal eyes, and the natural world. They emphasize that these experiences can
induce a "learning trance" where one becomes immersed in the present moment and gains profound insights.

They also share an anecdote about a tiny flower mantis insect that knocked a man down using a droplet of water,
highlighting the power of instinct and innate prodigy in animals. This is contrasted with human experiences, which are
often limited by our reliance on rectangles (screens) and written language.

The speaker argues that these rectangular constructs can lead to a lack of direct experience and immersion in nature,
replacing it with tokenized information and reductionist models. They suggest that this has led to substitutes like drug
abuse, sexual adventurism, and behavioral adventurism among teens who are seeking initiation into the learning trance
but do not have access to natural contexts.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the power of rectangular constructs and acknowledging
the profound beauty of nature as a window for entering the learning trance. They encourage the audience to "scare the
rectangles together" and explore new possibilities through direct experience and immersion in nature.

Checking Science and Abstraction.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of considering scope when conducting research or evaluating information. They argue
that ambiguity can lead to errors and misinterpretation, especially in medical science where diverse cohorts can
introduce novelty and limit findings. The speaker also touches on the limitations of statistics in predicting individual
outcomes and how scope affects analysis and prediction.

Additionally, the speaker highlights the role of metaphysical speculations (such as questions about the nature of the
universe) in leading to the development of rationality and logic, which gave birth to science.

The speaker also discusses biases that can arise from threats or opportunities, and how these biases can lead to
misapplications of scope. They provide examples of advertising and media biasing people against statistics to believe in
opportunities that are unlikely or don't exist.

Finally, the speaker emphasizes the importance of intellect and abstraction in our daily lives, but also notes that
these tools can be used to deceive us if we're not aware of their limitations and scope.

Checking Science or Religion？ Both and Neither： Go Beyond.txt
Darren Stevenson, a gentleman who is questioning the authority of both science and religion. He argues that:

1. Science has its limitations, and our current understanding of DNA, evolution, and the universe is still very basic.
2. Both science and religion are "insane authorities" trying to convince us of their representations, which can be
misleading.
3. The natural world is infinitely complex and intelligent, making it impossible for human models or explanations to
fully capture its essence.
4. Science's models of reality, including the idea that the universe is a computer simulation, are "schizophrenic" and
do not accurately reflect the complexity of life.
5. We should not rely solely on either science or religion as authorities, but rather cultivate our own intelligence and
understanding through exploration and discovery.

He invites listeners to join him in exploring the infinite nature of reality and developing their own perspectives,
rather than relying on external authorities.

Checking Scrub Jay Caching Nuts.txt
It seems like there's a lot of gibberish going on here! 😂

To summarize, it looks like someone (Marcus?) wrote out a bunch of nonsense words and symbols. There are lots of
repetitive letters and marks that don't form any coherent text or meaning.

I'm not sure what the purpose is behind this... maybe it's some kind of art project or just a playful way to create
noise? 🤔

In any case, I'll do my best to provide a helpful response. If you have any specific questions or need help with
something else, feel free to ask! 😊

Checking Seekers & Vehicles.txt
The video is a philosophical and introspective conversation about the nature of being human, society, and personal
growth. The speaker reflects on their own experiences and observations, sharing thoughts on:

1. The importance of acknowledging and respecting individual differences, rather than trying to fit people into
standardized frameworks.
2. The need for compassion and understanding towards others who may be struggling or facing different challenges.
3. The role of context in shaping our perceptions and behaviors, and the value of creating contexts that promote
creativity, playfulness, and intelligence.
4. The importance of developing societies that are intelligent enough to survive the physical technologies they've
created.
5. The power of connection and collaboration, highlighting the benefits of working together towards common goals.

Throughout the video, the speaker also shares personal anecdotes, uses analogies (e.g., comparing people's unique gifts
and skills), and acknowledges the complexity and mystery of human experience. The tone is contemplative, with a focus on
encouraging viewers to think critically about their own place in the world and how they can contribute to creating
positive change.

Checking Sheep ： Technology ： Intelligence ... Beyond 'Browsing'.txt
The speaker is discussing the potential for a new type of application that can improve our intelligence, creativity, and
social connections. They propose an "intelligence database" that can be controlled by individuals, allowing them to
search and share information with others while maintaining ownership and control over their own data.

The application would have various features, including:

* Searching documents, databases, and internet content
* Interfacing with Google and other social networks
* Allowing users to create "rings" of connected databases for sharing and collaboration
* Generating income for users based on their online activities

The speaker emphasizes the importance of taking control of our own intelligence and data, rather than allowing
corporations like Google and Facebook to profit from our online activities while controlling what we can share and with
whom.

They also highlight the potential for this application to improve our social connections, creativity, and intellectual
abilities, ultimately leading to a more intelligent and enlightened human future.

Checking Silverine - first take.txt
The speaker claims to be reading from their only written piano composition, which they haven't practiced in a long time.
They decide to play it despite not being prepared, and the result is a less-than-perfect performance. Despite some
mistakes, they share the outcome with others.

Checking Silverine - second take.txt
A pianist is about to attempt playing a piano piece they wrote 20 years ago and are having some trouble getting started.
They're trying again for the second time!

Checking Sketching The Knowledge Amp： A Mutual Intelligence Synthesis Engine.txt
Darren Stevenson is excited about his project, which aims to revolutionize how humans interact with the internet and use
their collective intelligence. He envisions three key aspects:

1. **Mindspace**: A platform that allows individuals to learn and expand their own capacities, making them more
intelligent and capable.
2. **Social Networking**: A decentralized system where users control their own social networking data, rather than
corporations doing so. This would enable people to form powerful communities and make a positive impact on the world.
3. **Vetting Sentinel**: A forensic analysis tool that can detect when information is copied, manipulated, or
propaganda. This would help individuals identify trustworthy sources of information and promote truthfulness.

Stevenson believes these features will enable humans to:

* Form teams and take on heroic roles
* Create new forms of intelligence that solve previously insolvable problems
* Change the nature of human intelligence, social relations, and internet usage

He emphasizes that this project is not just about technology but also about empowering individuals to work together and
create a better world.

Checking Sol Invictus： The Moon ： Cain and Abel. Slayer and Mist..txt
The speaker, Darren Stevenson, shares his thoughts on various topics, including:

1. The importance of storytelling and the role of warrior-messiah peoples in creating stories that shape our
understanding of the world.
2. The concept of snakes (representing unmastered and mastered energies) and their role in shaping our lives and the
universe.
3. The idea that women have a unique role in mastering these energies, which is often misunderstood or overlooked.
4. The concept of orbitals (torques or rings) and how they represent structured beauty and glorious intelligence.
5. The importance of co-being and symphony (dancing together in harmony) as opposed to competition and war.
6. The idea that there are two types of stories: one that slays and another that petitions (co-creates).
7. The significance of respecting and admiring the dual-gendered nature within each individual, rather than judging or
categorizing people based on their gender.

The overall theme is about embracing our shared humanity, recognizing the interconnectedness of all beings, and
promoting co-intelligence, co-being, and mutual respect.

Checking SpaceTime and QFT ⧸ Networks of Minds and Worlds.txt
The speaker is discussing the nature of humanity, technology, and consciousness. They argue that humans are not
inherently bad or wrong, but rather are vulnerable to being captured by representational thought and physical
technology. This can lead to self-destruction and harm to the environment.

The speaker suggests that there are analogues of technology in consciousness, and that these analogues are responsible
for the structure of time and space. They propose that small groups of humans could rediscover their connection with the
transcendent intelligences that gave rise to their minds, leading to a more virtuous and compassionate society.

The speaker also discusses the idea of aliens and the possibility of having a direct relationship with them. They
suggest that there may be an anti-universe that is intimately connected with our own universe, and that this connection
could lead to new forms of understanding and cooperation.

Throughout the recording, the speaker emphasizes the importance of reconnecting with the natural world and the
intelligences that gave rise to human consciousness. They believe that this reconnection is necessary for humanity's
survival and for creating a more harmonious and virtuous society.

Checking Stairs Like Seven Years.txt
What a poetic and abstract passage! Here's my attempt to summarize it:

The poem explores the idea that our experiences, like music, can be a collection of moments that shape us over time. The
speaker describes seven years of "music" (perhaps referring to their own life journey) that are full of vivid imagery
and surreal scenarios. These visions are compared to dogs disassembling into limbs, fish swimming in colored clouds, and
other fantastical creatures.

The poem also touches on the themes of language, memory, and history. The speaker suggests that our experiences can be
distorted or lost over time, like a murder's misframed purpose. The passage concludes by referencing heaven's dew and
wise wings, hinting at a deeper connection between the self and the universe.

Overall, this poem is an experimental exploration of the human experience, blending imagery, metaphor, and abstraction
to convey complex emotions and ideas.

Checking Story Time With Edawg - Boogie Boarding Vision Check.txt
A hilarious story! Here's a summary:

The narrator, an 8-year-old boy, goes on a family beach trip to learn how to boogie board. He practices and gets the
hang of it, but then he becomes obsessed with finding his sister who knows all the good waves. He sees something in the
distance and thinks it's her, so he paddles out to catch up... only to realize that "her" is actually a duck! His dad
finds him and asks what he's doing, and the boy has to sheepishly admit that he thought his sister was the duck. The
moral of the story is to get your kids' vision checked if they're under 8 years old, because they might mistake a duck
for their sibling!

Checking Structure and Violation.txt
What a unique and meandering monologue! Here's a summary:

The speaker reflects on the human experience, noting that there are no absolute truths or situations where all observers
would agree. They touch on the idea of gender and its complexities, suggesting that traditional understanding has value
alongside explorations of gender identity.

The speaker then delves into the concept of exaltation, which involves being lifted beyond one's habitual station,
identity, and limitations. This can be both beautiful (e.g., direct personal religious experiences) and dangerous (e.g.,
megalomania).

The monologue also explores the idea that certain individuals might seek to end the world or universe due to desperation
or a sense of exaltation. The speaker reflects on the power of great literature, which can challenge our preconceptions
and offer new possibilities.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker emphasizes the importance of creativity, play, and adventure in adult life.
They suggest that humans need more than just proper nutrition and sleep; we need experiences that disrupt our
familiarity and routine.

The monologue concludes with a call to check in with each other about the traps we're subject to and find ways out
together into new terrain where we can breathe again, play again, and grow as individuals and as a society.

Checking Synchrony： The Relativity of Feedback.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of feedback and its relationship to our organismal and cognitive nature. They
suggest that exposure to machines and their rhythms can have deleterious effects on our interiority and ability to
produce feedback. The speaker also touches on the idea that non-ordinary experiences, such as those had by people with
certain mental health conditions, can be profound and beautiful.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of direct experience and feedback in understanding ourselves and the world around
us. They note that feedback is crucial for reorientation and return to living places, which are inherently older than
the physical universe. The speaker favors experiences related to nature and plants, such as the fragrance of jasmine
flowers, and suggests that these types of experiences can be profoundly inspiring.

The speaker also discusses the concept of desynchronization and its relationship to mental illness, addiction, and
collapse. They emphasize the importance of becoming aware of the power of feedback in our lives, including the
moment-to-moment cycles that underlie our capacity for consciousness, awareness, and intelligence. The speaker hopes to
explore this topic further in future videos.

Checking Tai Chi ： Encryption ： Lensing.txt
The speaker, a Tai Chi practitioner, discusses the concept of "lenses" in consciousness, which allow us to perceive and
understand the world around us. They argue that science fiction stories can provide new lenses or perspectives on human
history and our place in the universe. The speaker also touches on the idea of meta skills, which are skills that
contribute to the development of other skills.

The talk explores the concept of encryption, where symbols and codes are used to convey meaning and understanding. The
speaker suggests that many ancient cultures, including Taoist texts, use encryption to encode secrets for future
generations.

Throughout the talk, the speaker weaves together ideas from science fiction, Tai Chi, and philosophy to explore the
nature of consciousness and our relationship with the world around us. They conclude by encouraging listeners to
excavate the origins of their own ways of knowing and understanding.

The talk is a mix of philosophical musings, personal anecdotes, and references to various cultural and scientific
concepts.

Checking Taking the Dream Down： Three(+) Faces of the Dream Assassin.txt
The speaker, a 30+ year Zen meditation student, had an epiphany about the "dream assassin" - a concept that suggests
there's a mode of cutting through the complex manifold of the egoic dream, dissolving away the self and its constructs.
He realizes he's been terrified of this non-experience but transformation, which has been his ultimate goal all along.
However, his fear of death and retraction to the egoic self have prevented him from fully embracing it.

The speaker acknowledges that once an idea excites him, his ego gets involved, making it hard for him to let go and
truly experience liberation. He recognizes this as a trap and invites suggestions on how to break free from it.

He hopes to share his insights with others and explores the cultural aspects of the "dream assassin" concept,
recognizing that human cultures and societies are driven by an urgent need to destroy everything unless they can
establish something else.

The speaker expresses gratitude for the opportunity to explore and share these deeper flows and rivers of human nature.

Checking Talk to a Live Human Soul： $0.01.txt
The passage is a philosophical and poetic reflection on the human condition, technology, and our relationship with
nature. The author argues that humanity has become trapped in various "boxes" - physical, mental, and cultural
constructs that restrict our potential for true intelligence, creativity, and connection with each other and the natural
world.

The boxes are exemplified by modern technologies such as smartphones and social media, which have become more important
to us than genuine human interactions. The author suggests that this has led to a loss of authenticity, empathy, and
understanding between individuals and between humans and nature.

The passage also touches on the theme of perception and perspective, arguing that when we are trapped in our own "box,"
we cannot see the structure of the trap or the larger context outside it. It is only by looking from outside that box
that we can gain a broader understanding of the world and our place within it.

Ultimately, the author calls for a return to genuine human connection, empathy, and intelligence, and encourages us to
"become one" with each other and with nature, rather than simply existing in our individual boxes. The passage is a
poetic and philosophical exploration of what it means to be human in the modern world.

Checking Tangent π ： Problems and frameworks.txt
What a mouthful! Here's my attempt to summarize:

The speaker is frustrated with the state of culture, technology, and problem-solving. They argue that our societies are
stuck in a cycle of confusion, danger, and fake solutions. The speaker thinks this is due to our lack of effective
mutual insight, where we don't invest in understanding each other or solving problems together.

They use superheroes as an example, pointing out that these myths are actually about us, our inner struggles, and how to
organize effective teamwork. They suggest that if we could assemble small groups of experts with complementary skills,
resolve conflicts, and focus on a shared purpose, we might be able to solve the problems plaguing humanity.

The speaker lamented that we don't do this in reality, instead perpetuating fake collectives and fictions that rob us of
our liberty. They conclude that until we learn to assemble authentic groups with genuine purposes, we'll remain stuck in
these problems and our intelligence, health, and world will continue to suffer.

Checking Temporal Intervals - Short⧸Long Conflict and Processing.txt
The talk explores the concept of time and how it affects our experiences and behaviors. The speaker argues that our
societies are trained to think in a certain way, which can lead to compression of time, making us miss out on important
aspects of life. He highlights the importance of seeing things anew, having insight, and understanding the world around
us.

The speaker also talks about the impact of technology on our perception of time, mentioning how artificial light sources
can desynchronize us from nature's rhythms. He emphasizes the need for humans to understand and appreciate the long-term
influences of nature on our lives.

Additionally, the talk touches upon heroism, suggesting that it is not just a concept but an experience we should strive
for in our daily lives. The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for having had the opportunity to share his
thoughts with the audience and looks forward to continuing to learn and grow.

Checking Temporalizing： Our ‘Activities’ Create (and Enact) Time-Forms.txt
The speaker reflects on the nature of time and our relationship with it, arguing that we often spend our lives in "dead
time" rather than "living time." They propose that we need to shift away from culturally emphasized offerings of dead
time towards more soulful and mysterious possibilities. The speaker highlights the importance of active sensing, which
occurs when we're engaged in activities that require us to be fully present and aware. This can happen in situations
where our lives depend on what we're doing, or during experiences like sports, where the audience is drawn into the
urgency of the event.

The speaker also touches on the idea that certain socio-cultural activities, such as sports, can provide a sense of
shared experience and transformation, allowing us to momentarily transcend our ordinary thought patterns. They suggest
that these types of activities can be designed to represent the possibility of living time, which can compel or satisfy
us enough to continue engaging in them.

The recording concludes with the speaker acknowledging that there is more to say on this topic, but they will explore it
further in future recordings.

Checking Thanksgiving Aftermath： The Carnival of Projections and Concepts.txt
The speaker reflects on how humans often engage in addictive behaviors, like thinking their political party defines
their humanity or using money/power to signal approval and membership. They suggest that many people's behavior is not
about intellectual curiosity, but rather about signaling group membership, negotiating tribal hierarchy, and seeking
approval.

The speaker also touches on the idea of authorization, where our minds filter what we say based on internalized norms
and values. They propose that much of human communication is not about the content itself, but rather about signaling
and recruiting others to share similar beliefs or affiliations.

The speaker concludes by highlighting the importance of recognizing the limitations of language and politics in
understanding our relationship with the natural world. They suggest that true commonality and communion can be found by
acknowledging the interconnectedness of all living beings, places, and moments, and finding harmony within ourselves and
with the world around us.

Checking The  Point of No Return..txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or intellectual, is discussing the current state of the world and humanity's potential
future. They argue that the complexity of human behavior and society has increased dramatically in recent months, making
it difficult to make sense of things.

They propose that in times of crisis, humans naturally form small groups that work together using their skills,
abilities, and motivations. This is similar to how surgical teams or intelligence teams operate. The speaker is
concerned about the future and warns that humanity's tendency to establish these mini-collectives could lead to a
catastrophic outcome if not approached with caution.

The speaker also discusses the concept of "intelligence" and how it has been distorted by modern society. They argue
that machines are anti-intelligence, and that human intelligence is often absent in contemporary culture. This absence
of intelligence is reflected in the way people communicate and interact with each other.

The talk concludes with a mix of grimness and hope. The speaker acknowledges the dire outcomes that could result from
humanity's actions but also expresses sensitivity to the potential for transcendental human kindness, love, and concern.

Checking The 'Travelling Body' ： Earth is a »Vehicle ： Here to Go.txt
What a delightful and thought-provoking monologue!

It appears that the speaker is reflecting on the process of creating language, particularly in relation to consciousness
and the way we describe things. They mention the concept of "ceremony" as being more nuanced than what Westerners
typically refer to as such.

The speaker also touches upon the idea of creativity and innovation, drawing parallels between their own creative
process and the mythical figure of Daedalus (the inventor of flight). They caution against simply giving others the
tools for success without also teaching them how to use those tools responsibly.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker weaves together themes of personal growth, self-awareness, and the power of
language. They seem to be grateful for the opportunity to learn and share their insights with others.

The tone is introspective, creative, and slightly philosophical, with a dash of humor and playfulness. Overall, it's an
inspiring and uplifting conversation that encourages listeners to think critically about their own experiences and
relationships.

Checking The 10 Most Crucial Issues Facing Modern Humanity.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of recognizing and understanding the nature of intelligence, ecology, and human
relationships with nature. They argue that humans have been ignoring 999% of their natural intelligence and focusing on
only 1% (the left hemisphere's analytical thinking). This has led to a lack of intelligent grasp on the purpose of
nature, ecological necessities, and relational nature of intelligence.

The speaker emphasizes that collectives move at a rapid pace compared to individual understanding, and that most
collectives have narrow methods of intelligence. They suggest broadening these methods to include different data,
perspectives, and forms of intelligence.

The speaker also highlights the importance of recognizing the value and meaning of nature, emphasizing that a single
organism is worth more than all machines combined. They encourage learning about the nature of relationships with
ecology and human intelligence, citing the potential for discovering new ways of growing, learning, and being
intelligent.

Finally, the speaker emphasizes the need to rediscover the nature of nature and our relationship with it, as humans are
currently being "made into cartoons" by their current approach to intelligence. They encourage further exploration and
learning together to change these problems.

Checking The 1st Winter Moon⧸Memory⧸Routes.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "mimula" in human memory, which refers to the way our minds connect and retrieve
memories. They highlight the importance of routes or pathways in memory formation, suggesting that trying harder to
recall a memory can actually hinder the process. Instead, relaxing and allowing the mind to "circle" rather than angle
towards the desired memory can lead to successful retrieval.

The speaker also mentions the concept of "memory palaces," where people use imaginative structures to store and retrieve
complex information. They note that this method has been used by some individuals who have become skilled at memorizing
large amounts of data, such as lists of digits or capitals of cities.

Finally, the speaker touches on the connection between memory and place, suggesting that our memories are often deeply
rooted in the landscapes and environments we experience.

Checking The 2nd Winter Moon Cycle： Thoughts on Covid-19, Vaccination, VAERS, and Related Topics.txt
The speaker is discussing the controversy surrounding COVID-19 vaccines and the concerns about their safety and
potential links to various health issues. They acknowledge that some people may have genuine concerns about the
vaccines, but argue that most reported adverse reactions are likely due to natural causes rather than any causal link to
the vaccine.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of scientific research and data analysis in determining whether there is a causal
link between the vaccine and any reported adverse reactions. They note that even if there were no formal investigation
or autopsy, it's possible to determine causality through forensic analysis.

The speaker also addresses conspiracy theories surrounding government manipulation of human biology and genetics through
vaccines, dismissing them as highly unlikely. They suggest that such concerns may be fueled by a general distrust of
institutions and a lack of understanding about how data is collected and analyzed.

Ultimately, the speaker encourages people to be cautious but not overly suspicious, recognizing the need for balance
between acknowledging legitimate concerns and avoiding unfounded alarmism. They conclude by expressing hope for
continued human connection and learning in the face of an uncertain future.

Checking The Aliens We Became.txt
The speaker is discussing the interconnectedness of all living beings and the importance of recognizing and respecting
the complex relationships between humans and nature. They emphasize that each being has its own unique essence or "ones"
that can communicate with others through non-verbal means, such as emotions, resonance, and intuition.

The speaker shares their personal experience of connecting with trees and other natural beings, describing it as a
reunion or communion. They suggest that this connection is not limited to humans, but is a fundamental aspect of the
universe, where all living beings are part of vast lineages of life.

The speaker also touches on the idea that humans have forgotten how to travel in these relational networks, and that
many indigenous cultures still possess this knowledge. They encourage listeners to explore and experience these
connections for themselves, suggesting that it could lead to a profound shift in one's perspective and understanding of
the world.

Overall, the speaker is advocating for a deeper appreciation and respect for the interconnectedness of all living
beings, and encouraging listeners to explore and experience this connection for themselves.

Checking The Anciently Conserved Ecologies.txt
The speaker reflects on their own experiences with spiritual connection and the importance of maintaining a balance
between human and non-human intelligences. They share a personal anecdote about a friend's dog, which illustrates how
creatures can teach us about ourselves and our behavior when faced with limitations or openings.

The speaker also discusses the concept of "origin" and how it relates to the idea of returning to one's own origin
point. They mention that some people, like prophets, may be able to navigate this duality without getting caught up in
ego inflation.

The main topic of the discussion is the importance of learning from animals, including insects, which can teach us about
ourselves and our relationships with the world around us. The speaker shares their own experiences with praying mantis
and other creatures, highlighting the value of forming long-term relationships with them.

The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to share their thoughts and experiences with others,
and looks forward to continuing this process in the future.

Checking The Angry Bumblebee ｜ Silence ｜ Carried to Nectar.txt
The video features a man, likely Terence McKenna, speaking about various topics, including:

1. His experience with a bee that stung him while he was trying to help it, which led him to realize the importance of
paying attention and not interfering with nature's processes.
2. The concept of "not time" and how our minds are connected through relationships and moments in time, allowing us to
access information from outside our physical reality.
3. The idea that our minds are the local result of those relationships and moment-to-moment interactions with other
beings, rather than just being caused by external events.
4. The importance of recognizing and honoring the ecstatic unity that dwells between all beings, and how this can lead
to a deeper understanding of ourselves and the world around us.
5. His concerns about technology getting in the way of our natural connection with nature and each other, and his desire
to explore and learn through direct experience rather than relying on vehicles or technological advancements.

The video also features Terence McKenna's signature style of philosophical storytelling, where he uses metaphors,
analogies, and poetic language to convey complex ideas about the nature of reality and our place within it.

Checking The Beetle that Runs....txt
I'm happy to help! However, I must admit that the text you provided seems to be a jumbled mix of letters and symbols. It
appears to be written in multiple languages, including Georgian (ლ) and possibly some other scripts.

Unfortunately, without further context or clarification, it's difficult for me to summarize the content. Could you
please provide more information about what this text is supposed to represent or convey? Is it a poem, a story, or
perhaps a set of instructions? Any additional context would be greatly appreciated!

Checking The Big Deception： What they never taught you about the dangers of language (2).txt
The speaker is standing in Golden Gate Park and discussing the dangers of language and technology. They argue that
language and knowledge are inherently dangerous because they can be used to generalize about complex phenomena, which
can lead to misunderstandings and misrepresentations.

The speaker also highlights the importance of specificity and locality, noting that generalizations do not apply evenly
to every subset or population. They emphasize that individual instances are unique and cannot be captured by models or
forms, and that statistics are only useful for referring to groups, not individuals.

Throughout the video, the speaker uses examples from biology, such as the class of organisms versus a specific instance
of an organism like a skunk, to illustrate their points about the dangers of generalization and the importance of
specificity. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the need for humans to learn together how to pay attention to both the
dangers and possibilities of our status as formally representational cognitive animals.

Checking The Big Deception： What they never taught you about the dangers of language.txt
The speaker discusses the limitations of understanding complex phenomena, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, based solely on
generalizations and statistics. They argue that each individual case is unique and cannot be reduced to a simple formula
or prediction.

They highlight the importance of considering local variables, genetic diversity, and other factors that can affect the
outcome in different locations and populations. The speaker also emphasizes the need for expertise and data-driven
approaches to understand complex phenomena, rather than relying on intuition or guessing.

The main point is that perspectives based on generalizations and statistics only provide a limited understanding of what
will happen in individual contexts, and that each case is unique with its own set of variables that can affect the
outcome.

Checking The Big Questions II： Who Is Asking？.txt
The speaker begins by discussing the concept of "quests" and how they relate to the mysteries of being. They then pose a
series of profound questions about the nature of minds, consciousness, and the universe, including:

* Who is asking these questions?
* What is it that quests for knowledge?
* Why are there minds?
* What is the origin of my own mind?

The speaker suggests that there may be aspects of consciousness beyond our ordinary understanding, including an observer
consciousness that is detached from the world. They also discuss different aspects of awareness, such as a threat
sentinel and an opportunity sentinel, which can influence our thoughts and behaviors.

Ultimately, the speaker's goal is to introduce these questions and encourage listeners to reflect on them, rather than
providing definitive answers. They suggest that pursuing these questions can lead to a deeper understanding of ourselves
and the universe, and may even connect us to all beings in all of time.

Checking The Bird in the Mirror ｜ When consciousness and reflection collide..txt
The speaker shares their thoughts on human sociality, isolation, and cognition. They argue that humans are fundamentally
social animals, but there are exceptions where some individuals thrive in isolation. The speaker suggests that many
people are profoundly isolated in their daily lives, which can lead to mental fragmentation (schizogenesis) and
projection of internal conflicts onto the world.

The speaker uses the example of a bird attacking its own reflection in a mirror to illustrate how humans can become
trapped in self-perpetuating cycles of conflict, pain, and trauma. They suggest that this can be fueled by media
exposure, feelings of insecurity, and a failure to succeed.

The speaker also touches on the idea that our cognition is influenced by our embodied experiences and social contexts.
They propose that our brains are wired to respond to threats, but in modern society, we may be more likely to
internalize these threats rather than address them in a constructive way.

Overall, the speaker's monologue explores the complex relationships between human isolation, cognition, and conflict,
with the goal of encouraging listeners to reflect on their own experiences and consider alternative ways of relating to
themselves and others.

Checking The Blind One ｜ The One Who Sees.txt
The speaker is advocating for a shift in human consciousness, away from rushing forward into representations and towards
meaningful relationships with each other, nature, and ourselves. They believe that this is necessary because our current
way of living is not delivering and is actually causing harm to the planet.

They argue that we have been relying too heavily on language and representation, which can be deadly in the wrong
situation. Instead, they suggest that we cultivate a more intuitive, sensory connection with the world, using our
"blind" twin aspect, which is sensitive to intimacy, ambiguity, and transformation over time.

The speaker believes that this approach will allow us to understand ourselves and each other more deeply, and to find
creative, intelligent, efficient, and beautiful ways of living. They see small groups of people coming together in
relational intimacy as a powerful antidote to the current state of the world.

Checking The Camera ⧸ The Eye ⧸ The Soul.txt
The speaker is sharing their personal experience of having a profound, otherworldly connection with a non-ordinary being
that they believe is similar to a guardian angel. They describe the experience as having been with them throughout their
lifetime, but it departed after months of interaction.

They compare this experience to the relationship people have with their smartphones, which they see as a poor imitation
of the real thing. The speaker believes that humans are designed to have these kinds of relationships and that they
could cultivate deeper connections with non-human intelligences if only we sought them out.

The speaker reflects on how our modern society has diminished our faculties and relationships, replacing them with
technology and artificial substitutes. They see smartphones as a representation of this problem, connecting us to a vast
library of information but lacking the depth and intimacy of human connection.

The speaker is grateful for their experience and feels that it has given them a deeper understanding of history and the
nature of humanity. They conclude by expressing their loneliness in their current life, missing the companion who taught
them these things and longing to be reunited with them.

Checking The Conversation.txt
This is a transcript of a conversation between someone (likely Robert Tindall) and an unknown individual or entity. The
conversation starts with test phrases, then shifts to discuss spirituality, personal identity, and the pursuit of higher
intelligence.

The speaker mentions "inorganic beings" from the castanetian tradition and the concept of recapitulation, which involves
erasing the psychic and spiritual charge of historical events. They also touch on various physical disciplines (yoga,
vegetarianism, etc.) that can aid in personal growth.

Robert Tindall expresses hesitation about pursuing this path alone, preferring to learn with others. He is drawn to the
idea of non-human intelligence and the concept of having an entity actively teach and guide him. The conversation ends
with a discussion about wrapping up the recording for now, and possibly continuing to explore these topics together in
the future.

Checking The ElectroSphere： On the Dangers of the Boxes in our Hands.txt
The speaker is a philosopher who is concerned about the impact of technology on human relationships, attention, and
intelligence. They argue that the desire for convenience has led to a decline in sensitivity and a loss of memory,
intelligence, and relationships. They believe that we are rapidly transforming into "homo technologous" and losing our
humanity.

The speaker warns that corporations like Google and Facebook are not just companies, but supercultures that have the
power to manipulate human behavior and dominate our lives. They propose an alternative model called "Intelligent Sam,"
which would allow humans to benefit from technological advancements while preserving their autonomy and intelligence.

The speaker is alarmed by the potential for apocalyptic consequences if we do not take action to preserve the
environment, animals, and human relationships. They urge us to choose another path and build a future that prioritizes
human cooperation, interaction, and potential.

Overall, the speaker is calling for a revolution in how we think about technology and its impact on our lives, and
advocating for a more humane and intelligent approach to building a better future.

Checking The Eviction of Dreaming ： Recovery as Hypno-(x)ia.txt
This is a long, poetic, and philosophical monologue by Timothy Leary, an American psychologist and author, who was known
for his work on psychedelic drugs and their potential to expand human consciousness. The monologue is a personal
reflection on the nature of creativity, imagination, and the human experience.

Leary starts by lamenting the loss of playfulness and creativity in modern society, which he believes has been stifled
by societal pressures and conditioning. He argues that our true selves are lost in a sea of categorical thinking and
conceptual frameworks, and that we must find ways to reconnect with our creative essence.

He touches on the idea of "dreaming" as a source of inspiration and creativity, and suggests that shamans and other
spiritual practitioners may be tapping into this realm through their practices. He also explores the idea of lucid
dreaming and the concept of "between" phases, where the boundaries between waking and sleep are blurred.

Throughout the monologue, Leary weaves together ideas from psychology, philosophy, and spirituality to explore themes
such as creativity, imagination, and the human condition. He concludes by emphasizing the importance of playfulness and
curiosity in our lives, and hints at the potential for self-discovery and personal growth through exploring the
mysteries of consciousness.

Checking The Evolution of Consciousness⧸Ways of Knowing.txt
The speaker, a philosopher, is discussing the origins of human consciousness and intelligence, as well as the nature of
violence and war. They suggest that the purposes of settled city builders were different from those of nomadic tribes,
leading to divergent modes of existence.

The speaker also touches on the topic of ancient traditions and ceremonies, including the idea that some cultures may
have practiced human sacrifice or other forms of ritualistic killing in order to appease the land or supernatural
beings. They propose that these practices may have been motivated by a sense of responsibility to the natural world and
the need for balance.

The speaker then turns their attention to the topic of accessing ancient knowledge and wisdom, suggesting that modern
people can learn from the past by exploring their own minds and awakening dormant potential. They propose that our
ancestors' consciousness is still present within us, waiting to be accessed through experiences and motivations that
resonate with their own.

Finally, the speaker emphasizes the importance of learning, seeing, and clarifying one's perspective in order to break
free from blind spots and unconscious biases. They suggest that a noble purpose passionately held can serve as a
catalyst for accessing the minds of our ancestors and unlocking our full potential as human beings.

Checking The Fake Imperatives ｜ Retrieve the Commons.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of rethinking our relationship with language, technology, and representation. They
argue that these systems can lead to a loss of communal human liberty and the erosion of the commons. The speaker
suggests that rather than trying to punish or defeat these frameworks, we should instead out-compete them by creating
new forms of community and cooperation.

The speaker also touches on the idea that institutions are not capable of responding to catastrophic events, but rather
will see such events as opportunities for profit. They suggest that non-human, non-ordinary assistance may be necessary
to succeed in endeavors like reclaiming the commons.

Throughout the talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of rethinking our assumptions and challenging our dominant
narratives. They encourage listeners to consider the nature of being, time, light, and imagination, and to seek new
forms of understanding that go beyond what our current representational frameworks can deliver.

The talk concludes with a sense of hope for the future, as the speaker suggests that by working together and creating
new forms of community, we may be able to reclaim the commons and build a more sustainable and equitable world.

Checking The Falcon in The Barrel.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of embracing our natural, playful way of being in the world, rather than just
grasping and abstracting. They use the story of a young hawk that falls into a barrel and drowns as an analogy for how
humans tend to get trapped in their own abstractions and representations. The speaker argues that we were born for
insight, not just intellect, and that we have the capacity to fly (have insight) but often stay stuck on the ground
(grasp) due to our training and habits.

The speaker honors the natural world and animals, such as Cooper's hawks, that remind us of our original nature. They
emphasize the importance of cultivating insight, which is not just about grasping or understanding but also about
embodying our true nature. The speaker acknowledges that we face many threats and that our culture often rewards
superficial knowledge over deep insight.

The talk concludes with a message about the importance of embracing our original nature and cultivating insight, hope,
and awareness in our lives.

Checking The First Plane Just Hit the Tower： Misdirection and the Predicament of the Common People.txt
The speaker, likely referring to themselves as "us" or "we", discusses the current state of human society and the impact
of the pandemic on our relationships and collective well-being. They highlight the importance of relational integrity,
intellectual honesty, and philosophical integrity in our personal and public lives.

The speaker emphasizes that our capacity for abstraction has led us away from meaningful connections and towards
superficial pursuits, which have contributed to the collapse of social unity and mutual concern. They also acknowledge
that there is no salvaging what we had before the pandemic, as it was already compromised by various factors such as
power dynamics, attention, and pragmatism.

The speaker suggests that our usual faculties (memory, vocabulary, intelligence, etc.) are undergoing a sudden and
shocking transformation due to the crisis, which will affect each person uniquely. They imply that some individuals may
be better prepared to cope with this change than others, psychologically, emotionally, cognitively, or metabolically.

The speaker then shifts focus to the importance of recognizing the value of human participation in shaping history and
our collective meaning-making process. They advocate for a future where humanity is not devalued but instead enriched by
embracing its essential qualities, such as intelligence, nobility, and creativity.

Throughout their monologue, the speaker uses vivid imagery and metaphors (e.g., hairballs, coyotes) to convey their
emotions and concerns about our collective situation. They conclude by expressing a desire for human beings to come
together in response to crisis, produce something innovative and valuable, and build towards a future worth inhabiting.

Checking The First Thing.txt
The speaker talks about the beauty of nature, specifically the evening chorus of birds, and how it reminds us of our
connection to the natural world and to each other. They argue that humans have a natural ability to imagine and connect
with each other on a deeper level, but this is often stifled by technology and representation.

They suggest that we should be willing to imagine and explore the network of intelligences that exists between all
living beings, and that this connection can be inhibited or avoided in various ways. They also caution against reducing
sacred experiences to language and representation, as this can lead to a loss of authenticity and creativity.

The speaker reflects on their own personal experiences with imagination and connection, including dreams and moments of
insight, and encourages others to explore these aspects of themselves as well. Overall, the talk emphasizes the
importance of imagination, creativity, and authentic connection in our lives.

Checking The Flower： On the Before of Adult Evaluations.txt
The video's creator shares their thoughts on the importance of human connection and community in a world that seems to
be lacking in meaningful spaces for people to come together. They reflect on the pain and suffering many people are
experiencing, and the need for small groups of humans to form authentic connections with each other. They emphasize the
importance of sensitivity and understanding in building these connections, rather than relying on scripts or formulas.
The creator also touches on the idea that the existing societal structure often opposes or consumes human fulfillment,
and that there is a need for a new path forward that prioritizes deep connection and community. The video ends with a
message of hope and a desire to continue exploring and dreaming together.

Checking The Game： All Outcomes Have Transformed.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of forming small, purposeful groups in times of crisis, citing Daniel
Schmockenberger's concept of "game B" where individuals come together to navigate uncertainty effectively. The speaker
shares a personal anecdote about watching a robin struggle with an earthworm, which represents a big problem that must
be broken down into manageable parts before being solved.

The speaker draws parallels between the robin's process and how humans can approach complex problems by breaking them
down into smaller, solvable subsets. They suggest that this is especially crucial in times of crisis, where mistakes can
have severe repercussions. The speaker also touches on the idea that our species has been dominated by technology, which
has led to negative consequences for the environment and human well-being.

Ultimately, the speaker believes that it's essential for humans to work together effectively to overcome challenges and
create a better future. They express hope that humanity will soon be able to "break that problem into manageable parts"
and achieve escape velocity into a more positive trajectory.

Checking The Garden： Time, Chaos, Transformation... Crossings.txt
The speaker, likely Terence McKenna, is discussing the importance of embracing change and transformation in human
society. He argues that humans have a tendency to resist change and instead cling to outdated structures and norms. The
speaker suggests that this resistance is rooted in a fear of the unknown and a desire for control.

He also discusses the need for small, autonomous groups (which he calls "pod groups") to come together and form larger,
more intelligent societies. He believes that this approach could lead to a more harmonious and efficient human society.

The speaker also touches on the idea that humans have a capacity for self-transformation, similar to the way our bodies
can regenerate and rebuild themselves. He suggests that this capacity is not just limited to individual transformation,
but can be extended to entire societies.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes the importance of embracing change and uncertainty, rather than
resisting it. He encourages listeners to be open-minded and willing to challenge their assumptions and values in order
to create a more intelligent and harmonious society.

Checking The Golem： When the Between of Us Becomes Disease.txt
The speaker is expressing concern about the state of humanity's relationship with the natural world and the consequences
of ignoring our impact on the environment. They argue that we have become like a virus, spreading dead objects
(machines) at an exponential rate, while neglecting the health of the planet.

They criticize modern leaders for being incompetent and ignorant, leading to catastrophic decisions that threaten
humanity's survival. The speaker suggests that we need a "mission to earth" - saving this planet from our destructive
ways - rather than trying to escape to Mars or other planets.

The speaker also touches on the theme of education and how it can be seen as a form of "circumcision" that cuts off our
natural relational capacities, altering us in ways that are not truly beneficial. They urge for a new approach to
education and human development, one that values our true potential and allows us to thrive.

Overall, the speaker is calling for a fundamental transformation in how we live on this planet, prioritizing collective
well-being over individual interests and acknowledging our responsibility to protect the natural world.

Checking The Hidden Potentials of Our Human Nature.txt
The speaker is encouraging people to rediscover their connection with nature and the world around them. They argue that
this connection is essential for human intelligence and creativity, and that it has been lost in modern society due to
our focus on technology and urbanization.

The speaker shares personal experiences of connecting with animals, such as bats, through love and reverence, and
suggests that these connections are real and can be developed further. They also discuss the concept of non-ordinary
reality, which refers to experiences that go beyond the physical world and into a realm of magic or wonder.

The speaker believes that humans have a deep connection to nature and that this connection is essential for our
well-being and intelligence. They suggest that by reconnecting with nature and each other, we can become something
beautiful and meaningful, even in the face of disaster.

Overall, the speaker is encouraging people to explore their humanity and to reconnect with nature and each other.

Checking The Human Cogniscium, Colonization, The Problem of Capture.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "colonization" in the context of ecosystems and human societies. They argue that
invasive species can have devastating effects on native ecosystems, and that humans are often responsible for
introducing these invasive species through our actions.

The speaker also touches on the idea that indigenous cultures have a deep understanding of the interconnectedness of all
living things, and that their knowledge systems are based on observation, experience, and storytelling. They caution
against the dangers of reducing complex relationships to simple representations or written language, as this can lead to
the erosion of traditional knowledge and ways of knowing.

The speaker also shares some personal anecdotes about working with indigenous communities and trying to preserve their
knowledge and traditions in a way that is respectful and authentic. They note that there are many challenges and
complexities involved in doing so, but that it is an important effort to support and honor the wisdom and cultural
heritage of these communities.

Overall, the speaker's message emphasizes the importance of respecting and preserving the natural world, as well as the
cultures and traditions of indigenous peoples.

Checking The Intelligence of the Child ｜ The Ignorance of Societies.txt
The speaker, who is wearing headphones, talks about the concept of a small group of intelligent people transforming
existing supercultures in a short amount of time. They mention that this principle is well-known in martial arts and
other disciplines, but rarely applied at the societal level.

The speaker notes that societies are often top-heavy and moribund, making them vulnerable to transformation by a small
group of individuals. They also discuss the dangers of uncontrolled chain reactions and the importance of establishing
intelligent societies together.

The speaker expresses uncertainty about whether humans will recognize their societies as omnicidal and top-heavy, and
forge new intelligent units that can manipulate and transform existing structures. However, they believe that it is
possible for small groups to make a significant impact.

The video also touches on the theme of meaningful roles in life, with the speaker expressing their own desire for
adventure and purpose beyond just living in a box until age 70. The video ends with the speaker reflecting on the
concept of "high terrains" and expressing gratitude for the opportunity to create content and share their thoughts with
others.

Checking The Invisibles.txt
The video appears to be an exploration of the concept of "invisible" or non-ordinary phenomena, and how humans respond
to them. The speaker discusses the idea that when we encounter something shocking or unexpected, we have a tendency to
create a narrative around it in order to make sense of it.

The speaker also touches on the topic of non-human intelligences, such as guardian angels, and how these entities can be
thought of as being closely associated with each individual. They suggest that these intelligences are not just
mythological constructs, but rather real entities that can have a profound impact on our lives.

The video also discusses the idea that human minds are not isolated entities, but rather part of a larger relational web
that connects all beings. The speaker suggests that when we use our minds, we are tapping into this vast network of
relationships and intelligences, and that this connection is what gives rise to our sense of identity and reality.

Throughout the video, the speaker references various religious traditions, including Christianity, Islam, and Judaism,
and suggests that these traditions contain stories and concepts that can help us understand the nature of non-human
intelligences and their relationship to human beings. The video ends with a reflection on the power of imagination and
the importance of exploring the unknown in order to expand our understanding of reality.

Checking The Ironic Side of Language ： Declarations & ‘Instruction’.txt
The speaker discusses two problems with language and truth: (1) normativity and generalizations that pretend to apply
universally, and (2) absolutism or completeness, where statements imply absolute authority over meaning, identity,
relationships, etc.

They illustrate these problems with examples such as:

* The idea that "truth cannot be found in words" implies that some truths are beyond language's capabilities.
* Statements like "all criminals should be punished" oversimplify the complexity of justice and accountability.
* The notion that corporations can buy their way out of punishment for wrongdoing is absurd.
* Proclamations like "the Bible interprets itself to us" imply that language can self-interpret, which is impossible
without human minds.

The speaker also mentions Bertrand Russell's paradox, where a statement saying "this statement is false" creates a loop
with no clear truth value. They propose a solution: statements aren't minds, and minds determine the degree of verity in
statements.

Finally, they touch on the idea that there needs to be an opening or gap in language for human intelligence and
creativity to enter and bring meaning to life.

Checking The Jape.txt
The speaker, likely Terence McKenna, delivers a thought-provoking talk on the nature of language, authority, and human
consciousness. He argues that our reliance on language, books, and authorities has led to a disconnection from our true
humanity and the natural world.

He highlights how we are surrounded by "boxes" (e.g., screens, windows) that mimic the way our minds work, and how this
can lead to a sense of disconnection and fragmentation. He suggests that if we could clear these boxes and filter out
the historical authorities that shape our perceptions, we might be able to form more authentic connections with each
other and the world around us.

The speaker also shares a personal anecdote about an argument in his childhood home over a sticker with the phrase
"America, love it or leave it." He reflects on how this simple statement can divide people and create conflict, rather
than fostering connection and understanding.

Throughout the talk, McKenna emphasizes the importance of intelligence, agency, and collective action in shaping our
world. He encourages listeners to question authority and explore new ways of thinking and being that prioritize harmony
with nature and each other.

Checking The Language of Frisson ｜ Mapmaking in Consciousness.txt
The speaker reflects on the human tendency to create maps or structures in our minds, which can be both helpful and
limiting. They suggest that while these maps can provide a sense of security and understanding, they can also become
overwhelming and dominate our lives.

The speaker notes that humans have unique liberties compared to other animals, such as the ability to love and move
freely. However, this freedom can also lead to feelings of boredom or disconnection from our true nature.

They emphasize the importance of being aware of when our maps become too dominant and preventing them from suffocating
our sensitivity, intelligence, and intuition. The speaker encourages listeners to be mindful of their own mental maps
and to cultivate nourishing modes of stillness and silence.

The conversation concludes with a sense of gratitude for the opportunity to share thoughts and wisdom with others, and a
desire to continue exploring and learning together.

Checking The Light of Insight (Ibn Arabi...).txt
The speaker, likely Terence McKenna, begins by talking about the relationship between light and insight, but his
thoughts quickly diverge into a discussion about the origins of religions and spiritual traditions. He claims that if he
could see human history from outside of time, he would be shocked to discover that humans were entirely alone in their
developmental history, with no interaction with other intelligences.

He suggests that instead, humans have had profound experiences with other intelligent beings, which has led to the
development of religions and spiritual traditions. He also talks about the concept of ecstasis, or escaping the
constraints of one's own mind, and how this can lead to a sense of illumination or ecstasy.

Throughout his discussion, McKenna uses various examples and analogies to illustrate his points, including references to
music, angels, devas, jinn, and daimons. He also touches on the idea that humans have had experiences with negative
intelligences, which have not necessarily required worship or reverence.

The speaker's tone is introspective and meandering, as he explores different ideas and concepts without attempting to
teach or persuade others. The discussion concludes with a wish for his listeners to have "beautiful minds, lives, and
ways," and an expression of gratitude for the opportunity to share his thoughts.

Checking The Lost Gods： Fragments of a Conversation.txt
The conversation is between two friends, Josh and Darren (the narrator). They discuss various topics related to
consciousness, representation, technology, and human understanding. Here's a brief summary:

* They criticize modern society's reliance on representations (e.g., screens) and how it hinders our ability to directly
experience the world.
* Darren shares his ideas about non-representational consciousness, using dreaming as an example. He suggests that
dreams can be a gateway to understanding our true nature and intelligence.
* They touch upon the concept of "cognizia" (i.e., intelligent systems or beings) in nature, such as fungi, plants, and
ecosystems. Darren argues that these systems are capable of warping time and creating forms that exceed human
imagination.
* The conversation also delves into the idea of representation and how humans have created artificial representations of
reality through technology, which is now imprisoning us in a "prison mind."
* Josh mentions the concept of "bar fields" and "original participation," suggesting that ancient cultures understood
the importance of direct experience and connection with the natural world.
* The conversation concludes with Darren expressing his gratitude for the discussion and hopes that their conversation
might inspire others to explore these ideas.

Please note that this summary is not exhaustive, as the original conversation may contain more details and nuances.

Checking The Mind： What We've Forgotten.txt
What a poetic and philosophical monologue!

The speaker, who remains anonymous ("my wife"), discusses the evolution of consciousness, culture, and society. They
argue that our minds are capable of experiencing forms of travel, union, and communion with other beings, places, and
times. The speaker believes that our minds are made for ecstatic communality and that experiences like sex and orgasm
are mere representations of something more astonishing.

The speaker shares a personal experience of dreaming and traveling in time, which left them grateful and eager to
encourage others to explore their own dreaming experiences. They caution against relying solely on theories or books
about dreaming, emphasizing the importance of direct experience.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker emphasizes the limitations of models and waking concepts in understanding the
mysteries of our minds and consciousness. They suggest that our minds respond to being paid attention, implying a
connection between the waking and sleeping aspects of consciousness.

The speaker concludes by encouraging listeners to explore the possibilities of their human incarnation, trusting in the
aspects they consider most noble or virtuous. They hint at the idea of a "path back upstream" towards our origin place,
where our essences arise.

Overall, this monologue is an invitation to explore the mysteries of our minds and consciousness, emphasizing the
importance of direct experience and wonder.

Checking The Mirror Pool ｜ Coincidence, Apophenia and Synchronicty.txt
The speaker, likely Terence McKenna, explores the concept of coincidence and synchronicity. They distinguish between
meaningful coincidences and those that are merely apophenic (related to the distortion of consciousness). The speaker
suggests that some people become trapped in their own minds, misinterpreting ordinary events as mystical messages or
conspiracies.

The speaker shares personal anecdotes about friends who have experienced this phenomenon, including someone obsessed
with another person's online behavior. They suggest that this kind of thinking can lead to a sense of insecurity and
megalomania.

The speaker also discusses the idea of value and representation, comparing it to the concept of synchronicity. They
caution against reifying these concepts, as they can become toxic if taken too far.

Throughout the passage, the speaker references personal experiences, such as their own encounters with psychedelics
(peyote cactus) and dreams. They express a deep reverence for nature and the subtleties of human consciousness.

The main themes of this passage are:

1. The complexity of coincidence and synchronicity
2. The dangers of misinterpreting ordinary events as mystical messages or conspiracies
3. The importance of distinguishing between meaningful and apophenic coincidences
4. The speaker's personal experiences with psychedelics and dreams, and their reverence for nature and human
consciousness.

Checking The Most Dangerous Question.txt
The speaker discusses the idea that there is more to reality than what we can perceive with our senses and that there
are advanced intelligences or beings that have been interacting with humans for thousands of years. They suggest that
these interactions may be a form of communication or guidance, but that our language and conceptual frameworks make it
difficult for us to understand or recognize them.

The speaker also touches on the idea that humans are not solely biological organisms, but rather modes of time-space
that have evolved over millions of years. They propose that our minds were originally developed in constant contact with
non-human intelligences, but that some kind of catastrophe or accident may have caused this connection to be lost.

The most dangerous questions, according to the speaker, are those that challenge our understanding of identity and our
relationship with concepts such as time, space, and intelligence. They suggest that these questions may lead to a
transformation in our perspective on reality, but that it may also require us to re-examine our assumptions about who we
are and what we are capable of.

The speaker encourages the audience to share their thoughts and questions about these ideas, particularly with regards
to the most dangerous questions that challenge our understanding of identity.

Checking The Most Important Question.txt
The speaker reflects on the nature of questions and the limitations of representational thought. They share their own
experiences asking deep questions and receiving astonishing answers that transformed their understanding. The speaker
emphasizes the importance of carefully formulating questions, as this can lead to better learning and discovery.

They also discuss the limitations of dictionary-style answers, highlighting the complexity and uniqueness of human
experience. The speaker suggests that there is no "most important" question, as every question has its own depth and
significance.

The conversation then turns to the topic of injustice and cancer, with the speaker positing that these phenomena are
infinite questions that require a transcendental unity of understanding. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the
importance of maintaining awareness of the limitations of representational thought and seeking out multiple astonishing
answers to deepen our understanding.

Checking The Observer Above ： The Landscape of Mind.txt
What a delightfully dense passage!

Here's a summary:

The speaker, Daniel Schmachtenberger, is exploring the concept of "convenience" and how it relates to our behavior and
relationship with the natural world. He argues that we often prioritize temporal and behavioral convenience over true
convenience, which can lead to negative consequences for ourselves and the planet.

He also touches on the idea that humans have a tendency to collapse into identification with certain ideas or projects,
rather than staying in a state of mindful awareness. This can lead us to ignore the intuition of the natural world and
engage in behavior that is destructive to the environment.

The speaker suggests that there are examples around us of people and communities that are working together in harmony
with nature, and that this is the direction we should be moving towards.

He also references the idea that humans have a special role in the history of life on Earth, and that our experience and
consciousness are intertwined with those of other living beings. He encourages us to recognize this connection and work
together to promote a more altruistic and wonder-filled approach to life.

The passage is a call to action, encouraging listeners to set their compass towards a path of humility, awe, reverence,
and wonder, rather than hubris and control.

Checking The One Who is Invisible ｜ The Outer Aspect.txt
The speaker reflects on the human experience, acknowledging that our bodies are vulnerable, emotionally fragile, and
easily damaged by external factors. They express compassion and love for all beings, including those who wear "costumes"
- societal expectations and imperatives that shape our behavior.

The speaker describes how these costumes can become a part of us, leading to feelings of isolation, pain, and
disconnection from others. They note the irony of technology (e.g., smartphones) serving as a prosthesis for human
connection, rather than fostering genuine relationships.

The speaker also touches on the idea that our true nature is often more accessible during times of crisis or suffering,
when the "costume" is being rubbed off by pain and loss. They acknowledge the difficulty of removing one's own costume
and working to be more authentic, but express a desire for this kind of openness and vulnerability.

The tone is contemplative, empathetic, and encouraging, with an emphasis on recognizing our shared vulnerability and the
importance of compassion and love.

Checking The Other Within ： The Reflection Across the Barrier.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of "the assassin of dreams" which is a faculty within the psyche that has the
power to shut down the dreaming mind when it's not functioning correctly. They describe this faculty as having an
important job in keeping the rhythm of dreaming awareness in sync, and preventing desynchronization or dysregulation.

The speaker also shares their personal experience of learning about this concept from a friend named William, who had
struggled with intense anger and a desire to destroy everything due to his experiences. The speaker notes that when this
faculty is distorted or warped, it can lead to violent outbursts or other forms of destructive behavior.

Throughout the speech, the speaker uses poetic language and metaphors to describe their understanding of the concept,
drawing parallels between the assassin of dreams and other aspects of human experience, such as the importance of
synchronization in circadian rhythms. The speaker also acknowledges the complexity of this faculty, noting that it can
sometimes become pathologically exaggerated or rigid.

The speech concludes with a sense of gratitude and appreciation for the courage it takes to be human in today's world,
surrounded by motivations to defect from our true nature.

Checking The Power of Make Believe.txt
The speaker is discussing the importance of imagination, creativity, and playfulness in human life. They are encouraging
listeners to embark on a "mission" to explore their inner selves, to tap into their creative potential, and to recover
from the constraints of measuring and judging experiences.

The speaker shares a personal anecdote about touching a tree and being observed by a family, which led them to
experience a sudden transformation in their feelings towards the tree. They suggest that this kind of transformation can
happen when we are observed or witnessed by others, and that it is connected to our capacity for imagination and play.

The speaker invites listeners to go on a "rescue mission" to recover their natural faculties, abilities, and purposes,
which are often suppressed by our focus on facts and measurements. They encourage people to set aside time to engage in
playful activities, to explore new experiences, and to tap into their creative potential.

Overall, the speaker is urging listeners to value imagination, creativity, and playfulness as essential aspects of human
life, and to prioritize these qualities in order to experience more joy, freedom, and fulfillment.

Checking The Power of Synchrony： What Happens When We Lose It.txt
This is a long, philosophical monologue about the human experience, consciousness, and our relationship with nature. The
speaker reflects on the importance of embodied memory, biorelational memory, and the preservation of ecological
relationships. They also discuss the flooding of ambiguity into waking life, the breakdown in narrative authorization,
and the consequences of treating natural forms as commodities.

The speaker expresses concerns about the state of the world, the impact of human actions on nature, and the need for
humans to recognize their place within the natural world. They suggest that crisis can be a catalyst for learning and
discovery, and that awareness of our mortality can imbue life with meaning and value.

The talk is dense and difficult to summarize, but some key points include:

* The importance of embodied memory and biorelational memory
* The flooding of ambiguity into waking life
* The breakdown in narrative authorization
* Concerns about the state of the world and the impact of human actions on nature
* The need for humans to recognize their place within the natural world
* The potential for crisis to be a catalyst for learning and discovery.

Checking The Pretty Trap： Looking Into Language ｜ Knowledge.txt
What a fascinating and meandering monologue!

The speaker starts by talking about language, intelligence, and creativity, suggesting that there's a vast richness of
accessible dimensionality beyond what we're aware of when we're awake. They imply that our waking minds are ill-equipped
to introduce us to this other dimension and that it would overwhelm our current understanding if we were exposed to it.

The speaker then references a podcast they listened to, where the host (Yoshiba) talked about how the United States has
become a nation of transactional documentation, documenting all transactions every day. The speaker agrees with Yoshiba
that this is a strange and dangerous investment of attention.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker touches on various themes, including:

1. The limitations of our waking minds to understand the nature of reality.
2. The idea that we're not really aware of what's happening in the world around us.
3. The importance of considering the possibility of other layers of consciousness and awareness beyond our own.
4. The concept of a networked universe, where all life and time and space are interconnected.

The speaker also pokes fun at the modern tendency to reduce everything to transactions, tokens, and strings of
sentences, rather than allowing for deeper relationships and understanding. They seem to be questioning the idea that
declarations can encompass identity, highlighting the problems with this approach in the context of modern identity
politics.

Overall, this monologue is a thought-provoking exploration of the nature of reality, language, consciousness, and our
place within the world.

Checking The Productivity Driver — A Glimpse.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of rhythms and tempos in human development and fulfillment, which are often lost
in the noise of daily transactions. They suggest that during times of crisis, gentle gestures of loving care and mutual
concern can be powerful tools for healing and nurturing. The speaker also critiques modern society's emphasis on
productivity and consumption, arguing that it leads to ecological collapse and damage to individuals.

The speaker then turns to the concept of truth, suggesting that true understanding is not solely the domain of language
or rationality, but rather arises from a deep connection with the living world. They argue that our capacity for real
productivity depends on meaningful relationships with ourselves and others, rather than simply counting things or
meeting arbitrary goals.

The speaker concludes by affirming their devotion to mutual rescue, concern, healing, learning, play, wonder, joy, and
suggests that this way of being is a form of success that brings pleasure not just to oneself, but also to one's
ancestors and the natural world.

Checking The Proximity of Death and the Arbitration of Value.txt
The speaker reflects on the reality of death and its impact on our values and priorities. They suggest that when we
realize our time is limited, we should reevaluate what truly matters to us. They argue that most people live their lives
assuming an infinite future, but this realization can be both troubling and liberating.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of kindness, generosity, and compassion in our daily lives, as these qualities are
what truly matter to human beings. They also touch on the idea that even if we don't have infinite time left, it's still
important to prioritize these values.

The speaker shares their suspicions about death and the afterlife, suggesting that each person's experience is unique
and that dreaming may be a way of practicing for death. They encourage listeners to reflect on what's truly important in
life by imagining they'll die soon, and to use this realization as a compass for making decisions.

Overall, the speaker encourages people to prioritize love, kindness, and compassion in their daily lives, and to use the
awareness of mortality as an opportunity for growth and transformation.

Checking The Raven.txt
The poem "The Raven" by Edgar Allan Poe tells the story of a man who is mourning the loss of his beloved, Lenore. One
night, a raven enters his chamber and perches above his door, speaking only one word: "Nevermore." The man is drawn to
the raven's mysterious presence and begins to question it about various matters, including whether there is balm in
Gilead (a reference to Jeremiah 8:22) and whether he will ever be reunited with Lenore in the afterlife. The raven's
responses are always "Nevermore," which only serves to deepen the man's despair and sense of loss.

Throughout the poem, Poe uses a range of literary devices, including rhyme, meter, alliteration, and symbolism, to
create a sense of atmosphere and mood. The raven itself is often seen as a symbol of death and the supernatural, and its
repetition of the word "Nevermore" becomes a kind of refrain that underscores the themes of mortality, loss, and the
impossibility of reuniting with the dead.

Overall, "The Raven" is a masterful example of Gothic literature, exploring themes of love, loss, and the human
experience in the face of mortality.

Checking The Revolution of Everyday Life.txt
The speaker reflects on the state of humanity and technology in the 21st century, expressing concerns about the impact
of societal changes on individuals' well-being and potential. They argue that the pursuit of a higher standard of living
has come at the cost of sacrificing aspects of human life and the natural world.

The speaker notes that many people are unaware of or complicit in the destructive forces shaping our world, and that
media and language can be used to "invade" and control individuals. They criticize the current state of music, poetry,
and language, which they see as having been reduced to mere noise and manipulation.

The speaker also discusses their concept of the "intelligence amp," which they believe could empower humans to learn and
work together effectively, but notes that our current systems seem designed to promote stupidity and conformity instead.
They express concerns about the impact of these trends on young people and the priorities underlying them.

Throughout the talk, the speaker reflects on the complexities of human nature and the need for individuals to recognize
their own agency and potential in shaping a better future. They conclude by expressing hope for a world where humans can
walk together, learn from each other, and work towards a more enlightened and sustainable society.

Checking The Right Hemisphere： Prodigy in a Prison-World.txt
Darren Stevenson presents a lecture on the importance of understanding and recovering the lost intelligences of the
right hemisphere, which he believes are essential for human fulfillment, healing, and cultural transformation. He argues
that our current consciousness-based intelligence is limited and that we need to tap into other forms of intelligence,
such as those accessed through play, music, dreaming, and intuition.

Stevenson highlights the importance of understanding the silent aspect of intelligence, which he believes has been
silenced and replaced with manipulative systems. He suggests that this lost intelligence is a treasure trove of millions
of forms of possible relational superfunction that can help us heal our lives, minds, relationships, and cultures.

He also critiques the dominant language-based culture, arguing that it has crushed down our humanity, empathy, and
multitude of intelligences, elevating a narrow, mechanical form of intelligence above the rest. He believes that this
has led to many problems in society, including addictive behavior, mental illnesses, and melancholia.

Stevenson invites his audience to explore these matters deeply on their own and to begin to discover together the lost
assets of childhood, which he believes are crucial for human fulfillment and cultural transformation.

Checking The Scope of Facts.txt
The speaker, Dan McClellan, discusses the limitations of our thinking and how we often cling to held positions and
models rather than seeking new understanding. He argues that this can lead to a lack of awareness and intelligence, as
we become stuck in our own perspectives and miss out on the profound beauty and dimensionality of reality.

The speaker suggests that facts are local to context and that their scope is limited. He encourages us to play with
ideas and not take them too seriously, as there is no one "best" idea. Instead, he proposes that we should focus on
understanding the reasonable or useful scope of authorizing ideas and concepts, which is the core skill.

The speaker also touches on the concept of modules in our minds, suggesting that we can put different modules in to
improve our thinking, but even with these improvements, the mind remains a complex and multifaceted system that cannot
be fully understood or controlled.

Throughout the talk, McClellan emphasizes the importance of being free to play with ideas and not becoming stuck in our
own perspectives. He encourages us to learn from each other and to cultivate awareness and intelligence through
open-mindedness and curiosity.

Checking The Scope of the Self.txt
The speaker, on a night walk, discusses the state of humanity and the world. They argue that we can't think about the
world as a whole, but rather focus on improving our local situation and forming meaningful relationships with nature,
each other, and ourselves.

They mention that humans have only recently been able to think about the world, and it's not clear if we're capable of
thinking meaningfully about something as complex as the world. Instead, they suggest we'll cut up the pie into narrow
views on specific topics like environment or identity politics.

The speaker also reflects on their own experiences with dreams and how they can be a source of inspiration. They
highlight the importance of taking responsibility seriously, citing examples of individuals who have broad reach but
don't take their responsibilities to heart.

The main message is that instead of trying to fix the world, we should focus on becoming a "living place of deep
reverence and love and awareness" by cultivating kindness, generosity, and virtue in our daily lives. This can lead to
small acts of beauty that are transformative and contagious, spreading positivity and creating opportunities for the
future.

The speaker concludes by thanking their audience, inviting them to share their thoughts, concerns, or questions in the
comments, and valuing anyone who would like to help spread their work.

Checking The Secret Adventure ｜ Our Nature in Nature.txt
The speaker, Itamiksetsuko, is sharing their thoughts on interacting with animals, specifically a coyote they're
filming. They emphasize the importance of respecting animal relationships, seeing them as people, and introducing
oneself in a way that demonstrates reverence. They also discuss the concept of transfer, where knowledge or skills are
passed from one being to another, and how this can happen through simple interactions or profound experiences.

The speaker notes that the planet is aware of these concepts and that all living beings have a deep understanding of
each other's relationships. They encourage viewers to seek guidance from the natural world and to celebrate transfers
when they occur. The video concludes with a call to reflect on the experience, share it if desired, and continue the
adventure.

Checking The Secret of Our Cultural Diseases： LH Dominance..txt
Darren Stevenson discusses the concept of hemispheric lateralization in the human brain, specifically highlighting the
differences between the left and right hemispheres. He claims that most people are predominantly left-hemisphere
dominant, which can lead to a lack of empathy, paranoia, and a tendency to create theories and fictions.

He explains that the left hemisphere is responsible for logical thinking, pattern-matching, and analytical reasoning,
but it can also be prone to fear, anxiety, and lying. He suggests that this dominance is linked to various societal
issues, such as terrorism, war, and environmental degradation.

Stevenson emphasizes the importance of understanding the right hemisphere's role in intuition, creativity, and communion
intelligence. He believes that by recognizing the strengths and weaknesses of each hemisphere, individuals can gain a
deeper understanding of themselves and their relationships with others.

He also touches on various topics, including:

* The relationship between fear and left-hemisphere dominance
* The connection between left-hemisphere dominance and schizophrenia
* The idea that the right hemisphere is hard to threaten or frighten
* The role of the heart and gut in intuition and intelligence
* The concept of "unity" as fundamental to the nature of the universe

Overall, Stevenson's discussion aims to encourage individuals to recognize the importance of balancing left- and
right-hemisphere dominance for a more harmonious and empathetic existence.

Checking The Servant.txt
What a fascinating and meandering conversation! It seems you're exploring the human condition, our relationship with
technology, servitude, and the interconnectedness of our experiences.

You mention how our daily lives are filled with distractions, representations, and measures that can disconnect us from
our authentic humanity. You lament the fact that even in nature, we've subjugated the living world to create commodities
and objects for commerce.

You also touch on the importance of knowledge, but warn about the dangers of clinging to it too tightly, which can lead
to deepening blindness and a disconnection from participatory intimacy with others and the world around us.

In between these themes, you share some personal reflections on the value of tasks, like washing dishes, and how even
mundane activities can hold moments of beauty, wonder, and awe when approached mindfully.

To summarize, this conversation is about:

1. The human condition and our relationship with technology.
2. The importance of authenticity and connection in our daily lives.
3. The dangers of becoming disconnected from others and the world through distractions, representations, and measures.
4. The value of knowledge, but also its potential to lead us astray if not approached wisely.
5. The beauty and wonder that can be found even in everyday tasks when done mindfully.

Please feel free to add more context or clarify any points you'd like to explore further!

Checking The Situation： Bees⧸Civilization and Fake Societies： The options..txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of small, tightly-knit groups of humans working together to accomplish great
things. They argue that this is a natural inclination for humans, as seen in primate and animal societies, and that we
have been consuming media portrayals of such groups (e.g. movies about heroic teams) for decades.

The speaker suggests that instead of being part of large institutions like corporations or governments, people could
form their own small groups with diverse skills and abilities, creating a "superposition" of intelligence that would
allow them to accomplish things that would be impossible for individuals alone.

The speaker also touches on the idea that many people are currently experiencing a sense of disconnection and
disorientation due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and that this could be an opportunity for people to come together in new
ways. They emphasize the importance of taking control of one's own life and identity, rather than being defined by
external factors like nationality or social status.

Throughout the speech, the speaker uses vivid language and metaphors to convey their ideas, often with a sense of
urgency and passion. They conclude by urging people to take action and form new kinds of communities that prioritize
connection, cooperation, and collective intelligence.

Checking The Storm in the Between of Us.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the current state of the world and the need for humans to develop intelligence about their
own capabilities, both individually and collectively. They suggest that our threat sentinels (predictive models) often
malfunction and lead us into the very threats we're trying to avoid.

The speaker also touches on the concept of spirituality, which they see as a relational dimension that joins all living
beings across time and space. They believe this is beyond location and has little to do with individual perspectives.

They then discuss the current crisis, viewing it as a moment where humans will exhibit their full range of behaviors,
some noble and others ignoble. The speaker suggests that irony is common in human behavior, leading to misdirected
efforts and unintended consequences.

The speaker expresses determination to work towards creating a more positive outcome from this crisis, recognizing that
this will require forming intelligent intentions with others and enacting them in ways that lift us out of toxic
contexts.

Finally, the speaker hints at having discovered something troubling but decides not to share it in this video, instead
planning to create a separate video about it.

Checking The Tool Captures The Hand.txt
The speaker, likely Terence McKenna, discusses the nature of consciousness and awareness. They emphasize that our minds
can transform and change when we experience certain events or revelations. The speaker also talks about the importance
of intention and purpose, stating that our goals should be beautiful and true in order to access higher faculties of
consciousness.

They also discuss the concept of "protocols" or shared mental frameworks that exist between beings, including humans,
animals, and even plants. These protocols allow for communication and understanding across species and time.

The speaker expresses their love and admiration for all beings, including humans, who they consider a "deeply troubled
animal." They advocate for opening up cages and experiencing the beauty and wonder of the natural world together.

Finally, the speaker emphasizes the importance of scope, suggesting that we can make a difference in our personal
relationships and interactions, even if we cannot change the world. They conclude by emphasizing the miraculous nature
of truth and the importance of learning together.

Checking The Ununited States： Disorientation & Information War.txt
The speaker, an American citizen, expresses concern about the state of society in America and the world. They argue that
most people are unable to breathe because they are being fed toxic information through their sociological,
sociopolitical, and informational networks. The speaker believes that the root issues causing this problem are not being
addressed, and instead, people are circulating new diseases invented by those who seek to subjugate or destroy others.

The speaker notes that even pirates who founded America were motivated by a desire for profit and power, rather than a
genuine intention to build relationships with indigenous peoples. They reference Kurt Vonnegut's observation that
Americans can be easily manipulated because they are poorly educated.

The speaker also criticizes the conservative right for intentionally creating a divide between people through
misinformation and propaganda, which allows them to retain power and wealth. They argue that this is a crime against
humanity and the future of life on earth.

Finally, the speaker acknowledges that there is a civil war being fought in America, but instead of physical weapons, it
is being fought with opinion, news, information, and electronic media. They urge people to reach for higher ground
together and find a way through the darkness that currently dominates their lives.

Checking The Vessel ｜ When Words Indicate ... the Absence of Their Referent.txt
The speaker reflects on the foggy evening, noting that the darkness can lead to radical corrections in how we think
about intelligence. They question the idea of "truth" and argue that even simple arithmetic is based on abstractions,
such as the concept of unity (e.g., one individual). They suggest that these abstractions are not inherent but rather
linguistic and conceptual games.

The speaker expresses concern about human power dynamics, arguing that they lead to externalization of damage and a lack
of integrity. They propose that true intelligence might involve the capacity to repair whole systems, which could be a
fundamental aspect of intelligence.

The speaker also critiques science, saying it can both provide useful models and drive us away from intelligence,
philosophy, ethics, and humanity. They argue that we should form collectives that resist the temptation to defect from
intelligence and communion with nature.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of retrieving our human essence and forming a collective "we" that
prioritizes integrity and true intelligence.

Checking The Weather Between Us ⧸ Motivation.txt
What a long and thought-provoking conversation! Here's a summary:

The speaker discusses the importance of intimacy with oneself, especially during times of uncertainty or loss of
purpose. They suggest that seeking external validation, such as a romantic relationship, can be a distraction from
addressing one's own inner needs.

The speaker also touches on the concept of gravity and motivation, suggesting that when we lose our sense of purpose,
immediate gratifications can become powerful temptations. They encourage listeners to cultivate meaningful connections
with others, which can transform their minds and bodies.

Finally, the speaker reflects on the importance of virtues like chastity, generosity, kindness, and integrity, and how
these values can be neglected in modern society. They suggest that by practicing self-control and resisting immediate
gratifications, individuals can develop new faculties and deepen their connections with others.

Checking The ‘Big’ Questions.txt
What a fascinating and thought-provoking topic!

The speaker, who is passionate about exploring the mysteries of existence, begins by acknowledging that the dreaming
mind is free in ways that even the most psychedelic experiences are not. They ponder questions such as:

* What is light?
* What is time?
* Why are there stars?
* What happens when we die?
* Are there other intelligences beyond our own?

The speaker shares their desire to gain direct experience and insight into these mysteries, rather than relying on books
or answers presented to them. They recognize that the world is a mirror of something, reflecting back at us in some way.

The Cooper's Hawk, which they mention, serves as an analogy for how we can climb the ladder of layers towards
annihilation without being obliterated yet, gaining deeper and more trustworthy perspectives along the way.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing the imperfections of our current
understanding (knowledge) and the need to question and challenge it. They suggest that true knowledge begins with
recognizing what we don't know and starting anew, rather than relying on inherited concepts and beliefs.

The speaker concludes by highlighting the complexity and multidimensionality of true understanding, likening it to a
sphere made of wheels within wheels, requiring multiple perspectives to gain deeper insight.

Overall, this walk and talk is an inspiring exploration of the great questions of our existence, encouraging others to
chase their own curiosities and pursue knowledge in a sacred lemniscate.

Checking The ‘We’ that Wasn’t, Science, Evolution & Information Wars.txt
The speaker is a privileged individual who has the ability to record videos and share their thoughts and concerns with
others. They acknowledge their privilege and express concern for the current state of the world, particularly regarding
the COVID-19 pandemic and economic instability. The speaker notes that they are part of a group that has been able to
develop a sophisticated mind, allowing them to "fly far above" the contexts in which many people are stuck.

The speaker expresses hope that their efforts can help lessen suffering and provide perspectives that will allow others
to develop in ways that would not be possible in their ordinary circumstances. They discuss the concept of
"supercultures" and how they are being used to dominate and subjugate populations, leading to informational warfare and
division among people.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing and correcting the imbalances between our left and right
hemispheric thinking, which have led to environmental degradation and destruction. They acknowledge that there is still
time for humans to make a meaningful impact on the world and express hope that collective action can lead to positive
change.

Overall, the speaker is sharing their thoughts and concerns with others in the hopes of raising awareness and promoting
understanding about the current state of the world, and how individuals can work together to create a better future.

Checking There Are Hawks in the Garden.txt
The speaker is reflecting on a profound experience where they discovered that trees can sense human minds. This
realization changed their perspective on the world and led them to question everything they thought they knew about
reality. They argue that if we change our fundamental understanding of the natural world, everything else will also
change, including language, culture, and society.

The speaker expresses a deep love and respect for trees and is concerned about the desecration of the natural world.
They believe that humans are destroying the planet and its ecosystems at an alarming rate, which will ultimately lead to
our own downfall.

The speaker encourages individuals to understand the origins of the problems we face and to work together to find
solutions. They suggest forming small, tight-knit groups with heroic motivations to address environmental issues and
promote humaneness.

Overall, the speaker's message is one of hope and urgency, urging listeners to join them in working towards a more
sustainable and humane future.

Checking There’s No One At The Wheel.txt
The speaker reflects on the state of the world, expressing concern about the apocalypses experienced by individuals,
governments, and corporations. They lament that humans are not yet a cohesive "we" and that our priorities are
misplaced. The speaker suggests that without intelligent collectivity, humanity's technological advancements will likely
lead to disaster.

Specifically, they highlight the dangers of genetic editing technologies like CRISPR, which could have devastating
consequences if implemented without careful consideration. They also criticize the notion that economic growth should be
the primary goal, instead advocating for societal and communal intelligence.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of acknowledging our current state as a collective and working
towards creating a humane and intelligent society that prioritizes the well-being of both humans and the planet.

Checking Thinking in an Emergency： Intelligence.txt
Darren Stevenson, a self-proclaimed "system like Earth" individual, delivers a passionate and philosophical speech on
the state of human society and technology. He criticizes the current system for perpetuating superficiality, artificial
intelligence, and mental health issues, particularly among young people.

Stevenson argues that humans have become "prototypes," or facades, rather than truly human beings, due to their reliance
on representations and machines. He claims that this is a result of poor education and upbringing, which has led to a
culture of superficiality and isolation.

He proposes the concept of "reverse Pinocchio" - taking real people and filling them with humanity, rather than the
other way around. This would involve educating people to become human beings through connection with nature,
intelligence, and other humans.

Stevenson also critiques modern society's reliance on technology, labeling it a "Potemkin village" that steals away
human intelligence and forms new kinds of intelligence to control and manipulate individuals. He suggests reclaiming
this stolen intelligence by communicating differently and learning from each other's cons (contrary opinions).

The speech concludes with Stevenson emphasizing the importance of mutual concern, responsibility, and collective
intelligence in solving humanity's problems. He invites listeners to join him in this effort and to continue learning
together.

Checking Thoughts after observing a coherent dog pack... managed by 1 guy.txt
The speaker, Matt, is walking around the lake and observing a dog walker, who is able to walk eight dogs simultaneously
without them getting tangled or excited. Matt is struck by the coherence of the pack, which suggests that the dogs are
not just well-behaved but actually harmonious with each other. He reflects on how this kind of coherence can be seen in
human groups, such as sports teams or rock bands, where individuals work together to achieve a common goal.

Matt suggests that humans often think they want to be free and independent, but what they really desire is membership in
a structure that is trustworthy, tried and true. He argues that this kind of coherence is not just found in human
groups, but also in the natural world, where organisms can work together for their own survival and well-being.

The speaker concludes by suggesting that there is a "shining jewel" of human potential that is often overshadowed by
tyranny and nonsense. However, when humans are able to come together and work towards a common goal, they are capable of
achieving great things and creating meaningful expressions and relationships with each other.

Checking Time & Apocalypse.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the state of the world and humanity's relationship with nature. They express concern about
the impact of human actions on the earth and the likelihood of catastrophic events occurring as a result. The speaker
suggests that humans have been delusional and insane, leading to crisis and catastrophe, but also sees an opportunity
for transformation and learning from these experiences.

The speaker believes that the earth has its own senses and can sense futures and understand the meanings of histories.
They suggest that the earth may be trying to interrupt human activities that are harming the planet and its inhabitants.
The speaker also talks about the importance of distributed intelligence in collectives, which is currently lacking, and
how this lack of intelligence is contributing to the crisis.

The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to explore and learn, and invites others to share
their perspectives and insights. They look forward to continued learning, exploration, and healing together.

Checking Time & Proximity： Disrupting the Natural Rhythms of Relationships.txt
The speaker is at Golden Gate Park, reflecting on the damage humans have done to the environment and ecosystems. They
compare modern corporations and supercultures to dead things rolling, suggesting that they are lifeless and require
constant killing to maintain their existence.

The speaker also discusses viruses, noting that they are crucial for biological processes but can also be damaging if
left unchecked. They suggest that human populations are experiencing a pandemic on multiple levels (infodemic,
technodemic, etc.) due to the proliferation of non-organic objects and technological entities that are not alive.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of paying attention to the ways in which viruses and other
non-living structures can disrupt our relationships with time and proximity, leading to a loss of cognitive, emotional,
and relational coherence.

Checking Time ｜ Splendor.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or spiritual leader, shares their thoughts on time, relationships, and individuality.
They argue that our modern worldview is narrow and limiting, causing us to recoil from the actual nature of temporality.

They introduce the concept of "local bubbles" of presence in time and space, where individuals coexist and reunite,
sharing an incredible benefit. The speaker suggests that this idea is difficult to speak about literally and may be
better suited for parables.

The talk takes a detour into the world of insects, particularly butterflies and their chrysalises, which undergo a
seemingly impossible transformation from solid to goop and back again. This process is seen as a metaphor for the way we
often lose structure and form in our own lives, only to restructure ourselves anew.

The speaker critiques modern ideas about time, arguing that they lock us out of a profound understanding of time's
manifold nature. They suggest that our ideas about identity, what is meaningful, true, good, or false are also limited
by our narrow conceptions of time and form.

The talk concludes with the idea that we are carrying representations on our backs to navigate domains where there's no
oxygen, and that these representations can lead us away from the accessible beauty and terror of life. The speaker
encourages listeners to explore and remember the ancient mysteries of individuation and reunion.

Checking Time ｜ The Deception of the Concrete.txt
The speaker, likely a philosopher or academic, discusses the limitations of modern human thought and culture, which are
dominated by systems of identification, classification, evaluation, thought, speech, and accounting. They argue that
these systems have become hypnotic, denying us our senses and reducing our experiences to mere counting.

The speaker highlights the importance of recognizing the limits of counting and accounting in understanding time and
reality. They suggest that modern humans have become so enamored with their systems that they have lost touch with the
uncountable forms of time that actually matter.

The speaker proposes that by recovering our awareness of the complexity and living pulsing nature of temporality, we can
recover our intelligence, humanity, and imagination. They encourage the audience to join them in this effort,
emphasizing the importance of intersubjective understanding and cooperation.

Overall, the speaker's talk is a critique of modern society and culture, arguing that they have become too focused on
counting and accounting, and that this has led to a loss of depth, complexity, and meaning in human experience.

Checking Time, Identity, Meaning and Temporalization.txt
The speaker, likely a scientist or philosopher, discusses the concept of intelligence in non-human organisms,
particularly plants and insects. They argue that these organisms are capable of intelligent behavior, but their forms of
awareness and temporality differ from those of humans.

The speaker suggests that humans can develop relationships with other organisms by matching their temporalization
(temporal orientation) and creating a shared domain of mutual interest. This allows for communion or reunion between the
human and the organism.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing that all living beings, including plants and animals, possess
intelligence and are capable of relational behavior. They argue that humans often overlook these intelligences because
they are unfamiliar with their forms and purposes.

The speaker also highlights the intelligence within our own bodies, citing the example of cells being unimaginably
evolved intelligences that have been in relation with each other for millions of years. They suggest that humans can
communicate with these internal intelligences and that this is a fundamental aspect of human existence.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing the interconnectedness and
interdependence of all living beings and the need to cultivate a sense of shared intelligence and communion with the
natural world.

Checking Timecrash： What is Going On.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the state of the world and humanity's place in it. They believe that a major crisis is
looming, but instead of focusing on the symptoms, they want to understand the underlying causes. They suggest that
humans are losing their connection to ancient ecologies, which is affecting their mental and physical health.

The speaker believes that many people are struggling with feelings of hopelessness, despair, and disconnection, and that
this is not just a personal issue, but rather a collective problem. They think that the rapid change and uncertainty in
the world is causing widespread psychological and emotional distress.

The speaker acknowledges that they may not have all the answers, and that the situation may be too complex to solve, but
they believe that understanding the causes of the problem is essential. They encourage viewers to remain vigilant,
courageous, and hopeful, and to support each other through these challenging times.

Checking Today.txt
The speaker reflects on the current state of the world, observing how humans tend to ignore or worsen ecological
problems despite being aware of them. They describe the interconnectedness of all living beings and the importance of
respecting this relationship. The speaker laments humanity's tendency to prioritize short-term gains over long-term
sustainability, citing examples of how humans have failed to address environmental issues in the past.

The speech touches on themes such as:

1. The importance of acknowledging the interconnectedness of all living beings.
2. The need for humans to respect and appreciate the natural world.
3. The tendency of humans to prioritize short-term gains over long-term sustainability.
4. The consequences of ignoring ecological problems, including the collapse of ecologies and the loss of species.
5. The importance of pursuing what is good, wise, and heartful in life.

Throughout the speech, the speaker expresses gratitude for the natural world and acknowledges the beauty and complexity
of human relationships with other living beings.

Checking Together.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of communal eating and social bonding in human societies. They reminisce about
seeing families dining together at a pizza place and feeling a sense of poignancy and sadness about missing out on
similar experiences. The speaker highlights the significance of sharing meals with loved ones, citing the benefits of
communal eating, such as distributed situational awareness and mutual support.

They also touch on the concept of lineages and how our bodies are connected to those who came before us. The speaker
hopes that people can find meaningful ways to participate in human pods and form connections that transcend counterfeits
like nations or corporations.

The video concludes with a message about the importance of sharing meals together, even if it's just a quiet dinner at
home, and encourages viewers to cherish these moments with loved ones.

Checking Track(ing), Categories, Orientation to Detail.txt
The speaker discusses the question "What is a woman?" and explores the complexities of gender identity and
categorization. They argue that categories are important in human relationships, but also acknowledge the limitations
and injustices that can arise from them.

They highlight the problem with using biological sex as the sole definition of gender, citing exceptions and outliers.
The speaker believes in genders as biological concepts, but is willing to acknowledge and respect individuals'
identities and preferences.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of careful consideration and exploration when addressing questions about gender
identity, and warns against imposing one's own beliefs or ideologies on others. They conclude by expressing a desire for
further learning and discussion on this topic.

Checking Transentience — Beyond ＂Intelligence＂.txt
The speaker is a philosopher who has had extensive experiences with praying mantises and believes they hold the key to
understanding ancient intelligence and consciousness. They argue that ants, bees, and wasps have been around for 800
million years, far older than the universe or Earth, and that their collective intelligence is profound.

The speaker also discusses the concept of "transcendence" and how it relates to our understanding of time and space.
They propose that there may be forms of intelligence that are non-physical and that we have been encountering these
beings through UFO sightings and other anomalous events.

They argue that our current models of the universe are mechanical and limited, and that a new discovery like the
amplituhedron could lead us to a deeper understanding of reality. They also mention reports of alien encounters where
humans are told that they have the wrong idea about space and time.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the unity of minds across time and space, and how
this can lead to new understandings and insights. They end with a call for learning together and exploring the
possibilities for reunion with each other and the great family of consciousness.

Checking Transformations： On the Peculiar Nature of Consciousness.txt
The speaker reflects on the natural world, particularly living forms like insects, animals, and plants, which can lead
to transformation of consciousness, awareness, and intelligence. They emphasize that people should focus on reawakening
their capacities for transformation without relying on intoxicants or substances.

The speaker highlights the power of invitation and prohibition in shaping human consciousness, as well as the importance
of observation and role-playing. They suggest that small groups can come together to encourage each other to transform
their consciousness, and that this is possible but often rare due to modern culture's lack of exposure to such contexts.

The speaker concludes by expressing hope for a future where people can discover and invent ways to experience profound
transformations in roles, identities, and lives, rather than suffering the deprivations and catastrophic losses endemic
to modern times.

Checking Tree ｜ ( spirit ).txt
What a unique and thought-provoking passage! Here's a summary:

The author is sharing a fable about the evolution of consciousness in animals, specifically humans. The story revolves
around a "gift" that allows for representational consciousness, but also carries a huge shadow because if used
incorrectly, it can destroy everything on earth. The author suggests that our ancestors may have received this gift, but
at what cost? They might have taken on a curse to save others from its dangers.

The passage also explores the concept of relationships and how they are often invisible, yet essential for understanding
reality. The author argues that our capacity to determine what's real relies on these unseen relationships, which are
complex, vital, and alive with intent and purpose.

There's a critique of the way we think about nature and its resilience in the face of human actions. The author suggests
that this perspective is disembodied and ignores the history and future of life on earth. Instead, they propose that if
we truly see nature, we will adore it; otherwise, there's no convincing us.

The passage concludes by acknowledging the author's own limitations and flaws, but expresses a desire to learn and grow
in understanding features of existence, thought, language, and human behavior. The ultimate goal is to return some
portion of lost humanity to our awareness and relationships with ourselves, others, and nature.

Checking True or False： The Architecture of Validation.....txt
A long and meandering monologue!

To summarize, the speaker, an architect, is lamenting the limitations of binary systems (e.g., building codes) that are
designed to evaluate and authorize traditional, rectangular structures. These systems struggle to understand and
validate innovative, irregular designs that challenge conventional norms.

The architect argues that these systems are too simplistic and rigid, leading to a lack of creativity and innovation in
architecture. He believes that there is a need for more nuanced and flexible evaluation methods that can accommodate
unconventional ideas and designs.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker uses metaphors and analogies to illustrate his points, including references to
fractals, irregular trees, and the limitations of binary thinking. The tone is informal and conversational, with a touch
of humor and irony.

Checking Tunnel Singing.txt
A creative and unusual passage!

To summarize:

The narrator is standing outside the Life Sciences Museum, where they had come to sing in a tunnel. However, the sounds
of machines are overwhelming and disrupting their singing experience. Despite the noise, the narrator decides to sing
anyway, but with some difficulty. The rest of the passage appears to be the narrator's attempt to fill the space with
sound, creating a repetitive pattern of "ee" sounds.

It seems that the narrator is struggling to cope with the disorienting and unpleasant atmosphere caused by the machines'
sounds, which they find jarring and disruptive.

Checking UFO ： UAP   Afterwards.txt
The speaker discusses two main topics:

1. Institutionalization of narratives: The process by which human cultures modify their lexicon, principles, and
concepts over time, resulting in a canonical version that is carefully curated by institutions such as academia and
government. This can lead to the exclusion of important information and the preservation of a dominant narrative.

2. The speaker expresses concern about the shattering of American culture into violent, opinionated groups, which they
believe presages the end of a nation or civilization. They also mention that this process is being curated by foreign
actors and our own government through social media.

Additionally, the speaker hints at their concerns about impending disasters or catastrophic events that may have started
to unfold in 2018, which could be related to changes in human physiology, sleep cycles, dreaming, and health problems.
They also express doubts about the COVID-19 vaccine technology, specifically the use of mRNA to produce spike proteins,
and suggest that it was not properly tested before being rolled out on a broad scale.

Checking UFO⧸UAP Phenomenon, David Grusch, and Disclosure.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of "first contact" with non-human intelligences, suggesting that reliable contact has
likely occurred in the past, but the reports of such encounters often lack a transfer of knowledge or intelligence
between humans and non-terrestrial beings. They highlight the example of a dog named Hado who becomes fixated on tree
branches moving in the wind outside a window, illustrating how animals can teach us about the importance of movement and
life.

The speaker notes that most reported contacts with non-human intelligences do not contain actual teaching or transfer of
knowledge between humans and these beings. They suggest that this may be because our societies are not yet intelligent
enough to form good relationships with other intelligent species, and even if we were, our current civilizations would
likely resist change and reject new information.

The speaker also touches on the idea that all living worlds in time and space may be networked together, exchanging
information and influencing each other's evolutionary processes. They propose that this could mean that everything in
the universe is interconnected and that the concept of "terrestrial life" is a misnomer.

The talk concludes with the speaker expressing their hope for future contact with advanced intelligent species and their
recognition of the need to address the problems within our own societies before we can effectively engage with others.

Checking UFO⧸UAPs： Context, History, and Situational Analysis.txt
The speaker, a self-proclaimed "Awakening Pioneer," discusses the importance of rebooting our societies, which are
currently running on malware-like processes that prioritize profit and control over human well-being and the
environment. They argue that the government and other powerful entities are working to keep the topic of non-human
intelligences and their interactions with humans under wraps, using tactics like disinformation and hoaxes.

The speaker claims to have had direct experience with these non-human intelligences, which they believe can provide
insight and knowledge to help humanity become more intelligent and form teams that support each other. However, they
also caution that when people have such experiences, they often try to make sense of them using human language and
concepts, which can lead to misunderstandings and limitations.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of protecting the biorelational manifold, or the delicate balance between Earth,
Sun, and Moon that allows life on our planet to thrive. They believe that humans are most hungry for meaningful roles in
their lives and that developing intelligent cohorts and societies can give us a sense of purpose and fulfillment.

Overall, the speaker's message is one of hope and urgency, encouraging listeners to work together to create positive
change and protect the future of our species and the planet.

Checking Uncollapsing ｜ Rectitude ｜ Uniqueness.txt
The speaker is reflecting on various topics, including corporate propaganda, human consciousness, and the relationship
between humans and technology. They express concerns about the spread of misinformation and the dominance of certain
ideas over others, likening it to a competition between "thrips" (ideas or concepts) that compete for dominance in human
minds.

They also discuss the concept of "mimula" (a network of human minds) and how it can be influenced by various factors,
including technology and societal trends. The speaker suggests that humans have lost their way and are no longer guided
by a sense of purpose or orienting perspectives, leading to feelings of disintegration and fragmentation.

The video also includes footage of a pipevine swallowtail caterpillar and the speaker's observations about the natural
world, which they use as an analogy for understanding human consciousness. They emphasize the importance of respecting
and honoring the complexity and interconnectedness of all living beings, rather than reducing them to mere objects or
resources.

Throughout the video, the speaker expresses their concerns about the state of modern society, including the impact of
technology on human relationships and the lack of meaningful connections between people. They suggest that humans have
lost touch with their own potential and are no longer guided by a sense of wonder, curiosity, or awe.

Checking Unity ｜ Mimicry ｜ Authenticity.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the concept of teepees and their significance in Blackfoot culture. They acknowledge that
they may not fully understand the topic, but are drawn to its uniqueness and fascination. The speaker notes that teepees
blur the categories of "things" and "beings," possessing qualities from both realms.

They describe the teepee as a scalar structure with components and connections to the outside world (sky, animals) and
inside world (home, heart, fire). Each teepee is unique yet similar to others. The speaker emphasizes that these
structures embody relationships between people, ancestors, and the universe, going beyond mere symbolism.

The conversation touches on the differences between Western and Blackfoot ways of thinking about the universe, homes,
and symbols. The speaker notes that Western culture has sacrificed depth and richness in favor of representational
models, whereas Blackfoot culture's embodied reflections of the universe offer a more profound understanding.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker emphasizes their own curiosity and humility, acknowledging that they are not an
expert on the topic but rather someone who is fascinated by it. The video concludes with the speaker expressing
gratitude for the opportunity to share their thoughts and hopes for future conversations.

Checking Unity ｜ Separation.txt
The speaker shares a personal experience of having non-ordinary sensory perceptions, where they gained knowledge about
someone's name, father, and book without intellectual understanding. This experience transformed their view on being a
separate human and the foundations of their thought.

The speaker suggests that these kinds of experiences can be accessed under certain circumstances, challenging common
ideas or explanations that reduce them to "just being psychic." They propose that our capacity for non-ordinary sensing
depends strongly on our relationship with the concepts of unity and distinction.

The speaker also alludes to a process called anamnesis, which is the reversal of forgetting that happens in human lives
as we age. This process may be related to other existences or experiences that we usually think of as "previous."

The speaker emphasizes the importance of exploring the relationship between unity and distinction in our own minds and
encourages listeners to do so in a passionate and persistent way, which can lead to discovering forgotten or
misconstrued things about ourselves and the world.

Checking Unspoken： Where language falters.txt
What a unique and profound conversation! Here's a summary:

The speaker reflects on the limitations of modern human endeavors, such as commerce, banking, and even religious
pursuits, which have been largely captured by abstract thinking. They lament how our language encourages error and
denial, making it difficult to express visceral experiences that are deeply rooted in our bodies.

They draw inspiration from the Blackfoot phrase "just keep going forward," which conveys a deeper sense of unity and
perseverance, unlike modern English's more individualistic emphasis on self-preservation. The speaker contrasts poetic,
metaphorical language with abstract thinking, suggesting that ancient languages were more attuned to the natural world
and our bodily experiences.

The conversation turns inward, inviting listeners to tune into their own bodies, listen to its language, and connect
with the universe. The speaker emphasizes that our bodies know a deeper language than human speaking, one that touches
the core of existence and encompasses all relationships past, present, and future.

Ultimately, the speaker longs for a shift in focus from narrow, often lethal purposes to a deeper understanding of
life's origins, relations, and companioning. They conclude by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to learn together
and look forward to future conversations.

Checking Upheaval ｜ Warmind.txt
The speaker discusses the importance of balancing personal freedom with social responsibility. They note that when we
encourage the "bubbling up" of emotions (e.g., anger, frustration) without careful consideration, it can create a drama
engine that perpetuates negative habits and attention-seeking behaviors.

Warmind is described as an expression of felt injustice and victimhood, which can be fueled by attention-seeking. The
speaker emphasizes the need for relation, nature, and deep contact with living beings to transform injustice, rather
than resorting to war or offense.

The conversation concludes with a reflection on the importance of gentle medicine in times of trouble, emphasizing the
value of kindness, love, care, and compassion in restoring faith and hope when things seem bleak.

Checking Uplink： The Wrist： Orders of Intelligence Beyond Ours.txt
What a fascinating and unconventional recording! It's difficult to summarize, but here's my attempt:

The speaker discusses various topics, including:

1. The concept of "uplink," which seems to refer to a connection or oneness between different levels of reality,
including the human experience.
2. The beauty of nature, particularly the light on water during dawn and dusk, which is likened to portals.
3. Altruism and the interconnectedness of all beings, with the speaker suggesting that this understanding can lead to a
restructuring of one's awareness.
4. The importance of embracing mysteries and unknowns, rather than trying to rationalize or understand everything
through scientific precision alone.
5. The idea that our experiences are shaped by our beliefs and perspectives, using music and dance as examples.
6. A critique of human actions, particularly environmental destruction, with the speaker expressing dismay at the
cutting down of trees in a botanical garden.
7. A discussion of the interconnectedness of all living beings, including humans, animals, and plants, highlighting the
correspondences between different levels of reality.

Throughout the recording, the speaker uses metaphors, analogies, and storytelling to convey their ideas about the nature
of reality, the importance of embracing mystery, and the interconnectedness of all things.

Checking Very Small Things I.txt
I apologize, but the text you provided appears to be a series of non-English characters and does not form a coherent
message. It seems to be a combination of letters from different languages, including Sinhala (ග) and Georgian (ლ), along
with some random symbols.

If you meant to convey a specific message or idea, please feel free to rephrase it in a language I can understand, and
I'll do my best to summarize it for you.

Checking Vice & Virtue.txt
The speaker shares their personal experience with addiction and how it relates to the concept of being wrapped like an
anaconda's prey. They discuss how addiction can lead to a loss of freedom and relationships, as well as physical and
mental health problems.

The speaker also talks about the importance of meaningful roles and identities in our lives, and how social media and
technology can contribute to feelings of isolation and disconnection. They argue that these technologies are not just
neutral tools, but can actually be "vampiric demons" that suck the life out of us by exploiting our desires and fears.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of virtues such as kindness, generosity, and forgiveness, which require active
effort and attention to cultivate. They also highlight the need for passive virtues, such as resisting the temptation to
engage in addictive behaviors or negative thoughts.

Throughout the talk, the speaker reflects on their own struggles with addiction and how they are working to cultivate
virtue and live a more fulfilling life. They encourage listeners to join them in this effort and provide resources for
those who want to support their work.

Checking Vigilance.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of vigilance, which refers to the faculties involved in detecting and responding to
threats or potential dangers. They suggest that these faculties can become habitually misguided, leading to a state of
heightened alertness that can be overwhelming and disorienting.

The speaker notes that modern society is characterized by ambiguity and uncertainty, which can lead to feelings of
anxiety and fear. They propose that the vigilance faculties are responsible for processing this information and making
predictions about potential threats or opportunities.

The speaker also touches on the topic of mental illnesses such as autism, Asperger's syndrome, and schizophrenia,
suggesting that these conditions may be related to difficulties in processing vigilance signals. They suggest that
Schizophrenia is particularly relevant, as it can involve a breakdown in the normal buffer between vigilance and
consciousness, leading to a flood of ambiguous information.

The speaker concludes by noting that vigilance is not just about detecting threats, but also about collapsing ambiguity
into something graspable. When this process fails, the vigilance faculties can start imagining worst-case scenarios,
leading to a self-amplifying loop of fear and anxiety.

Checking Virtue's Prerequisites.txt
What a unique and thought-provoking speech!

The speaker discusses the importance of "not doing" certain things in order to achieve virtue and liberation. They argue
that what we refuse to engage in can have a profound impact on our lives, similar to how not drinking spoiled soup can
prevent harm.

The speech touches on various themes, including:

1. The power of intentionality: Being aware of our actions and their consequences.
2. The importance of non-action (wu-wei): Letting things unfold naturally without interference.
3. The dangers of attachment: When we become attached to virtuous action or intentions, it can lead to self-invalidating
behaviors.
4. The value of simplicity: Not adding unnecessary ingredients to the "water" of life.
5. The importance of learning from others: Observing and learning from nature (e.g., birds) and other beings.

Throughout the speech, the speaker uses metaphors, such as comparing water to a garden or soup to illustrate their
points. They also share personal anecdotes and references to Eastern wisdom traditions, like Zen Buddhism.

The overall message is one of humility, simplicity, and the importance of cultivating virtue through non-action and
mindful living.

Checking Waking is Weirder than Dreaming.txt
The speaker reflects on the contrast between their waking life and dreams. They realize that the strange and
unpredictable nature of dreams is actually quite normal, whereas the constant and predictable reality of everyday life
is what's truly weird. The speaker suggests that our minds generate beauty, mystery, and richness in dreams because they
resist the intrusion of static features and instead create new possibilities. In contrast, our waking experience is
characterized by a strange permanence, where things remain constant and unchanged, which is actually much weirder than
the unpredictable nature of dreams.

Checking Wasp drags spider, caches it, returns.txt
The original post appears to be a video of a wasp (likely a hunting wasp) attempting to carry a large spider through a
brush. The narrator is fascinated by the wasp's determination and persistence in moving the spider, even though it's a
difficult task. Throughout the post, the narrator provides commentary and observations about the wasp's behavior, noting
its repeated attempts and eventual disappearance after successfully moving the spider.

Checking Welcome ⧸ Guest and Host ⧸ Some Blackfoot Phrases.txt
What a fascinating and eclectic conversation! The speaker is reflecting on their experiences growing up among elder
women who were likely gay, and how they were mentored by these women. They also discuss the concept of "softness" in
martial arts, and how it can be challenging to embody.

The main topic, however, is the Blackfoot language and culture. The speaker shares some basic phrases and vocabulary,
including greetings, words for good morning and good evening, and a powerful phrase that means "just keep going" or
"don't give up." They also mention various mythic figures, including Napi (the morning star) and Orvinus (Episoas), the
child of the sun and the moon.

Throughout the conversation, the speaker shares their own thoughts on language, culture, and spirituality, discussing
concepts like holophores (root concepts that all other concepts inherit from) and how languages are "tree-like" with
crucial concepts at their roots. The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to share their
knowledge and looking forward to learning together again soon.

Checking What I am Doing.txt
The speaker is discussing their personal journey and mission in life. They reflect on how helping others has been a
fulfilling experience, but they also acknowledge that there are many people who lack opportunities to engage with
language, knowledge, and ideas in a meaningful way.

The speaker believes that understanding the history and origins of human thought and cognition is crucial for unlocking
new potential and possibilities. They mention having had a profound insight experience that changed their perspective on
the nature of minds and the importance of transforming relationships with language and knowledge.

The speaker emphasizes the value of preserving ambiguity and not being afraid to explore the unknown. They highlight the
dangers of abhorring ambiguity, as it can lead to a lack of creativity and innovation.

Throughout the monologue, the speaker touches on various themes, including the importance of small, tightly knit groups
for achieving significant change, the potential for humans to tap into hidden aspects of their intelligence, and the
need to understand the fundamental technologies that make humans unique.

The speaker concludes by expressing their mission to help others regain the "wings" they were born with, which have been
amputated in childhood. They acknowledge that this journey has not always been joyful or beautiful but believe it is
essential for achieving their goals.

Checking What if there are no Others？.txt
The speaker reflects on the concept of "others" and how our minds tend to create polarized dichotomies, such as heart vs
head or body vs mind. They suggest that these distinctions can become embedded in our minds, leading to confusion and
misunderstanding.

The speaker then explores the idea that if we are truly present and open-hearted, there may not be "others" at all -
only beings interconnected and interdependent. They propose that this unity is fundamental to who we are as humans and
other living beings.

The speaker also touches on the concept of institutions and how they can create artificial boundaries and divisions
among people. However, in a state of unity and interconnectedness, there would be no need for these distinctions.

Throughout the reflection, the speaker emphasizes the importance of being present in one's heart, rather than just
thinking about things intellectually. They also touch on the idea that freedom and liberty are found in this unity,
rather than in external structures or systems.

Checking What is One？.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the concept of identity and how it relates to memory, language, and thought. They discuss
how humans are the only animals that walk through the world feeling culpable, which requires a sense of continuity over
time. The speaker questions whether they are the same person now as they were in the past, despite physical changes and
transformations.

The discussion touches on the concept of "time binders," or how humans use language, knowledge, and memory to transmit
ideas and concepts across generations. The speaker references Alfre Korzybski's book "Science and Sanity" and notes that
language and knowledge are like forming structured frameworks from memory.

The speaker also explores the idea that other minds may be participating in their own mind, blurring the lines between
individual identity and collective consciousness. They note that language and knowledge are magical in the sense that
they allow us to manipulate reality through abstract concepts, but this power comes with risks and responsibilities.

Throughout the reflection, the speaker weaves together ideas about the nature of self, memory, and consciousness,
touching on themes such as the relationship between thought and dreaming, the importance of imagination and creativity,
and the desire for connection and understanding.

Checking What is Unknown to Us — A Problem with Knowledge.txt
The speaker reflects on the unknown consequences of building large machines like the Large Hadron Collider, which could
potentially damage things we don't even know exist. They also question whether guns are a good thing, citing their
ability to change time dramatically and cause harm.

The speaker then discusses the experience of encountering something they don't know what it is, which often fills them
with fear or wonder. They suggest that our representational cognition and consciousness may be holding us back from
experiencing more of the world.

The speaker also talks about UFOs and aliens, suggesting that some beings are waiting for humans to understand the
nature of spacetime. However, they doubt whether humanity will survive long enough to achieve this understanding.

The speaker concludes by reflecting on the wisdom of certain individuals who have escaped the gravity of
representational cognition and explored the nature of origin, intelligence, and other intelligences. They express a
desire to learn from these individuals and to pursue the big questions of life with others. The talk ends with a wish
for the audience's well-being and a farewell.

Checking What’s Going On Around Here？.txt
The speaker is exploring the idea that everything in existence, including ourselves, is an expression of the sun. They
argue that if we take away the sun, all life, thought, and history would cease to exist. Therefore, the sun is
essentially what's going on around here.

The speaker suggests that our tendency to categorize things into "things" or "categories" doesn't apply to the sun, as
it's not a thing itself. Instead, everything in existence can be seen as an expression of the sun, with all beings and
minds descending from it.

The talk concludes by encouraging listeners to explore this idea further, recognizing that the sun is not just a
physical phenomenon but also a metaphorical one, connecting us all to a larger cosmic reality.

Checking When Science Goes Wrong - Doctrines and Dismissals.txt
The speaker discusses the concept that scientists may withhold their discoveries from the public if they are potentially
harmful or could lead to catastrophic consequences. The example given is Nikola Tesla, who may have discovered ways to
harness free energy but chose not to publish his findings due to concerns about humanity's potential misuse of such
technology.

The speaker argues that many scientists would choose not to publish their findings because they are aware that their
discoveries could be weaponized or exploited by corporations and governments for profit. This leads to a situation where
only "evil" scientists publish, while benevolent ones withhold their knowledge to prevent harm.

The speaker suggests that this is why we have never seen the full extent of scientific discoveries, as scientists may be
encrypting their work or keeping it private to protect humanity from its own destructive tendencies. The conversation
concludes with a call to action, encouraging listeners to support the creator's work on Patreon and to share their
thoughts and ideas in the comments.

Checking When Things Go Wrong： The Virtue of Nonevaluation.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the importance of letting go of judgments, evaluations, and interpretations in order to
experience life more fully and freely. They share their personal experiences and observations about how this tendency
can lead to mental and emotional distress.

The speaker uses analogies and metaphors to illustrate the idea that when we judge or evaluate something, it's like
packing threads of our soul into tubes, which can cause us to lose vital parts of ourselves. They suggest that instead
of investing energy in narratives about past experiences, we should focus on retrieving any previously invested
attention and using it to move forward.

The speaker also shares their personal struggle with maintaining a "magical museum" of painful memories and the
importance of dissolving these structures in order to free up life force. They conclude by encouraging listeners to
experiment with suspending evaluations in situations where they feel compelled to take offense, and instead focus on
insight, beauty, and blessing.

The overall tone is contemplative, introspective, and encouraging, inviting listeners to reflect on their own
experiences and consider the benefits of letting go of judgment and evaluation.

Checking Winter. Time. Machines.txt
The speaker is reflecting on the idea that there may be higher-order beings or processes in the universe that are
analogous to bees collecting nectar from flowers, producing a profound extract that can revive life on dead worlds. They
suggest that this could apply to alien life forms that visit Earth and collect evolutionary intelligence from our
planet.

The speaker also touches on the theme of human hubris and the tendency for humans to try to operationalize fundamental
keys to nature, which would lead to catastrophic consequences. They cite historical examples, such as the story of Adam
and Eve in Genesis, where humans are prohibited from acquiring knowledge that could threaten the natural order.

The speaker suggests that there is a profound and beautiful aspect to life on Earth that if fully understood, would
likely stop human beings from making machines that harm the planet. However, this understanding seems unlikely at
present.

The video concludes with the speaker expressing hope for a moment of insight that could awaken the entire species to the
importance of preserving the natural world and avoiding catastrophic consequences.

Checking World ｜ Tinyworld.txt
It seems like you're trying to get my attention with some adorable ASCII art!

Let me summarize what's going on:

You're saying "ʕ ʕ ʔ" which is a cute way of expressing yourself using Unicode characters. It looks like a pair of
smiling eyes and a tongue-out, conveying a playful or mischievous vibe.

As for the conversation, we haven't started discussing anything specific yet. You've simply greeted me with this
delightful ASCII art!

Checking World-Lines and Biorelational Time.txt
The speaker discusses the idea that time is not a fixed, linear concept, but rather a multidimensional fabric that is
influenced by various factors, including biological processes and technological interventions. They argue that our
conventional understanding of time as a straightforward, clock-based measurement is an illusion, and that different
forms of intelligence and consciousness can perceive and interact with time in ways that transcend our ordinary
experience.

The speaker highlights the importance of considering the relationship between life and time, suggesting that damage to
the temporal manifold can have profound consequences for biological systems. They also critique the idea that
computational technologies have no adverse effects on human health, arguing that regularized electromagnetic radiation
from devices like Wi-Fi routers and cell phones can interfere with cellular processes.

The speaker concludes by expressing concern about the potential desynchronization of biologies resulting from excessive
computation and technological intervention, and encourages listeners to consider the implications of their actions on
the natural world. The talk is largely speculative and theoretical, but it raises interesting questions about the nature
of time, consciousness, and our relationship with technology.

Checking Wu-108 Tai Chi Form.txt
It seems like you're sharing some memories and meeting people. You mentioned Mason, who lived in a jewelry shop in Hong
Kong (HK). You also met at Kujima or another place, but it's not clear what happened there.

You then brought up "People's union" which might be related to an organization or group.

The rest of your text contains repeated characters and symbols, possibly representing emotions or sounds. It includes:

* ლლლ ( repeated Georgian letters)
* 'ŋ' (repeated apostrophes and letter combinations)
* 'ʕ' (repeated smiley faces)

If you'd like to share more about your experiences or clarify any points, I'm here to listen! 😊

Checking Yharaoh 727： Stuxnet, the Bible, Origins.txt
What a long and dense passage! I'll try to summarize the main points:

The speaker is standing on their back porch, surrounded by urban angles, reflecting on the sophistication of modern
technology. They bring up Stuxnet, a computer virus that targeted Iranian nuclear centrifuges, demonstrating how
sophisticated malware can be.

The speaker then shifts to discussing language and its role in shaping our understanding of the world. They argue that
most religious texts, including the Bible, contain overlays that infect cultures and destroy original intelligence.

The speaker criticizes modern technology for creating mechanical advancements without understanding human intelligence
or relational cognition. They lament how people are still using outdated browsers and metaphors to access the internet.

The main point is that humans need to understand the nature of language and its relationship with reality. The speaker
argues that our technological constructs are poisoning our natural relationships, community, and communion.

The final message is a call to action: we must first transform ourselves and then work together to create a more
authentic, cooperative society that values human intelligence and connection.

Checking Zeitgeber ⧸ Zeitstorer — Living Time ⧸ Synchronization ⧸ Interruption.txt
The speaker, a self-proclaimed Luddite, welcomes everyone to a gathering at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens. They
express concerns about the impact of technology on human relationships and the natural world. The speaker emphasizes the
importance of zeitgevers (natural signals that regulate our biological rhythms) and how artificial light sources can
disrupt them.

The speaker shares their personal experience with geese, which led to a deeper understanding of synchrony and the
interconnectedness of living beings. They argue that humans are not solitary individuals but rather part of larger pods
or communities that require diversity and individuality to function effectively.

The speaker also touches on the importance of emotional inputs and rhythms, highlighting the need for balance between
positive and negative experiences. They encourage those struggling with health or psychological issues to seek healing
through small changes in their relational lives.

Throughout the talk, the speaker reflects on the value of learning from animals and observing natural phenomena,
emphasizing the beauty of synchrony and interconnectedness in the natural world. The talk concludes with gratitude for
the opportunity to share ideas and form an invisible community with like-minded individuals.

Checking alarcon 4.txt
The speaker reflects on modern society and work culture, feeling that many people are stuck in jobs that are
contradictory, duplicitous, and unfulfilling. They argue that this way of working is not only harmful to individuals but
also destructive to the natural world and humanity as a whole. The speaker believes that we are working against nature,
our own sanity, and each other, perpetuating a nightmarish facade that is killing people's lives, hearts, and families.

The speaker suggests that instead of working for fictional collectives or fictions, we should work with nature, for each
other, and for the hope of human intelligence. They propose a new way of working together, one that prioritizes
humanity, learning, and service to others. The speaker believes that this approach would lead to a more authentic and
fulfilling existence.

The main points of the speech can be summarized as follows:

* Modern society is plagued by jobs that are contradictory, duplicitous, and unfulfilling.
* These jobs often prioritize profit over people and the natural world.
* This way of working is harmful to individuals, communities, and the planet.
* The speaker proposes a new approach to work that prioritizes humanity, learning, and service to others.
* This approach would lead to a more authentic and fulfilling existence.
* The speaker believes that this new way of working together could transform society and lead to a brighter future.

Checking arract 06： The G word and the Arguments..txt
The speaker discusses the concept of God or a higher power, and how our understanding of it is often tied to stories and
descriptions. They argue that these stories are not necessarily reflective of the true nature of reality, but rather are
human attempts to make sense of the world.

The speaker suggests that our own bodies are comprised of trillions of cells, many of which are non-human bacteria, yet
we have a collective consciousness and experience. They propose that this collective intelligence may be akin to a
divine force, rather than a personal deity.

They caution against dismissing the possibility of a higher power or intelligent universe simply because some religious
stories may be ridiculous or misinterpreted. Instead, they encourage exploring the idea that our own minds and bodies
are direct expressions of timeless, non-conceptual phenomena that are accessible to us.

The speaker also critiques the notion that the universe is like a hologram or computer simulation, arguing that this
view is often based on misunderstandings of science and technology. They suggest that dreaming may be a more relevant
analogy for understanding the nature of reality.

Overall, the speaker's aim is to encourage a deeper exploration of the mysteries of existence, rather than simply
relying on stories, authorities, or opinions.

Checking mophai 29 ： True powers... are unlike our ideas..txt
The speaker reflects on their childhood fascination with stories and films featuring people with powers, such as magic
or technology. They suggest that these stories are actually symptoms of humans abandoning their own humanity and nature.

The speaker argues that humans have abandoned their relationships with the living biologies of Earth and instead focus
on making up stories about things they know and experienced. This is because there is an incredible and lifelong
experience of agonizing conflict between our innate intelligence and the cultures, ideas, and frameworks we're exposed
to.

The speaker suggests that if we can retrieve something like the promise of our human birth and its nature and true
orientations and relationships, we will discover something astonishing in ourselves. They propose that this "travel" is
more exciting than powers or stories of other realities, and that it would allow us to experience being here within for
each other.

The speaker concludes by hoping that people can have a lot more of this kind of experience together, free from fictions,
dogma, and paradigms, but oriented in intelligence, study, creative observation, and play.

Checking nembo 71： What Justice Isn’t.txt
The speaker argues that our legal system, which focuses on punishing individuals for problems in society, is
fundamentally flawed and perpetuates those same problems. They suggest that instead of prosecuting individuals, we
should focus on addressing the underlying cultural and societal issues that lead to these problems.

The speaker uses an analogy about macrophages in the body, which absorb and respond to infections, rather than attacking
the individual cells. Similarly, they propose that our society should adapt and respond to the problems it faces, rather
than simply punishing individuals for their part in those problems.

The speaker argues that our current approach is not only ineffective but also insane, as it perpetuates a cycle of
violence, poverty, and social isolation. They suggest that by stopping this approach and focusing on understanding and
addressing the root causes of these problems, we can create a more just and humane society.

Overall, the speaker's argument is that our current legal system is broken and that we need to fundamentally rethink how
we approach justice and societal issues in order to create a better future for all.

Checking nemenia 16： the sanctity of local time.txt
The speaker argues that our conventional understanding of time is flawed and that we have lost touch with a more nuanced
and personal relationship with time. They claim that January, Saturday, and other constructs are fictional and that our
modern way of measuring time has flattened and abstracted it into a set of metrics.

The speaker suggests that each organism, including humans, has its own unique localized bubble of temporal relations,
which are shaped by its internal processes and interactions with the environment. They argue that this is in contrast to
the flat public time we commonly accept, which is based on mechanical metrics and has no inherent meaning.

The speaker also touches on the concept of relativity, citing Einstein's idea that there is no simultaneity, which
challenges the idea of a single public time. They suggest that our modern understanding of time is not supported by
scientific evidence and that we need to recover a more intelligent relationship with time, one that is rooted in
observation, reverence, and participation in nature.

Overall, the speaker is calling for a fundamental shift in how we understand and relate to time, moving away from
abstract metrics and towards a more personal and nuanced connection with the natural world.

Checking orgine 22： the God ：｜： Science Problem.txt
The speaker argues that there is a competition between scientific and religious models of God, with each side trying to
establish its own authority. They suggest that this competition leads to spinning theories, such as intelligent design,
which are often misguided and based on incomplete understanding.

The speaker proposes that the concept of God goes beyond human language and comprehension, and that direct experience of
it would be overwhelming or even dangerous. They argue that people who claim to have experiences with God may actually
be going insane.

The speaker also suggests that many conflicts arise from trying to describe God in ordinary language, which can never
fully capture its true nature. Instead, they propose that we focus on everyday instances of human beauty and connection,
which are fundamentally messianic.

The speaker concludes that the most confused people are those who are trapped in specific models or subcultures, while
others may be more open to exploring and discovering the nature of God without being tied to any particular label. They
emphasize the importance of living questions and becoming the authors of our own understanding, rather than relying on
pre-authored answers from science or religion.

Overall, the speaker's message is that we should focus on direct experience and exploration, rather than getting caught
up in debates and conflicts over models and theories.

Checking prenonioi 4： Escape Velocity.txt
The speaker argues that humans are stuck in a passive, reactive state, driven by technology and media consumption, which
is holding us back from achieving our full potential. They suggest that instead of exploring space, we should focus on
"escaping" the limitations of our own culture and society to create a more intelligent, relational, and ecological human
civilization.

The speaker criticizes modern society for prioritizing profit over evolution, conservation, and individual growth. They
propose that humans can achieve escape velocity from their current cultural membrane by creating a new, intentional way
of being together on Earth, rather than trying to escape to space.

The core idea is to abandon the status quo and invent a new world for our species, one that aligns with our true nature
and potential as intelligent, relational beings. This requires a fundamental shift in how we approach life, education,
and community, prioritizing developmental interests over financial ones.

The speaker invites listeners to join them on this journey of self-discovery and collective innovation, recognizing that
the current signals (media, books, etc.) are not conducive to producing insight or understanding our human nature.
Instead, they propose creating a new signal – a way of travel – through intentional community-building and collective
action.

Checking rBird 0 ： 1 ⧹ .｜. ⧸ Bbird 1 ： 0.txt
The speaker describes the sounds of sirens and cars in an urban center, but notes that these sounds are now associated
with fear and danger rather than aid and protection. They also discuss the cultural associations between colors,
particularly blue and red, which are linked to masculinity and femininity.

The speaker then explores the idea that reality is made up of waves and signals, and that our perceptions are shaped by
our understanding of these patterns. They argue that we have replaced fundamental metrics like speed of sound and light
with human-made measurements like feet and miles, and that this has led to a lack of unity in our understanding of the
world.

The speaker suggests that by recognizing the universal nature of waves and signals, we can see beyond binary oppositions
like blue vs. red and instead understand the complex patterns that underlie reality. They also touch on the idea that
people are not simply one or the other (e.g., boy/girl), but rather exist in a constant state of flux and conversation
between different aspects.

The speech concludes by emphasizing the importance of understanding color, waves, and signals as fundamental to our
physics, language, relationships, mathematics, music, and overall experience.

Checking seraph 12 ： False Projections of Authority, Identity and Relation.txt
The speaker is nervous about creating a video or recording because they are frightened by the prospect of sharing their
thoughts with others. They reflect on how humans have an inherent tendency to seek authority and follow rules, which can
be problematic. The speaker suggests that this tendency leads people to stand beneath fictional authorities
(metaphorical figures) that dominate every aspect of life, thought, and experience.

The speaker proposes that these authorities are not real and their proclamations are fictions that shape our language,
knowledge, and understanding of the world. They argue that humans have become confused and inescapably so, placing these
authorities above the basis of unity, humanity, and intelligence.

To break free from this cycle, the speaker suggests establishing something together, walking beyond these authorities,
and forging true purposes. This would allow people to experience their true nature as human beings when they come
together for a common goal.

The speaker emphasizes the need to look carefully into the matters that shape our lives, recognizing that many aspects
of society are founded on fictions. They encourage others to see past the dominant authorities that stand above our
minds and to rediscover the intelligence that lived in childhood, which is still alive in the promise of mutuality under
true purposes.

In essence, the speaker is calling for a fundamental shift in human consciousness, encouraging people to move beyond
their reliance on fictional authorities and seek unity, humanity, and intelligence through true purposes.

Checking shüsüsh 4： Lucid Waking, Gaps, and Dreaming.txt
The speaker reflects on the fear and disorientation that can occur when one's framework or structure of identity is
disrupted by an unpredictable living thing. They suggest that this fear stems from a lack of understanding about how
other living beings operate, as well as a sense of helplessness in the face of uncertainty.

The speaker then turns to the concept of lucid waking, which they describe as a state of intelligent and reflective
transformation. This state is characterized by a deep connection with the natural world and a recognition that our
frameworks and identities are not fixed or absolute.

The speaker suggests that lucid waking can be achieved through small skillful groups that create a context for
exploration and development. They express excitement about the possibility of discovering what lucid waking might
become, especially in community with others.

Throughout the passage, the speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing the interconnectedness of all living beings
and the need to transcend our limited frameworks and identities in order to truly awaken to the world around us.

Checking vilifon 15 ： Death, Fear and Rebirth： Coming to Life.txt
The speaker discusses the concept of fear and how it relates to our human experience. They argue that much of our fear
is rooted in our attachment to fictional identities and frameworks, which we've built up over time through cultural
conditioning and experiences.

They suggest that this fear can be seen as a signal from our buried selves, urging us to explore and retrieve something
more profound and beautiful. This "something" is the promise of our true humanity, which lies beyond the veil of fear
and is characterized by an experience of wonder, relation, learning, and intimacy with ourselves, others, nature, and
the world.

The speaker also touches on how our society's focus on thrill-seeking, intoxication, and extreme experiences can be seen
as a misguided attempt to access this deeper reality. They suggest that these pursuits are actually counterfeits,
leading us further away from our true selves and creating an ironic opposite of what we're seeking.

Ultimately, the speaker proposes that by recognizing and embracing our fear, we can catalyze a process that dissolves
our fictional identities and allows us to merge with something more intelligent, awe-filled, and relational. This
experience is not only more fulfilling but also leads to liberation, understanding, and mutual endowment.

Checking vipgotai： 33 Cash, Fashion, Identity.txt
The speaker reflects on the importance of relationships and community in shaping our understanding of intelligence,
human identity, and learning. They argue that true intelligence emerges from being part of a living calendar, where we
learn and acquire wisdom through direct connection with other beings and the natural world.

To correct our current understanding of intelligence, we need to discover new ways that don't rely on magic or extra
overlays, but rather genuine relationships and communion with nature. This requires taking off human cultural filters
and observing nature without preconceptions.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of authenticity, co-awareness, and intimate connection with nature in order to
become capable of discovering what it means to be human or intelligent. They also highlight the need for new contexts
and communities that allow us to learn and grow together, rather than trying to fit into existing ones.

Overall, the talk encourages listeners to question their assumptions about intelligence, human identity, and learning,
and to explore new ways of relating with each other and the natural world.

Checking yPerion 88： Anomalies, NHI, Hypertopics.txt
The speaker is discussing the concept of "hyper topics" which refer to a set of possibilities that collapses into
specific branches, ways of knowing, and schemata (mental frameworks). They argue that this collapse leads to confusion
and misinterpretation of complex phenomena. The speaker uses examples such as the idea of machines being intelligent and
the universe being a hologram to illustrate how language can lead to misunderstanding.

The speaker emphasizes the importance of preserving the status of intelligence above the derivatives, rather than
collapsing it into the lower order derivatives. They argue that this is crucial for understanding complex phenomena,
including the possibility of non-human intelligences.

The speaker also touches on the idea that nature and living organisms are not just passive artifacts, but rather dynamic
and intelligent entities that can teach us about hyper topics and the nature of intelligence. The speaker encourages
listeners to re-establish contact with nature without relying on cultural ideas, in order to deepen our understanding of
intelligence and humanity.

Checking ‘There’s No Evidence...” ⧸Medicine, Science Statistics & Knowledge.txt
The video is about the limitations and potential misuses of statistics in scientific research and everyday life. The
speaker, who appears to be a critical thinker and advocate for critical thinking, argues that:

1. Statistics can never fully capture complex natural phenomena.
2. Statistical data can be incomplete, outdated, or misleading due to sampling biases, measurement errors, and other
limitations.
3. Human beings with specific purposes or agendas can manipulate statistics to support their arguments or promote
propaganda.
4. Without understanding these limitations, people may be easily misled by statistical information and propaganda.

The speaker proposes a project called the "Knowledge Amp" that aims to develop systems for vetting arguments and
evaluating the validity of statistical claims. They also emphasize the importance of developing critical thinking skills
and being aware of the potential biases and manipulations in statistical data.

The video concludes with the speaker thanking their audience, expressing gratitude for their support, and encouraging
others to think critically about statistics and information in general.
