Hello, everybody. Welcome. In my last video, I spoke of ideas from Owen Barfield's book,
Saving the Appearances, a Study in Idolatry. Today, I'm going to try to expand on that
a bit with a reading and some discussion of his idea that he refers to as original participation,
something that is largely missing from most of our experience as moderns in highly representational
contexts such as cities and the Internet. Yesterday, I introduced the concepts of
figuration, which is essentially the act of recognition in consciousness of things being
situations, circumstances, properties, qualities, and so on. According to our collective representations,
that we acquire during the processes of inculturation and in languaging in childhood and
throughout our lives. So figuration is then a sort of matching of terms to features of
experience that is primarily representational. Alpha thinking is thinking about the relationships
and the representations between the things that we have representations of. And this is the primary
form of thinking that is done in scientific inquiry today. Beta thinking is thinking about
that process and consciousness itself, the nature of minds, how we interact with the world through
all of the different means that we have at our disposal, and the capacity to consider both the
dangers and opportunities inherent in alpha thinking and figuration. Today, I'm going to go after a
topic that is introduced early in the book, which he calls original participation and shortens to
participation for ease of reading. And he has the perspective, which I agree with, that archaic
thought, the thought of our ancestors, and particularly before a certain point in time, but
certainly before the time when hypotheses were understood to be true or false. Previous to that,
he proposes that, for example, in Greece, the truth or falsity of a hypothesis was largely,
not completely irrelevant. What was important was whether or not we learned to see better,
right? We gained insight through the introduction of a hypothesis, some kind of model or proposition
about things being situations, and particularly the sky. It turns out, in his book, he introduces
the idea that around the time of Galileo is when the shift from hypothesis as a useful method of
seeing. So we could have seven different hypotheses that directly conflict with each other, and we
could hold them in our minds at the same time, and get the benefits of each of them without
being concerned about which one was right. And you will see in modern thought that there's a radical
difference from this idea of hypothesis, particularly since the scientific revolution,
in which we are concerned more about correctness, and this is relative to rectangles being right,
the right hand, and so on. In effect, it's a new phase of the domination of alpha thinking like
processes, and particular modes of concern and awareness that we associate with certain features
of the left hemisphere, even though it is true for most of us while we are awake, both hemispheres
are involved in most of the processes that we have, but their involvement differs dramatically
from each other. So I'm going to begin now with some readings from the chapter, the texture of
medieval thought, and I hope to get at something resembling what original participation means,
or what Barfield is meaning by it. Indeed, to understand how the word quote, literal unquote,
has changed its meaning is to understand the heart of the matter, for our problem is precisely
to transport ourselves into the interior of minds, for which the ordinary way of looking at and of
thinking about phenomena was to look at and to think about them as appearances, dash representations.
He means something different by representation here than we've been, than the ideas that I've been
exploring recently, for which therefore knowledge was defined not as the devising of hypotheses,
but as an act of union with the represented behind the representation. This is the idea that things
beings in circumstances are hypostasis, lesser but material forms of invisible processes in
origin, or the divine world, or in God. And it is only by reconstructing in imagination, and not
just in theory, the nature of the representations they confronted, that we can hope to really to
understand the mode of their thinking. If we approach it from this end, instead of, as usual,
by way of our own representations, and our own consequent distortions of the then meanings
of their terms, then the scholastic terminology does indeed spring to life for us by scholastic,
he means medieval essentially. Form and matter, actus and potentia, species,
essence, existence, the active and the passive intelligence, and the rest. We must forget all
about our laws of nature, those interposed spectral hypotheses, before we can understand the forms
of medieval scholasticism. For the forms determined the appearances, not as laws do,
but rather as a soul determines a body, and indeed the animal and human soul was defined
as the form of the body. We must forget all about causality as we understand it, if we want to
understand how the form was also causa exemplaris. In essence, he means something like the physical
expression of a transcendental causal situation. But there is not anything to forget, for we have
not even a transmuted survival of that actus colon potentia polarity, which was the very lifeblood
of scholastic thought, central in its heart, and manifest through its capillaries at all points
of its surface organism. Being is potential existence, existence actualizes being. Yet,
in the universe, actus precedes potentia, for out of potentiality a subject cannot be brought,
except by a being that is actual. The being of God is wholly actual, and is at the same time
his existence. But, for creatures, it is only their existence which actualizes. Actualizes
not their own being, but the being of God, which they participate, not in which they participate,
which they participate. Everywhere around us we must see creatures in a state of potentia
being raised to actus, and yet behind the appearances the actus is already there.
What is the intellectual soul but the potentiality of determining the species of things, and what are
the phenomena themselves? Actually, the likenesses or representations of all sorts of species,
but potentially, that is, in the condition described as in potentia, immaterial in the soul
itself. Phenomena and mind in perpetual interplay with species hovering somewhere between them
as the moment in which the one becomes the other. Anima, anim, quasi, transformata, est,
in rem per spesium. Knowledge for such a consciousness was conceived of as the perfection
or completion of the naming process of thought. In ordinary thinking or speaking, as in perception,
the perception was a half-conscious process, but knowledge was an actual union with the
represented behind the representation. The knowledge of things that are is the things,
this is all in quotes. Cognitio iorum quasant iae quesant est, wrote John Scottish
Aragina in the 9th century quoting Dionysus. Nothing, wrote Aquinas, is known except truth,
which is the same as being. Or, as a mean between potentia and actis, it was the
process of actualization of the soul's potentiality to become what it contemplated,
and thus a stage on its journey back to God. God's own knowledge was alike,
the cause of all things, and identical with his substance, and man participated in the being
of God. Indeed, it was only by virtue of that participation that he could claim to have any
being. Now, participation as an actual experience is only to be one for our islanded consciousness
of today, by special exertion. It is a matter not of theorizing, but of imagination, in the
genial or creative sense of the word, and therefore our first glimpse of it is commonly an aesthetic
experience of some sort derived from poetry or painting. And yet, this experience, so foreign
to our habit, is one which we positively must acquire and apply before we can hope to understand
the thought of any philosopher earlier than the scientific revolution. Without it, we shall not
really understand what they mean when they use the commonest terms, species and genus, form and
matter, subject and accident, cause and effect. Instead, we shall clumsily substitute a meaning
of our own. In the work of Thomas Aquinas in particular, the word participate or participation
occurs almost on every page, and a whole book could be written. Indeed, one has been written
on the uses he makes of it. It is not a technical term of philosophy, and he is no more concerned
to define it than a modern philosopher would be to define some such common tool of his thought,
as say the word, compare. Only in one passage from the whole of his voluminous works, according to
M. Geiger, did he feel it necessary to indicate his meaning, and this he did principally by
illustrating it. Thus, after telling us that the species participates the genus and the accident,
the subject, that matter participates form and effect participates cause, he gives us a glimpse
of what all these participations signify to him by adding, quote, suppose we say that air participates
the light of the sun, because it does not receive it in that clarity in which it is in the sun.
At one end of the scale, the subject participates its predicate. At the other, a formal or hierarchical
participation per similitudinum was the foundation of the whole structure of the universe. For all
creatures were in a greater or lesser degree images or representations or names of God, and
their likeness or unlikeness did not merely measure but was the nearer or more distant emanation of
his being and goodness in them. It was a spiritual structure, and much of it lay beyond the world
of appearance altogether. Angels, for example, are not simply the subject of a separate work,
or a separate chapter in the summer, but occur everywhere in it and are as likely to be referred
to in a purely epistemological as in a cosmological context.
It will be well to point out here that if I have concentrated on one particular medieval
philosopher rather than attempted a conspectus of the whole field of medieval philosophy or
theories of knowledge, it is because that is the method which a history of consciousness,
as distinct from a history of ideas, must adopt. It must attempt to penetrate into the very texture
and activity of thought rather than to coalesce conclusions. It is concerned semantically with
the way in which words are used rather than with the product of discourse. Expressed in terms of
logic, his business is more with the proposition than with the syllogism, and more with the term
than the proposition. Therefore, it must particularize. It must choose someone or at
best a few points for its penetration. It is a question of making the best choice, and to me
the best choice seemed to be the language and thought of Thomas Aquinas. I could probably have
found more sensational illustrations of participation in, for example, Aragina or Albertus, for the
Arabians, participation with a particular intellectual emphasis, was so complete as
practically to exclude individual human identity. I should, I think, have found fewer illustrations
among the nominalists, but they can be fairly regarded as forerunners of the scientific revolution
in whom the decline of participation cast its shadow before, moreover in the mind of Aquinas
with his enormous erudition, the whole corpus of medieval thought is in a manner recapitulated,
in a manner recapitulated, and he is as sober as he is profound. I'm hoping that in recording my video,
my setting the phone down on the table did not interfere with my voice reaching the microphone.
Now, there are examples of phenomena in our modern experience that we can understand as being
participated. Some of them are very simple, like the flavor of food, or a kiss, or love-making,
or perhaps getting into a physical altercation. There are many other examples. However, what I want
to point out is something radically different from these. It's also, at least modestly true,
that under the influence of psychedelic drugs, we will begin to have experiences
that at least resemble something like original participation. But the example I want to give
today is one from about 20 or 22 years ago in my own life, and there's some backstory.
So, the backstory is that there was a vast, really large paper wasp nest under one of the
eaves on my back porch, and the landlord hired an exterminator to destroy it. The next year,
at about the time when the wasp queens that have overwintered emerged, I encountered
what I believed to be a wasp queen, and she was dying. Her wings were damaged, it appeared that
she was poisoned, and I believed that it was possible that she escaped that nest. This was all
post-hoc. That she escaped the nest and overwintered, went into hibernation, but awoke, poisoned,
and was dying. And I felt incredible compassion, wonder, and awe for this creature, who I could
not rescue. Now, I'll mention that in Hymenoptra, and particularly in many wasp species, what happens
is that a queen will found a nest, other possible queens will arrive, and they will engage in combat,
and the winner of that combat determines whose eggs will be fertile. The eggs of the other queens
in the nest are infertile, and often serve as food for the young. The nest grows, becomes vast,
there are perhaps 100 or more insects involved, but this process produces something like an
evolutionary filter. The queens who win reproduce. As I was looking at this wasp, and having these
feelings of intense communion, if you will, with her, suddenly my mind and identity disappeared,
and they were replaced with something like an epic history of the wasp people covering
millions of years, and all of this was transmitted into my mind in a moment, in an instant, and it
was if I was traversing the entire evolutionary history of the wasps as the spirit of the wasp
people. Disasters in nature, epic battles, hives being obliterated by animals and other forces,
an astonishing kind of awareness that nothing in my previous experience had ever resembled at all.
It was as if I had become the spirit of the wasp people and their entire historical stories,
and all of them, not one. This sounds impossible. The words that I'm making don't even make sense
to my waking world modern consciousness, and yet I had this direct experience of something like,
something that I would call a transfer of the history of the wasp people, and perhaps this
particular species of wasp. My consciousness became that history for a moment, an instant that seemed
to have incredible extent, impossible extent, millions of years in an instant, and yet it was
effortless, and I was helpless before it. As I came back to consciousness, I was absolutely overcome.
It had never occurred to me that something like this was even possible, and I suspect that what
Barfield would ask us to understand is that experiences like this were not only possible for
our ancient ancestors, they were the bread and butter of their daily experience, and this
sheds light on what happens in the evolution of human consciousness as these faculties begin to
disappear during the onset of figuration and alpha thinking, which will eventually overcome
them completely and set us in a world of dead knowledge, right? Tokens, tags, thoughts about
the, you know, this is a fork, the forks go in the drawer, I drive the car, the car needs gas,
ridiculously unparticipated reference. Now if we think carefully about this,
it immediately becomes, two things become apparent. The first is that what we think of and ordinarily
mean by the word knowledge is false, meaning knowledge as we usually understand and experience it
is empty. There's no life in it. It's dead inside. It's almost similar to computation, right? And
this is a catastrophic and devastating impoverishment for we moderns who live
perhaps throughout our entire lives without a single experience of direct participation,
or we have very few or they're limited only to specific kinds of circumstances or behaviors,
such as eating food, kissing, love making, physical combat, and so on. If one is well read,
one will necessarily encounter stories of experiences like the one that I have shared here.
When I posted the other day on Facebook, a post about the sort of paucity of our common experience,
a woman named Yana Rashil made a brief post in which she described jumping into a river and then
having the river jump into her and in her consciousness, she became the river and all of its
experiences, its memories of the ancient world before the humans, its memories of the processes of
being polluted and used as a product by humans and so on. And she was astonished that this was
even possible as was I. So I want us to understand by the idea of original participation something
that has nothing to do with thinking about things, something so astonishing, so holy, so sacred, so
divine that compared to it, the entirety of our experience of representational thought is empty,
dead. And so in the Bible, it occurs to me that in Genesis where God is talking about the trees in
the garden and saying do not eat of the tree of knowledge for it you will die or it is death,
this is partly what is meant. If we partake of this specific nectars, if you will,
we will be transformed by them and over time and perhaps even immediately we will lose original
participation and we will be trapped in the endless dead labyrinth of dead knowledge. In this sense,
what we understand as knowledge is false. It's false to origin, right, to the direct experience of
other beings to becoming the experience and memory and perhaps the entire history of a
being or beings that we encounter or a living place or situation and so on. So I think I will
draw this video to a close now. I hope that my reading came through. I'll have to check that
when I'm done making the recording. I'm so grateful to have this opportunity to share with you
something that I think is fundamentally crucial to our humanity but which so few of us
experience and many of those who do experience it will not discuss it because it should be obvious
that original participation is anathema to our cultures and societies. It will be attacked as
madness, confusion, delusion, dreaming and so on and dismissed and we may also be attacked for
presenting it. It will change the perception of our public persona so dramatically that in some
cases we will not survive it, right? We may be institutionalized or incarcerated or attacked
or perhaps crucified. Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again
very soon. Bye-bye for now.
