Nailed 10 Christian myths that Jesus never existed.
This show will take you into some interesting, exciting information with me and David Fitzgerald
discussing his book, Nailed 10 Christian Myths That Jesus Never Existed.
It's such a great, great show.
He loved this show, one of the most energy-packed type shows where we talk about this idea
and being open to the idea that there could have been, but who the heck was he?
Stay tuned, you guys gotta get his book.
He also has other books, Jesus' Mything in Action, where he delves deeper into the question.
This is mainly an atheistic kind of question in the mythicist ideas here,
but we go into a variety of different things.
Unique, this show is very unique.
Make sure you guys check out the description.
You guys can join Patreon and help us out here at MythVision.
And don't forget to subscribe, like, comment your thoughts of the show.
Maybe you've read his book.
Tell me what you think of it.
I hope to see you guys soon.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
I have a special guest.
I always say that every single time.
David Fitzgerald, how are you, my friend?
I am good and delighted to be here, Derek, my brother.
How are you?
I am doing wonderful.
MythVision's growing, man.
Thanks to guys like you.
That is so awesome to hear.
Yeah.
I love it.
10 years ago, I felt like we were the only ones talking, you know?
And now it's a whole different world out there.
Whole different world.
You guys woke up the next generation.
I mean, let's be real.
I think more people are starting to see the evidence, right?
They're not.
They get to be judges for themselves.
It's not just that academia presents these things,
but remember, we're still coming out of a cocoon phase
of a Christian influence of historicity.
And, you know, it was only 150 years ago,
people were talking about Jesus didn't exist
or possibly didn't exist and take some time for us to.
And honestly, it's only been the last 15 or years or so
when more people have saying,
yeah, let's revisit this evidence
that got poo-pooed in the Victorian era, you know?
And it's like, yeah, they've never quite,
as far as Robert Price says, it's never been debunked.
It's only been hurromphed.
It's funny you say that because I just did a show with Derek Bennett.
He wrote an article that's going to go in the upcoming book
that John Lofton is involved in.
Yeah, me too.
Me too.
You too, Dr. Pr...
All these guys, man.
This is good.
Dying and rising gods was totally poo-poo too.
And it's like, ah, really?
You threw the baby out with a bathwater, my friends.
So we need to revisit.
And you wrote a book.
Fascinating.
You guys see it on the screen right now.
It is nailed 10 Christian myths
that show Jesus never existed at all.
Now that's a strong statement, David.
What do you think?
No hyperbole.
I'm not even kidding.
I really do not think this guy existed at all.
Wow.
20 years ago, if you had asked me that, I would have said,
oh yeah, of course there was a Jesus.
Why wouldn't there be a Jesus?
Never even entered my mind to doubt that there was a Jesus.
But all you have to do is say, hey, these four gospels,
they're presenting very different Jesus,
I wonder which is the real one,
and what's the legendary bullshit that got added on top.
And once you start pulling that thread,
like I said in the book, pretty soon you've got no sweater.
Others call it an onion.
Pilling the layer away, the onion, you have no more onion left,
and you call the sweater with the string that you're pulling.
You know, I have to say, before we get into the show,
and kind of going into things,
I have to say this, I was a skeptic on even getting your book,
and I'll tell you why.
I'm researching, right?
And I wanted to start with all the heavy hitters.
I was like, let me look for the PhDs and this and this and that.
And then I said, I was on audible.com.
I was checking it out.
I had a credit, and I was like, you know what, Nelton,
you know what, I saw Carrier, I saw Bob.
I said, let me see what David's bringing to the table.
I haven't really given him enough chance
since we interviewed the last time.
Soon as I started, you bring in energy, and you,
it's not like you came up with these ideas yourself.
You're borrowing from the deep heavy hitters,
and you did this great job of compiling the information.
Oh, it was so good.
And again, it's not just atheists saying this.
It's like, I went all across the theological spectrum.
It's like, yeah, he's making a point here.
He's making a point here.
And that was Mrs. Dave.
I had David.
And as, yeah, when you start seeing
how people have been making these points throughout,
I mean, as long as there's,
like, somebody needs to go back to second century,
third century, they're saying, hey, wait a minute,
this doesn't make any sense.
And, yeah, and it just blows my mind what an open secret it is
in biblical studies is just, it's, you get to a certain point,
and they're like, you know, this is this, this is this.
But of course, there was a Jesus.
They run back and touch the totem,
make sure they're still on the same page.
But they're saying things like, are you kidding me?
You know, and the mental gymnastics, they do,
like I'm thinking of, there's a biblical dictionary was talking
about or encyclopedia, rather, was talking about the Luke,
the author of the book of Acts,
and that's our earliest Christian history.
And he said something in the fact like,
now the book of Acts is theologically super important
and spiritually very important,
but to a historian, it leaves much to be desired.
I'm like, pump the break.
What did you just say?
What did you just say?
And we could multiply examples like that all day long, all day long.
That's fascinating.
That is, that is funny.
And the fact that Luke borrows and Acts borrows from other pagan,
I mean, there's just so much.
Didn't want to rabbit your eye yet,
but I wanted to say, you know, what you did,
I guess you took, you're the middleman.
Like you said earlier, you took a very, very complicated issue
and brought in all of these things that everyone uses as evidence
and go, really?
I don't think so.
You're still not saying there couldn't be possibly,
but what you're saying is, is you're using this evidence wrong.
This is not the evidence you need to use.
And it's hard to trust these church fathers.
Once I read this book that you presented, I was like,
I didn't know this.
And even Dr. Price, who's well read and others,
they learned something from you that they didn't even know.
When I got that quote from Robert Price, that blew my mind.
It's like, whoa, that's, yeah.
I, that's like Einstein coming to you and saying,
wow, I hadn't thought of relativity that way before.
Whoa, that blew my mind.
And I think it's, it's only a function of me just looking into everybody.
It's not anything special about me.
It's certainly not my PhD, you know.
But the more you look at it and you more,
it's not just even what our evidence is.
It's, it's like, it's the evidence we have outside the Bible.
It's evidence we have outside the Gospels.
I mean, it's like, there are layers of onions.
Like, okay, here's the biographical information.
Here's all the other letters in the New Testament.
Here's everything we know, you know,
coming from that period in time outside Christianity.
And it's like, these things just do not point to a guy who was a,
the founder of Christianity.
I mean, there's nothing plausible about that.
They were a dime a dozen.
That's not where our evidence point.
And so it's really hard for me to think there could have even been a guy.
Yeah.
It's hard to think that in this case, okay, after all of this,
in this case, it's hard for me to think.
Like he, if there was speculating, if there was, honestly, when priests and carriers say,
listen, we really wouldn't know anything about them at this point.
So who, how can you say there is when you don't have anything about the hymn or whoever this is?
Exactly.
That's one thing.
I wish more Christians understood this.
That whether there was a Jesus or not, our evidence for him is shitty as hell.
And it boils down to these four books in the gospels.
And those four books boil down to our first gospel, Mark, which is the most low rent,
no frills Jesus we've got, and doesn't read anything like what we think of as Jesus,
saying things like, oh, I'm telling you everything in parables.
Otherwise, other people would hear them and be saved from their sins.
It's like, what, what, what did you just say, Jesus?
And it makes perfect sense if we're talking about a mystery faith God,
makes perfect sense, makes no sense at all.
If he came on earth to save us from our sins, the way we've always said.
And, and we get, we get examples like that all the time throughout, throughout the gospel,
throughout the New Testament, throughout first century history.
You literally go straight through the gospels in this one.
You like, you're like, all right, let's get to the outside sources here quickly.
You really do because, I mean, even Mimesis criticism, just slot, to me,
it cuts the gospels as fictional writings, like actual books.
You know, these aren't like scribes.
It looks like they're actual stories being written by fictional, you know.
Right, right.
And they're, they're so headed with allegorical meaning.
It's like, and we don't realize it because we don't speak Greek or Aramaic,
but like half the characters in the gospels, their names are surprisingly apt for the story
they're telling.
And the places they're going are, that's a really apt name for that little two on the nose,
and that that's happening throughout the gospels.
Yeah.
And, and when you bring in the other gospels that are clearly building on that,
then you get to John who does, ah, no, I don't like that story.
I'm going to change it completely and do something else.
You know, let's, let's not have Jesus get crucified because of, you know, those Pharisees.
Let's have him do it because he raised somebody from the dead.
Somebody who doesn't even appear in the other gospels.
Yeah.
Or yeah, the Pharisees for flipping over money, change your tables.
Or there's just, it's hard to pin down what they're trying to say in some of these.
And they're definitely contradicting each other.
Oh, absolutely.
I've even even said Luke dookies on everybody when Luke comes on the scene.
And it's so funny.
It's like, these are not eyewitness testimony, you know, um, you know, it was not Luke says
he was wearing a red t-shirt, Matthew says it was a blue t-shirt.
No, no, no.
This is John says he got crucified because of something he did over here to somebody else.
And all the other ones said he got crucified on a different year over here for a completely different reason.
Um, yeah.
Or even the burial situation.
I think you mentioned that in your book.
You say, um, that, uh, they, they come to the burial site a day later in some of the gospels.
And then in, you know, John, they fix it or they make it look like, well, they, they buried him
with the spices and it's just fascinating.
But I wanted to throw, I wanted to throw one of your first things you say in chapter one out.
Yeah.
Christians have said this and it's almost like you can have bad mythicist arguments.
We all, oh for sure.
Right.
And then we also have horrible historicist arguments like.
Really true.
Jesus and Julius Caesar have the same equal amount of evidence.
Yeah.
And, and, and, you know, I've heard that for Alexander the great Philip, they just throw out any name and say,
oh, we, if you have to throw out the evidence for Jesus, you have to throw out, it's like, no, dude,
we're not throwing out evidence.
We're saying, look at the evidence and how you have none over here.
It's like of all these different pillars of evidence that can support any kind of historical claim about anybody from any time.
You've got this, you've got this, you have this for, in example, I think in the book I used, uh,
Jesus, Caesar crossing the Rubicon, Richard Carrier for that one.
And, uh, he points out that we have physical evidence for that.
We have written evidence for that.
We have written evidence from his enemies.
We have, uh, the, the, the bare facts of history that things could not have come out the way
that, unless he had physically done that, not just people believed that he had done that.
Whereas for Jesus, we got no physical evidence.
We've got no writing from him.
We've got no writing from his enemies during his lifetime.
We've got nothing corroborate the, the Gospels during the time that the Gospels were meant to be written.
And what we do have, the only one pillar we do have in that is not the best kind of evidence,
but the worst kind of evidence.
It's anonymous Gospels written to sell a new religion generations after the fact in places we are probably nowhere near where the story takes place.
You know, and they're all copying from each other.
And then it gets worse.
You start to get out of these fallout land types.
And I think that was a common practice.
That should tell you, in my opinion, once you start looking at the evidence of the Gospels,
what kind of literature they are that you can start to go off on La La Land.
It's just funny that, oh, you're not Orthodox.
These are the real truths.
Dude, they're fiction.
I mean, like you really see so much fiction there.
So David, one of the things I was going to mention is, um, there's Doug at Pine Creek.
He's got a YouTube channel too.
He's, he's another skeptic.
Um, he likes to talk to Christians more, but there's this argument that I hear from Christians.
And I'm sure you want to just like pull your hair out and kind of like,
how do I explain this one to them that they just can
stop drinking the Kool-Aid for one minute and try to understand where I'm coming from
without trying to be derogatory?
I'm not a hateful guy on here.
People know that I'm not.
I do think it's funny sometimes.
I can laugh and like mock a little.
I was a hardcore fundamentalist Christian.
Me too.
I totally get it.
So we're not trying to poke at him to be bullies, but we are suggesting like,
now that we've escaped, we're like, dude, listen,
please just hear what we're saying.
Okay.
They make the argument.
Oh, well, the extra biblical evidence for Jesus's existence.
And, you know, we can go there, but they'll say stuff like, well, these,
why would the enemies in the gospel of such and such, the enemy of Jesus said,
there's eyewitness enemy account saying they're using the story saying,
because there's an enemy in the story, whether it's a Pharisee or something,
as that's evidence, as if it's not part of the story.
Exactly.
And, you know, it's like Mark doesn't do that.
It's the later gospels that say, oh, why do we explain this plot hole?
It's, well, it's because blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
You know, it's, well, there was a secret meeting that somehow we know what they said
and blah, blah, blah, you know, or it's like the guards at the tomb fell asleep.
And it's like, if the guards at the tomb fell asleep,
that's death penalty for the guards asleep.
They wouldn't say, yeah, we fell asleep, you know,
they'd be killed in all kinds of nasty Roman ways.
Yeah, for that.
That's actually interesting.
That's what I like about you.
You're clever.
You think about the things that we wouldn't, like when I read the gospels the first time
or even go into these stories, I would overlook like the simple things that I didn't know like that.
That would be death penalty or, you know.
And like the whole trial of Jesus makes no damn sense whatsoever.
And Jewish scholars have been saying this for hundreds of years saying,
well, no, we wouldn't do this on the Sabbath because everyone has to do such and such and
such on the Sabbath.
We wouldn't do it on the eve of Passover.
We certainly wouldn't have a trial.
And if we did, we would just put the trial on hold for the weekend.
And it's like, and the high priest acting as the prosecuting attorney,
well, that would never happen, mainly because Jewish trials don't have a prosecuting attorney.
Well, stop.
It's like, whoever wrote this doesn't know anything about Jewish law or Jewish,
you know, was clearly written by a Gentile.
And the time in which they claim that this happened,
they would have been able to stone him at right there.
Exactly.
None of this bringing the Romans.
They just would have taken him outside.
And yeah.
Yeah.
That's why I think it would just be my opinion that they combined relevant and it would just be
my guess, relevant contemporaneous, if you will, things into this fiction for their own
personal, better Jesus, better than Odysseus, better things, you know, a sleepy, you know,
all the different gods.
And we can't forget so much of it is allegorical, too.
Like the whole thing about Barabbas, there's so multiple layers that this is talking about
the Yom Kippur ritual and not talking about anything that could actually happen in real life.
The Romans never had a tradition of releasing somebody into it who was, you know,
getting proud of the choice.
It's like, that never happened.
That never could have happened.
And if had, they wouldn't have released a pro anti-Roman, you know, terrorist, you know.
It literally says that that's what it is.
What happened?
What happened?
It's ridiculous.
Yeah.
You say in the book that they combined the Yom Kippur and Passover.
It's like they're uniting a new doctrine idea here.
Well, I mean, there's definitely an allegory of the scapegoat.
And yeah, they are completely making, taking two, you know, you need to read the book because
I go early deep in that how they're both, Jesus, Barabbas means son of the father.
They're two sons of the father.
One is guilty of the sins of Israel, sedition and murder.
The other one is perfect and innocent, yet he's the one that gets sacrificed.
It's like the parallels are so down the line and so perfect.
Once they pointed them out, no one said, oh yeah, okay, that's just a coincidence.
It's like, no, there's no, there's no question it's that way.
And, and we get that throughout the gospel, throughout the gospel.
The whole, the whole fig tree getting cursed and it's like, yeah, why is Jesus not remembering
that it's fig season and getting pissed off at that and cursing?
It's like, what kind of dick is Jesus?
It's like, but when you put it as an allegory, oh, he's mad at Israel for, you know, not bearing
the fruit.
And so it makes perfect sense.
Right.
Every single story in Jesus's life is like that.
And as future gospels come along and, you know, we got Matthew, then we got Luke,
then we got John, then we got all the ones that didn't make the cut.
But they're all doing the same thing.
They're building on each other and building on that same story and building on what was
originally an allegory.
Because when you take Mark's gospel, that first gospel, and you look at what Christians
were writing before that, there's no Judas Iscariot.
There's no crucifixion.
There's no, I should say there's a crucifixion, but there's nothing on earth that's
happening.
Right.
All you have is Paul.
All you have is Paul.
And Paul's gospel, and when you read like the book of Hebrews, where it's talking about,
you know, Jesus is our high priest in heaven.
And if he had been on earth, it would have been such.
See, it's what it's comparing to what's happening with the high priest on earth,
which he assumes is still going on.
Whoever wrote Hebrews was still happening.
The temple was still happening.
And that's what the earliest Christians seem to be preaching.
They're preaching as Jesus, who lives in heaven, has been a secret all this time.
But now preachers who have become apostles, which meant that Jesus had appeared to them,
or they read it in their biblical studies.
Because Paul's constantly saying how he knows this.
It's according to scriptures.
We know that Jesus died according to the scriptures, and rose on third day according
to the scriptures.
And even early church fathers like Clement, they're quoting Jesus.
But when you look at their quotes, they're not quoting anything from the New Testament.
They're quoting things in the Old Testament saying, Jesus says here, blah, blah, blah, blah,
wait, oh no, Jonah said that.
Oh no, Isaiah said that.
And they're quoting it as if they're interviewing him on the street, you know.
Interesting, interesting.
Yeah, you got to go beyond the canon to get some of this stuff.
This is interesting that you're bringing this up.
You and I want our audience to understand, though you're a mythicist, in this book,
you don't just, what does Dr. Carrier think about this?
What is Dr. Bob?
You actually are using, and this is what I love about the mythicist who, at the end of the day,
this is not a belief.
This is not a belief system or a cult or anything like that.
Like you guys are using historicist arguments for people and saying, look at this Josephus,
look at this Tacitus, look at Setonius, look at Pliny, and we can get into some of those guys,
if you'd like.
And honestly, I went out on my way to try to use as many Christian sources and Jewish sources,
not so much Mormon or Islamic, but to go, not just atheists, I didn't want to just quote atheists,
I didn't want to just quote mythicists.
I wanted to quote everybody and say, look, you're making a good point here that this over here
doesn't make any sense, you know.
This over here would really fit a mythicist Jesus better.
And I don't know if we've plugged my new book, Jesus, Myth and Action, but nailed talks about
the top 10 ways that the official story just does not cut it.
It just doesn't hold up.
Myth and Action is where I talk about, well, this is what the Gospels do say.
This is what the New Testament says about what the Gospels say.
This is what everything outside the New Testament says about this story.
And it just makes it really hard when you put all that in context to think that there could
have even been a single figure finding Christianity.
I want to even blow your audience's mind a little further because my biggest surprise
I've gotten from being in this Jesus isn't his bullshit business is that it's not just Jesus.
It's not just Christianity.
Moses, Abraham, Buddha, Muhammad, the evidence for all those guys and more
is just as bad as Jesus.
And I can't tell you how many ex-Buddha scholars have said,
yeah, we're having that same discussion in our circles.
And how many ex-Muslims have come to me and said,
yeah, we're having the same discussion in our circles, but whether Muhammad existed.
That blew my mind.
I saw a debate between a Christian apologist, David Wood, I believe his name is,
and another scholar in the Islam world discussed.
He's not a Muslim, but he was actually arguing.
And it blew my mind.
This is right when I heard about mythicism.
What he did is his arguments and the methodology used in arguing over the fact that Muhammad may
not have existed.
Arguing with this Christian, I could see that if the Christian was willing to concede,
he was shooting himself right there because it is the same.
It was like, I saw it.
I was like, oh my gosh, and I was looking at Jesus.
The evidence just starts failing and stopping like 100 years out.
It's like, wow.
And now 20 years after starting this whole thing,
I'm convinced that most major religions start with a mythological purely mythological founder.
And that's the norm.
And people like Joseph Smith, well, the Angel Marona, he clearly never existed.
We don't think that we forget that.
He's the one who wrote the Book of Mormon.
But if you're like Elron Hubbard and Mary Baker Eddy,
those are the outliers because we know how who they were.
Well, David, this, I've got to see the myth in action because honestly,
that would have helped me now.
That's unaudible too.
So it is.
It is.
It is.
That would help this show better.
I'd get more of what you do.
But I guess if you want, we can jump into some of these just kind of a few examples outside.
And then later you read the book.
We'll come back home and discuss that.
I'm talking about the 10 myth.
For sure.
We can totally talk about that all day.
Yeah.
Okay.
Josephus.
Just tackle that one if you would because that's a big one.
For the people who don't know,
Flavius Josephus is this Jewish historian who is probably best known for Christians
because he supposedly mentioned Jesus in his historical works.
Long story short, no, he didn't.
It's clearly a forgery.
There's two passages that are supposedly said to link to Jesus.
One's clearly a forgery.
People don't even argue that's not a forgery anymore.
They just say, oh, well, it's not a complete forgery.
He said something and then Christians tied it up and tarted it up.
And it's like, no, no, dude, multiple reasons why that's not true.
And another passage is not even talking about our Jesus at all.
And all you have to do is read the passage.
And it says who it's talking about.
Jesus, son of Damneus, has nothing to do with our Jesus.
Makes no sense if it was about our Jesus.
And yeah, so that's the thing.
Why do Christians keep hanging on to this is because
they have to hold on to that because if Josephus gets tossed out,
this means that there's no historians writing about Jesus at all for the whole first century.
And we're talking about somebody writing at the end of the first century for starters anyway.
He was not alive during the time Jesus was meant to be alive.
But that's a whole hundred years where we've got nothing to corroborate the gospels whatsoever.
And those two flimsy pigs that don't hold up are all we have.
And the second century is no better.
Third century, everything is dependent on the gospels.
And everything we have that's extra biblical evidence about Jesus is actually talking about Christians.
It's like, yeah, we know there were Christians in the second century and third century.
We don't know, that's not evidence for their God.
And usually the way it's talking about it is clear that they don't think there was a God either.
It's that crucified God, the Christians worship, you know.
It's funny because there's so many versions of Christianity too right off the bat that, you know.
This is the other thing, the further you go back, the more different strands you have
and the less any of them look like what we think of as Christianity, for sure.
Interesting, interesting stuff.
I think that's fascinating.
And if you look at these other historical people like Caesar, Julius Caesar, Caesar Augustus,
there's writings about these guys.
But do they have fictional theological tombs written about them?
And is that their earliest sources or is there not, you know, historical, maybe with some,
you know, all historians who wrote a people a lot of times, blending the gods and stuff, but...
Right, right.
And that's a good distinction to make.
But the difference is with those, we have actual historical evidence and we can separate that out.
And it's like, oh, okay, well, that's clearly not true because we have all these other
plentiful evidence to make good judgment calls on what's really happening, what's not.
We don't have that with Jesus.
All he is right out of the box.
It's mythological.
And the earliest stuff, he's not even on earth.
He was there at the beginning of creation or he was, you know, the son of wisdom,
this allegorical things.
The Holy Spirit came from a Jewish philosopher named Philo of Alexandria,
had nothing to do with Christianity originally, and yet they put that whole idea, you know,
plucked it whole hog from him and turned that into the Trinity centuries after the fact.
Took a long time for that to come together.
Yeah, this is an interesting development.
And you guys delve into this a lot.
And I know that Dr. Carrier does some of this in his On the Historicity book,
which is definitely recommended.
Highly recommended, yeah.
Very, very thick.
So if you want to get, you know, really into something for a long time, that's obviously
a good book, but if you're looking for something that kind of, I guess you'd say gets,
goes to a point and it's, you know, entertaining.
Yeah, you have a very, and you guys work together.
I mean, absolutely.
You guys work together.
What about Pliny?
What about Pliny?
You had a lot to say about him during, in the book.
All our so-called evidences outside the Bible, for Jesus, I talked about in Nailed,
and pretty much go chapter by chapter, Pliny, Tacitus, Atonius,
and really point out that most of the cases, they're just not saying what Christians are
saying they're saying.
And that's probably the case for most of the things.
There's things like Tacitus that we have, him talking about Christians again, not Jesus.
And there's some evidence that even those stories about Christians were originally
about Jewish martyrs and not about Christians at all.
So again, it's one other case of this layers of layers of bullshit to sort through.
I think I, I think I lost you there.
You froze up for a second.
I feel like Satan's trying to get us, man.
And clearly, clearly.
That devil's trying to stop us from making this happen.
Not today, Satan.
Not today.
Yeah.
No, you, you, you do very, very good job of showing all these evidences.
And like, even if you were to take, just for example, you're, let's say we're all trying
to figure out what could be history or what could have significance to history in the
gospels, right?
Like the temple's destructible.
We know that happened, but you know, there's things, right?
We're trying to get tangible things.
And Laina Einhorn did this recently on our show, shift, a shift in time, where she was
suggesting that if there was a guy that she does believe there was, he was probably the
Egyptian, the guy called the Egyptian in the, in the New Testament, him referred to.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
Thank you, honey.
Wife's over here handing me pizza.
Oh, what a good.
Um, no, but, um, but if, if this, you know, everybody has a Jesus, by the way, everybody
has a Jesus.
Oh my goodness, bro.
I've got, I have shows coming up with the magical Jesus soon.
So it's, I'm.
Oh, Jesus, the magician.
Yeah.
Robert Conner is going to come on and talk about that at some point.
Fingers crossed he can make it happen soon.
My point is, is she shows, regardless of historicity at this point, that if this Pontius Pilate
situation, like, let's just say they fictionalized this and it was supposed to happen under some
Roman, you know, guy in charge, it couldn't have happened under him.
And she shows by using Josephus that it had to happen under Felix if it did happen.
And, and, and she used, here's, here's the evidence she's trying to suggest.
Pontius Pilate's wife has a dream in the gospels.
Okay.
In Josephus, Felix has a wife, not Pontius Pilate.
Yeah.
Um, you start to see stuff and you go, something's wrong here.
And I'm, I'm muddy the water even further.
Okay.
Some early Christians thought that Jesus was crucified under Herod
and the Romans had nothing to do with it.
Some early Christians said, oh yeah, he got crucified, but it was 50 years later under Nero.
Yeah.
Some people said, oh no, it was 100 years for that under Alexander Janius.
And it's like, you know, you think that we have a better handle on when these things happened
if that had happened at all.
Or, or like when he died, when he was born, you know, maybe not when he was born, but surely
when he died and yet the early church is full of these guesses and what do they land on?
Well, it's the day of Easter.
It's the day of Passover.
When did he, was he born?
Well, it was the same day all the other sun gods were born.
Interesting.
What an interesting coincidence that happened, you know.
Yeah.
Or one of the church fathers, one of the big ones I heard, I think Justin Martyr,
I could be mistaken, like Jesus lived to be 50 or something.
I know the passage you're thinking of, and I can't remember off the top of my head who
was it was saying it, but he was saying, yeah, all the press personnel in Asia Minor
think that he lived to be 50.
And his reasons were really convoluted.
It's like, well, in this one verse where he says, you're not yet 30, or, you know,
it was just like, it's like, really?
That's your proof as like, it was just this weird exegesis of, well, if he had been 50,
they would have said, you know, they wouldn't have said, anyway, anyway.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, if you had the source, it was so, it was so wonky and like,
they did some funny stuff.
I remember Richard Carrier talks about one of the early church fathers who said that
he would, he passed by the fields that Judas Ascariot died in, and like, he said something
about like, he swelled up and like, it's wider than a wagon wheel track, you know,
filled with puss and maggots.
Puss.
Yeah.
And then he, he dies.
He had like this, gross pinata of evil, you know.
Yeah.
And the fields stunk till that day or something.
And you still talk about that stinky, yes, exactly.
That's funny, man.
So, so how do people help you out with this?
Because you're continuing to write, you still do lectures, you still do public speaking.
You do speaking engagements, I suspect.
I'm happy to do them anywhere.
Once take me out there, I'm happy to.
The last talk I'd done was on Lee Strobel.
Everybody's favorite Christian apologists.
And I'm going to have to turn it into a book eventually, I think, because
it's too delicious.
It's just too delicious, not too.
But if you've seen my talk on sex and violence in the Bible, that's my favorite talk.
And it's definitely the next in line in the, in the complete heretics guide to Western
religion series.
And then I want to do a book on the chauvinist witnesses, it's been in the works for a long,
long time.
But I think, I think Lee Strobel is going to have to be in there soon too.
My wife and I just, just finished the third book in our science fiction trilogy that we've
been working on for the last, what, five years now?
Four, six years?
It's taken a while to get that done.
And we're super proud of it.
Don't get me wrong.
But yeah.
Yeah.
As far as the heretics, all this blasphemy doesn't write itself.
We've got to get going and crank that up.
Well, all that will be down in the description.
Anyone who's watching, all his books will be down there.
Be sure to get them and on Audible because, look, he reads his own books.
And you know, the energy that he's bringing, it's fun listening to you.
I've listened to your 10 Christian myths, you know, the nailed book twice already.
And I just got it not too long ago.
So I had to, I listened to it a couple of times because it really is educational,
but entertaining.
And it's like, ooh, okay.
I can, I can listen to it probably a third time if I wanted, you know.
I'm so delighted to hear you say that because that's what I go for.
That's what I go for.
That's the one thing I bring to the table is that I can make this stuff funny.
It's not just wrong.
It's hilarious.
And it's the deeper you go, the more wild it gets.
You do that.
Fascinating.
Do you do the same in myth and action?
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
In fact, myth and action is in three books.
And the first talks about the problems with difficult studies.
And not just, not just that they all believe in God and there is no God,
which is a big problem.
But it's just showing the blinders that they have on.
We both know that Bart Ehrman is a huge historicist who is sure there was a Jesus.
But man, he has done more single-handedly to debunk the status quo in biblical studies.
I feel like he's sawing off, he's sitting on a branch that he saw it off a long time ago.
And it's very interesting to see how his opinions have changed since he wrote that book.
Did Jesus exist?
Because almost immediately he started realizing things he said were established fact in that book
aren't quite as established as he thought they were.
And when I read his next book, whose title eludes me, something from Jesus to Christ,
I read like a hundred pages in there before I even disagreed with anything he said at all.
So as for somebody who's such a staunch historicist,
I love him because he's one of the Beth Misesis writers out there.
His work on forgery in Christianity, Jesus misquoted, Jesus interrupted,
those are all fantastic books, they're all must reads.
And I can't wait to see what he's saying in five or 10 years when it might dawn on him that,
you know what, maybe I was wrong about that.
That's what I'm waiting for.
I had someone who wrote me recently, today actually, and they were like,
look, I was a huge fan for many years.
I recently read another one of his books and he said, and honestly, I just don't see.
I think it was the history of Jesus where he's actually trying to make a case for the historical
Jesus. He so said it was nothing compared to his other works.
Honestly, I feel like he banged it out in a weekend because he was working on an awesome
book on forgery and counter forgery in Christianity, which is this huge 700 page monster.
And is awesome, just really amazing.
And this he just, he just seemed to phone it in.
And we were people like me and Richard Kerry and Robert Price,
we weren't expecting him to agree with us.
But we were expecting this was going to be the best defense of historicity
and was going to clear all the deadwood from all the crappy mythosism,
you know, like saying that, you know, it was a Roman invention or fill in the blank,
came from India or whatever.
All those crappy mythosist theories that just do not hold water.
And no, he didn't even do that.
And it's like, dude, dude.
So he is, he's probably not even read on it.
In fact, because I asked Dennis R. McDonald in our last show on his mimesis criticism.
We talked about his book mythologizing Jesus and from Jewish, whatever to
mythic hero from Jewish teacher to Epic hero.
We talked about that and he says, honestly, I'm friends with bar.
He's like everybody's friends with bar.
Even Dr. Price is friends with bar.
But that doesn't mean they don't have disagreements.
And he says, if if Bart takes his work seriously,
and I honestly think he should after reading this book,
he says, Bart's going to have to change everything.
At least he's going to have to address what's being argued and not,
not pretend like, oh, this got debunked in the Victorian era.
So I don't even have to look at it anymore.
I don't know if you guys know the name Raphael Lataster.
Yeah, you know, his book, Jesus did not exist.
And his critique of Bart, who's like relying on hypothetical
to make his arguments.
And we don't know if those hypothetical sources even existed in the first place.
And if they did, we don't know they're saying what he wants them to say.
It's like, you know, how do you know they didn't say the opposite?
And, you know, assuming they existed at all,
which we don't know if they did, you know,
wow, like the Q source in a way.
In a way, exactly, exactly.
Another thing that completely seems to be completely bullshit.
And if there was, we're so speculating, right?
Exactly, exactly.
And for people like who follow the Ferrara hypothesis,
it looks like Q is just the places where Luke is stealing from Matthew and Mark, you know,
that's all it is.
I mean, if you want to go ox and razor on it,
that's certainly the simplest explanation.
It's like, yeah, he wrote his own thing here and there,
but then sometimes he was just copying from Mark.
Sometimes he was copying from Matthew and Mark, you know,
I reached out to Raphael Lataster, by the way,
and I asked him to please join me on a show.
It's a lot of the fans are hoping you do.
And he says, well, I'm busy right now.
I'll reach out to you.
And so I wrote him back a month later and said,
hey, I'm like the Jehovah's Witness at your door.
And I'm trying to, you know, let you know I'm here.
Hey, and he's like, you know what I do to the Jehovah's Witnesses, right?
He was being hard on me, right?
And I was like, look, I'm just saying I'd love to do a show.
He's in the process of becoming Doctor Raphael Lataster.
So, but once there'll be, yeah, soon, once he gets over that,
he'll definitely be talking to you again.
I'm sure.
Maybe I can get you and someone on together at Sunda Point where we can do a collab.
But I got to get mithing in action because we got to do a show on that.
You really do.
And not to be hard sell it, but man, everybody should read those books
because they are, hey, they're super fun.
They're super fun.
But they like, I got so much criticism from Atheist after Nailed came out and said,
well, oh yeah, I know there wasn't a, you know, it wasn't Son of God,
but there really was a Jesus.
And like, dude, no, dude, no.
These are all the reasons like not just that Christianity is bullshit,
but that this is what the sources are saying.
This is what they're pointing to.
You know, it's like, well, why did Paul say this if they meant this?
Why did Book of Acts say this and not this?
You know, why is Hebrews saying this and not that?
You know, and if you remember the last, second to last chapter in Nailed
is called Can Jesus Be Saved?
Yes.
And I just give this laundry this, this is how things would be different
if it was just a guy named Jesus.
And those three books go into all that and more.
But mostly the problem are sources and what's happening.
The problem of biblical studies and the things that they're just kind of shoving
under the rug and hoping it goes away.
And Book Three is just kind of a time travel expedition.
You know, you remember the show Cosmos that Carl Sagan and Neil deGrasse did?
Yes.
Where they have an imaginary spaceship going to speed a light and going over it.
Well, I do the same thing with an imaginary time machine and say,
okay, if we were going to explore where Christianity came from,
where would we have to go?
And that's the source.
So it's a fictional story with lots of heavy footnotes, you know.
Wow.
And it's super fun.
It's super fun.
So it's not all a big boring drive through history and evidence.
And that's you got to do that.
See, I can do some of that, but I got to take a break
if it's not entertaining and sometimes you do that very well.
You've proven that in this Nailed book.
But the last time we interviewed on Myth and Action when you dropped the books,
I had not read this yet.
So that show would have been a lot better if I had read this material.
It was more like you telling us what it's saying in the future.
Yeah.
Because there's a lot to break down.
So much to unpack when you're talking about myth theory.
Because you've got all these sources.
You've got 2,000 years of history where they've been scratching off the serial numbers,
some things they stole.
There's just so much to unpack and it's all fascinating.
And all of it helps whether at the end of the day,
if it turns out we're all wrong about all of this
and the historians were right and there was a dude named Jesus.
At the end of the day, everything we learned in this back and forth
on who Jesus really was helps us call the bluff of anybody who says,
oh yeah, Jesus wants you to vote this way or act this way or think this way.
It's like, yeah, you don't know, dude.
You don't know.
Because one thing I'm convinced, I don't think there was a Jesus.
I don't think there could have been.
But I do know this.
If there was one, as Robert Price says, there's not one anymore.
Because for all extents and purposes,
everything we know about this guy we think we know has nothing to do with somebody
who actually lived in the first century.
See if we didn't have, and you're absolutely right,
see if we didn't have these later Talmudic expressions of a son of Pantera and all that.
Okay, if we had that outside of the New Testament at the end of the first century,
like here's the deal, guys.
This guy's right here.
Or Celsus, rather than being third, fourth century.
Why don't we, if we had that right there, and he says,
look, this guy you guys made into this is right here.
Instead, what we have, according to what Dr. Price recently said on one of these
shows I did with him, he said there's an argument from the Pagans.
And I can't remember if it was just a murder.
I think it was just a murder.
Right in the middle of the second.
You're talking what we had said.
Maybe it was Prometheus Maternis.
I could be wrong.
I don't know which one.
But they're basically saying, yeah, we're just saying about our God,
what you say about your God.
It's in that vein.
He says, though, explicitly that the Pagans argued saying to the church,
to the church father, you created your Christ.
You created this guy.
And so you could take that literal and say, hey,
they're literally saying you invented your own Jesus.
I know what you're talking about.
It's a dialogue called against trifle.
And it's this probably fictional Jewish character named trifle.
But he's giving the arguments that they get from Jews of his day.
And one of his arguments is like, yeah, if there is a Christ,
but it seems like you guys are just invented him and are dying needlessly for his sake.
You know, that's paraphrased.
That's pretty damn close to what he actually says.
And the hit sources just think it's easier to start with a kernel of historical truth
and work outward.
But the suggestion of such Markovon mysticism
and different types of strange angelic codes with secret names
like Dr. Kerry gets into, it makes you really have to wonder, like,
could this not be wholehearted, strange mysticism?
And the further we go back, the weirder Christianity gifts.
And so this has been streamlined and harmonized and packaged free package for our,
I mean, there were Christians who thought he was an angel.
There was a Christians who thought he was like this emanation,
this Gnostic emanation from God.
You know, they get very esoteric and like,
if the Nagamari Gospels hadn't been discovered,
they were buried in third century in a hurry,
they were some of them were half done, which is how we have,
we've got one book that's this pagan treatise called,
the Blessings of Eustos, and we have this other one called the Wisdom of Jesus Christ.
But it's half done and all they're doing is taking what this pagan guy is saying
to his disciples and saying, Jesus said unto Matthew and Matthew asked,
it's like, we are doing word for word cut and paste,
literally word for word and turning it into a Christian tract.
And we have no idea if they'd finished it, you know,
and thrown away the original word.
We're lucky we have the Gospel of Mark,
because that's the same thing that Matthew and Luke did,
is they took it said, you know what, we can do better, we can do better.
I'm going to fix his mistakes, beef it up a little bit.
And the Gospel of Peter, which isn't even in our Bibles,
was so much more popular, like three times more popular than the Gospel of Mark,
we're lucky that we have it, we're lucky we have it at all.
Wow, I think that's so fascinating though.
And you know, it just goes to show how Hellenized this movement really was.
Right from the get go, right from the get go.
If it weren't for Alexander the Great,
we would probably not have Christianity.
We would probably be arguing about Mithras,
whether Mithras exists or not right now.
Yeah, this man, look, this show was centered on your book,
and you've actually started to move us in.
You're pretty much saying, guys, shut up and get the book,
mything in action.
I'm going to have to do it.
I've got four credits left on my Audible, I'm going to have to do it, man.
Is there anything you would say to somebody who currently right now is,
maybe they're a believer even, and they're considering looking at this,
and they're kind of, they've made it this far into this interview and thought,
you guys are crazy, but what would you say to someone who's like,
listen, I believe in this thing though.
Here's what I think, honestly,
mythicism is always going to be on the outskirts of biblical studies,
as long as there is such a thing as biblical studies.
I don't think it's the best way to go to talk to your Christian friends and say,
look, Jesus, bullshit, you know, and start from there.
It's like, it's such a deal killer, conversation is an ender.
You can go so many other routes, I would recommend that first.
But where was I going with that thought?
But if you're an atheist who's interested in the subject,
get interested in the subject, because it is freaking fascinating.
And don't fall for the stories you're getting from Christian apologists.
Don't dismiss mythicism because, you know,
Lee Strobel or Josh McDowell says, oh no, it's ridiculous, you know.
If you like Bart Ehrman and you think, well, Bart Ehrman thinks it's ridiculous,
keep reading more Bart Ehrman, read, misquoting Jesus, read Jesus Interrupted,
forduring, counter forduring Christianity, read all his other books, and then and see how much
we're getting away from knowing who Jesus really was and how much mental acrobatics
biblical scholars have done through the years to to make up for that fact.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I remember what I was going to say and then I forgot it again.
This is what happens when I start.
So if there's a believer, just just.
Yeah, this should be an argument against for atheists.
We should be ones having this argument.
Right.
And it should be a friendly argument because at the end of the day, you know,
we're not the enemy.
Historicists aren't the enemy.
Christians aren't the enemy.
Bullshit is the enemy.
We're all trying to find the truth.
And the more we look at Jesus, the more we realize that everything we think we know about
him doesn't necessarily point to a real person, doesn't necessarily hold up.
And we should all be agnostics at the very limit.
We should all be militant agnostics.
So if they say, do you believe in Jesus?
No, I don't think there was.
I don't know if there was one.
Neither do you.
Yeah, if not, you need to be like a Baha'i guy who actually believes
more than just the Jesus story is true because they're all saying the same thing.
So, you know, I guess I'll end on this note because you said it very well right there.
To the believer who might be watching this, this is my recommendation.
Look just for, I don't know, for your own sake, try to look at sources that aren't just pro.
Let me try and to prove something right.
Take a scientific method.
Try to find if there's things wrong with it.
And don't ask your Christians if there are things wrong with it because
they're going to hide or try to minimize things that may be going on.
So my recommendation personally, what helped me deconstruct and I'll throw this out there
for you because I'm sure you are aware, is seeing pagan parallels.
And like the idea is that there are similar stories that are going on.
I'm not saying zeitgeist necessarily, okay?
Right, and I'm glad you pointed that out too, yeah.
Yeah, I'm saying that there's like legit reason to see that Osiris was cut into 14 pieces and
she finds a magic dildo and does her thing with it.
And you gotta go, well, that's not Jesus, but if you look at the Old Testament,
you find out that Jacob served 14 years for his wife.
14 is a similar implication to what we see with Osiris.
And Joseph mimics Osiris in so many ways.
You start to see, well, Jesus is borrowing from Joseph and Joseph is borrowing from Osiris.
Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep.
You know, there's people.
All the roots keep going deeper and deeper.
And here's the thing, as a Christian, I wouldn't even get into the historical Jesus argument.
That's something that as a Christian, your brain will just go and freeze your life and not go.
So many other but once you become a new Christian a new atheist
Then start looking into it. Then we're agnostic. Yeah, or agnostic and you know at the end of the day for atheists
It doesn't matter if there was a Jesus or not
He's a myth either way as far as we're looking at it because either he was a dude who was elevated to this this
Demigod figure or he didn't exist at all either way the Jesus of faith who really existed and really did all these miracles
Yeah, no one on this side is thinking that at all
Yeah, so stop saying all historians agree that our Jesus was real. It's like, yeah, no, they don't not your Jesus
Wonderful man, wonderful. Well, I really appreciate you joining me here. We got to do one when I get myth in an action down
We're doing another one, bro. Let's do it. We have to and for those of you guys who just don't remember every time
We are
Myth vision
You
