All right, we are live here, MythVision podcast.
Yes, we brought scalpels.
We're going to critique, dig deep
into the cult of Scientology.
Welcome back to MythVision.
A. A. Ron in the house, Aaron Smith Levin.
Welcome.
Happy to be here.
Hey, thanks for joining me, man.
You've been doing unbelievable work against this cult.
In fact, I think you are starting a trend
that is legitimately making an impact
whether people know it or not.
I know that what you're doing
is making serious, serious waves.
So I commend you, especially for the harm
that this cult keeps producing.
So thank you.
Thank you.
I hope people will take the time.
If they want actual true salvation,
they're going to go to A. A. Ron's channel,
subscribe his channel.
Seriously, you'll be enlightened to find out stuff
you never knew about.
The cult of Scientology, inside scoops of things,
literally like almost a news reporter.
He's telling you up-to-date information.
I almost want to get names from you, like who, where, when,
what, who's telling you some of this stuff?
How do you know?
But I'm always blown away by what I hear
even yesterday's show.
And today we're talking of 15 celebrities
who've been duped, brainwashed, tricked,
or manipulated, if you can, for their clout in Scientology.
And this has been something L. Ron Hubbard had from day one.
You know, we need the people who have a following.
We need to get celebrities into this thing.
And I wanted you on because you said something yesterday
for those who didn't tune in.
Go watch the live streams yesterday
that he did on his channel.
The link is pinned in the comments.
It is down in the description.
He said, what Scientology does is they look for your weakness.
And when they find that weakness,
they don't use it necessarily to blackmail.
I'm not gonna say it hasn't happened
where they know something about you in your past,
especially when you're holding the cans.
But they find your weakness so that they can solve
your problem and give you strength in that area.
Who do you owe debt to?
It was Scientology that did it.
So I think we're gonna find a common thread.
Anyway, welcome to any of your comments.
Yeah.
And since you're talking about celebrities,
it was a video where I mentioned
that where I was talking about Hulk Hogan.
And Hulk Hogan's a super Christian, right?
He's not a Scientologist, but he's dating a Scientologist.
And this Scientologist, her name is Sky Daily
or Sky Burness.
Actually, her real name is Melanie.
She goes by her middle name.
She lies and she says she's not a Scientologist.
But in reality, she is spying on Hulk Hogan for Scientology.
All of Hulk's personal business, business, business,
family business is being fed to Scientology
so that they can figure out how to worm their way
into his life and find his ruin
and try to get him into Scientology.
I mean, that's just how it works.
That's how Scientology works.
Oh, I can't hear you.
There you go.
I'm unmuted.
It's amazing that this cult still does this.
This practice is continuing today
and they're still trying to work on more celebrities.
So I chose 15.
There are more.
I figure some of these are the top.
And I know that maybe some of them
you don't have as much to say on.
I brought some bullet points to help us
to keep the conversation going.
I don't know who you picked, so I hope I can be helpful.
It's a mystery to Aaron or A.A. Ron
as much as it is to everybody else who's tuning in.
I'm gonna try to refer to you as your real name is A.A. Ron.
Can you call me Aaron?
It's really A.A. Ron, come on.
You can't have an intro like that
and it not be what sticks, you know?
I mean, you can call me whatever you want, I don't care.
All right, Jay Quillen.
We're gonna,
such a great, great key and pill episode.
All right, let's get the party started.
How's that sound?
Let's go ahead and pop up some celebrities here.
And of course, I'm gonna go ahead
and hopefully it doesn't come up distorted.
No, it looks good.
It looks good.
Okay, let me exit it again.
Here's the problem.
When I'm trying to share the screen,
it somehow fills up and I can't see my bullet points.
So what we're gonna do that's even better than this,
I'm gonna share the one with the bullet points,
but we're gonna focus on the celebrity specifically.
And of course, we put together a little something,
something fancy, smancy to help people to understand 15,
15 of them that have been duped.
And so I want to go full screen,
pause me whenever you want.
I'll be exiting this and we'll come back
to the screen to each other.
And let me know if you have any extra comments
you'd like to make pertain into it.
So here they are.
We're gonna start with the top one.
Of course, who's the heavy hitter, right?
Leah Remini, for those who don't know the aftermath show,
she has literally gone above and beyond.
I almost think more than anyone.
Wouldn't you agree as far as kind of becoming an apostate?
She's like the head honcho.
Oh yeah, no question.
She is fantastic.
And so I know you have-
And by the way, I've been, you know,
the people I've been talking to recently
that are leaving Scientology,
they say Leah Remini is the dirtiest word
that you can say in Scientology these days.
You do not mention Leah Remini's name.
Wow, well, she was born and raised in a Catholic,
a Roman Catholic household prior to the age of eight.
At the age of 10, mother moved the family from Brooklyn
to the Scientology Center in Clearwater, Florida,
Clearwater comes up a lot as the headquarters, is it not?
Well, the headquarters,
they call it the spiritual headquarters,
which is a weird term.
And what they mean by that,
it's actually something they've made up
because it's not even technically true.
Meaning the only thing you can say about Clearwater
is that it's the biggest Scientology organization
in the world.
It's also the only place in the world of Scientology
that you can do OT7,
but OT8 can only be done on the ship.
So it's a little weird to call it the spiritual headquarters.
It's just something they pulled out of their butt
to make it sound fancy.
I guess what I'm saying is Clearwater
is actually not Scientology's headquarters.
Administrative headquarters is out in California.
The top of the bridge is delivered on the ship.
It just happens to be the biggest organization
and it's the biggest moneymaker
and it's where David Miscavige spends most of his time.
He would be where all the money's at, I would imagine.
Yeah, well put.
And definitely I got to visit you sometime down there
when we go to do more videos on this topic.
At 13, her and her sister Nicole
were taking to join Scientology's paramilitary organization
called the Sea Organization,
which you said is technically non-existent.
Which is true.
Sure, it doesn't exist.
I mean, it can't get any more mob-like.
It's crazy that this thing is still functioning
the way it does.
And I think, isn't it illegal in Russia or something?
Didn't they like shut it down?
I can't remember.
There's one of these countries that's like.
So Scientology is not illegal in Russia.
But there are some,
there's an organization in St. Petersburg and in Moscow.
But they did get raided.
Even after they got raided,
they were still open for business.
They were raided because there was some legitimate
money laundering concerns
on behalf of the Russian government.
And yeah, but they weren't raided
because Scientology itself is illegal.
But they're definitely under the watchful eye.
They're definitely on the naughty list.
Absolutely.
I know that they do the same thing with other cults.
And even if you go to like Israel,
modern day Palestine, Israel,
there's certain religious groups
that are not allowed to have any headquarters over there
unless they had signed agreements
not to proselytize in the areas and stuff.
So they have certain boundaries they're not allowed to do.
But they forced the billionaire,
billionaire contract on these kids, right?
Who signed it, Leah and her sister.
Pretty much they've been Scientology their whole life.
And we even have her,
I've seen the video clips almost should have brought them
where she is puppeting their propaganda.
And you could see the brainwash just right out of her mouth.
Leah was a true believer in a sense
that very few people are.
Meaning out of all the Scientology celebrities,
maybe other than Tom Cruise,
I would say she's arguably the one
who actually believed the most.
Like some of the stories that I hear Leah tell
that indicate how much she believed.
Even I kind of go like,
even I go like, really?
Like even I didn't believe that.
Wow.
Like even when she talks about how diligently
and dedicatedly that she would go to study to course
two and a half hours every single day, seven days a week.
Even when she was filming King of Queens.
I'm like, even I would skip study.
Come on now.
But like she's serious.
Like when she, when she found out
that Ms. Gavitch was doing certain things
that technically violated Hubbard policy,
you know, she was truly indignant.
Whereas I was a little more, you know, jaded of like,
well, of course he is.
I mean, but it reflects that my experience
had in some ways made me a bit less of a true believer.
Whereas she was able to be like a true and true and true believer
to the extent that I would argue very few other celebrities
if any other than Tom Cruise was truly as dedicated as she was.
Wow.
This is a personal question having you on here.
Have you talked much with Leah?
I mean, how close are you guys?
And what kind of conversations have you had?
We usually talk more about strategic stuff
that's happening behind the scenes.
Like we don't talk all the time,
but if I call or she'll answer the phone,
if she calls me, I answer the phone obviously.
But you know, she's really busy right now
with a lot of projects that she's doing
and we're really busy with Aftermath Foundation stuff.
But we also keep her, I like to keep her in the loop
on a lot of the good news of the things
the Aftermath Foundation is able to accomplish.
Like when we help someone else escape with a crazy story,
you know, I'll be like, Leah, I got to tell you about this.
So she's been, she's not on our board,
but she is a big contributor and supporter
to the Aftermath Foundation.
That's awesome, man.
Having someone like her in your corner.
And let's ask this one question
before we let everyone move on to the next celebrity.
I think this is an important one.
How much impact would you say her work, the Aftermath,
the show on Netflix, you name it,
has had in getting people to either leave,
apostasize from, keep from,
even considering becoming Scientologists.
How much impact do you think this thing's had?
I mean, we probably couldn't put numbers on a paper
because there's, how do you measure that?
But what do you think based on your experience?
Yeah, so I wouldn't know how to quantify it,
but I think I would say it has had the largest impact
of anything that's come before it.
Like I really don't think there has been anything else
that has had as much of an impact
on getting people to leave Scientology.
Because it's one thing when you're experiencing something
and it's happening to yourself.
It's easy to explain it away or rationalize it
or I'm the problem or whatever.
But when you see it like on screen
and they're people that you know
and there's stories that you've heard pieces of
and you're hearing the full truth for the first time,
it has an eye opening effect sometimes even greater
than having things happen to yourself.
And the one thing about the Aftermath show
and it haven't gone on for three seasons
and the number of different former Scientologists
whose stories were featured on that
is that there's something in that show
that's gonna resonate with any Scientologist in the world.
Right.
And it's stories being told by the people
from their own mouths with their own voices.
It's not just a written word on a page.
It's not subject to editing or editorialization
by non-Scientologists.
And I just think for those reasons
it had just a truly, truly incredible impact.
I hope it continues to and she should not stop
at that just the episode she's done.
I hope more comes to light
because I know she's trying to continue to change things
and people like you are making huge impacts on YouTube.
Your channel has been blowing up.
So I hope-
Well, I think New Media, I think New Media is the way to go.
I mean, pretty much with everything.
And even if a new show comes out,
I think anything that would come out on a,
what do you call it, a network or whatever,
I think a show would be more impactful
if it was like some YouTube exclusive.
You know what I mean?
Like if Mike and Leah do a new show,
it's almost certainly gonna be,
these things always get produced by production companies
and they get sold to like networks or something like that.
I'm sorry, YouTube should do a YouTube exclusive program
on Scientology in my opinion.
And it would reach a lot more people
because that's where the people are these days.
People live in this area.
You're right, it's not, you know, Netflix maybe
at the end of the day, people are at work,
not watching Netflix on social media,
clicking on your live show and go,
dude, I'm at work, A.A. Ron, go, A.A. Ron, go.
You got this, bro.
Whoa, I didn't know that.
And they're writing while at work.
So there's something about what you're describing
as a fact to this.
Yeah, and there's several reasons
why I do the channel the way that I do it.
But one of the reasons is because I want others to do it.
I want, there's so many other former Scientologists
out there who would also do a great job
talking about Scientology from their own perspective.
Cause I talk about Scientology,
I talk about it very accurately,
but I'm also talking about it from my perspective.
My perspective is not the only perspective.
You could be in another part of the world
and have had a different experience.
You could have been at higher echelons of management
and it had different experience.
You could have, no matter what,
there's different perspectives.
And again, one of the reasons I'm doing it
is to show other people, this is not hard guys.
And if you enjoy doing it,
that's the thing you really do have to enjoy doing it.
It's time consuming, but like what?
I got maybe $80 of lights.
I'm filming this right now on my phone.
I'm looking into my iPhone right now.
That's awesome.
You know, anybody can do it.
And the more the better, honestly,
because Scientology,
let's give those Scientology Sierg members
something to do all day.
You know, let's generate fun content for them to watch
since they're gonna be tasked to spy on us anyway.
Let's give them something fun and educational.
Let's tell them about Xenu.
Let's talk to them about body agents.
Let's talk about the clear cognition.
Let's, you know.
You know, before we move to the next celebrity,
it is interesting what you just said.
They're not supposed to know this OT8, OT7, OT8 stuff
or whatever it's OT5 up.
I don't know where that limit is
where they now are allowed to know about Xenu.
But how does someone like Ms. Scavige or the higher ups,
like how do they address this for like, crap,
they're literally telling you what you're not supposed
to know till you pay me a half a million dollars.
But I need you to spy on these people.
They tell them that it's false.
They say that's Squirrel.
Squirrel is a Scientology word for altering Scientology.
So they say that's Squirrel.
That's not true.
That's not the real, they're saying it that way.
They're twisting it to make it worse
to scare people off from Scientology.
And then if you go, but it's on the internet.
And you go, yeah, somebody released fake OT levels
to the internet and pretended that it was the OT levels again
to try to scare people off from Scientology.
So, but could you imagine being in Scientology, right?
And you're exposed to the Xenu stuff.
You've watched South Park and whatever.
And you ask an official whether this stuff is true
and you're told for decades that it's not true.
It's not true. It's not true.
And then you get onto OT3 and you find out after all this time
that it's true.
That's exactly what I was thinking.
I imagine by then there's a real thing
of cognitive dissonance.
And that's something my channel does a lot on studying.
But it's like, you put how much money you got here?
You know what, fine, hook or crook.
I'm just gonna believe this stuff now.
Like, I imagine that you put that much time in
and then you're just sold.
In fact, that's what our good friend, Karen Delecarrier,
actually said.
She felt embarrassed to tell me
that she believed what she was reading.
And I was like, don't feel bad.
I've believed in some wild stuff too.
But, you know, she said like, I believed it.
And then later she goes, I can't believe I believed it.
So, what do you do?
What do you do?
And I keep referring you to your name as AIRON.
And notice that.
I'm gonna try to stop.
I'm gonna try to stop because I'm watching your fans
and your fans are like AIRON, AIRON.
Anywho, back to the celebrities here.
Let's go ahead and see what we have here.
Ethan Supley, is it Supley or Supley?
Supley.
Supley, American film and television actor,
allegedly a member of the tight Rabisi clan,
a group of celebrity Scientologists,
many of whom have since left the religion,
married to Brandy Lewis, who is a devotee,
Scientologist herself, or devout, sorry.
I'm trying to look behind my camera.
Brandy Lewis and her sister, Juliet Lewis,
were raised with the influence of Scientology,
became a Scientologist after doing the purification rundown
to deal with his addiction to painkillers,
following major surgery in 1996.
There sounds like a weakness.
No evidence of him promoting Scientology
in interviews or public appearances.
He definitely has transformed.
So Ethan Supley was actually raised in Scientology.
Now he might tell this story about painkillers
so that it sounds like he actually had some organic way
of joining Scientology.
I guess that would be the opposite of organic
because he was raised in Scientology.
He's been in Scientology since he was a kid.
So if he's making it sound like Scientology
helped him get off painkillers and that's how he got in,
that's just an example of him trying to pitch it in a way
that would appeal to others who've had an experience
like that.
So technically he's not doing interviews and shows
like it says, but that is, his testimony is the promotion
in a way is what you're saying.
Well, yeah, I mean, wherever you even found that,
like for him, that means he said that to a journalist
at one point or another in some interview,
even if it was 20 years ago.
Like that's just not true.
That's not how he got in.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
That is interesting.
I'm just kind of shocked that all of these celebrities
are buying into it or at least there's a lot
of that don't, I'm sure.
Well, so here's the thing.
If all someone thinks about Scientology
is the crazy Xenus stuff, then it seems crazy
that people buy into it.
But Ethan Supley's never done the OT levels.
He doesn't know about the Xenus stuff.
And one thing you'll notice when you hear celebrities
talk about Scientology, they talk about it in a way
that makes it just sound like a self-help group
and not like a religion because two Scientologists,
that is for the most part, how they think about it.
Even L. Ron Hubbard didn't always call Scientology a religion.
And if it didn't have to be called a religion
for tax purposes, they would never call Scientology a religion.
Scientology is very self-help-y.
You'll always hear celebrities say,
Scientology gives you the tools
that you need to handle X, Y, and Z.
Tools, tools, and if you take any course in Scientology,
it's all about that.
It's like tools.
I mean, it might as well be a Tony Robbins seminar.
Now, you then have auditing,
which is that's where you get into,
because they call it spiritual counseling,
you get into territory that sort of starts
to sneak into the religion area.
But I guess this is what it comes down to.
You've got Scientology courses
and you've got Scientology auditing.
Celebrities oftentimes do more of the course work
and that's where it's more like tools and betterment
and to be more efficient and communicate better
and handle work better and handle relationships better.
And it's just, it's so unlike anything
that people would normally call a religion,
that you can sort of dupe people
by talking about it different ways
depending on what it is you're trying to get them to do.
So if Ethan Supele is gonna talk about it,
oh, he's gonna talk about Scientology
as if it's just a way to get off drugs.
Okay, well, that would appeal to people
who have had problems with drugs, you know?
Jerry Seinfeld has told a story
about dabbling in Scientology
and it took a communication course
that helped him project better from stage
and he actually credits the communication course
with helping him with his act.
Well, you go, what the hell does that have to do
with religion or Xenu or Theitens?
You're like, nothing.
So Scientology has so many different facets
and so many different personalities, if you will.
That when you're trying to convince someone to do it,
you can describe it pretty much however you want
to appeal to that person.
And so that's what you're seeing with Ethan
is he's making it sound like it's a great way
to get off drugs.
That's what Kirstie Alley always did.
She always said that Scientology saved her life
because it got her off drugs.
You're like, well, what's that gotta do with religion?
But that's how she sells it.
Wow.
Okay, moving on to Nancy Cartwright here.
So we have Nancy Cartwright was raised Roman Catholic
but joined the Church of Scientology in 1991.
She was awarded Scientology's patron, Laura Tay.
Laura.
Laura.
Laura.
She's sitting here doing this,
trying to see behind this wire.
Award after donating 10 million,
almost twice her annual salary to the church in 2007.
2007, Cartwright was a romantic relationship
with contractor Stephen Brackett,
a fellow member of Scientology in early 2008.
The couple had made plans to marry
but Brackett died in May 2009
after he apparently leaped off
the Bixby Creek Bridge in Big Sur, California.
Not only is she a firm believer in the religion
but she is also a major donor in 2007.
The voice actress was awarded the status of a patron.
You said Lorette.
Patron Laureate.
Laureate.
Because of her donations to the religion
and told her more than 10 million.
Can you tell us a little bit about her
and anything that I didn't cover
or maybe go deeper into what her husband's death may be
or yeah, can you imagine being a high profile
Scientology celebrity
and your Scientologist husband jumps off of a bridge
and that doesn't get you to go,
what the heck, what the heck am I involved in?
I have no idea how she actually got
into Scientology in the first place
but I can tell you that when you see her getting a trophy
for Patron Laureate for donating 10 million,
that is just 10 million to the IAS,
the International Association of Scientologists.
That is the membership organization of Scientology.
She has donated 10s more millions to Scientology
for their various real estate projects and other programs.
That 10 million was just to the IAS.
She is one of Scientology's biggest cash cows.
She really is.
She makes so much other than her annual salary.
She gets so many residuals for the last 20,
whatever years of the Simpsons there are.
I mean, she is gonna be rolling in it
for the rest of her life
and she turns over the vast majority
of her money to Scientology.
And you can imagine how far the band of her backwards
to keep her happy.
You know, we hear about Scientology
having Searge members working
in Tom Cruise's personal household
and doing things for him.
I guarantee you Scientology does something similar
for Nancy Cartwright.
The kind of money she's bringing in.
I am curious to know,
have you done a deep dive on her husband?
And are there any clues as to what?
I've read about that story.
And you know what, Mark Hedley.
If you ever chat with Mark Hedley,
I'll suggest that he speak with you.
He or his wife, Claire, or even Mike Rinder
would probably have some behind the scenes info
about what Scientology did as far as damage control.
Well, particularly Mike Rinder would know a lot about that.
Damage control.
Because I also don't know how high up the bridge
her fiance was when he jumped off the bridge.
I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, he jumped.
Okay, there's a joke to be made there, but I won't make it.
It's probably bad, yeah.
Well, yeah, like I don't know had he done his OT levels,
had he been to the int base, you know?
But whatever occurred there,
there would have been a lot of stuff
happening behind the scenes.
Well, damage control.
And to make sure that Nancy herself
was gonna continue to remain in the fold.
They would have given her a ton of free auditing
to resolve the upsets that she had about that.
And to make sure it didn't mess with her head to the point
that she started to question Scientology itself.
But I didn't know anything about that.
In fact, I wonder what year it was.
Like, she's much older than me.
I'm only 42 now.
So did it say in your bullet points what year he jumped?
Okay.
No, I don't think so.
I have in early 2009, he died, May 2009.
So yes, it does.
Oh my God, that's so much more recent
than I would have guessed.
Yeah, because in early 2008,
the couple had made plans to marry
but Brackett died in May 2009
after he apparently leaped off the Bixby Creek Bridge
in Big Sur, California.
Well, if they were looking to get married in 2009,
there's no question he was a Scientologist.
But have you tried looking up his name?
If you Google someone's name
and go Scientology service completions,
you will get not a complete list
but a somewhat decent list of any place
his name has appeared in a Scientology magazine.
There's a website that captures that information.
So it would be really interesting to see
how much auditing that guy had had,
how far up the bridge he was.
Yeah, and that's something I need to bring up to Mike.
Please get me connected with these guys.
Yeah, real quick.
What's her fiance's name again?
Her fiance's name was Brackett.
So let me see.
Steven?
I think it is.
Steven Brackett.
Yeah, Steven, P-H-E-N, of course, Brackett, B-R-A-C-K-E-T-T.
So Steven Brackett.
Let me check.
You're checking it out there now.
Oh, okay, he's in here.
Several different spellings.
T-H-S-T-A-S-T.
No, no, it's fine.
I've got it.
I've got it, but it's just...
Okay.
Just to answer, Apollos,
thank you for the super chats, everybody.
Is Scientology a legal nonprofit 501c3 in the US?
Yes, it is right now.
And of course, this is trying to...
The whole how they became is...
And even the stuff that was going on back,
there's so much here, Apollos,
that we don't even have time to get into, but yes, it is.
However, they're doing things
that no nonprofit should be doing
with the kind of money they're getting through the job.
Anyway, so Stephen Brackett was OT7.
He had done almost the entirety of Scientology's bridge.
And that's...
That's pretty high.
It is incredible to think that somebody
who was either OT7 or OT8
and married to Nancy Cartwright,
jumped off of a bridge to their death.
Like, that's worst case scenario for Scientology.
I mean, the only way that could be worse
is if he took his own life on the road
I mean, the only way that could be worse
is if he took his own life on a Scientology property.
That is devastating.
And yeah, well, they must have done
a relatively good job covering it up
because I don't remember this being
some big giant deal in Scientology.
I was still in Scientology at this time.
And I don't remember it being a big giant deal.
Like it was kept very hush-hush, yeah.
Yeah, because anyone who's been that purged
of their things, why would they...
And I know I'm making light of it,
but I'm really...
It's a serious thing,
but I'm kind of wanting to make the point
is you're far from...
How are you doing that
if you're not getting closer to being
that the fate and you wanna be kind of thing?
So in light of that, I'm curious,
and this is a complete guess.
I don't want anyone holding this against you.
It is your opinion,
but it made me think of murder.
And I don't know,
but do you think that there have ever been
a trigger plugged on anyone?
Like an actual hit that went through
that may be underneath,
that buried, so to speak, in Scientology?
Do you think that there has been anything like that?
Not that was requested by Scientology.
I mean, I know of Scientologists who have committed murder,
but not that was...
Like Rex Fowler is an example.
I knew Rex and his son, Alex.
But like, no.
Like even Scientology's biggest enemies,
Paulette Cooper comes to mind.
Who was the guy that Bob Minton comes to mind?
Who was the major tech guy who left?
I can't believe.
David Mayo, David Mayo, Pat Broker.
Ms. Gavitch has shown that he will spend tens
of millions of dollars to have somebody followed
and spied on and harassed and framed.
For some reason, he would rather do that
than just have someone offed.
I guess we'll give him some credit for that.
But yeah, but I mean, the fact that
there are so many high profile examples
of him spending so much time and treasure
when just logistically speaking,
it would be so much simpler for Scientology,
although much riskier to have someone
have some unfortunate accidents.
I think the record shows that Scientology, Ms. Gavitch,
does stop short of playing any direct involvement
in trying to get somebody offed.
I kind of wonder if Elron Hubbard obviously has
those limits too, so they're trying to play it
by his playbook, you know?
Well, I mean, he did say that if someone's declared
a suppressive person or an enemy of the group
that they can be destroyed utterly,
he did not specify what destroyed utterly meant.
Now, there was another thing that he wrote
that if I've always taken in jest,
but somebody could argue it wasn't in jest,
there's something Elron Hubbard called Routine 45.
Now, routine, there was a period in Scientology
where his quote unquote research
was specifically centered on methods
to get someone to have an out of body experience.
In Scientology, they would call it to exteriorize.
And routine, I believe this was routine two,
and there was routine two.
The routine two processes were all a variation
of processes on how to exteriorize.
The idea being that once you have an out of body experience,
you have subjective reality that Scientology works.
Well, the joke was that there's many ways
to exteriorize somebody,
and R245 would be just taking a Colt 45
and shooting yourself in the head,
and you would immediately exteriorize.
The joke is, yes, it would exteriorize.
It would also defeat the point of doing Scientology,
because now you have to pick up a new body,
and it'll be 18 years or so
before you can get auditing again.
So the reason I've always taken it as a joke
is because it doesn't accomplish the purpose of,
killing yourself doesn't accomplish
the purpose of Scientology.
Wow.
And yet Hubbard did write something that said
you can use R245 against enemies of Scientology.
Was it a joke?
Was it not a joke?
I'll leave it to esteemed academics and journalists
to argue amongst themselves on that.
It's like a theological interpretation
of something that might be ugly,
or it could be just,
well, you're interpreting that wrong.
That's allegory.
No, no, no, it's literal.
He said, cut your hand off.
If it's, yeah, that's pretty wild.
Thank you for that, Aaron.
I appreciate it.
Now we're going to Nancy Cartwright.
So Nancy Cartwright,
oh, we already did Nancy Cartwright.
What am I talking about here?
We're going to Jason.
Jason, is it Dofring?
Doring.
Doring.
Look, man, you're always all over these celebs.
So I am.
Well, Jason Dofring actually worked
as a Scientology staff member
for many years in Los Angeles.
Like he, again, was born and raised in Scientology.
His father founded the company Neopets.
Dofring also has a couple twin brothers, I believe,
like their twins.
I don't think he's a twin.
And yeah, born and raised in Scientology,
this one was.
Wow.
Well, I got Scientologist
and has credited Scientology
for his understanding of acting and career professionalism,
second generation Scientologist,
as he is the son of Scientologist
and multi-millionaire Doug Dofring
and was raised in the Church of Scientology,
involved in promoting Scientology.
Is there anything in particular
that we didn't mention here that you know about?
Jason?
No, just that he was actually a staff member,
which is unusual for a celebrity.
He was already a celebrity
when he joined staff at Los Angeles org.
And I just found out yesterday
that Connor Cruz himself was a staff member
at the Los Angeles org.
Tom Cruz told him that he had to pay his dues
and he had to do at least a two and a half year contract.
He did more than a two and a half year contract.
Connor Cruz was actually the ethics officer
at the Los Angeles org from about 2010 to 2014,
which is remarkable to consider
because the ethics officer is one of the people in the orgs
who knows all the dirt on everyone.
So during, I think his job there was to help introduce
the people to Scientology.
And perhaps that's like in division six.
Division six is the part of the organization
that's responsible for bringing new people in.
And maybe that's why he did that is
because his celebrity status would help him do his job.
Again, it's very rare for a celebrity to join staff.
So I guess I give him some kudos for,
well, yeah, putting his shoulder to the wheel
in ways very few celebrities would.
Well, I was actually literally,
we're going right to Doug Doring
and I suspect this is the father.
He and his wife, Lori, both Scientologists, oops.
Both Scientologists, they have five children,
including two sets of identical twins and actor, Jason Doring,
best known for his roles in the series,
Veronica Mars and Moonlight.
Jason is also a member of Scientology.
In 2017, Doug reached the vaunted status
of patron Excalibur for donating 20 million
to Scientology's membership organization, the IAS.
The family is one of the largest fundraising sources
in the church.
In 2017, they had reached 20 million in donations
to the Internal Association of Scientologists,
Scientology's membership organization,
which I just repeated the same bullet point,
but that's a ridiculous amount of money.
And-
I'm just Googling something
to make sure I don't get it wrong.
Okay. I believe, oh, here we go.
This is true.
So Doug Doring is another cash cow for Scientology.
Not only did he found Neopets
and make a bazillion dollars from that,
Doug Doring runs and owns ABC Mouse,
which is probably the most popular, famous,
online learning platform for young children.
Have you heard of ABC Mouse?
I have.
Okay. So you know what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
This company is a source of untold wealth to Scientology,
because whereas the company itself is,
it doesn't really push Scientology.
Like it's not like if you're using their curriculum online,
it's not like secretly teaching you Scientology,
but the profits generated by this company,
a major portion of the profits are funneled
directly to Scientology.
For that reason alone,
people may want to consider not using ABC Mouse.
Not because of anything wrong with their curriculum,
but because profits from this company go to fund Scientology.
And yeah.
So he has had a lot of success in business.
And Scientology has been a huge benefactor of that success.
It's mind blowing.
That this-
Beneficiary, sorry.
If you think about it,
Elron Hubbard's approach to trying to get the rich
and the famous in on this and getting them brainwashed
is one of the smartest business moves you could make.
The problem is, I mean, it's David Miscavige
and the ridiculous leadership involved in this cult
that really, I don't know, man.
I don't know how much longer this thing can last.
The way that he runs things and all the dirt
that keeps coming up about things that are happening.
Yeah.
We'll see.
Yeah.
Their tax exempt status will eventually be revoked.
I'm quite confident in that.
I can't say how long it will be.
And Scientology, when that process is happening,
will be fighting for its very existence.
So they're not gonna go down without a fight.
And whatever they did to the IRS the first time,
they're likely to rev-
I mean, I think they filed like 2000 individual lawsuits
against various IRS employees.
And it's part of how they brought the IRS to their knees
to get their tax exempt status back in 1993.
So even though it's gonna be a long, hard fight,
I do believe their tax exemption will eventually be revoked.
And once that happens,
that really would be the last nail in their coffin.
I mean, they'll probably last for many years beyond that,
you know, in one form or another,
but that really will be the final chapter.
Wow.
So this next celebrity,
I actually enjoy a lot of Brad Pitt
in terms of his videos and things like that.
Like I've always enjoyed his movies.
He's dabbled in Scientology for three years.
Pitt was introduced to the church of Scientology
in the early 1990s by his then girlfriend, actress,
Juliette Lewis.
I'm having to see it behind my camera.
He left the church of Scientology after three years
when he broke things off with Juliette Lewis
to seek superstardom on his own in 1993,
continued to reject their later attempts to redraft him.
Scientology source recalled that during Pitt's time there,
he underwent a purification rundown
at the Portland Celebrity Center
where he was forced to spend up to five hours a day
every day for an entire month to sweat in a hot sauna
where he was assigned a 15-year-old teenage girl
as a buddy, whatever that even means.
He was also screamed at by the church,
by church superiors during bull-baiting sessions
as part of another strange initiation trial.
Of course, everybody knows Pitt.
I enjoy his videos.
Do you have anything else that we don't have
on Brad Pitt and his involvement?
The way the media characterizes some of that stuff
is pretty silly.
His involvement was purely due to the fact
that he was going out with Juliette Lewis.
Juliette Lewis was born and raised in Scientology.
Her dad, Jeffrey Lewis, had been in Scientology
since the early days of some of the black and white Westerns
that he did with Clint Eastwood.
I've heard that even in some of Clint Eastwood's early movies,
there is someone credited in the credits
as being like the assist auditor or something.
That's a Scientology thing.
Okay, so it was really just the fact
that he was going out with Juliette Lewis
and she managed to get him to do the Purif.
And the Purif is the first thing,
the first step on Scientology's bridge.
And it's a sauna thing.
The idea is that it sweats out drug residues
that Hubbard said was stored in the fat cells.
And there's no science to it at all.
It's ridiculous.
But it makes people feel like they're being detoxified
and they're being more aware and they're more vibrant
and all this kind of stuff.
And then they start doing real auditing.
So Brad Pitt did that Purif.
I really thought he did it at Flag here in Clearwater
and not at Celebrity Center,
but I could be wrong about that.
And I remember that.
I remember that.
He was already a celebrity.
He was already more famous than Juliette Lewis
when they got together.
I know that.
I haven't pulled up his IMDB or his movie history,
but what had he already done by around 1992 or three
or something like that?
Yeah, yeah, and I just think it's funny
that they're using the girlfriend again,
like your previous video about talking about Hulk Hogan.
What is going on?
I love how you said there's no way.
She has a relationship with her family
who are deeply involved in Scientology,
saying, oh, I'm not a Scientologist publicly
to try and kind of not look bad,
but it's truly like she has to be.
And so I think the leverage of getting the spouse
or the girlfriend or whoever to get the other person
to join if this is a celebrity, what a great tactic.
Yeah, oh, and more on that Hulk Hogan thing.
I found out something, again, I should have learned this.
I might have already known this and I forgot about it.
His girlfriend, Sky Daily,
wasn't just someone who was raised in Scientology.
She was a Sea Org member at the Flag Land Base.
Sky Daily, Sky Burness was a Sea Org member.
You don't go from being a Sea Org member
and having OT seven and eight parents
to saying, I'm no longer in Scientology.
Really, according to whom?
Aaron, can you tell?
Go ahead, what?
I need you to tell our audience
how important this is, what you're saying,
because there are people on my channel
who really don't know the ends of what that means.
So what, Sea Org, Schme Org?
Like, explain why what you're saying is so powerful.
Well, the Sea Org members is the most
highly dedicated group of Scientologists that there is.
They're the ones that signed the billion year contracts,
the lifetime commitment to do nothing
but work for Scientology.
Sea Org members aren't allowed to date non Sea Org members.
They're not allowed to marry non Sea Org members.
Sea Org members don't own homes.
They don't, they live, it would be almost like
Scientology's version of whatever in Christianity,
like a monastery, is a monastery a Christian thing?
Yeah, like a monk.
Yeah, it's your life.
You live in Scientology-provided housing.
You eat Scientology-provided meals.
You're wearing Scientology-provided clothes.
You don't, it's 24, seven, 365.
It's not like I work for Scientology five days a week
and then I have my weekends.
There are no weekends when you're a Sea Org member.
You don't go home for Christmas.
There are no, you don't have any guaranteed days off.
Like, and that's what Sky Daily was.
And not only was she a Sea Org member,
she worked as one of the ethics officers.
It doesn't get more dedicated,
more like really right in the thick of it
of Scientology world than what Sky Daily was.
You don't just be like,
oh, I'm not a Scientologist anymore.
That's not how it works.
So to be very blunt, if she is not declared,
she's full of it.
Yeah, if she's not declared, she's still a Scientologist.
Which in other terms for those watching,
declared means seen as an apostate,
an enemy of the church.
That if she's not seen as that and not vocalized
and is clearly that, this is BS.
So she's telling a fib.
And at the end of the day, I think,
do you think that there are some ways
they've been the rules for celebrities?
Meaning, you're not supposed to date non-Scientologist.
However, Holt Hogan.
A Sea Org member would never be allowed to date
a non-Sea Org member.
Sky left the Sea Org.
Okay, okay, got it.
It's kind of like Leah Remini used to be in the Sea Org
for a short spell when she was young, right?
You can leave the Sea Org.
I left the Sea Org way before I left Scientology.
But my point is, she's not just someone who dabbled.
She's not just someone who grew up like,
oh, Scientology's something my parents did
and I was a kid, so I went along.
No, you were in the Sea Org.
That's the significance of that.
Wow, wow.
Thank you for that.
So we were on Brad Pitt.
I enjoy his videos.
So, you know, I hope that he stays away from it.
Would it stay away from Scientology?
Definitely.
All right, we're going to somebody else
that's kind of mysterious to me.
And I'm curious, my mom is curious.
She met her before we went live.
And Lisa Marie Presley.
So this is something I have not been quite up to speed on.
Obviously, she's the daughter of Elvis Presley.
I'm not going to read all of this
because I'm first of all going to butcher something
and it's hidden behind my camera
and I'm going to look like an idiot.
But, point blank, it sounds like Elvis Presley's daughter,
Hookline and Sinker, became a Scientologist.
And it seems in 2014, left the church,
though she had been experiencing growing discontent
with Scientology as far as back as 2008.
And for those who are interested in photo,
there is Elvis Presley's daughter, Lisa Marie Presley.
And I don't know who the gentleman is there, but there's...
That might have been her son, Ben.
Okay.
So, tell us, Erin, about Lisa Marie Presley.
What do you know about her and her involvement with Scientology?
So Lisa Marie is one of these celebrities
who due to her having so many different weaknesses,
Scientology has their hooks into her
in a way where they really do kind of control her life,
even though she probably privately would tell you
she's no longer a Scientologist.
You know, there was a time when she had,
for all intents and purposes, left.
She was in touch with high-profile suppressive people
like Ron Miscavige and Leah Remini and Mike Rinder
and many others.
She was helping behind the scenes
expose what David Miscavige had done to his father,
Ron Miscavige.
She had essentially told Miscavige off personally.
Like she wasn't being shy or coy about the fact
that she had gone over to the other side
or gone over to the dark side is what Scientology would say.
But the problem is that she has,
I don't think it's a secret,
like she's had some very public divorce issues
and her ex-husband or more than one of them
have been very public about her problems with drugs.
And even when Lisa Marie left Scientology,
she still had Scientologists working for her,
even having Scientologists as her kid's nannies.
Well, those people were just spying on her for Scientology.
And she sort of knew that,
but felt like it was a small price to pay
for her kids to continue to have the nannies
that they'd always known and loved.
Lisa Marie has a daughter Riley
and Riley doesn't really care about Scientology much either,
but she has Scientology friends that she really loves.
And I think Riley has kind of a rocky relationship
with Lisa Marie to the point where
if Riley had to choose between keeping her Scientology friends
or keeping her mother,
she would probably choose her friends over her mother, right?
And so it's kind of like if Lisa Marie keeps speaking out,
then Riley's Scientology friends would be made to choose,
would be made to disconnect from her.
So it's kind of like, to the best of my understanding,
it's like Lisa Marie's kind of like,
oh, I can't speak out because also her nannies,
she says her nannies have so much dirt on her
that if she continues to speak out,
they'll get her kids taken away.
And I'm like, it all sounds like bullshit to me
to be perfectly honest.
Like if you had to go to,
if Lisa Marie Presley wanted to go to war
with David Miscavige,
I think Lisa Marie Presley is gonna win.
I just don't think Lisa Marie,
Scientology has a lot of dirt on her.
I just don't personally believe
that that dirt is what keeps her in.
I think, I feel like it's a convenient excuse
because she doesn't want Riley to disconnect from her.
And she knows that Riley would disconnect from her
if she was forced to.
That's my personal belief.
All of that could be total bullshit for all I know.
Wow. So let me phrase it another way.
Do you think that there are possible negotiations
from someone like Miscavige,
who's like, we can't have her like blown for good
and never, you know, try to get her to keep silent.
So, hey, we won't pressure you.
We'll leave you alone.
We'll allow you to live your life and all that.
Just don't talk about this anymore.
And they don't wanna like get her back full militant
or they're not gonna push themselves
to make her more militant.
Do you think that negotiation is something on the table?
Yes.
I fully believe, personally, this could be false,
I fully believe that she was told,
if you keep speaking out,
we are gonna turn this dirt over to your husband
for your lawsuits so that he can at least try
to get custody of the kids.
And that she is being quiet,
but is not actually a Scientologist.
Like, I don't think Lisa Marie Presley is a Scientologist,
but I think the dirt that they have on her
or at least what they've threatened to do to her
is part of why she just doesn't speak out anymore.
I feel really bad for her.
And it sucks for anybody who's gotten that deep
into something, like I imagine cognitive dissonance,
the trouble, maybe she's just tired of fighting.
And that's another thing.
It's hard to know, it's hard to know,
but I can't imagine the threats aren't there,
like you're saying.
I think there's some type of leverage.
If not, wouldn't you think she'd be in the next show
with Leah Remini or?
Yeah, I don't feel sorry for her.
Really?
Yeah, she's using a lot of excuses to justify why
she is just gonna continue to be quiet.
And it's like, anyone could be using the excuses
that you're using, your excuses are bullshit.
They might be true, they're just not,
they don't rise to the level of like,
oh, okay, so you're gonna be the only one
who doesn't have to experience any discomfort in your life.
So that's okay.
All right, at least in a moment.
Yeah, cause she knows a lot more.
Okay, to defend what you're saying here,
and your channel goes in depth,
I want our audience who thinks,
whoa, Aaron, you're showing no empathy here.
No, there's more to this than what meets the eye.
So I'm defending you while you're suggesting
she knows so many other suffering people
who've dealt with what Scientology has done.
Yeah.
And so you're saying, while it may be a discomfort
for her in some way, how is she sleeping at night?
Like, how can you?
She's sleeping on her hundreds of millions of dollars.
That's how she's sleeping at night.
Like, that's the thing, like for her to be like,
oh, I have so much at risk.
You don't have anything to risk.
What, your daughter who already doesn't like you
will disconnect from you, that's your excuse.
Like, if your daughter who's not actually a Scientologist
would disconnect from you,
then Scientology's not the problem.
You're the problem.
Like, I mean, I just don't have sympathy for her
because so many people have sacrificed so much
to help expose the abuse that Lisa Marie's
just put herself on the sidelines
and has come up with a bunch of very nice excuses
for why that's the right thing to do.
And that's fine.
It's the right thing to do for her
and that's her decision,
but I don't have any respect for it.
Got it.
Okay.
Wow.
So I'm glad we opened up that can of worms.
That was interesting.
I was gonna show as well, of course,
just for people to see Elvis Presley himself
and their baby pictures,
young pictures of her as a child.
Now we're going to,
and I'm gonna butcher this last name, Riley Keo.
Riley Keo, that's Lisa Marie's daughter.
Okay, so Riley, we touched on her
and just let me give a picture here.
I'm not gonna go full screen,
but you can see a picture of her daughter.
Do you feel like you've pretty much said
everything you need to about Riley?
Yeah, I mean, I've never met Morali
and I don't know much about her
other than things that I've been told.
She's a very successful actress
and star of at least one show.
And she's doing very well on her own.
And I do not believe that she is a Scientologist,
but she has some very close friends
who themselves are Scientologists.
And even if those close friends also
don't really give a damn about Scientology,
they are part of large Scientology families.
So like a Georgie Flores is someone who
most people won't know, but Scientologists will know.
Georgie Flores is very tight with Riley Keough.
Well, Georgie Flores comes from a big,
well-known and wealthy Scientology family.
And Riley just likes her life and likes her friends
and doesn't wanna rock that boat.
And my understanding is that she's like,
hey, mom, if you're gonna make me pick
between you and my friends, I'm gonna pick my friends.
So keep your mouth shut if you wanna keep
the relationship with me.
All of this may or may not be true.
This is stuff I hear through the grapevine
from the California-based Scientologists
and former Scientologists who are aware of such things.
This could all be total bullshit.
But to the best of my knowledge,
that's sort of the situation.
And Riley herself was very much contributing
to the exposed Scientology's crimes agenda.
She was, Riley was very much cheerleading her mom
and everything that she was doing
to help expose David Miscavish in Scientology's crimes.
And they've both kind of just quieted down.
And that's fine, it doesn't have to be everyone's fight.
I guess my feelings about Riley are less harsh
than my feelings about Lisa Marie, to be honest.
I'm not even sure why.
Yeah, you have your own, yeah.
I mean, you're deeper into this than I ever was, of course.
But I'd like to bring up Laura, is it prepping?
Oh, pre-pond.
Pre-pond.
See, I can't get a single name.
You know what?
I gotta get a million dollars
if I can get any of these names right.
Someone send me a million dollars.
So Laura Pre-pond actually was on that 70s show, right?
So she's a co-star.
Her brother, Christopher Masterson,
we're gonna get into this.
Of course, this is where it gets juicy if it isn't already.
Wait, it's not her brother.
Co-star's brother, Christopher, sorry,
Christopher Masterson from the 1990,
but 1999 and 2000.
But we're gonna get into Masterson, of course,
to my point, who is a Scientologist?
Became a Scientologist 1999 and 2021 revealed
that she had not practiced Scientology since 2016.
It was no longer a part of her life.
Another picture, everybody knows that face
on that 70s show.
Well, and also Orange is the new black.
She was the star.
She was the co-star of Orange is the new black.
Oh, that's right.
What do you know?
What do you know, Aaron?
Well, all I know is that when someone
who was so intimately involved in Scientology leaves
and practically pretends like they were never involved,
I go, give me a fucking break.
Like the amount of stuff that she knows,
even by virtue of her very close involvement
with the Masterson clan is like, okay,
especially with how anti-LGBTQ Scientology is,
and then she's the star of a show where her character is gay,
is like, you could at least speak on the matter.
You could at least comment on the matter
and not whitewash the entire thing.
So I don't have a ton of respect there,
but look, I also recognize it's not everyone's fight,
but she was used as one of the celebrities
who was held up as a reason why
other people should join Scientology.
It just sort of seems to me that,
well, if you were used to bring people into Scientology,
you could at least comment on why you left Scientology
and why other people shouldn't have followed
in your footsteps, at least do that.
You don't have to be on Leah Remini's TV show
or her podcast, but maybe at least say something,
commenting on the matter,
not like, oh, I haven't practiced Scientology.
It's like, oh, shut up, practiced Scientology.
Tell people why you left and then move on.
So, you know, soft, soft, soft, soft,
what is it, soft peddling it, whatever.
Just like Beck did.
Beck is like, oh, it was my father's thing.
No, it wasn't.
You were a Scientologist through and through, shut up.
Stop pretending like it didn't happen.
So anyway, I don't have much to say about Laura
other than the fact that she sort of pretended
like it was just a phase in her life.
I don't do that anymore.
Okay, why don't you do that anymore?
Contribute to the conversation a little bit maybe.
That's it.
You make me think of my own personal situation
when the way you say that, like I left my religion
and there are many people who are in that religion
who say, why do you speak?
Why are you constantly just,
just move on with your life, stop talking about it.
And it's like, eh, this is my fight, right?
So some people have a fight.
Others may not have a fight
and actually speak, have spoke their peace in the past
and said, why they're no longer part of it.
And they move on.
But if someone were to say, you know, that was just a,
I can't imagine.
Like I honestly cannot imagine.
Maybe they're out there just number wise.
I don't know what the numbers would be of people who go,
well, listen, I left Christianity, right?
No longer a Christian, you know, just a phase.
Like that's it.
I can't, I just don't know people who just minimally
participate, but then don't actually vocalize
or try to actually say, hey, I'm out and here's why.
Yeah, I don't know.
So I'll say a little more on that.
To me, the reason someone specifically in Scientology
who leaves would not want to speak out.
And again, I understand it's not,
this isn't going to be an absolute statement
is because I would go, you still are thinking
like a Scientologist that speaking out
would be very evil and suppressive.
And you don't want those former people to think that of you.
You're worried that they're going to see you
as some big evil suppressive person
because you were programmed to believe
only a big evil suppressive person would dare
say something critical publicly about Scientology.
And the fact that you're still holding onto that
contributes to why I go, well, that's kind of fucked up.
Because you're leaving, but did you really leave?
Because you still think, you don't,
you're still worried about what they think about you.
And that's why you're not saying anything.
You still don't want to just,
you're still worried about what either
they're going to think about you
or what they're going to do to you.
And so you're still in self-protection mode.
You're still only doing what you think is best for you.
And that's okay.
I mean, maybe that's everyone.
I mean, who are you to judge?
There are categories.
What you're describing here, Aaron,
there are categories in the Jehovah's Witness world
where I've interviewed a lot of the ex-Jovas Witness
and on Lee Remini's aftermath show, you know, at the end,
they had XJWs on there, we call them JWs.
They have little things called Pimo, Pomo.
Pimo is physically in, mentally out.
So someone who goes to the church practices,
but is really not a believer,
Pomo is physically out, but they're mentally in.
And so the description, if we were to take this,
and the acronyms and apply it,
this kind of could be a Pomo situation
where they're physically out,
but they're like mentally still in the game.
Is it Pomo or Pomi?
Physically out, mentally out.
Physically out, mentally out would be Pomo, right?
Yeah, you're right.
It might be Pomi, P-O-M-I, sorry, good point.
I'm brain dead half the time.
So thank you for help.
So yeah, physically out, mentally in, right.
You're still very preoccupied
with what those people think about you.
Yep.
Well, I'm out, but I didn't do anything.
I didn't say anything.
Yeah, but if the only reason you're not saying anything
is because the people who are in
would think horribly of you, then you're still mentally in.
And a lot of people who fit that category
actually kind of go in to somewhat of what we talked about
with Lisa, with Lisa Presley, talking about their kids.
Their marriage is on the line.
They have a relationship,
like what you talked about with your mom, right?
And your mom was not about to,
or was it your mom or you that,
anyway, you were, in your story,
you were mentioning how like they were gonna say,
you need to cut them out of your life.
Hell no, I'm never cutting my mom out of my life.
And so you took a bold, courageous stance
and said, no dude, not happening.
Well, no, no, I did the opposite.
I mean, I said that I did cut her out,
but I didn't really.
Okay, but then eventually it was another family member
you were mentioning something about this.
They were trying to get them to turn and cut off.
Oh yeah, I mean, eventually when push came to shove,
they were, I was never going to disconnect from my mom,
but I was gonna keep lying to Scientology
and saying that I had it.
Got it.
Yeah, but then in my wife's case,
when they were like, well, you have to divorce your husband
or you're gonna be expelled from Scientology.
She was like, yeah, I'm gonna not divorce my husband.
Thanks.
Not having it, not having it.
Yeah, great.
Thank you so much for clarifying that.
I definitely wasn't aware of it.
Now here's another actor.
I wish I knew how to dance.
Just half as good as this guy has danced in history.
And you know his face all too well.
My dad has some features similar to him, I would say,
not identical, but there's some physical features
I would say, John Travolta.
So I wanna go ahead and pop this up here for a second.
I'm not gonna be able to read all this.
Actually, Aaron, this is why I have you here.
Let's just put his face on the screen,
make everyone go, oh yeah, John, there's John Travolta.
But hold on real quick,
but do pull up the bullet points though,
because for the life of me,
I cannot remember how John got introduced to Scientology.
Let's see, by the way, thank you to my beautiful wife,
Mrs. Mithvision, Ryan,
for putting these bullet points together.
Youngest child, the father, Salvatore.
By the way, can I just jump in and point out
how every single one of these Scientology celebrities
claims they were raised Catholic?
I don't even believe it, actually.
I wonder, yeah, I don't know.
I don't know, man, I don't know.
You'll never hear a Scientologist be like,
I was raised atheist.
Right, right.
Even though Scientologists do not believe in God,
but you'll never hear that part of the story
because that's not gonna resonate
with who they believe they wanna resonate with anyway.
So does it actually say here,
converted to Scientology after being given the book,
Dianetics, while filming The Devil's Rain?
Yeah, I don't believe he just got in
just because of Dianetics,
meaning there's gotta be something more to the story
that for the life of me,
I can't remember who introduced John to Scientology.
But that's okay.
I'm sure you have plenty to say about John's book.
I mean, John's a true believer.
John's a true believer.
He's not necessarily shy or secretive about his bisexuality.
Sometimes I've said, oh, John Travolta is gay.
He's bisexual.
And even in the biographies that have been written about him,
I think that's been made pretty clear.
And even in Mike Rinder's most recent book, A Billion Years,
he tells a story of going to London,
I think it was, and going to John's hotel room
to brief him about something that might happen the next day
at a press conference or a press junket.
And John's masseuse, his male masseuse was there
in a bathrobe and kissed him on the mouth
and said, I'll be in shortly or whatever.
So my point is John's is not someone
who stayed in Scientology because he's being blackmailed.
John's not even necessarily careful
about hiding his bisexuality.
It's why there's always so many damn press reports about it.
Do you know what I'm saying?
And he wasn't even careful in front of Mike Rinder, right?
And who was at that time was a senior Scientology executive
and John wasn't hiding this from Mike.
So he's a true believer.
And this goes to kind of what we were talking about earlier
as far as helping someone in their biggest moments
of weakness and whatnot.
John Kelly Preston isn't even the first partner
that John has had who has died.
And his son, Jett, died.
And Scientology was there to help him through
some of the worst moments of John's life.
And if you were to ask John, well,
do you really believe about all the zinus stuff and this?
Even if he didn't, he would still probably tell you
that he values the people and the help that he has gotten
and come to know in Scientology.
Like for him, I think it's about the culture.
I think it's about the relationships
and it's about the people.
And he does talk about things like study technology
and Kirstie Alley was one of his best friends
and she claims Scientology saved her from drug addiction
and things like that.
So I guess what I'm saying is John Travolta is a true believer
and I wish I knew more about how he really got introduced
in the first place.
I'm trying to wreck my brain
and I don't even remember knowing the story.
It's interesting you bring up and out the gate
the bisexuality situation and I wonder why this is a big deal.
Is it like taboo?
Is it a sin in Scientology?
It's one of the worst things in Scientology.
And the thing is there's not even an excellent explanation
for why, because when you consider the fact
that Scientologists think we are all immortal,
genderless spiritual beings who live lifetime after lifetime
you could be a man, a woman, a man, a woman, a man, a woman.
Who gives a damn who you're attracted to?
It doesn't seem to make sense.
One of the reasons it doesn't make sense
is because Scientology's not supposed to make sense
and Elron Hubbard was really just a person of his time.
He was racist in a period where racism was commonplace.
He was homophobic in a period
when homophobic was just commonplace.
He was only railing about things that everyone,
he was saying what he thought was populist.
So it was very populist to say that
homosexuality was evil and aberrated and deranged
and perverted and everything like that.
And it simply carried forward through present time
because everything Elron Hubbard said back then
still has to hold true today in the world of Scientology.
But being homophobic doesn't actually make a lot of sense
in Scientology other than the fact
that in Science of Survival,
Hubbard put homosexuality at 1.1 on the tone scale.
Scientology covert hostility.
He put the, like Hubbard said that you could determine
someone's position on Scientology's emotional tone scale
by their behavior.
And he created this whole chart called
the Hubbard chart of human evaluation.
And he just on this chart,
he put homosexuality at 1.1 on the tone scale.
Well, in Scientology, 1.1 is like considered
the most destructive and evil part on the tone scale
that you can be.
So therefore, Scientologists think being gay
is this horrible, horrible thing
that needs to be fixed by Scientology.
And it's just hard for me to really put myself
in the shoes of someone who's in Scientology.
They're bisexual or gay.
They know this is what Elron Hubbard said
and they continue to be a member.
Like, do you hate yourself?
Like, do you literally think that of yourself?
Or do you just sort of ignore that part
because for whatever reason,
it's hard for me to wrap my head around.
It really is.
And one of these days,
someone, I hope John Travolta talks about this at length,
you know, maybe on his deathbed or something.
But maybe, you know, someone you might reach out to
and I can introduce you is Joey Chait
is a former Scientologist, former Searg member,
former highly trained auditor.
And he's openly gay now.
People will tell you that back then it was pretty obvious
that he was gay when he was in Scientology.
And I've interviewed him
and I may have even asked him this question.
It's just, his answer totally escapes me.
How did you reconcile this with yourself?
Just your own vision, your own image of your own self.
Did you think there was something wrong with you
or were you just sort of dismissing
that part of Scientology?
Because I might have asked him that question.
I don't remember what he had to say,
but you might have fun talking to Joey
about something like this.
Please, let's carry that conversation afterwards
and get me connected because I would be happy to.
I think there's some form of cognitive dissonance
or reinterpretation or, you know, that's just fun.
I'm never gonna be perfect.
So I'm like, who knows what's going on in their heads?
So, wow.
Okay, John Travolta, what a hot topic there for sure.
But the nicest guy you ever wanted to meet, you know?
I definitely want to meet him
and I've loved his movies over the years.
So for sure, I would definitely,
if I had the opportunity, it'd be amazing to interview him.
Just hang out at some local gyms late at night
in the sauna and he might drop by.
All right, so here's the next one.
I'm moving on.
Elizabeth Moss, now here's the deal.
This is a good one.
This is a good one, especially with the recent show
that she's been on.
That is like, literally kind of showing a mock-up
of a cult society.
American actress, producer and director,
raised a Scientologist by father, Ronald Charles Moss,
who was British and mom, Linda Moss,
an American of part Swedish descent.
Both of Moss's parents are musicians.
Her mother plays jazz, blues, harmonica, professionally.
Practices Scientology identifies as a feminist
after a fan questioned whether her role
in the Hulu series, The Handmaid's Tale,
made her think about her involvement
with the Church of Scientology.
Moss defended her beliefs on Instagram,
writing that the idea that Gilead
in the series in Scientology both believed
that all outside sources are wrong or evil
as the fan had described, actually not true at all.
She continued, religious freedom and tolerance
and understanding the truth.
And equal rights for every race, religion, creed
are extremely important to me.
So what do you know about Elizabeth Moss?
She is probably one of the most successful
second generation Scientologists
in the entertainment industry.
I mean, you have Beck, it's hard to imagine someone
being more successful than Beck in his field.
But Elizabeth Moss is right up there.
She's a fantastic actress, born and raised in Scientology.
She's pretty much exactly the kind of person Scientology
wouldn't be out there promoting Scientology.
That being said, I'm surprised she doesn't promote it more.
I mean, it's probably for her own professional reasons
that she doesn't promote it more.
It's not exactly a great career move.
But she's a true believer.
I mean, she's someone, you know, she walked out,
she walked out of the room when Leah Remini
was being awarded her Emmy Award.
She is a true believer.
Her parents have an incredibly long history in Scientology
and not just being public.
I believe that...
I believe her father may have even worked
for Scientology at one point.
Might be getting her mixed up with Neil Gaiman or something.
I know Neil Gaiman's parents definitely worked
for Scientology.
So I don't have a whole lot to say about her.
She, I'm sort of glad she's not out there
promoting Scientology more.
I know that when she shit talks to Leah Remini
and she promotes Scientology,
she's saying what she believes is true.
But it's a shame.
If she left Scientology, that would be a huge blow.
But I just, I don't see that happening anytime soon.
Let me ask you one about the show, The Handmaid Tale.
I don't know if you've seen it, Handmaid and Tale,
but it's a great show.
My wife is in love with it.
She's like, she'll even rewatch it,
because it's that good.
Do you think it's a bit ironic
that obviously it's a far extreme?
I've never understood why people make this comparison.
Really?
I mean, let's break it down.
So in The Handmaid's Tale,
these women are essentially forced to have children.
Right.
In the Sea Org, if you get pregnant,
you're pressured to have an abortion.
Where's the similarity?
I don't get it.
Of course. I guess you could say there's the pressure.
There's the force.
You're coerced.
You're coerced.
And not so much these days,
because it's gotten them into so much trouble.
But back in the early 2000s, late 90s and earlier,
a lot of pressure would be brought to bear
in you to convince you to get an abortion.
If you were a Sea Org member,
now that's specifically for the Sea Org.
Any other Scientologist who's not in the Sea Org
is free to have as many kids as they want.
Having kids is not looked down upon.
It's only in the Sea Org.
And keep in mind, the last thing you would want
is for a child to be raised in the Sea Org.
So it's not like we want Sea Org members
to be having kids in the Sea Org.
So the best thing would be if a Sea Org member gets pregnant
that they just have the baby and leave the Sea Org.
That's pretty much what happens these days.
I've never understood this comparison
between Handmaid's Tale and Scientology.
I just don't get it.
Is there one example you can think of
that people cling to?
No, I just kind of wondered with such a strict-
Oh, just that it's such a cult?
That it's about a cult?
It's such a mind-trapped prison of a cult
that literally, and the kind of tactics,
obviously they're not pointing guns at your head
and saying, I'm going to kill you if you don't obey me
and my rules and order and what not
and produce babies for me.
But the manipulation, the willingness to harass,
I'm not going to say it's equivalent.
There's no Xerox copy here.
But the level they're willing to go for some people
on hiring private detectives,
harassing you, literally going in.
Like the poor guy that was in the city
that Mike Render had to go and apologize to
after he left, who literally, it ruined his business.
They went out protesting and he spent years and years
trying to operate his business,
which was not pro-scientology, what he did in his living.
I can't remember what his name was,
but like they harass you and it doesn't seem
like there's much freedom in that.
It's very manipulative, is my point.
So if there's a comparison to be made there,
it's a comparison to Scientology's C organization,
but Elizabeth Moss has never been in the C organization.
And it's not that she would have absolutely no idea
what the C org might involve.
Of course she does.
But in order to make that comparison,
you would have to only compare the TV show
and the coercion that exists in the TV show
to the absolute most excessive examples
that would have occurred in the C org.
And that's like, you could almost make that argument
for anything, like if the only common thread here
is coercion, then why would we expect a Scientologist
to be like, coercion?
Oh, that reminds me of my group.
I mean, Gilead is even supposed to be modeled
after a far right wing Christian extremist group.
Am I wrong?
Yeah, no, no, no, you're right.
And we expect a Scientologist to connect the dots
to the C organization.
Like that's never made any sense to me.
I guess I'm thinking of like Lisa McPherson.
I'm thinking of, I can't imagine that David Miscavige's wife
is suffering in that extreme.
I think she's extremely brainwashed.
I don't know.
I can't read the situation because nobody knows exactly
other than people who might be up there with David.
But like, I imagine Lisa McPherson is probably a good example.
The closest I would get to something where she's trapped
on a ship for like a decade, you know,
in this coercive type situation
where Scientology-
Isn't it McPherson or she's the one that died?
She died in the Fort Harrison hotel.
Sorry, who's the one that was on the ship?
Are you talking about Veleska Paris maybe?
That's probably who I'm talking about.
Yeah.
The current lawsuit?
Yeah, the current lawsuit where she's literally-
Don't get me wrong.
If the thread here is coercion,
there's certainly coercion in the Sea Oregon Scientology
and various aspects.
What I've never understood though is why Elizabeth Moss
is somehow uniquely supposed to associate
this far right extremist Christian group
with the highest levels of the Sea organization.
Like that's supposed to resonate with her,
but not, it's just never made any sense to me.
No, I get it.
I'm trying.
You see, I'm actually going out of my way
to try and make sense of it.
I just, I don't know.
It's kind of weird.
Yeah, if the thread is coercion, then that's fine.
But coercion's not unique to Scientology
and I wouldn't expect.
If I were a Scientologist and I was watching Handmaid's Tale,
it would not resonate with me
that this had some shades of Scientology.
It just wouldn't.
Got it.
Okay.
All right.
Now I'll tell you, there are other shows that did.
Like there's a show I can remember when I watched Swing,
Swing Kids is a show I remember,
it was a movie like 20 years ago, Swing Kids.
It was about, I can't remember if it was Nazi Germany
or if it was communist Russia.
I can't remember.
I think it was about Nazi Germany.
And I'm watching this show and all I can think about
is everything it has in common with Scientology
and the C organization.
And I was like, it was an eye-opening moment for me.
So I was like, this is a show about Nazi Germany
and all I can see in every scene is shades of Scientology.
I watched this Handmaid's Tale.
I don't get that at all.
I don't get the Scientology thing at all.
Yeah.
Well, let's go to Danny Masterson and his family,
the Masterson siblings for a second here.
We're gonna pop this full screen.
So there's a picture of the family,
the Masterson family, of course, they're all Scientologists
and Danny Masterson specifically,
I honestly don't wanna read all this
because I'm gonna be like this on my camera
trying to like see it.
So the recent court case with,
let's talk from the beginning here, if you don't mind.
Tell us about Danny Masterson, what you know.
And then of course leading up to what just happened in court.
And I feel like, and I'm just throwing this out,
this is my little gut on what happened in court here,
is that how, even if what happened did happen,
like we wanna prove they want good evidence
and I hear the defense didn't do so well
or the prosecution, sorry, did not do so well,
but that how could you prove something that far out
and that distant and be able to like really pin it
to a guy like him.
So anyway, Danny Masterson, involvement,
that 70s show guy, he's been on a couple different shows
that I've enjoyed and my wife has enjoyed.
Tell us about Danny.
So another guy born and raised in Scientology,
strangely never even did that much in Scientology really.
So he was more like culturally a Scientologist,
not so much a practicing Scientologist really.
And I guess if it weren't for his rape trial,
people would probably just still think of him
as that 70s show guy, but he did seem to have a penchant
for drugging women's drinks and raping them.
And remember, he wasn't found not guilty,
he just hasn't been found guilty yet.
He was not acquitted, he had a mistrial.
Some of the jurors were convinced he did it,
some of the jurors were not.
We do not know yet whether the case
is gonna be retried yet, fingers crossed,
maybe we'll find out at the hearing on January 10th.
So...
What do you think's gonna come of it?
I've spoken to people close to the case
who think it will be retried.
I've spoken to people close to the case
who think there's no chance it gets retried at all.
And that would be unfortunate.
But even if this case, even if the charges get dismissed,
there's still a civil case that hopefully will move forward.
Now remember that civil case is not about
the rapes themselves.
The civil case is about the harassment the victims
have been subjected to since coming forward in 2016.
So, to people who have a personal history
in Scientology and the C organization,
they know there's no question that Danny did these things.
That is evident just from what we've learned
with respect to how Scientology has handled it.
The fact that there were justice procedures taken,
the fact that Danny was permitted to hammer out
a settlement with one of the victims,
the fact that the International Justice Chief
officially granted one of the victims approval
to sue Danny or to, I'm sorry, to go to the police.
That permission never would have been granted
unless Scientology already had a note of evidence
to know that Danny had done this.
So, Scientologically speaking,
there's no question Danny did these things.
Proving something beyond a reasonable doubt
in a court of law 20 years after the fact
is a very high bar with no physical evidence.
That's a very high bar.
Perhaps we should be thankful that it's very hard
to prove something like that
without physical evidence 20 years later.
In my case, I wish Danny were found guilty.
I mean, I don't wonder whether he did it.
I understand if other people want to go well.
I mean, there are some people out there who go,
you can't say that he did it
if he wasn't found guilty in a court of law.
That's not true.
Innocence until proven guilty
is in the eyes of the law and the government.
It's not true that you can't say someone did something
if they weren't found guilty.
OJ never killed his wife, get over it.
So, I guess I could go on forever about Danny.
He's a real piece of shit.
And I don't think Scientology turned him
into a piece of shit.
I think Scientology provided an environment
where he could get away with this kind of stuff.
And I hope we get justice.
I just don't know if it's gonna happen.
Yeah, I hope so too.
Do you know anything about his brother, Christopher Masterson?
And for those who don't know.
I think Chris was on Malcolm in the middle, right?
Chris was on the TV show Malcolm in the middle.
I'd never actually have seen one episode of that show.
Alana Masterson was in The Walking Dead.
Like this has been a very successful actor family.
Scientology would love to talk about the Mastersons
except for the rape.
The rape just ruined everything.
Now they can't even promote the Mastersons.
So there's Jordan, just to show everybody like Jordan.
That's Jordan Masterson?
Jordan, oops, hold on, let me go back here.
Yeah, Jordan Masterson, younger half brother of actors,
Danny Masterson, Christopher Masterson.
He guest starred on both of his half brothers,
respective series, that 70s show and Malcolm in the middle.
He's the older brother of actress Alana Masterson
along with his mother, sister and half brothers.
Masterson is a member of the Church of Scientology,
strange from his father,
due to Scientology's practice of shunning critics.
I was gonna say Jordan looks just like Alana.
So they must have a common father.
Looks like it.
Yeah, those guys look a lot alike.
They must have a father in common.
Or half sister and brother, yeah, so.
Yeah.
Yeah, hmm.
I don't know which way that splits,
but clearly there's two sides of the Masterson clan
and they don't look alike.
So I've never seen,
I guess I've never seen a picture of Jordan Masterson before.
Oh, here you have it.
I've never seen a picture of Jordan Masterson.
Yeah.
So there you go.
Yeah, I really don't know anything about the others.
I don't know how much Scientology they've done.
I haven't seen their show.
I mean, I saw Alana in The Walking Dead.
That was a good show for a while.
I loved it for a while, then it kind of got repetitive.
So I lost interest and it wasn't purposeful.
It was just, we had to wait for the next season
and we had it as a family routine.
And but yeah, it's weird.
That whole family is just,
Scientology's targeting these people big time.
It just seems, or at least early on they did.
I believe their,
I believe their mother or their father,
again, I get them all mixed up,
what might have even been casting agents.
Like it's not just a coincidence
that they all got acting jobs.
Like they're an industry fit.
The parents were already in the industry.
And I believe on the casting side,
if I'm not wrong, somebody could check that.
But I mean, yeah, congratulations
for them all having been so successful.
But Danny screwed it up for all of them.
He really did taint the name.
He did.
So everybody, we're moving to Erica Christensen.
I forgot about her.
Yeah, I, listen, this is why my wife,
you gotta thank my wife.
She's the one who remembered these names.
So there's the picture.
And of course, member of the church of Scientology.
Parents became Scientologists in their 20s
while living in Seattle, Washington,
and raised her as a Scientologist.
Gone up the bridge into the OT levels,
which is not common for celebrity
second generation Scientologists.
But our celebrity center source says
that there's still a slight chance
that she might be on the edge.
Hmm, anyway.
I'm trying to pull up, I'm trying to pull up
this service completions to see what it says
that she's completed and when she completed it.
Oh, okay, so that's some high level stuff.
Oh, shoot.
Some L run downs, some OT eligibility.
Oh, wow, recent stuff too.
Attested to the state of clear just 10 years ago.
Oh, she did her OT levels.
Oh, well, through OT five.
So she, oh wow, she's still doing OT levels
as recently as 2018.
You know, I haven't heard anything
about Erica Christensen in so long
that if you had asked me,
I would have said I don't think she's still in.
I remember when traffic, the movie traffic came out.
I think it was with her and Michael Douglas.
And it was such a big deal.
It was like the first time that someone
who grew up in Scientology was becoming a big star.
And God, that must have been over 20 years ago.
And yeah, she was a huge deal in the Scientology world
because it was like, oh yeah, someone really made it.
Like into the like A list.
I mean, maybe she was B list, I don't know.
And it was a big deal.
And then she just faded into obscurity.
I haven't heard anything about her in forever.
Wow.
So you pretty much don't know much
other than what you just looked up,
which tells you she is legit.
She's serious.
She's a believer.
For her to be finishing OT eligibility four years ago,
there's no way she's not still in Scientology.
Wow.
Yeah.
Damn.
Wild, wild, okay.
The second runner up is Kirstie Alley.
Mm.
Okay.
Kirstie Alley, we're going raised as a Methodist
but became a member of the Church of Scientology in 1979.
Do I need to read all this?
I don't know.
This says by 2007, she had attained the level of OT seven
operating fate in level seven.
Alley donated five million.
I think that's important noting.
So big money, serious believer it seems.
There is Kirstie.
Of course, she recently passed away.
And we talked about her briefly
when we were having John Travolta on the screen.
Tell us what you know about Kirstie.
Another true, true believer.
And somebody that I always felt that Miss Gavitch
must be embarrassed to have her as a public Scientologist
because she wasn't doing Scientology any favors.
I mean, she just wasn't.
She was horribly offensive on Twitter.
I mean, she'd ballooned up to be very large.
People might go, oh my God, you can't say that.
I can tell you, Miss Gavitch would have been disgusted.
Miss Gavitch is very image conscious.
The fact that Kirstie asked Alley
used to be a slim, attractive person
and then she became this giant, obese person.
Miss Gavitch would be horrified
to have Kirstie Alley appearing publicly.
It's not what I think.
It's what he would think.
I'm telling you, this is how Scientology is.
She was very inarticulate in trying to describe Scientology.
In fact, she was on this one show called Big Brother,
I think it was.
And one of the other celebrities on the show
was actually trying to get her to talk about Scientology
and she refused to.
He's like, well, what can you tell me about it?
She's like, oh, you should read a book.
And he's like, what are you talking about?
But aren't you a Scientologist?
And she's like, oh, if you want to know more,
you can read a book.
He's like, but hold on, I'm a Christian.
If you want to ask me about Christianity,
I would tell you about it.
You don't want to tell me about it.
And she's like, no, not really.
She's like, what good are you as a Scientology celebrity
if you're not helping to spread the good word?
Oh my goodness.
So she was a full-on believer.
She had OT7, but-
She finished OT8 at one point.
She's 100% a true believer.
And she was one of the people who very viciously attacked
Leah Remini when Leah left.
And Leah and Kirstie had been friends.
They knew each other very well.
So yeah, it always made me sad to see someone
be so thoroughly under the thumb
and manipulated by David Miscavige and Scientology.
And there's no doubt in my mind
that if she had not been a Scientologist,
she probably would have been able
to have medical intervention earlier on.
Cause when you get up to OT7 and OT8,
you are taught that your cancer is caused by body fatins
and that getting rid of body fatins will get rid of cancer.
There's no question that Kirstie believed that.
And it's one of the reasons
that so many Scientologists die of cancer
because they do not seek medical intervention
until it's too late.
And I just always thought it was such a shame.
I mean, she wasn't exactly a very,
she wasn't someone who provoked sympathy
because she was so nasty.
She was really a nasty person.
Oh man.
Okay, so we're about to hit number one here real quick.
And I definitely want to get this to get through this,
but that reminds me of like how many faith healers
are out there who say that they can heal
in the name of Jesus, the Holy Spirit Hills
and things like that.
And they're literally dying of diseases and stuff.
And then, well, how do you explain that?
Well, there's all sorts of stuff like that.
Or even in Jehovah's Witnesses,
you can't do blood transfusions.
So the number one, obviously mission impossible
on trying to get him to possibly leave would be Tom Cruise.
I mean, this guy is the poster child.
He is the name of it practically.
You think of Tom Cruise.
He represents 100% Scientology here.
There's him way younger on the left.
And of course, I don't know how recent the one
on the right is, but Tom Cruise, American actor,
do I need to list this off?
I need to tell you a fun fact, actually.
I just wanted to show you who our final is.
When I was in Florida at Blizzard Beach in Disney World,
I was walking with my wife.
We're going to get on a slide.
My mom, my dad, my wife's pregnant.
We're just walking and we're talking to go get on the slide.
And like we walked past this guy and I was like,
that's our neighbor.
Like we thought it was our neighbor.
You know, like it's just the neighbor down the street.
Tom frickin' Cruise.
We literally bumped shoulders with Tom Cruise.
And I was like, this weird guy comes,
oh my God, like, I don't know.
We're like crazy.
Oh my God, it's Tom Cruise.
And I was like, what?
Look back, dude, 12 hardcore body, huge, you know,
people were guarding him.
And they stopped the entire slide.
Every time you went to a new one,
so that they could go and ride, it was him and his daughter.
Where was this?
This was in Blizzard Beach.
Where's that?
Disneyland, Disney World, I mean, in Florida.
So we were at the, it's the water park.
Oh, it was at Disney World.
Yeah, we were literally, and it just brushed shoulders.
He like walked between me and my wife.
And I was just like, that looks like our neighbor.
What year?
Let's see.
Probably 2011-ish, 12-ish.
I don't know.
It could have been earlier.
I'm not, in fact, I could call.
But around when he was still seeing Suri,
when you said he was with his daughter,
you mean Suri?
I would imagine.
I don't remember the name of the daughter.
I mean, not Isabella.
Well, like Isabella and Connor are his adopted kids
who are older, they're like grown now.
So, I mean-
No, no, this was a kid.
Suri Cruise, okay.
Yeah, so they must, he still had a relationship,
I suspect, and was, yeah.
Cause I heard recently, he like,
you gotta tell us about this.
What's going on with Tom Cruise?
Scientology and Tom Cruise, what the heck?
Yeah.
I mean, the rant he had when they were asking him,
he had the Mission Impossible music in the background
and like was talking about,
when a car accident happens,
like nobody can actually do it,
but you know that you can save them.
What?
Get a paramedic over here!
We got an amputee, you know?
Like, no, only the Scientologist.
Tom's a funny case, a funny case.
I mean, you know, when he was with Nicole Kidman,
he was drifting away from Scientology.
And Scientology and David Miscavige and Marty Rathbone,
et cetera, et cetera,
figured out how to torpedo that marriage
and get Tom back on the train, back on the Scientology train.
And you know, the result of all that
is that video that you're talking about in 2004,
they awarded him the IAS Freedom Medal of Valor.
And the video that you're talking about
is the video that was recorded.
They recorded that video with Tom to play at the event
where he was being awarded this medal,
which is a medal that was just created specifically for him.
And yeah, and you know, he's a true believer
to the extent where I'll tell you this.
Technically speaking, per the rules of Scientology,
there's no reason in the world Tom Cruise can't see Surrey.
There's no reason in the world Tom Cruise
cannot have a relationship with Surrey Cruise,
particularly when she's under the age of 18.
I don't think she's 18 yet, is she?
I don't know.
But he hasn't seen Surrey for years and years and years.
And that has to do with not what Scientology
tells him he has to do, but his beliefs
that he doesn't want to be connected to someone
who is a suppressive person.
In this case, it would be Katie Holmes.
And I think Tom thinks that him continuing
to have a relationship with Surrey
would send a bad message to all the other Scientologists
out there who are themselves told to disconnect
from family members who Scientology sees
as suppressive persons.
And so I can tell you, if Tom Cruise said
he wanted to have a relationship with Surrey Cruise,
he would be allowed to have a relationship with Surrey Cruise.
So it's almost like that just shows you
how much he really does believe.
That he's setting an example for other Scientologists
that the right thing to do is to not have the relationship.
It's really messed up, really messed up.
And Tom Cruise could single-handedly take down
the entire Scientology ecosystem if he left and spoke out.
But I think he is a true believer.
I think he is a true believer.
And Ms. Gavitch has never been close
with any other Scientology celebrity
the way he has been close with Tom.
I mean, I do believe Ms. Gavitch has been the best man
at all three of Tom's weddings.
I'm pretty sure.
Mimi Rogers, Nicole Kidman, and Katie Holmes.
Yeah, they got married in a castle over in Europe
or something and it was like a Scientology wedding.
Oh yeah, for sure, for sure.
And I mean, and Ms. Gavitch even encouraged.
So wait, Tom Cruise was still married to Mimi Rogers
when he met Nicole Kidman on the set of Days of Thunder.
And Tom wanted to get with Nick.
And Ms. Gavitch even basically encouraged Mimi Rogers
to like, okay, you're out of the picture now.
Mimi's the one who got Tom into Scientology
in the first place.
Mimi's father was a big time Scientologist.
He owned a bunch of Scientology missions
and things like this.
And instead of trying to convince Tom
to stay in his Scientology marriage,
Ms. Gavitch actually facilitated the breakup
so that he could get with Nicole
and then later facilitated the breakup with Nicole
so that he could get Tom back into the fold.
So David Ms. Gavitch and Scientology has had such
a negative influence on Tom's life.
And the fact that Tom just has been
so supremely successful kind of masks
all of the negative effects
that Scientology has really had on Tom's life.
And Tom tells some bullshit story.
Oh, when I was little,
they wanted to put me on drugs.
I was dyslexic.
You don't put people on drugs for dyslexia.
I have heard his testimony where he says
they reversed my dyslexia.
Maybe he had like, I don't know,
he didn't want to learn
or he may have been not motivated.
Not dang.
Didn't have some learning disability.
Maybe he just had trouble reading.
But he's got this whole story wrapped up in it.
Kind of like all these other Scientology celebs
always like, I was raised a Christian.
You weren't all raised Christian, okay?
You've just decided this is the story
that you're gonna tell.
Tom's like, they wanted to drug me
and my mom said no and she knew it was wrong.
Well, he tells the story like the putting him on drugs
and diagnosing with dyslexia are one and the same.
You do not treat dyslexia with medication.
You never have.
These are not one and the same.
Tom goes, I was dyslexic.
They wanted to put me on drugs
but Scientology cured my dyslexia.
Okay.
Did they cure the reason they wanted to put you on drugs?
Cause it wasn't dyslexia.
Right, right.
So he still come across like an insane person half the time.
Oh my gosh.
That recording that he was talking about like,
he laughed hysterically like,
I almost was like, is there anyone else even in the room?
I know there's a camera on, but he's like,
he's just sitting there laughing about
how he's the only one and you know it.
And you know it.
It's you.
While you have that little
dan dan dan dan dan dan dan dan dan dan dan
and he's going man.
And he's on fire.
He's like a born again Christian times a hundred
who's in front of a camera telling you the mythology
which I'm going to say is his testimony.
Yeah.
He's telling a myth.
He's telling you a story and he believes his own story.
Yeah. If there's such a thing as a born again Scientologist
it's Tom Cruise.
Wow.
Yeah. I mean, he does see himself as having the most
like you'll hear sometimes Tom Cruise quoted as saying
something like there's LRH and there's COB
and then there's me and some people have interpreted that
to mean that Tom Cruise thinks he's second in command
in Scientology.
And that's not what that anecdote means.
He's talking about the responsibility that is on the
shoulders of anyone to forward the aims of Scientology
to accomplish the aims of Scientology.
And that's what he means is that LRH had the ultimate
authority to accomplish Scientology's aims.
COB, COB is what they call David Miscavige
chairman of the board.
COB has the next ultimate responsibility for the aims.
And then there's me and that's how he sees himself.
Wow.
Yeah.
And David's not going to correct that.
David needs him.
David needs him to be absolutely.
Absolutely.
You want to be above me man.
I'll let you, I'll let you be above me.
Just send me five million next Wednesday.
Seriously though, Aaron, you are fantastic man.
I always enjoy this.
Can we get a couple of these super chats real fast?
And then I'll let you go.
Cause I know you've got a live stream to do again.
I mean, how many live streams can you do in a day?
Aaron has broken a record.
Goodwill thinking, every ideology in politics, economy,
or religion makes its tenants like a sword
to split brains and divide.
Let's just abandon them and be human.
I wish it was that easy.
Do you see that?
Yeah, I can see it.
Is that what you mean?
Do I see?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The super chat, I don't know if you want to comment on that,
but it's like, I wish it was so simple to just find ways
to just get along.
I mean, I think people use these things as a bludgeon
and as a weapon.
I don't know that they inherently have to be that.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Well, thank you Goodwill thinking.
I seriously appreciate that support.
While we are getting the next one set up is letting people know
this is the YouTube channel to be at.
So every time my mom actually goes,
you got to do a show with him.
You got to talk to Aaron because Aaron has all sorts
of amazing insight.
You got to hear what he's talking about.
This new celebrity and this and this and that.
It's amazing.
I hope that people will go subscribe right now.
Hit that bell so that you're notified every time
because he does like three or four a day, literally.
Isn't that about what you do?
I've been doing three or four a day the last,
well, since like December 30th,
I've just had so much to talk about.
I seriously doubt I'll keep doing that forever.
And one of the reasons I do the live streams is
if you do the edited videos, you know,
it can take two hours to edit a 10 or 15 minute video.
And if I got four things to talk about,
I just got to do it live.
So the lives are a lot of fun too.
I mean, it's fun to just get it all done.
And you can talk to the viewers and on chat and everything.
So yeah, I've been, I have been doing a lot.
It's true.
I've been doing a lot.
You absolutely have.
Dalai Lama in the house.
Really appreciate the support.
Showing love and support.
Mind your Satan's.
And I definitely am.
Me and Aaron are all aware and focusing on that for sure.
Purging them bad boys.
Also look, you can support us.
We got a Patreon.
If you're checking out the show,
consider helping support us so we can continue
doing what we're doing.
Aaron, I valued this conversation so much.
I hope you had a blast.
Seriously.
This was a lot of fun.
It really was.
Is there anything you want to end us on a note of saying
about celebrities or your channel?
No, let me just take the opportunity
to plug the Aftermath Foundation.
We help people who are escaping from Scientology.
I'm on the board of the foundation,
Mike Rinder, Christy Colburn, Mark Headley, Claire Headley,
Louise Garcia and attorney Ray Jeffery.
And so you go to theaftermathfoundation.org.
You can get more information about the foundation.
And if you want to buy any merch,
thespshop.com is a website that Mark Headley created too.
This is a Mike Rinder bobblehead, you guys.
Guys, this is not...
Come close with it.
I want to see it.
This is not plastic, OK?
This is hand-painted ceramic.
Get in there.
That's awesome.
He has the clean white.
I always envy.
How does he make his beard flow?
These are hand-painted, by the way.
These are not just cheap little things.
So anyhow, we have a little bit of fun with that.
All of the proceeds at thespshop.com
go to the Aftermath Foundation.
So just wanted to mention that.
Well, if you're watching for MythVision
or anywhere in the world, back up what Aaron's saying.
Go check us out.
Support what we're doing in the cause.
And until next time, I seriously appreciate everybody
who's tuned in.
Aaron, thank you so much for the livestream.
Let's do this again, my friend.
Absolutely.
