Three things that Jesus most certainly said. I asked this via super chat to Gnostic Informant
over at Neil's channel, go subscribe. While he was interviewing John Clappenbord,
who is a serious academic. He's not an apologist. He has no agenda except trying to discover what
the facts are. He's done a lot of work on social history. He dives into the Greco-Roman world,
non-canonical and canonical gospels, the sayings of Jesus, the list goes on, go check his CV out.
This guy's no joke. And I asked him, point blank, are there any sayings, because he's big on the
sayings, in the gospels that you would say, I just can't see someone wanting to make that up
and put that in the mouth of a guy named Jesus. And that is exactly what I asked today. Whatever
side of the coin you fall on on whether there was a guy or not, MythVision has been asking this
question and diving into it, hearing it from various academics. Be sure to check us out,
join the Patreon, help us to continue doing what we do. And I hope you enjoy this little segment
that I got to catch from John Clappenbord. Thanks, Neil. Derek Glamert from MythVision Podcast.
You go and subscribe to that channel. If you haven't by now, you live under a rock.
What are the top three sayings of Jesus that you really cannot see explained away,
meaning he most certainly actually said those sayings? Great scholar.
Said these. Wow. That's a good question.
Well, let me take one from Q, at least. Sure. This is one that was a kind of
favorite for Ed Sanders. This is somebody volunteers to follow Jesus and says,
but first let me bury my father. And the response of Jesus is, let the dead bury the dead.
You follow me. Now, the reason that one might say that this is probably as close to 100%
Jesus as you can get is that it expresses a sentiment that is kind of shocking when one
takes into account that not only for Jews of this period, but for basically all Mediterranean's in
this period, you had a filial duty to make, to take care of the dead of your family, especially,
you know, sons had a duty to take care of a dead father or a dead mother.
So much so that in later Jewish law in the Mishnah, it says that those who have
unburied dead, that is, the dead have not yet been taken care of, are exempted from saying the Shema,
Hero Israel, which would be one of the most important pious duties of a pious Jew to say the
Shema every day. So you're exempted from saying that until you have buried your father. In other
words, this is duty number one, takes precedence over everything else.
And so to have Jesus kind of say, let the dead bury the dead, would at least be a shocking
saying to say, to make. And of course, it's a little bit hard to imagine later Christians
coming up with this and putting it in Jesus' mouth, because Christians didn't leave their
dead lying around, held their scalter on them. You know, they also took care of them like other
good Mediterranean's of, you know, burying them in an in an appropriately pious way.
This is called the criterion of dissimilarity, that is, things that really stick out as kind of
shocking, that kind of violate cultural norms, that if anything goes back to Jesus, it's probably that.
Something that's not a saying of Jesus, but something that happened to him is the baptism by
John the Baptist, that he had an affiliation with the John the Baptist, and that he was apparently
baptized by him, has been argued by many, that that's probably one of the bedrock bits of tradition,
because all of the Gospel writers, while they record it, John actually dodges it.
John's Gospel doesn't actually say that Jesus was ever baptized, but the others do. And they're
embarrassed about this, because it's pretty clear what John's baptism was about. It was a baptism
of repentance for sin forgiveness. And very quickly, early Christians came up with the
view that Jesus didn't need that, because he was without sin, which then raises the logical problem.
Why was he baptized? If he didn't need to be. So Matthew and Luke solve that problem
in two different ways. Matthew adds a little conversation between Jesus and John the Baptist,
where Jesus comes to John the Baptist, and John says, I shouldn't baptize you, you should be
baptizing me. In other words, Matthew creates this little conversation that makes it clear that
John recognizes that Jesus doesn't need to be baptized. And then Jesus replies, let it be this
way so that all righteousness be fulfilled. Doesn't explain what that means, but it seems to suggest
there's a real plan here. You don't know it. I'm not going to tell you what it is, but you just
comply with the plan. And so then John consents and baptizes Jesus. Luke solves the problem in
a different way. He puts John into prison before Jesus gets baptized. So if you look at Luke's Gospel,
Luke 3 18 to 20, just this passage right before Jesus gets baptized, John gets put into prison,
which means that in Luke's world, John didn't baptize Jesus. It wasn't a baptism of repentance,
because John didn't do it. It was apparently a kind of auto-baptism. Jesus baptized himself.
But so that solves the problem too. By getting John off the scene, you eliminate the offense
of having Jesus being baptized by John. But that surely suggests that Jesus really was baptized
by John and then early Christian writers then have to kind of come up with an explanation of why
that was the case. And as I say, if you read the Gospel of John carefully, Jesus doesn't get baptized
at all. John sees a vision. He sees the dove descending on Jesus, but he doesn't say that he
baptized him. So they're all kind of squirming a little bit at that fact, which probably means
that it did happen. So those are kind of two of the candidates that I would say are probably
pretty close to solid Jesus. And there's others that are a bit more dubious.
Now, just to throw one more in there that I'm thinking of that maybe you can confirm.
When he talks about the Sabbath, if your animal falls into a ditch, won't you go and get it? Does
that seem like something that somebody wouldn't normally say that might be historical?
Yeah, that's a bit more complicated because we do have
some later rabbinic movement. Well, first off, there's, of course, the difference between
animals and humans. Rabbinic authorities, and I think probably everybody else in the Jewish
world, say, if your son or if your wife or if your brother falls into a ditch and is in danger
of drowning, even on the Sabbath, of course you pull them out because life always trumps everything
else. The duty to save life and the duty to preserve life trumps absolutely everything else
becomes a little iftier when it becomes a cow or a donkey or whatever. And there
the Jewish authorities are a little bit more unclear about this. Some just say you don't do
anything. You can put food in so that it doesn't starve. But if it's in a ditch that's filled with
water, food is irrelevant. Others say you can put something in and if it gets out, it gets out.
That is, you can put a stick in or something like that. And I presume others, I think the
livestock owner says, of course you pull them out. I'm not going to lose the value of a sheep,
which is probably about two months' wages for a shepherd just to comply with the Sabbath.
I mean, I think you have to imagine that there's a whole range of attitudes depending on whether
you own sheep or not and whether you can afford to lose a relatively wealthy animal. And on the
other side, persons who are very concerned with upholding the violation, the prohibition about
doing work on the Sabbath. So I wouldn't say that that would be a high candidate for authenticity.
That Jesus had a different attitude towards the Sabbath, I think that has a greater likelihood
of going back to authentic material. Although Ed Sanders, who I mentioned before, was very
dubious about whether the Sabbath stories go back to Jesus at all and wondered whether these are not
just constructions to differentiate early Christ believers from Pharisees and other
kinds of people who had much more rigorous views on the Sabbath.
Interesting. Thank you for that super chat. And there's one more from Derek.
Do you find anything in Paul that seems to stem from words Jesus actually spoke?
Maybe 1 Corinthians 11, the night he was handed over a meal? Love, Dr. Clappenboard.
Yeah, sure. And it's 1 Corinthians. It's in 1 Corinthians that you find a few sayings that
look like they come from Jesus. There's the one that you just quoted from 1 Corinthians 11.
There's also the divorce prohibition, which Paul says it comes from the Lord, not himself.
That is that if people are married, they should not seek divorce and remarriage.
And he says, I say this from the Lord, not me. So he seems to be aware of a saying of Jesus at
that point. And the other one is in 1 Corinthians 9, where he says, aren't I, he's arguing about
support. Aren't I allowed to travel with a wife? Aren't I allowed to
take support from you guys? And then he quotes this saying about the worker is
worthy of his hire, which is a saying that shows up in queue. Now, curiously, he quotes the saying
and then basically says, but I'm not going to avail myself of it. I'm not going to avail
myself of that privilege. So he seems to know that there's a saying of Jesus, but doesn't feel
bound by it or doesn't feel like he actually needs to use that in support of his own activity.
But as I say, it's in 1 Corinthians that you've got about three sayings that look like
he does know Jesus tradition. And in fact, in 1 Corinthians 11, he does say it. I am handing
on to you what I myself received that on the night that he was handed over, you know, he took bread,
et cetera, et cetera. And you think that's, that's talking about a historical event,
that particular phrase? Well, at least he's quoting the words of institution from Luke
there. So it's as close to a historical event as we can get. But that raises the question of
whether those words of institution are either his or are they a kind of secondary ritual
development of early Christian groups? It's pretty hard to tell the difference between the two.
Yeah. Thank you for that. Thank you for that question and answer. That'll be a,
that'll be a highlight right there. That's a good one. Oh, there was actually one more last
question that just popped up from Derek. Render unto Caesar, do you think Jesus said this? That's
a good question. Yeah, I think he probably did. You know, I'm not a historical Jesus scholar.
I work on literary stuff and I've taught courses on the historical Jesus, but getting from,
you know, moving from Mark backwards to Jesus is a tricky procedure. I think that,
I think that's probably an authentic saying. What it actually means is a different question.
So what is it that belongs to Caesar? And because he says, and you know, and render unto God,
what is God's? Right. Is this pitting Caesar against God or are the things that legitimately
belong to Caesar like taxes? So he might have said it, but understanding what he actually
might have meant by that is a different question entirely. Wow, interesting. Thank you for that
last, last second super chat.
