As soon as the guilty verdict was announced, there were four burly, well over six foot deputy
sheriffs, the court sheriffs ready to put him in handcuffs, and all four of them stepped aside
and let a little female deputy sheriff handcuff him. And this was the metaphor that all women
who watched this were like. He raped women and it was a woman female that cuffed him.
Karen de la Carrière. Danny Masterson was found guilty. Breaking news, tell us what you know,
your husband and you were both in the courtroom? No, I was not. I just got the debrief.
What your husband was? Yes, he witnessed it moment by moment. Let me tell you that Danny
Masterson was raised in the cult of Scientology. This is a product of the cult of Scientology
that claims and screams to the wind that it is higher morals, higher ethics. Better you better
yourself. All you have to do is join Scientology and you're going to go higher as a spirit.
So Danny Masterson raised in the cult was found guilty, like you just said. This wasn't just rape,
Derek. This was he drugged them. Each girl reported how he gave them a drink and their
minds went blurry and they didn't control their body. And he raped drugged women.
They were blacked out on the rape. But then when they woke up, they were bleeding,
they were bleeding out of their anus. It was graphic. Their tales to the jury of how they were
raped, how violently they were raped was the winning factor of these brave three women.
And you're suggesting Scientology played a huge role, not necessarily in the act that Masterson
did, but along the way, they tried to protect him. They tried to do a lot of things to these
Derek, it is absolute law, law in the cult. You don't report to law enforcement. If you do,
they can kick you out and expel you. And that means you'll be cut off from family, friends. If
you work for a Scientologist, you lose your job. It's a considered a high crime, not just a crime,
a high crime to ever go to law enforcement on any issue to do with the cult.
So these girls use the internal justice system. They went and saw the ethics officer.
Now, were they saying this in court? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. And the ethics officer
muscled and gagged them and said, you can't use the word rape. There is no such thing as rape
from a Scientologist. Rape is forbidden. And then they were manipulated to not go to
and threatened over and over to not go to law enforcement. So the judge was eating this up,
though. The judge was okay. They're convinced that without a doubt, what do you think happened? How
did the ball drop on the first case? This is crazy. How do you mean how did the ball drop?
Well, in the first situation that happened, they had to do a retrial. But why, why didn't
they get him the first go round? Well, a lot of evidence was blocked and forbidden. I think
in the first trial, they weren't even allowed to use, brief the jury on the drugging prior to the
rape because the lawyers are, well, what's the evidence? Where's the samples of the drug?
The judge let it in on the second trial based on the fact that the girls could describe their
wusiness and the way after drinking, they had a sort of mind blurry, not in control.
It was date rape, date rape drug. And all three, it gave the same story, the same pattern of how
they were dragged into his bedroom. They were feeling completely out of it, blah, blah, blah.
The lawyers for the cult tried to portray that these three talked to each other and were in
cahoots, though they were forbidden to share the stories. But Los Angeles police department
blessed their heart. The, the main detective there said, no, no. The mingling of the data
had nothing to do with destroying evidence or making the case weaker. Anyway, back to Danny
Masterson, he grew up in a completely privileged childhood. His parents had money, he had affluence,
he had a little gang, a little clique and they would party and do drugs and so on. And you know,
let me show you, let me give you a little anecdote on how out of control Danny Masterson was.
He would grab the crotch of one of these Jane Doe's grab her private parts in front of his mom
and his mother, Carol Masterson would laugh. She thought that was so funny that her son
grabbed the private parts of his current girlfriend. Can you imagine grabbing the private parts
of your romantic partner in front of your mom? Never. No, I honestly would be embarrassed.
Yes, but this is just showing you, there was no, no discipline, no control. He thought he could
more or less do whatever he wanted, whenever he wanted. This is a cult of Scientology,
40 year member, 40 years he was in the church and church, why am I saying church, the cult,
the cult and the cult protected him all the way. And you say why? Well, not only did he give big
donations, but he has aunts and uncles and mothers and father, everybody in his clan
gave the cult a lot of money. They didn't want to lose that money. Money, they paid mega donors.
Mm hmm. So the church was active in this court trial? Very much so. This doesn't look good for
the church or the cult of Scientology at all. Well, do you see that denial? I sent you the statement
which is just pathological lies. Can you go ahead and read the first paragraph or two?
Absolutely. So just for our audience's sake, I'm going to actually show them if I can.
Oh, good. Because this actually gets more into the weeds for you who are watching. Here we go.
I'm going to make this full screen. Oh, nice. Church and Scientology statement. The prosecution's
introduction of religion into this trial was an unprecedented violation of the First Amendment
and affects the due process rights of every American. The church was not a party to this case
and religion did not belong in this proceeding as Supreme Court precedent has maintained for
centuries. The district attorney unconscionably centered his prosecution on the defendant's
religion and fabrications about the church to introduce prejudice and inflame bigotry.
The DA elicited testimony and descriptions of Scientology beliefs and practices which were
uniformly false. The court's statement of church doctrine was her own invention
dead wrong and blatantly unconstitutional. The church has no policy prohibiting or discouraging
members from reporting criminal conduct of anyone, Scientologists or not, to law enforcement.
Quite the opposite. Church policy explicitly demands Scientologists abide by all laws of the
Lamb. All allegations, to the contrary, are totally false. There's not a scintilla of
evidence supporting the scandalous allegations that the church harassed accusers. Every single
instance of supposed harassment by church is false and has been debunked.
Deny, deny, deny, deny. Yon, yon. We are innocent. We never, you know, if you threaten
to go to law enforcement, they lock you up. They lock you up in a room and you have bodyguards
outside. They take that so seriously, the cult lives in terror of people going to law enforcement.
And you know, over 300 ex-Scientologists have filed reports with the FBI.
So much for their blockage of not going to law enforcement. Once people leave, the lid is off.
But to say that they don't forbid people, that's just laughable. Even people inside the cult right
now, Derek, know that that's a blatant lie. You are absolutely forbidden to mingle with the police
of file reports. That's an absolute no-no. You threaten that and you're toast.
I know we're getting into sensitive topic here, so fair warning in advance. You mentioned he drug
these women and raped them. Were they discussing openly what happened in these rape situations
and how many of the Jane Doe's were actually, you know, counted as actual convictions against him?
Even though we know of eight different women that he raped, date-raped, drugged and rape,
we know of eight. LAPD chose to just take up three of the eight.
But they did have another woman testify, although she wasn't part of the three criminal. She was
just a random part, wasn't even ever in Scientology. She had no acts to crime. She came in from Canada
and fully testified. She was also a fourth testify. It was very graphic. Oh, Tony Ortega
reported word for word. It was graphic. It was pretty deplorable and despicable to hear.
He would rape them like an animal. In fact, he was kind of proud of his stallion capabilities
that he had a nickname called donkey punch. I've never heard of the word donkey punch.
Apparently, donkey punch means a donkey rams another donkey in the anus.
And if you're a donkey punch sexual man, you thrust very hard. I know this is graphic.
The girls described it as a jackhammer. He would pound. And the reason they were bleeding
after the sexual intercourse was this was done donkey punch, which he removed that name. But
he used the ID on the internet. Danny Masterson used the ID donkey punch.
No way. So they found that he actually had this as an ID somewhere.
Yeah, he was using it as an ID on the internet till the lawsuit till this all fled up.
And then he changed the idea. But on the internet, you can't can't delete Netflix.
Netflix was ahead of the game. As soon as there were allegations, he was booted out of the Netflix
series called The Ranch. They had the writers sort of do something to exit him out. And they
fired him. They just fired him. I sent you the link. They got rid of him long before a guilty
verdict. Okay, okay. I want to give a heads up to these three brave, courageous women.
And to Leah Remini, who and Mike Rinder, they kept the story alive. But Tony Otega and his daily
blog was the originator of the first whiff of Danny Masterson being a rapist. And Tony followed it
diligently with his blogs. If any of your viewers want to get the whole story,
the Tony Otega, if you just Google Tony Otega, Danny Masterson, you will get the history
step by step, blow by blow. But back to these three women, they, ah, Netflix fires Danny Masterson.
New York Times. They want me to pay. I'm not paying. Yeah. But it's there. It's there. Yeah.
So Leah Remini befriended these three Jane Doe's and gave them a lot of support. Now,
they were fair game. The culture Scientology will fair game you. What's fair game mean for the new
for the new viewer? Fair game means intense intimidation to shut you up. You will be followed
by private investigators. One of these three girls who was raped by Masterson had her dogs poisoned.
Her two dogs died of poisoning. Scientology has a history of poisoning your pets. There are
journalists. A Los Angeles Times journalist had his dog suddenly poised as he was writing about
Scientology. There's a judge, Judge Swearinger, I believe, who had his dog drowned in a swimming pool.
It's beyond belief that the culture Scientology called themselves a religion
and kill your pet. It's known. You know, keep your dog safe. Keep your dog. If you're going to come
out and attack Scientology, beware, they will kill your dogs. This is the deplorable
dark belly underside of the cult. If I may, this, this is, I have to interject here real quick,
just to say to you, I commend you as a whistleblower, as someone who's really pointing out the problems.
You're an OG, as they call. You've been around since Elron Hubbard himself was on the ship.
You were there with this man. And I listen to people like you. I listen to people like Leah
Remney, Mike Render, Aaron Smith-Levin, Tony Ortega, all of these various X, I call them X,
people who've left the cult, but they're whistleblowers. And what, are they colluding together
to make up all of this? No, I'm someone who also left a cult, not on this kind of level,
but it was definitely a cult of the mind and somewhat, you know, wanting to control and
restrict your actions. This makes a lot of sense. And I hope that more people will listen to you,
Mike Render and others, they fair game. Mike Render tells how he used to fair game. So when
people act like, well, these are just conspiracies, these were people who were actively involved in
it, have had it done to others when they were in power in the, in the cult, and also have had it
done to themselves. So I'm glad that they're listening to these women's voices, that they're
actually convicting him of the crimes that he has committed. And I'm glad to see that your
husband was there in the courtroom and has given you this information. Tony Ortega has been laying
this out there. Everybody else has been calling a spade a spade. But I was really worried before
all this happened that this wasn't going to go down this way. That was a concern of mine.
Derek, we did a couple of videos, naming the Danny Masterson, you know, way before the guilty
verdict, we did a couple of videos on it. And I can see you were like, hmm, I was worried.
There's a verdict. I want to end off by giving a tiny little anecdote of what my husband,
Jeffrey Augustine, witnessed. As soon as the guilty verdict was announced,
there were four burly, burly, well over six foot deputy sheriffs, the court sheriffs ready to
put him in handcuffs. And all four of them stepped aside and let a little female deputy
sheriff handcuff him. And this was the metaphor that all women who watched this were like.
He raped women. And it was a woman female that cuffed him. I think that was L.A. Sheriffs
present to her, to all the witnesses. There was a nice touch that a woman found him and
plumped him. So much is spoken in that action right there. That's amazing. Beautiful. It was a
beautiful action. He's looking at how much time is he facing for each rape, 15 years,
minimally, minimally 30 years. But the judge has discretion, but minimally 30 years to life.
And and and immediately his lawyer jumped up and said, Oh, can he can he wear an ankle bracelet
and stay home till till the appeal? And the judge said he is a flight risk. True. He can get out
of jurisdiction. Very. He's a flight risk. And he's a menacing threat in society and may not get
he is to be remanded into custom custody immediately. So the judge said he was a danger
to society and that he was a flight risk. So jail.
Thank you, Karen. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks for doing this. Thanks. It's it's
we needed this win. And Scientology's denial of involvement is laughable because
the girls were not allowed to go to law enforcement because of church policies.
And they were threatened by the ethics officers to shut up and climb it down and not use the word
rape, blah, blah, blah. So went on and on and on. Anyway, justice reserved. Hey, high fives to you,
Derek. Thank you, Karen. Everybody subscribe to my channel, Surviving Scientology.
Go subscribe to Karen Del Carriere. Yeah, please put the link. Derek, thanks a million. Love you,
Derek. Take care. Love you too, Karen. Thank you. Everybody keep strong and just stay on the right
side of history, if you will. Thanks.
