Baby, I'm hard to find, and I'm needed, I don't need to love me, and
Baby, I can't hold it, but longer, it's getting stronger and stronger
Like it's that feeling, I want it, that's what you want me in, that's what you want me in
Feeling, all these things make me feel so fine
Help me release my mind, that's what you want
Feeling baby, it's good for me, that's what you want me in
Feeling, it's something that's good for me
Welcome to the Water Boys with Derek Lambert and Luther G. Williams
How you guys doing?
Doing just great Derek, wonderful to do another podcast
You got that right, look guys I have technical difficulties on my end with my mic
I called in as a guest through the phone, so I'm going to be passing the torch to you Luther
We have someone extremely, extremely special, and someone I really find fascinating with his theory
I'll let you take over, your mic sounds so much better, and I will only intervene or interject
Whenever I have this uncontrollable urge to have to ask this special guest something
I'm pausing or I'm muting my mic
Alright, well Derek, we do have a very exciting guest today
The name Joseph in Hebrew means he shall add, add to our knowledge, add to our understanding
And we have a Joseph for our guest, for our listeners today
He's Joseph Atwill, an independent scholar, lecturer, and author of Caesar's Messiah
The Secret Hidden History of Christianity and the Gospels
And Shakespeare's Secret Messiah
Joseph has discussed his theories on the origin of Christianity on the BBC, Fox News, and Russia's REN Network
His website is CaesarsMessiah.com where his books may be purchased and questions and comments posted
You can send emails directly to him at joeatwillatgmail.com
And that's J-O-E-A-T-W-I-L-L at gmail.com
Joe, wonderful to have you on the show
Good to be here Luther, thank you for having me
Oh man, you introduced and put on everybody's minds in your blockbuster book from 2010, Caesar's Messiah
This group called the Flavians, they're an ancient Roman dynastic family
Tell us something about your startling hypothesis about the role of them and other people in how the Gospels came to be
Sure, well, the Flavians were the Roman imperial family that succeeded the Julio-Claudians
They took control of the throne of the Roman Empire in the year 69 CE
This was right in the middle of a huge messianic rebellion in Judea
The Flavians, the father of Vespasian and his son Titus had been given control over the Roman armies
They were down there battling the messianic movement and in the midst of this, Nero died
Vespasian returned to Rome, dispatched the heirs that were trying to continue the Julio-Claudians
and the Flavians became the Caesars of Rome
So this is the family that I think is the creators of the Christian Gospel
I have a very, very simple and I think clear way of explaining this
The thing that has really been overlooked in understanding the Gospels is that they are typologic literature
In fact, at the very beginning of the Gospels, there is what I would call a primer
In other words, in the very beginning of Matthew, in the first four chapters of Matthew, you have a story
which really shows the reader how the rest of the Gospels and the entire New Testament is to be understood
And that is to say that the literature is typologic
In other words, it is not historical, the authors are not creating history
They are creating a kind of fictional genre which basically links the story of Jesus to other stories
So that the story of Jesus can actually be completely deconstructed
There are quite a few stories which people are aware are based upon in the life of Jesus
are based upon stories in the Old Testament
There is about 41, I think, stories from the Old Testament that are found in the Gospels
In other words, the stories are just reworked with this new character Jesus Christ
representing the role of one of the prophets from the Old Testament
And so these stories can be easily understood as typologic
They are relating the character Jesus Christ backward to the prior covenant
This would be the literature of what we refer to as the Old Testament
And the system of typology in the Gospels is very, very clear and specific
There is other kinds of typology that is far more complicated
That would appear, for example, in the Dead Sea Scrolls
Anyone who is familiar with the Habakkuk Peshur would know that the kind of typology in that literature is really abstracted
In the Gospels, in Matthew, you find a narration about the pre-ministry of Jesus
And it goes like this, it's a story that everyone is familiar with in one way or another
Joseph goes to Egypt in 213 and then Herod massacres the boys
When they get to Egypt, a divine personage appears
And he states that they are dead, which sought the young child's life
Now you have a journey back from Egypt to Israel
There is a kind of baptism where Jesus is baptized by John the Baptist, undergoing through water
Now he goes into the wilderness, he goes for 40 days
And then you have the three temptations in which you have the lines
And the first one tempted by bread, at 4.7 in Matthew, it says do not tempt God
And then finally at 4.10 you have the line in the last temptation where you must worship only God
So that's the pre-ministry as Matthew gives it of the character Jesus Christ
Almost everyone knows the story, but very few people really know that that story is completely fictional
It comes from the Old Testament
If you align the concepts at the starting point, you can basically go forward
Because all of the concepts in Matthew occur in the same sequence as the stories that they were taken from the Old Testament
So in other words, in Genesis 45 you have Joseph goes to Egypt
Now this Joseph is also typologically linked to the Joseph in the New Testament
By the fact that he's described as a dreamer, dreamer of dreams, just like the father of Jesus Christ has a dream
Well, Joseph in the Old Testament is also known as a dreamer
And then you have Exodus 1, Pharaoh massacres the boys
Now in Exodus 4 you have basically a verbatim line
This is the line that appears in Matthew 2.20 and the divine personage appears and it says all the men are dead which sought thy life
So now you have the return from Egypt to Israel, you have the passing through water
And now to create the typological linkage
I'm going to talk about this parallel in depth in a bit
But to create the typological linkage in Matthew 3.13, Jesus is basically recreated as the nation of Israel
And you have the statement, you know, the father called his son out of Egypt
Which is from the Old Testament but is repeated in Matthew
And it just adds a little clarity to what would otherwise be a very obtuse parallel
And now you go into the wilderness for 40 years, right?
Notice in Matthew Jesus goes for 40 days
But you see, typology is not verbatimism
You just have enough parallelism so an alert reader can basically see that there is a linkage
So you talked about a parallel several times already
And we know parallel is central to your book
But it's a certain type of parallel
We're not just talking about parallel events
But a special parallelism where we're talking about sequences
Lining up the order of events
And then you also talk in the book about parallel concepts
Which is something that scholars miss very often because, hey, scholars look for parallel words
They look for parallel brain
Well, you know, what happens is that if you take these stories
The one I was giving in the Old Testament and the one in Matthew
And you align them side by side
It's easy to see the fact that one story is relating to the other
But it's very, very difficult to see
In fact, even today, very few Bible scholars that I talked to are aware of this
They're aware of the pre-ministry of Matthew typology
Now, what my theory is, is that this...
Now, so what you have is a system whereby you have sequence
The same sequence of parallel events
You have parallel concepts, parallel names, and parallel locations
This is how the typology in the Gospel is created
And my theory is simply that when you align the story of Jesus Christ in the Gospels
With the history of the Flavian military campaign in Judea
Which incidentally is the event that Jesus was foreseeing in all of his prophecies
If you align the two in the same way that I suggest you can do
With Matthew in the Old Testament to get the actual linkage
That you'll see that the whole story of Jesus
The whole, not just his pre-ministry, but the adult ministry is all typological
All of the stories of Jesus, basically, are created out of events
From the war between the Romans and the Messenic movement
In exactly the same way that the pre-ministry of Matthew links to the Old Testament
In other words, you have parallel locations, you have parallel concepts, you have parallel names
And they all occur in the same sequence
And incredibly, even though there had been an awareness of this pre-ministry typology
No one had ever attempted that very, very simple act
Which I had to basically piece together one parallel at a time
Before I could actually see the overall pattern
But they had never bothered to do this
So the theory that I'm presenting is, in what Caesar's Messiah does
It simply says, okay, we'll just start at the beginning of Jesus' ministry
We start right at the end of where the linkage back to the Old Testament stops
And then we just compare that event to the event that is described at the beginning
Of the Titus Flavius' campaign through Judea
And you'll see that I show that the fishing for men at the Sea of Galilee is quite parallel
And then you go forward and you just, basically, once you get linked up
You can start to see that many of the parallels, like you say, are conceptual
They're hard to see if you weren't looking for them, if you weren't reading with the bias
But you're kept in the sequence
So you can really make that determination by many of the parallels that are very, very overt
Or are simply the same thing
For example, Jesus predicts that Jerusalem will be encircled with a wall
Titus encircled Jerusalem with a wall
Jesus predicted the abomination of desolation
Josephus recorded the abomination of desolation
The raising of the temple
And of course, you know, the crushing of the Galilean towns
So once you link up one story with the other
The overt parallels and the parallels that are completely, basically the same historical event
Become obvious that they're occurring in the same sequence
And so this is the first thing that is just quite amazing
That hasn't really been presented to the public before Caesar's Messiah
Is that just the fact that the events, that these overt historical events occur in the same sequence
Right, right. You know when Derek brought your book to my attention
I was skeptical before I saw the parallelisms and how you go about them
And once I examined the evidence, I became more familiar with your method
And I think your hypothesis has too much explanatory power to dismiss it or discount it
New Age mythicist author, Acarya S, you knew her well
I did, yeah
And you had a lot of conversations with her
She said, well Joe Atwell's got an important piece of the puzzle
I think that's not quite right
I think you have more than just a piece of the puzzle
With the explanatory power of the Caesar's Messiah hypothesis
You've got the eyesight needed to put the various pieces of the puzzle together
Because when we think of pieces, somebody's got the study of names
Somebody's got my area of expertise, I guess you could say is the study of numbers, Dematria
Somebody else comes from an astronomy point of view, astrothiology and so forth
But this explanation about the Flavians being responsible for the gospel
Encompasses all of that and all of the scholarship that a person can muster
And bring to bear is used in substantiating this hypothesis
Which I think is wonderful
I want to remark on something
Why the New Testament and works of Flavius Josephus, the great ancient Jewish historian
Survived and you say that it's because they were produced by the Flavians
Under the auspices of Titus
And so you go so far as to say Titus created Christianity
What was Titus' motivation for doing that?
Well, there was two motivations
The overt political motivation was simply that the Messianic rebellion in Judea
Had not been extinguished by the war that the Flavians fought between 66 and 73 CE
The Rome had conquered or colonized Judea
And the rebellions began approximately what we would refer to as the year one
So that by the time that the great rebellion of 66 occurred
There had been dozens of smaller rebellions that had taken place
But the Flavians knew that as long as the Messianic prophecies were adhered to
The rebellions could flare up again
And in fact, they did
In 115 CE there was an enormous rebellion
Where all of Egypt was basically taken over by the Messianic movement
And then of course we had the famous 133-135 rebellion with Bar-Copa
Where Judea was once again made into a nation state
Right in the middle of the Roman Empire for heaven's sakes
And so this was an enormous military problem
Moreover, Josephus recorded, I think, what was really frightening them
Which was that the Messianic movement was attempting missionary activity to Jews outside of Palestine
And this was something that I think Rome really had to deal with
Because the idea of fighting the rebellions all across the empire simultaneously
Then Jews were somewhere between maybe 10%, 15% of the population widespread
And if they started to have their religion become something that was becoming very popular
Then of course the Roman Empire would be at risk
So the first reason, therefore, was simply to create a version of Judaism
A version of Messianic Judaism that Rome could live with
So that's really why you have give to Caesar what a Caesar is
And turn the other cheek
And if you're conscripted to carry a Roman legion's backpack, don't walk one mile, walk two
So that was just the political purpose behind writing a more peaceful version of Judaism
Then you see in the Old Testament where David cuts the head off of Goliath, things like this
So that was that
Now the second thing which is really quite shocking is that I think the real reason for the typology in the Gospels is simply vanity
This was the era of the imperial cult
We don't really understand the psychology of the Caesars well, in my opinion
They were a different kind of human from the perspective of basically being able to kill anyone they wanted
And so they really weren't restrained by kind of the moral structures of normal people
And their vanity, if you ever have been to Rome or, you know, the areas around Ephesus, you can see that
The imperial cult was the largest bureaucracy in the Roman Empire
It produced most of the great monuments
And so this was the worship of Caesar as a god
This is one thing that Jews simply would not do
They were monotheistic, they wouldn't worship Caesar
In order to overcome the stubbornness of the Jews in this regard
You had this strange character in the Gospels
And again, this is one of these, the mysteries to me about the Gospels are not so much the mystery of the literature
Which I think is actually, once you get the rhythm of the thing is easy to understand
The mystery is what's wrong with our scholarship
In that you have Jesus predicting the coming of, he calls the individual the son of man
That's the title from the prophet Daniel's literature
It means it's a messianic title, right?
And Jesus predicts that this guy will come in the coming war with Rome
He flatly says that this guy will show up when the temple is raised and Jerusalem is encircled with the wall
So he's talking about the Roman-Jewish war
This guy will show up, there will be an enormous apocalypse that will occur
And this individual will be basically the son of man
This is a kind of messianic person that will come
And oddly enough, from Jesus' prophecies will bring destruction to the Jews
Which is sort of not completely in alignment with most of the Judaic prophecies
But nevertheless, it's in the Gospels, that's what Jesus says
So I think that this is the real motivation for the typology, the stuff that I show in Caesar's Messiah
That the Caesars wanted to make sure that history would know that they were the son of man Jesus predicted
And that really the Christians have always been worshiping Caesar
We may have thought we're worshiping Jesus, but really we're worshiping the son of man who is more powerful than Jesus who comes in the future
So to sum up, it was to create a kinder, gentler form of Judaism
And also to ensure worship of the Roman Emperor
Now we're going to talk in a minute about how Titus went about doing that
But before we do, this idea about the typology and that scholars have neglected it
I agree, I can agree more
The point that the second coming as Jesus predicted it, as it is talked about in the Gospels, actually happened in the first century
A lot of that is missed by scholars
There is one group that doesn't miss it though, and that is a group that Derrick and I both are well acquainted with
And those are Preterists
Now Preterists believe that Jesus actually came in the first century
But it was a spiritual coming, and it was not a physical coming the way evangelicals picture it, the way Bible prophecy has projected it
So does your theory appeal to Preterists, or have you appealed to Preterists to explain to them that yes, there was an important coming in the first century
And this was the nature of it
Have you appealed to Preterists in that regard?
No, I haven't. I would like to actually be more in communication with them
I actually read Preterists, particularly the older ones, the ones from the 17th, 18th, 19th century
Because I think they're the ones that have the most coherent understanding of the literature
I think the modern New Testament scholar trying to find things like Q and pre-Christian groups
These guys are just way out on a conjectural limb in terms of just reading the literature
Whereas the Preterists were much more producing a coherent reading of the gospels
And so I think that they're actually to be praised for that
And it's interesting because with modern Christian scholarship there's been a turn away from that approach
But all of the early church fathers, you know, St. Augustine, these people were Preterists
They all believed that Jesus had been predicting the Roman-Jewish war
I mean, it's perfectly obvious, and I'll just give you a little bond bond, something that isn't widely known
But it's again, it's one of these head-scratching kind of oversights by scholarship
The reason that Jesus was said to have been crucified on Passover 33 is because he is the human Passover lamb
Of the New Covenant, right? That's how he's represented
He is the human Passover lamb, but he is typologically linking to the events of the Old Covenant
Now in the Old Covenant, you have the wandering in the wilderness between the first Passover
And then when you have the possession of Judea is given to the Israelites, right?
40 years of wandering, then you have the Promised Land
Well, if you look at the death of Jesus at 33 Passover
You'll see that exactly 40 years to the day at 73 CE, you have the conclusion of the Roman-Jewish war
When the Romans now are given complete ownership of the Judea, the Promised Land
So obviously, the human Passover lamb Jesus was, you know, was wired into the war after the fact
And that they have basically created a typologic relationship showing that the first covenant with its Passover lamb
And then the 40 years of wandering and then the ownership of the Promised Land is mirrored by the New Covenant
Where you have the human Passover lamb, the 40 years, and then the ownership
So anyway, it's again, it's like, this is something that scholars don't talk about a lot
In fact, I've never even heard a single person mention it, but it's completely obvious
But Joe, in order for that to happen, there's got to be some back-dating going on, wouldn't you say?
I mean, you've got to take an event that happens in a contemporary sense
And then back-date it 40 years in order for it to match up with the original story
Is that what appears to have happened?
Yeah, absolutely, it's easy to be a prophet when you're writing about events that have already occurred
And so, that's what happened
And again, if this sort of detail was, I think, in circulation
I just can't imagine the religion would really last very long
Christianity is an enormous political as well as a financial and, of course, spiritual structure
It's not just something that people use for spiritual communication
I mean, it is something that governments have always used for control
And so, I think that one of the reasons why that the scholarship is so horrible
Is that basically, you know, the really deep state powers are just perfectly happy
Having as many people be Christians as possible because basically it just makes them easier to control
Right, right
Now, we've been exploring this Preterist angle a little bit
And I want Derek to jump in there
Derek, can you jump in at this point? Would you like to?
Are you itching? Are you there?
Absolutely, can you hear me?
Hold on, let me turn this volume down to my computer exactly
Okay, can you guys hear me?
Yeah, Derek, we can hear you
Okay, man, I feel like a kid in a candy store in my mouth is just wide open hearing Joe reiterate
The same thing he's told me multiple times, but it's just hearing it again, hearing it anew
You know, it makes you kind of just scratch your head and go, wow, I mean, this evidence hasn't been dug in enough
And so, in light of what you just said, Joe, in this 40-year period, you know, we have a variety of groups of people
Whether they be Preterist, whether they be Futurist, it doesn't matter
But the context is what seems to be Israel or Israelite
And so the New Testament, it's talking about these chosen, these elect
Those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life
Now, I know I'm probably jumping around, but the concept of an elect-chosen, predestined type of people
What does your theory bring to the table for that concept?
Do you have anything that you've kind of, I guess you say, weaved into it?
No, I know the angle you're talking about. I've never really tried to link my theory into these sorts of ideas
I think that if you start to deconstruct the New Testament, basically one thing that evaporates is spirituality
And what remains is political power
And so, I think it really, you know, people will, from that perspective that are, you know, interested in sort of spiritual coherency
Won't find much value in my work
And people who want basically to maintain the political power that such an interpretation gives them won't like it either
Because it, you know, I just deconstruct the whole, you know, basis of sort of belief in the work as representing some kind of, you know, spiritual relationship to the divine
Well, that being said, that's something I would like to investigate personally because it seems like there's this theme of an Israelite theme
And it might fit somehow into this concept you're bringing up about pacifying Israelites
But utilizing the same terminology that isn't, it's not, you know, I guess you'd say new in the New Testament
They're borrowing Old Testament concepts of the chosen or the remnant, you know, this concept that's Israelite
I only ask that because a lot of people who listen to this or that are going to probably listen to this are theological thinkers
So they're going to think of this in technical terms, they're going to think of this in like what's the meaning of that word
And how is the synopsis of this and does this, you know, connect that and, you know, there's a lot of theological stuff that comes up
But, you know, this, what you're doing and bringing to the table, it really is an airplane view
So, you know, you've got people who say these are just Jewish people who write these texts, right?
Now, I've heard that anyone who could write this kind of literature, the way it was written, the education behind it
The money that it would need, and the fact that Rome, I'm jumping around now, but I just, I'm excited
Because we're going to do multiple programs bringing you on and we can delve deeper in particular topics
Yeah, that's great and I hope, you know, that the people who are listening can give their criticism because that always makes for a really interesting discussion
Yes, sir. So one of my things is this literature, it's funny how the Romans are smashing anything that isn't, you know
It seems like they're going off out of their way to try to destroy these people
And, you know, evolving time, if you will, over time we notice that they're eliminating manuscripts for political purposes, I think personally
I do agree with you that there's reasons to try and make everyone think the same
But were they behind this Gospel from the beginning? I mean, who were the earliest people involved in this thing?
Like, go into some detail, some interesting things and just think about it if you will
I think that, you know, you can basically explain the entire story of Jesus starting from immediately after the war
And you really don't need to go into any kind of pre-war sort of groups or organizations or theological positions
I mean, one thing about Caesar's Messiah theory is that it kind of puts cold water in a lot of sort of pre-Gospel theorizing
You know, people talk about Q and this and that
Now, I think, however, it's perfectly possible
Now, let me just point out that this problem had been going on basically for over 100 years
I mean, you have the Maccabean kingdom that fell and Judea became the Roman province
But that process took a long time
The Maccabeans were zealots, they were xenophobic
But the Herod slithered in, became the confidant of one fraction of that family
And then over time, the fraction that was aligned with Herod basically lost control of all of the military forces of Judea
And Rome came in and they never left
So, the point is that with Herod, the Herods, you started to have Roman control over the religion
They attempted to control it way before even the rebellion started in the year one
You know, Herod the Great was trying to create basically a version of the religion
Or have control of religion in a way that would enable him to continue to make money
You have to remember that the Herods and their counterparts in Egypt, the Alexanders, were extremely wealthy
And to the extent that they were tax collectors for Rome
There's some that contested, but I think it is the case that they were part of the whole financial process
They were certainly aligned with the Flavians
Okay, now, before the rebellion had ever broken out, at the court of Antonia, she was Nero's mother
And you have the Alexander family managing her estate
The Alexander family, there's two brothers, one of them is the money guy
The other guy is Philo, and he's the most famous Jewish intellectual of the era
And in fact, when people talk about how did the gospel come into existence, many times they'll just reference Philo
And they go, look, here's a kind of Roman, you know, Jewish perspective that's being developed
So Philo was writing this stuff basically 100 years before the gospels would have been produced
So you can see that, and just to back up one second, the Flavians were also at this court
The court of Antonia, I think, were at this group, Matt, the group that produced the gospels
The Alexanders were there, and they were managing Antonia's money
You had Herod's daughter, Bernacke, married the brother of the money Alexander, Mark
So she marries him, he dies young, but you can see that the Herod and the Alexanders are aligned
Now, when the war breaks out, Tiberius Alexander, he is the very first person to stand for the Flavian Caesarship
And this shows how close these families were, because if the Flavians failed, it would have been lights out
Right, the Julius Claudians would never have put up with it, he would have been killed
So he stood for them, he said, I want Vespasian to be Caesar before Vespasian became Caesar
And in this proclamation, he basically states that Vespasian was a divine person
So he's already thrown Judaism out the window, right?
So these three families knew each other because the secretary to Antonia Cannaeus, she was Vespasian's mistress
And wife, basically, and everything but name, that's how she's referred to
So the three families were thick as thieves, the Flavians were also known as tax collectors
So you can see that basically what's in back of all of this is money
And of course, the political power that comes with it
So these three families then were the brunt of the violence that the Messenic movement produced
They hated these guys because they thought that the two families that were purportedly Jewish, the Harrison and the Alexanders
Were racial and religious turncoats, and the Flavians, they were the generals bringing the armies down to basically extinguish the rebellion
So when the war ended, these three families had a problem, and the problem was Messenic Judaism
And the wars had been going on for over 70 years, and they knew they were just positive that in the future these things were going to flare up again
And so this was the motivation that they had
Now, this was a completely unique moment in history because you have the opportunity, the capacity, and the motivation to create Christianity
You see, this is why you can be sure these guys are the ones who did it, because in a court of law they're the only ones that you could actually give the three attributes to
They wanted a version of Judaism that would basically be a bulwark against the violence and the rebellion of the Messenic scripture that was being circulated in Judea
So that's why they came up with the Gospels, and because they had technical understanding of the scripture, because as I pointed out
The Alexanders were the best known Jewish intellectuals of the era
They had the capacity to write all of the fancy Jesus typology, you know, the Elisha stuff, where he's turning two loaves of bread to feed 5,000 people
I mean, these are all stories from the Old Testament, and the typology they're using is basically just an improved version of the kind of typology that's throughout the Old Testament
So this is where the technical expertise came from, and because the Flavians were completely attuned to propaganda and to religion
I mean, there's the stories of the Spasi and pretending to be seraphists, and actually working miracles
So they knew how to control the population through religion, so here's where you have the opportunity, the capacity, and most importantly the motivation
To come up with the religion, and so this was this critical moment in Western civilization, you know, following the war in 80, or approximately 80 C, where the families got together
And they said, well, you know, what to do, and what they did was the Gospels
Well, you know, Joe, we talked about the Harrods, the Alexanders, and the Flavians
The Harrods had a deep cultural connection, the Alexanders had money, the Financing, the Flavians knew how to conquer and how to manage
It's interesting that the first declaration in favor of Vespation was by the Alexanders, because you got to line up the money first
Once the money is lined up, everything else is going to follow
You ask a fascinating question in the introduction to your book concerning the role of the Greek language in the Scriptures, which the Alexanders were experts
I've looked at the command of the Greek language that the Alexanders had
I mean, you have to ask the question, how is it that these supposedly Hebrew and Aramaic teachings of Jesus developed into early Greek theology?
I mean, even the mechanics of the Greek language, opposed to the Hebrew language, Greek is read from left to right
As you know, Hebrew is read from right to left
It's a different way of thinking in terms of the Harriman Braini atmosphere principle
You just read and understand and process Hebrew differently than you do Greek
And you say, well, how did this come to be? How do we think of New Testament writings as a Greek phenomenon?
And this helps to explain it
Sure, I mean, it's a really good point. I mean, the fact is, I actually have, you know, in other kind of discussions I've had, made the point that
Who else but the intellectual circle around the Flavians could have ridden the Gospels?
They're the only ones who had an understanding of, you know, there's no one else that is known to have had the technical capacity and the opportunity, let alone the motivation, to write literature
Literature is very, very complicated. It has tremendous understanding, you know, of sort of, you know, like allegorical principles
There's not a lot of people wandering around with the capacity to do this
And then, of course, bear in mind that, you know, following people talk about the spread of Christianity
Well, the spread of Christianity would have been done through basically the stories of Jesus and the literature about Jesus
I mean, this would have been done only with the permission of the Roman authorities
And they would have, they would never have permitted, particularly after the enormous disaster of the 66-73 war
They wouldn't have permitted some messanic movement that they couldn't control to spread throughout the empire
So obviously the, I mean, the simplest, clearest way to understand all this is just they were, it spread because they were, they were the ones spreading it
Right, right, and it was preserved because the Romans were behind it and saw that it was, that it needed to be preserved
You know, it's a, and the other explanation, of course, Joe, is simply that God did it, you know, how did the writings become so complex
And how can they contain so much and layer upon layer of meaning? Well, God did it, it's just miraculous, but
That's right, and that is that you have the opportunity to present a miraculous explanation
But, I mean, of course, this isn't one with any kind of explanatory power
It's held up because, for one thing, no one has bothered to just deconstruct the literature possibly
You know, even today, Luther, look at this, you know, you have all these people, they're always, they're all this big argument about the historicity of Jesus
I mean, this will never get resolved, I mean, it's sort of like the guy who invented Donald Duck, he had a neighbor who had a duck named Donald
Is the Donald Duck a historical character or is it a fictional character? I mean, these, this is a semantical problem
It isn't a historical one. What we have is the literature, we have the literature
And if we can deconstruct it and understand that the whole thing is tipped to stern typologic fiction, then we don't need to, like, worry so much about a question that can never be answered
You know, was there Jesus Christ and he had a kind of life similar to this and he was a wise person and then there was embellishment on top of it
This is like the Donald Duck story. Who knows? And frankly, who cares? It's once you can deconstruct the literature, you don't need to spend waste time with issues that are impossible to ever come to a definitive answer about
Joey, let me ask you a question, Joe. You're going to piss off the, you're going to piss off the historicists and the mythicists
They're going to be angry with you
What a shock!
If I like Derek, he's absolutely right
Joey's saying, what you are debating is ultimately not what we should be talking about, okay
Yeah, it's a complete waste of time. I mean, all of the mythicists and even the historicity issue is just ridiculous
There's no way to ever be able to resolve that. It's impossible. Who cares? We don't have the capacity to go back in time and look at these events
We never will, but what we have is the literature and let's just work with this to see what we have here
If we were just like little things, like I was talking about how irritating it is to me that people don't see that the human Passover lamb Jesus was wired into the Roman war, the 40-year cycle
And it's so obvious. I mean, if we would just spend our time with what we have, right, with the historical data and the literature that we have
Then we wouldn't need to worry about these other issues. They would just, they would be not only unsolvable, they would be irrelevant
Let me ask you a question there, Joe. Pertaining to this, and I totally, I see where you're coming from. I would say improbability
I mean, everything's based on probabilities, and so it seems to me, yeah, the mythicist and the historicist debate left and right
Of course, I'm more convinced that he's probably a fictional character that may not have existed. We can't absolutely prove that nonetheless
But it seems to me, at this point in my journey, that the evidence is pointing that if there was a man, like you said, which we cannot know for certain or not
Obviously, there's embellishment, there's legend, there's fable, there's a bunch of scuff within the literature that's showing this
But let me ask you a question, because most Christians would say, well, if Titus is behind this, or if the Spascian and the Flavians are behind this thing
What about the early Christian persecutions by Rome? How do you deal with that question?
Yeah, I mean, they never happened. There's a scholar named Candia Moss, she's a Notre Dame professor, and she wrote a book about that
And she pointed out that there were prosecutions, in other words, there were legal, you know, Roman activity against people who were basically executed
But there was no general persecution of the Christians. There just simply wasn't any
She says that there were, from time to time, you know, episodes that could be seen as localized persecution, but nothing on an empire-wide basis
I mean, this is self-evident because you can basically look at the popes, the list of the popes, and they're all residing in Rome
I mean, what kind of persecution was that about? And then, beyond that, if you look at the first historically-documentable Christians
And you go to the Caspian Cyclopædian, you can actually see that they're referred to as the Christian Flavii
Because they're all from the Flavian family, right? You've got Neurosynaculus, Flaviodomatilla, Clemens, Clement, Perdincella
There's a whole cluster of these guys, and these are all late in the first century, early second century
These are the original Christians, and they're all members of the imperial family
You know, people explain this by saying, well, there was some, you know, it was a fad in the imperial family to become Christians
Right, I mean, it's just preposterous, you know, so the thing is, is that you had, I'll give you another example of the myth of the persecutions
A lot of people talk about, and senior moment, I'm forgetting the name of the Caesar that Constantine battled in 303
Diane Cleese, I forget it was, anyway, okay, so they had a huge battle, and this was, you know, it was said that the Christians were persecuted during this period
And I think that in this case, they're probably right, because I think that you actually had a political schism
But just to show how absurd the idea of a kind of a systematic persecution of Christians
In, gosh, I think it's Constantinople, I have to check, but it might be Alexander, but where one of the huge battles took place
The Christian church was destroyed, and it was a huge administration center, and this thing is enormous, it was like over 100 yards long
And it was directly across the street from the Roman imperial headquarters office, right across street, right?
So you can't get to the point where you can put up a structure like that next to the imperial headquarters
If you're in a generally persecuted state, and this was, you know, toward the end of the third century
And so, yeah, if you look at the, I could actually go through that there's like, I think there's six or seven sort of documented persecution of Christians
Up to the point where Constantine starts to make it the state religion, and every one of them is just either obvious prosecution
Of people who are, you know, basically doing illegal stuff are just so fanciful that they're obviously just myths
So the whole idea, now having said that, there were Christians that were taken to the Colosseum and executed, absolute
These were the Messianic rebels, you see, the term Christian is a semantical hot potato
Who are the Christians? You know, you have the Roman Christians, but you also have the followers of what could be called a Christ or Messiah in Judea
These individuals are being brought into the Colosseum and killed, in fact, even in Caesar's Messiah, I point out that the Romans hijacked the history of the Messianic movement
Because the character Simon, right? Simon is, you know, the lead disciple in the story of Jesus Christ, right?
And at the end of the, at the end of the Gospels, you know, Jesus says, Simon, you're going to be taken where you don't want to go and you're going to be given to death to glorify God
And I show that if you're reading the long typologically, if you're actually connecting Josephus and the Gospels, you can see that, yeah, here's the event
Simon is the leader of the Messianic movement in Judea, the Romans capture him, they take him where he doesn't want to go, this being Rome, and they torture and then kill him
Okay, so when you read it in sequence, and kind of with the right understanding, you can see that the apostle Simon was definitely a persecuted Christian
But he's not, in fact, the one that we think of, the Roman Christian, they just stole his history, his name, his position of authority, and used that as kind of, you know, one of the little foundation pieces to fool people
Because they're trying to hoist their religion, you know, on top of Judaism because they want it to have, you know, they want Christ to have all of, to sweep up all of this Jewish prophecy stuff
That is being circulated throughout the empire, and Josephus says was basically with a big cause of the rebellion
So the persecution of Roman Christians who were, you know, turned the other cheek, paid their taxes, nah, it never happened, it's just, it's a myth
And it's one of the things that they tell people to keep them inside the religion and to keep them from doing, you know, analysis of what we have, which is basically the literature
To make this real simplified
Oh, I'm sorry, yeah
Go ahead, Luther, go ahead, go ahead, I was going to say something real quick about that Christian thing, but
Go ahead, Jerry
Okay, so to make this simple for the audience, because, you know, someone might be just hearing this and not familiar
What you're saying is just like the word Christos or Christ could be applied to a multiplicity of deities, whether it be the Caesar Christ, whether it be Mithras, whether it be Jesus, whatever Christ
This Christ can be used in multiple ways. What we're seeing in this Christianity use or Christian is pretty much saying a follower of a Christ or a follower of Christ and these Messianic people, these people who are following their Christ or, you know, thinking that was their Christ
The Romans were saying, look, they took that and so persecuting them is what looks like early Christian persecution and it boiled the history
The first century, all the way up to the barcote rebellion and beyond probably when the diaspora starts, all of the so-called Christians and the Colosseum, I mean, I'm not sure how much real documentation there is of it, but I'm sure there was a lot of it
And this is the basis for those legends, wasn't the Roman Christians, it was the rebellious Jewish Messianic Christians
So Joe, do you think that the literature reflects this kind of dualism, this kind of psychological uncertainty or dualism going on in the minds of Jews? On the one hand there's this Messianic impulse and on the other hand there's this pro-Roman impulse
And that it might be manifested in characters like Simon, Peter, two names, two natures, we see how torn he is psychologically and socially. Is that some sort of acknowledgement of really where many Jews who were on the fence at the time were?
Sure, and in fact, it's even worse. Following the war, the Flavians took control of Judaism. What we know as rabbinical Judaism is 100% Flavian religion. They set up the academy at Yavnev on a Herodian compound and if you actually look at the foundation literature of rabbinical Judaism
You have Encleos and he simply says, I'm Titus Flavius' nephew. He's writing the Targum. I hate to say it, but that era of rabbinical Judaism is another Flavian religion because they had to have both sides of it.
They shouldn't just have the Roman Christian side. They knew that a lot of Jews weren't going to go with that. So the Orthodox Jewish religion was also, I think, basically lock-stock and barrel-controlled by the Flavians at least during this period.
If you look in the Talmud, you can see there are stories where Zakai, who is basically the founder of rabbinical Judaism, in the Talmud, the story is that he goes during the war, he goes and talks to Vespasian. It's not a historical story, but it's actually in the Talmud.
And he obscribes the Messianic prophecies that designate the Messiah to Vespasian. This is in the Talmud. Vespasian is the Jewish Messiah as stated by the founder of rabbinical Judaism. It's right in the document.
Now, this is really amazing because you've got to remember that the other so-called well-known Jewish priest of the era is a guy named Flavius Josephus, or Josephus Barmytheus, the guy who writes the history.
He also makes the claim. He goes, you know, there's all these Messianic prophecies and we Jews have not understood them. We just kind of got it all wrong because you know who is really the Messiah. Man, it's that Flavian Caesar.
All of these prophecies foresaw the Flavian Caesar. Now, this is right in the documents and when you look at, then when you look at Jesus Christ and he's going, man, the Son of Man, this Messianic title, he's going to come and he's going to do all this stuff to the Jews and circle.
Well, come on, people. Wake the hell up. They're telling you what the reality is. They're telling you. They're saying, of course, the Son of Man is the Flavian Caesar and here's the big problem, guys. Here's the problem.
When people get to my theory, it's a hard lump because what it means is that Christians are actually worshiping Caesar. You see, this is the problem is that it isn't just historical analysis. It's the fact that it is an emotional issue with people who are trying to live a spiritual life through that religion.
Yes, and you know, people who take it as history still have to deal with the fact that all of these vectors are pointing to the Romans. I mean, for example, the traditional view about Josephus is that even among Preterists, Josephus was a straightforward historian, not necessarily.
So, Josephus wrote these prodigies of so-called miraculous happenings that happened around the turn of the century. He talked about, for example, at Passover, he talks about a calf giving birth to a lamb.
That is a reference, obviously, to an age of Taurus giving birth to the age of Ares and then passing on to the Roman age of Pisces, each age being associated with a civilization. And when the age of Pisces came, it was represented by the Romans in the same way that Taurus had been represented by the Egyptians and Ares had been represented by the Babylonians.
And Josephus is dealing with all of these non-historical elements that we just missed. Why would we do that?
Absolutely, absolutely. It is kind of sad. My favorite is the abomination of desolation. I mean, Jesus predicts it and then Josephus records it. And this is really a shocking thing because it occurs in the middle of the war.
And then, remember Daniel's prophecy in the midst of the week. So he has the middle of the week, the three-and-a-half year designation. That is when the abomination of desolation is going to occur.
And Josephus recorded that miraculously this happened right at the right time in the war. And then, of course, three-and-a-half years later, roughly, you have the conclusion of the war with the fall of Masada.
But, I mean, you know, this is basically, they're weaving the, they're not just faking history, but they're also weaving in these miracles to create a kind of religious structure.
And when you stand back and look at it, and look at the idea of, like, Jesus predicting the abomination of desolation coming during the war, and then Josephus seeing it actually happen.
I mean, come on. It's obviously fake. And the two authors, the authors of the Gospel and the authors of Josephus, are obviously in cahoots, right?
You can't do it otherwise. You have to have the guy predict it, and you also have the guy, you know, say, hey, look, it actually happened, and here's the date, and it all works out just like Daniel Forsoff.
So it's fake. This is obviously fake. It isn't a structure, shouldn't be a structure of a world's historical religion. This shouldn't be the basis for, you know, billions of people to, you know, kind of have as a foundation of their faith.
It's just, it's too, it's too obviously fake. And you have to watch that f-word there, Joe. You say the f-word too much out here.
Sorry. I'm sorry. I can't help it. I can't help it. I'm sorry. I will watch it. I will watch. Sorry.
Now go ahead. I didn't mean to interrupt you.
That was my little rant on that. I just, it just bugs me because, I mean, maybe because I'm in the weeds a bit and I, you know, but I just think that, you know, the things that are, the things like that, that are just sort of analytic lead pipe cinches that are completely clear cut, easy to demonstrate.
This stuff should be given to the public as well as like, you know, the question of the historicity of Jesus, you know, and was there a myth before, you know, you know.
I mean, these things are kind of tangential to the real, the effect of scholarship that will basically change the public's position concerning, you know, the, like, whether or not this religion is worthwhile.
I think that, you know, I mean, look, Constantine used it as part of the feudal system. Constantine gets a lot of accolades for basically making it the state religion of Rome.
This supposedly takes us out of the pagan era. But the fact is, Constantine also started the process of the creation of what's called the feudal system.
He started that process and at the same time he started the process to make the religion, the Roman Catholicism, the state religion.
And the two are completely linked and were linked effectively for like 12, 1300 years where the serf, and that's just a fancy word for slave, was told that, you know, you should accept your place in the hierarchy.
And the hierarchy had the pope at the top and then the emperor, and you went all the way down through the military and all of the religious personages, and at the very bottom was the serf.
They should accept this. Let us take all the food you produce. We can sell your children. We can basically constrict your wife, if we wish, all of these privileges.
But don't worry, there's going to be a workers' paradise after you're dead, you see. So the feudal system and Roman Catholicism, in my mind, were the same thing. There wasn't any distinction.
If you look at the title of the leader of the Roman Catholic Church, Pontiff Maximus, that was a title that Caesar held. That was Caesar's title.
He was the head of the Roman College of Priests. He was the Pontiff Maximus. Somehow the pope ends up with it, and then somehow the pope is living in a giant palace on the Palatine, the Vatican, which is where the Caesar used to have their palaces.
To me, it looks pretty bad. It looks to me like they changed their name and they gave a slave system a kind of religious context, but then they just left for Addis over a millennium.
Let me ask you a little quick, Luther. Look, we're jumping all over. The reason why I think we're jumping all over is because we're super excited. We're cracking the egg. This is the first egg among many we're going to eat a good breakfast of.
I just want the audience as well as Luther. He's getting acquainted with some of the stuff. This is stuff even new to him. This is why I love this. I love this because he's been hearing me talk about this for about six to eight months now, Luther.
You know what really blew my mind was some of the parallels between John in the book of John and this guy, John, that was part of this revolt and how you patterned John and what you did with Simon.
Of course, you went into extensive detail and I recommend anyone who's listening to this at least read the book. Challenge yourself to read how, you know, I can get how it's almost so obvious with the evidence.
You almost want to pinch yourself and go, No, it can't be real. This can't be real, you know, because it's so crazy how you put this evidence together.
But would you go into kind of comparing these characters, New Testament to real historic or at least what we think is, you know, part of this revolt that Josephus is documenting and how that kind of fits in?
Sure. Well, I mean, the critical part of it is the conclusion, which is John 21. And what you have are the two leaders of the Messenic Rebellion, Simon and John are captured.
And John, for some reason, is spared, and Simon is taken to Rome and executed. Now, if you're following along with the, if you're following along typologically, you can see that, you know, you have basically an exact parallel to what happens at the conclusion that
of the, of the Roman war, which, let me just actually have it written down here. I was going to read from the book, but I can't find the place.
Anyway, so, so basically the, I was going, let me just see if I can find it. Just like, see, this is the thing. I'm not familiar with this book. I haven't seen it in a while.
So anyway, shucks. I did, I did want to just read it because I think that would be a little bit better to do than take your time. Take your time. Don't rush. Don't worry.
You can edit, you can edit out my fumbling so that.
Oh, you're fine.
Don't you?
All right. So the thing is, is that
we've got so many parallelisms to explore. Just take it.
Right. I know. And that's the thing. And that's actually, it's a good idea to actually go through them, but
well, here it is. Okay. So, um, um,
yeah. Okay. So in the, um, the, the, the, the conclusion of the military campaign at, in Jerusalem by, by the Flavians and the conclusions of the Gospels. And I'd simply point out that this is how they each end.
Both characters are named Simon and John. Both sets of characters are judged. Both sides of the parallel occur at the conclusion of the campaign.
Right. End of the Gospels, the end of the Jews, the streets of Jerusalem. Jesus predicts and tight as fulfilled Simon going to a martyr's death after being placed in bonds and taken someplace he doesn't wish to go.
In each conclusion, John is spared and in each Simon follows, um, uh, you know, Jesus says, follow me to Simon Peter. And then the, uh, the typological character in the war is basically led, you know, by the, uh, in the, in the procession to his death.
So he follows. And so, um, that's a pretty, you know, it's, it's, it's the parallelism has been seen by other scholars, particularly the, uh, the, the, the part about Simon, uh, Robert Eisman and James the brother of Jesus made a witticism.
And he, and he says, you know, you compare one Simon to the other. They're so similar. I mean, how many Simons were there at this time that were leader of the movement, you know, and taken to Rome and things.
He goes, they should look like the same person. Um, John is not as the, the, uh, the fact that John is spared is not, has not been noticed by others, but it's because they don't read it typologically.
They don't actually look and, and see, well, what elements are similar to the story of the war at this point, because John is also self-evident.
I mean, why, why did Jesus spare, uh, John and condemn Simon? There's no theological explanation, but if you look at it just as, uh, basically it's because this is what, you know, occurred during the war, then it makes, then it makes perfect sense.
So, um, John and Simon are, are also the, uh, the characters that are portrayed earlier in the Gospels, uh, the, in the, uh, in the story about the demons at Gadara.
Um, you know, people wonder, like, in some versions of, you know, there's different versions of the stories, and one it's Gesera and one it's Gadara.
That's because John comes from Gadara and Simon comes from Gesera.
I mean, this is, this is why the stories are slightly different than the three different, they're, it appears three different times, they're slightly different.
But they're all, the stories are all just basically trying to give each one is, is giving new information, each one is typologically linked to the other stories and into the history.
Um, it's, it's a, it's a good example of, um, of basically of how different the typologic reading system is, because when people read the stuff literally, like typical New Testament scholars, they, they just, they would see the, you know, the differences as, um, as, as what they would study basically.
Um, but when you do that, you're missing, you know, the, the, the typologic structure that, um, is, um, basically, um, you know, the whole, the whole basis for the work.
I'm going to read like a parallel so people can kind of see what happens when you start reading it correctly.
Um, in, uh, and, and I, and I have a chapter called the Flavian Signature.
And what I did there is I just, because people work in the first version, I was jumping around from one gospel to the next, because you can kind of see the, the timeline.
Um, but because this was confusing to people, I just took one gospel's text and I just laid it out next to Josephus.
So I didn't jump around and I just showed, you know, like here is what Josephus says at this point and here is what the gospel say at this point.
And so you can just, you know, you can make up your own mind about whether or not there's a direct relationship.
But when you're reading it in this fashion, you come to like in the wars of the Jews, Josephus writes, he goes, and, and thus that's addition.
He's talking about the, the, like the, the groups inside of Jerusalem and how they're fighting among themselves.
He says, and thus that's addition, which had been divided into three factions was now reduced to two.
Now, you know, it's a kind of a complicated idea of a, of a, you know, a reduction from, from three factions to two.
But if you look, if you're reading along it in Luke, would you be at like Luke 12?
And then you have this statement.
It goes, Jesus says, do you suppose I came to give peace on earth?
I tell you not at all, but rather division from now on, five in one house will be divided three against two and two against three.
Now, you see, it's kind of, um, it's like, well, people go, wow, it's similar.
You know, you have the division, you have three and two.
It's only when you're reading it in sequence that you can see, wait a second, this is actually related that the, what, what Jesus is actually talking about, um, a house being divided.
He's talking about the, the, um, the families that were inside of Jerusalem.
And now you have, um, you know, three against two and two against three.
It isn't parallelism.
It's not.
You see, they're very, the statements actually mechanically are quite different.
But there's enough information that's being exchanged between the, these, these, um, these statements that if you're reading it, you know, in, in a, in, in sequence, you'd go, aha, that's, that is completely, um, you know, that's obviously, uh, correct.
And then, you know, you go on and you get things like, um, uh, you know, um, Jesus will say at Luke 14, he goes, which of you intending to build a tower does not sit down first and count the cost, whether he has enough to finish it, unless he will lay the foundation and not be able to finish it.
Um, and then if you're reading again typologically, you know, you're in sequence, you look at Josephus and it says, well Titus went around the wall looking for the blade, best place to build a tower.
Right.
Well, I mean, see one is looking forward to the next one.
And then, uh, you know, the next one, um, uh, you know, it says, or what king going in the next, next line is like, uh, you know, it says what king going to make a war against another king does not sit down first and consider whether he's able to meet with him.
Um, and, uh, or else when the other is still a great while off, he sends a delegation and ask conditions of peace.
Okay.
Well, you read in Josephus, it goes, Josephus attempted to discourse with those who were upon the wall about terms of peace.
You see, these are like, you know, you go, well, one is not exactly parallel to the other.
There's differences, but you get once you start getting the sequence, then you can see that the story that Jesus is, you know, is talking about is really what's going on in the war.
And, um, uh, and then, then, you know, you come up to stuff that's completely and transparently, like the next bit is like Jerusalem gets encircled with a wall.
Well, I mean, that's a historical event.
Jesus predicts it, but Titus uncreates it, you see.
And so this cannot be, you know, gained, saved, or you can't, really, nothing really you can do about it.
It's just where it is.
I think that, um, I don't know if you, if you have a chance to look at it, but the, you know, you got, when you're in the, when you're in a typological system,
like I had an exchange with one scholar and he was saying, well, I have my own explanation for the Joseph of Arimathea parallel.
And he gave an explanation that had, you know, he could explain the last word, Arimathea.
He didn't have an explanation for Joseph, but he had an explanation for Arimathea.
And I said, well, actually, you know, I have an explanation for Joseph of Arimathea because Joseph Bar-Matthews.
See, it's not verbatimism, but it's, it has, you know, basically very, very close typologic connections.
Um, he had an experience where he had to find a group of three.
He's the one that Joseph Bar-Matthews.
He begs the Roman commander, takes the guy down from the cross, and this one guy survives the crucifixion.
Now, you know, that, that is now, that story, which was presented as a parallel,
as far as I know, first in, in my book, Caesar's Messiah, is now all over the Internet.
Everyone, if you, if you look about it, their people are, without ever giving me any citation for it,
they're always, they're always saying, gosh, it looks like, you know, that may have been a Joseph,
you know, Josephus was like kind of lampooned, or somehow, you know, is connected into the Gospels,
or, you know, they have different explanations, but they see the parallelism.
So people have asked me, they go, well, how did you find it?
Because, you know, no one else had, where people weren't talking about it.
And I go, well, it's because I just knew where to look.
I, I only had about three or four pages of text to find it.
It had to be there, because it had to be between, at the end of the, where the, where the Jerusalem is,
is captured, and before the final scene with Simon and John had to be in this, like, little, tiny space.
And there it was, you see.
So this is the, this is the explanatory power.
If you, if you, once you've established this connection, you can, you can actually use it to look
and see into the Gospels, and see meaning, you can actually see, aha, here's the basis for it, you know.
And so, this is, you know, I, I don't know really, you know, how long this material will exist,
you know, before it really starts to affect culture.
Perhaps it is now, I mean, there's been like, I've been told like four million people that have seen the documentary
that was, that was created about the, about my book, but I don't really know where that all stands.
It would have been better if, if someone who was, um, like a well-known Bible scholar had brought this out,
because it would have been easier for him to, you know, basically get the, the presentation out.
But unfortunately, people like that are controlled, you know.
Right.
The theory like this would really impact the religion.
I mean, they, they would, they would have a hard time getting through their, you know, their political structure, um, to, to present it.
And whereas I, I just, you know, I, I did the analysis.
It was like a puzzle.
And, uh, and basically as soon as I had the courage to do it, I just put it out there.
And that was that.
So, um, people could just,
Joe, what I find remarkable about it is this was in 2010 to know that somebody was thinking about this at that kind of depth
almost a decade ago.
And then to publish it is really something we're going to have a long time catching up with.
Um, you know, and you talk about other scholars who may have been on this kind of track.
I know you, you cite in the book a 19th century scholar, Bruno Bauer.
Yeah.
And, uh, and contemporary scholar Robert Eisenman, were they on the right track before you set fire to this thing and it exploded?
I mean, what did you get from there?
Yeah, I mean, certainly.
I mean, Bauer, Bauer was very suspicious that the Romans had invented the religion.
He was just very, uh, he could see that just politically speaking, it seemed, uh, odd that at this moment of time,
uh, you would have a religion that was so beneficial to the Roman Empire pop up that was so antithetical to, uh, Jewish religious principles.
I mean, if you think about, uh, Jesus Christ, he's very, you know, basically, he's the last character you'd ever expect to claim a lineage from the line of David.
I mean, David was the original Messiah, the anointed king of Israel who had the connection to God.
And remember, he was not exactly, uh, turned the other cheek kind of guy.
I mean, he was, you know, chopping the heads off, right?
So, so this is, this is, uh, this character seemed suspicious to Bauer and he, and he, he vented his, uh, his concern.
He didn't really have any real, you know, analytic evidence, but he, he just said, doesn't make any sense in politically and historically.
Eisman definitely was on the right track.
Eisman, um, saw that, that a lot of the stuff looked like not only that had been Romanized or it was Roman hand kind of producing it,
but that looked, see, he started to see that some of the stuff looked like it was funny, like there might be a kind of comedy in, in back of it.
He doesn't really go into it too much. I think he was a little nervous about it.
Um, Eisman is really the person who convinced me to publish my, my stuff.
He had gotten a copy of it, not exactly sure how, but, um, I'm trying to think.
But anyway, he, he came up and we, he spent some time at my house and we went over and he actually is the one who, uh, who, who said I, you know, he said, yeah, you should definitely go forward and just get this out there.
Um, and so, um, you know, it's, uh, um, uh, it's, it's, you know, it's a book I think is, uh, is useful, um,
in terms of culture, um, but the process of, you know, the process by which it, it has its real impact is, is going to be a difficult one because guys, here's the problem is that, you know, historical revisionism is something that the, the people who, who have power hate.
The history we have is perfect as far as their concern.
It fits perfectly into their political paradigm, right?
Because it exists, they have power.
They don't want to change this.
If they, the idea that, uh, Christianity was a propaganda device of the oligarchs, of government, I think would, would not be an idea that, that people would want circulated among, because, among the public, because obviously people would say,
well, if this is fake, then what about our present time might not be real?
What about events that we're being told about, um, you know, as real?
What, what about these events?
Are these events also just propaganda?
You see, it goes right into the, the whole conspiracy world because once I, and I think that's one of the real reasons why, um, you know, there is, as, you know, there are, there is a real act of resistance against Caesar's Messiah.
Um, because, um, you know, I, I, and I don't think that people like Erdman or, you know, people who've criticized Caesar's Messiah publicly, I don't think they're government agents.
I'm just saying that there is influence.
There is kind of gentlemen's type agreements that things that rocked about this severely are simply, you know, are, are not, you know, um, are not welcomed.
Because if you look at, uh, you know, the large universities, they're so plugged into the government at this point that they're basically part of the same process.
So they, they really, you know, would resist a vast historical revisionism because I'll tell you, brothers, once historical revisionism starts, where does it stop, you know?
Right, right.
And, and, and you know, Joe, that kind of brings us full circle.
And after this, I want Derek to, to take us out.
But we talked about Acarya S and the courage that it took for her and you to reach toward each other.
Uh, she representing what might be called New Age mythicism and you representing the Caesar's Messiah hypothesis.
And, and you hear, are you guys, uh, sharing information, pooling resources, coming together to increase understanding?
Now that's not something that the atheistic mythicists have done.
They have been slow to embrace your work and some have come out rather stridently.
David Fitzgerald, for example, Richard Carrey.
Yeah, yeah, David Fitzgerald, you know, he was that, that, that guy, he was talking trash about my theory.
And, and you know, the funny thing is, no analysis, right?
He just talks trash about it.
And I, so I send him an email.
I send a bunch of him.
I go, hey, David, you know, you want to talk to talk.
How about like a little walk to walk?
Why don't we get together and have a little public discussion about it?
No response.
Nothing.
At least Robert Price, you know, who, who I, someone I really actually respect as a scholar, tremendous.
I think he's just brilliant.
Um, but we argue about everything.
Um, but he actually stood up.
He, you know, he, he, you know, he brought out the criticism.
He read the book, which was, I thought, you know, kind of noble of him.
And then we had the debate.
It's on, um, it's available on the internet if anyone wants to listen to it.
And, and it was really that debate that put Caesar's Messiah basically on the map.
I mean, book sales went through the roof and then people started being, you know, there was a lot of publicity about the book because of the,
of the discussion Robert and I had where the thesis looks a little bit tougher to attack when it can be, you know, when someone's defending it.
But Fitzgerald, um, to talk trash like that about another scholar's work without any analysis.
I mean, I've never, I've never communicated with him.
He's never given me a single line of critique.
He just talks smack about it.
And then to not even respond to a request, you know, because I, I, he's like involved with like a center in San Francisco, some atheistic center.
And I, I communicated with them because he wouldn't get back.
And I said, Hey, what, you know, how about a little like, uh, you know, like a discussion, right?
I mean, you guys are into this stuff.
It'd be good publicity.
I could come up.
I wouldn't even charge a fee.
You know, Dave and I could have a little talk about Caesar's Messiah.
Um, and they, the guy goes, man, I don't know.
I talked to David and here's his email address and then nothing, but I, you know, look, I, I mean, I don't, I, and I, I don't really want to, you know, hammer him.
It's not, uh, um, you know, I mean, look, because debates are in general debates are just food fights.
I mean, what I would really, what I would really like to do is this.
I would like to say, look, a written exchange, you know, have a written exchange because a written exchange, you can think about it.
You can make, you know, it's much more valuable to the public.
Um, so that's what I, that's what I, I suggest.
I'm happy to have debates.
I mean, you know, I'm just like a person.
I just enjoy them.
I've always thought they're kind of fun.
I don't really care if they go into a food fight because remember, I'm not an academic.
You know, I don't care.
Right.
I have a reputation.
I'm just, I'm just having fun.
But the thing is,
Joe, however it happens, however it happens, I always say the future belongs to, am I right, Derek?
To scholars who talk to each other.
We've got to ask them.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
To genuine a dialogue.
And you guys are doing it.
I'm going to do it a lot forward with you.
Let me just interrupt.
Okay.
So just one thing.
So, so Bart Erdman was talking smack about, again, no analysis.
I, I wrote a whole analytic piece exposing his scholarship as, as very weak.
And, you know, one of, one of the aspects that he was, he was talking about.
So I was showing, I've gone, look, Bart, here, here's written analysis.
Let's just start the process.
We can, you know, we can see how it goes.
No response.
So, but then he starts talking smack about Caesar Messiah.
So I sent him an email.
I go, Bart, why, why do you do this?
I don't think he even read the book.
I don't think he even described the theory.
Why do you do that?
Why don't we have a public discussion?
So he gives me an email address for an agent who wants to charge me money.
To have Bart show up at a public venue and talk to me about it.
I go, God, come on, guys.
I mean, this is ridiculous.
So anyway, so what I'm saying is like Luther is right.
Scholars should be talking to each other, but I'll tell you how.
We should be doing it in print.
We should be doing it in print.
You know, because that way the public can actually get some value out of it.
It's not a food fight.
It's not a, you know, who has the loudest voice.
It's stuff in writing that the public can actually see, you know,
something of value about.
Right, right, right.
Joe, it's been great talking with you.
Derek, how it takes out.
You have any final comments?
Look, I've been practicing my yelling for some time,
so I think I can yell louder than most people.
You know, I'd win those yelling contests.
I bet you would.
I wouldn't want to stand up to it.
Look, we can have a yell off if you ever want to.
So I'm just kidding.
Dude, this is unbelievable.
You know, it's been a dream of mine to do exactly that and that's communicate
and that's to get these things out.
Joe, before I do take us out, I say just to be continued
because there is so, so, so much, even in just your book alone,
we haven't even talked about, but I'm sure there's other paths,
other discussions, other interesting things.
I'm sure conspiracies, historical analysis.
I'd like to get into your Shakespeare book.
So before we get into all that stuff,
we will continue and have another episode
and we're going to continue a series with you specifically.
Yeah, but for me, I really appreciate it.
Yeah, thank you.
Yeah, look, tell these people, how do they help?
You know, what do they need to do?
How do they get a hold of you?
You know, I never, I don't, I don't, you know,
here's the thing, buy the book.
I get, you know, like money if people buy the book.
I'm, you know, I'm not struggling financially,
so I really think it's not appropriate to ask people,
like to, you know, support me in that way.
I really, it's more important to me, particularly at my antique age,
to just to have, you know, valuable information that, you know,
the public have.
I don't even really, you know, people are all the time,
I mean, oddly enough, used like analysis from Caesar's Messiah.
I never, ever complain about that.
I always think that that's a good thing.
I want the information out.
That's the important thing.
And that's what I really want to thank you guys for the show.
I mean, you know, this is, this is terrific.
And, you know, getting Robert on and all of the guys that,
you know, a lot of them are just, you know, critical of me.
That's fine.
This is, this kind of show is really great for the public,
you know, and I hope you guys have tremendous success.
And that's why, you know, anytime you, you know,
have the, want to honor me by having, having me on here to talk
about some of my stuff, I'd be happy to be here for you.
You honor us, Joe, and it's been great having you.
Okay.
Exactly.
It has been great.
And I look forward to possibly, and I'm going to say this on record,
work on getting some guests on with you.
So I'd love to have a discussion and not a debate.
Wink, wink.
You know what I'm talking about.
So, one thing about me, I'm always, I'm always available.
You know, it's, it's like I said, I can understand the reluctance
in one way, particularly people that are, you know,
their academic statures, you know, how they make a living.
They don't, they, they, they see nothing but downside.
Right.
That's what I was told, but there's nothing to downside.
If they, if they do well, it's like, well, who cares if they lose?
It's a catastrophe.
So that's why I have said that really a better approach for someone
like Fitzgerald, I mean, if he, if he has read the book,
he should simply create a single criticism of it that I can respond to.
I tried that approach with Erdman.
You know, I said, okay, Bart, here's what is wrong with your scholarship.
And I wrote a little piece and, and sent it and was hoping I would get a response.
And then I was told to, you know, to write him a check for 25 grand
and maybe he would talk to me.
So, you know, and that wasn't the number, that wasn't the number.
They didn't give me the number.
They just said it was the number, you know.
So anyway, um, anyway, I, the whole thing, the whole, the debate thing is,
I think we should try to do it in writing.
And I think that it would be great.
It would be kind of like Wikipedia.
Wikipedia has, you know, the back page where you have lots of people can weigh in
and then, you know, people can basically, everybody can participate.
I think this would be great to go through Jesus like that.
A show like yours could create, you know, the, the verbal, the, the presentations.
It could have access to written material and the argument would be in process.
And you could see which guys would weigh in on which points.
And, um, and I think maybe that would be a way we could,
we could actually move culture in a better direction.
Couldn't agree with you more.
I could not agree with you more, Luther.
I feel like we've, we've accomplished a good show.
Um, even though my mic has been giving me a headache in this hotel room.
So I'm using the phone, uh, I guess to be continued.
I'll contact you.
We'll have another show and I hope the audience really, really enjoyed what they heard.
But we're all over the place.
Maybe we'll have some specific and we'll, we'll line up next time to give you guys
more of an organizational explanation in depth on some things because I read the book.
One thing is kind of fun to do is to go through the parallels, you know,
just one at a time.
I mean, I could go through like 40 of them in a sequence and that way I mean people could get,
you know, they could get the gist of it.
And then, and then that would also be something that then it would be a platform for criticism.
People could say, nah, that doesn't worry.
You know what I mean?
It would just be a way to get that, that discussion going.
So anyway, thank you so much guys.
We'll talk soon.
No, no.
An absolute pleasure.
And if I didn't say it before, I want to take up with you where Acarya S left off.
Hey, that would be my, you know, I would just be great.
That would be like the greatest thing imaginable.
And let's, let's get that together.
Let's just keep, let's just open up the dialogue and just, you know, keep working it.
Try trying to get the information organized.
Get it readable and get it out to the public.
All right.
Well, once again, thanks so much, Joe.
Your website is visasmessiah.com.
It's been a pleasure and you can send emails directly to Joe at will at gmail.com.
That's all we have for the water boys.
We'll be with you next time.
Bye bye.
Talk to you guys.
Bye.
Bye.
