Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon, Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're
helping MythVision grow.
So thank you for the introduction and I will try my best to answer questions you have to
the best of my ability as I said.
So you want me to tell you if the Quran is a medical or not?
This is the first question.
Yes.
And I know sometimes it's going to be your opinion on certain things.
I want to try and take a scientific method, a historical approach and be critical of what
we actually find in the data.
How one interprets that is up to them.
But it seems to me when someone claims this book was literally a miracle, it's perfect
as it is.
They kind of downplay variant readings.
They don't really see how that might play a significant role.
I look at biblical studies and I could see, okay, we don't have the original.
We definitely don't have that.
There's so many different variants and manuscripts, etc. in the tradition.
Is Islam or is Muslim faith in the Quran sharing the same kind of motif in a way?
Right.
Okay.
So there are many questions to answer here.
So let us start with first the miracle issue.
When we are studying scripture in an academic setting, I think at least most academics,
we are not really concerned with trying to research such questions.
Is the Quran a miracle or not?
At the end of the day, it's a subjective opinion for people to find this book or the Quran as
a miracle.
Other people don't think it's a miracle.
It's as simple as that.
So there are many academics who are not Muslims who approach studying the Quran as a great
book for Islamic civilization and they study it.
Even though they are not Muslims, they have great respect for the book.
There are other academics who don't hold the Quran to such standards and they think that
it is written by a person in the 7th century.
It's full of mistakes, contradictions and they also base their research starting from
that view point.
There are also Muslims who research the text starting from the perspective that it is a
miracle.
There are other Muslims who are allegedly objective and they also try to approach the
text as just a literary text, how it was transmitted, what it says, regardless whether
it's a miracle or not.
So I don't think in academia we are concerned with proving or disproving that the Quran
is a miracle.
I don't recall reading an academic article that tries to prove that or disprove it.
So what it means at least for Muslims that the Quran is a miracle, that they think that
the Quran holds first, there are several, if you want several layers of that, first
that language.
So it's written in a literary language that is very eloquent.
It was revealed to the Prophet.
He challenged the Arabs back then to compose something similar in eloquence.
According to the tradition they failed, they couldn't.
Thus, the Islamic tradition says that this is why the Quran is a miracle because no
one was able to imitate its style.
Now whether this is true or not, that's open to discussion.
We do have many attempts for people back in the days and even recently that they try
to emulate the style of the Quran.
Now whether they are successful or not, that's a subjective issue.
So you can read something and then you would like it.
You would say, oh, well, I like this piece of literature.
I think this is better than this chapter or that chapter of the Quran as a reader.
But of course, if you are holding this text as the perfect example of eloquence, you are
going to downplay any attempt to emulate it.
So at the end of the day, it's very difficult to be subjective in matters of literary taste
to say that, oh, this text is more eloquent than this because I feel it.
That begs the question to say, from a scholarly point of view, I asked to put the scholarly
glasses on because that's what you are.
How did the Quran come to us based on the evidence we have and not just what the tradition
wants to necessarily say?
How did the Quran come to us?
Because from what I understand, there are multiple, even within the tradition, this
is the problem.
This is the problem I see.
Even within the tradition, you have Abu Bakr and then you have other traditions within
the Islamic faith that are saying, no, this is what happened.
He went around and he collected the memory of the recitation of the Quran from warriors
that were dying and they didn't want them all to die off.
So we're collecting all this.
And then there's another tradition, and I'm probably missing some things because I'm
not sure.
I will reiterate.
Yeah.
And then this other guy and he's trying to do this and that and like, they're all trying
to explain how we got the Quran in tradition.
And I want to try and give tradition its opportunity.
But I also want to look at it empirically from the scholarly point of view on what scholars
have concluded saying, this is how we actually think we come to the conclusion.
And maybe we'll never know exactly how, but that's okay.
I like to investigate.
Okay.
So first point, let's talk about memory and memorization.
I think one of the problems, especially Western scholars, when they study Islam, okay, regardless
of their background, okay, there are certain cultural elements that they are not aware
of.
Okay.
And then they learn it, you know, they study Arabic, they study Islam and then, you know,
they learn it.
Okay.
Well, memorizing text is, you know, important in their tradition, but to what extent, okay.
If you grow up in, you know, a Middle Eastern slash Eastern, not just Middle Eastern, I
mean, there are even Eastern cultures, you know, the Chinese, the Japanese, they also
cherish memorization.
Okay.
The certain element of memorization, at least in the Western environment, it's not as important,
okay, or as evident as it is in the Middle East.
So when, you know, you hear, you know, a story about, you know, people memorizing, you know,
the text of the Quran or memorizing, you know, hadith, we can talk about this later or poetry.
It's like, oh, how is it possible that, you know, all people can memorize all this amount
of information accurately?
So that's now the issue here, accurately.
So our problem or our issue here is the accurate part.
It's not the memorization part.
So to what, so we already know that the, this tradition or this culture, their individuals,
they do memorize texts, okay, a lot of texts, we are talking about thousands of poems, we
are talking about, you know, 6,200, 300 verses of the Quran.
And it is evident today, you have, you know, young children who can by the age of five
or six, they can memorize the whole text of the Quran.
And we're not talking about one or two individual, it's just a normal practice, right, in this
kind of culture.
They said that was a miracle too, by the way.
Well, again, it is subjective, but you can teach the kid anything, right?
So you can teach them the Quran, you can teach them the Bible to memorize it, they can, you
can teach them music, you know, there are children who are five or six years old who
memorize scores of symphonies and so on, right?
So you can teach a kid anything.
So the miracle is if you have a, I don't know, a 60 year old or 70 year old who, who, who
tries to memorize the text, will he or she be able to memorize the text as perfectly
or as good as a five year old kid?
So that's the, the, so the point here is that, you know, it is a culture that relies on
memorization of texts more than writing.
So we'll get now to writing.
When we tackle this, the issue of memorization in, you know, in research, we don't question
the fact that Arabs or Muslims do memorize the texts.
We question the accuracy, like to what extent is it really, you know, that the 70 people
who were killed at the battle that you were mentioning, right, Abu Bakr, when he wanted
to collect the Quran, why the first account of the collection?
So why did he, people, according to the tradition, Muslims or the companions of the prophet,
you know, they memorized the, the Quran, okay, most of it.
And then there was the apostasy wars, okay, during Abu Bakr's time, when after, after
Muhammad died, you know, there are tribes in the South, you know, who reverted.
Okay.
So he went and he fought them in the South according to the account, 70 of these people,
70 of these memorizers of the Quran they died.
And then the account says, well, because they were afraid that those people who memorized
the Quran are dying and then the Quran would be lost.
So he, you know, suggested, let us collect it so that it's not going to be lost.
Okay.
Now, there are many, there are issues with this, you know, with this tradition.
One of the questions that, you know, researchers ask is that what do we know about the 70 people
who died in the battle?
We don't have their names, okay.
And other researchers are just suggested that, you know, probably those 70 readers, why would
you send 70 reciters of the Quran to fight in a battle?
Okay.
Good question.
Questions asked.
If I might add, sometimes I might throw some things in here, please do.
The academic arena, if you will, recognizes, for example, there is this narrative, a supposed
historical narrative of how the Septuagint came to be.
There were 70 scribes who supposedly went and translated the Hebrew into Greek.
Now, many of these scholars will say, we know that a translation took place, but 70, you
know, it's a significant number.
It kind of carries some religious and spiritual, probably numerological significance.
So, to buy into the tradition that this is actually historically accurate, you know,
what if it's trying to say something different is the point?
No.
I agree with you.
Again, it's the number seven.
We have, you know, the tradition of the seven, for the seven modes, it's also seven, you
know, seven skies, seven Earths.
There's something about number seven in the Near East, at least.
So it's not just, you know, to.
So I mean, whether they were 70 or, you know, 68 or 60, I don't know.
But the question is, we don't have a full list of the names of these people.
Okay.
And the question is, we also have other accounts in, you know, and other traditions that the
prophet would send readers the word, you know, to fight.
And one, you know, a question that was raised by, you know, a couple of scholars is that
why would you send Quran reciters, you know, to fight?
And other, you know, these two scholars, they suggested that, you know, Yom Bol, back in
the, I think, 20, 25 years in an article.
And recently, Behanan Sadiqi also, he gave a lecture on this, and probably his article
came out recently, is that the word Qare or reader, it had double meaning back then.
Okay.
So it means, you know, a hermit slash, you know, people who came from a specific region
in Iraq, and they were called Qura and there was a mix between the, you know, the two terms.
That's an interpretation, at least, you know, trying to get away from the narrative that
you have 70 Quran reciters who died in a battle for, and we don't know anything about them.
Right.
Got it.
So back to the question of, this is the first collection.
So they were afraid that the Quran would be lost and, you know, Abu Bakr, he suggested
to collect the Quran so that it will not be lost.
And then what happened is that they assigned, you know, one of the younger companions, his
name is Zaid, and then they told him, well, you know, you are young, you're energetic,
you know, why don't you start collecting the Quran?
And then he said, how could I do something that the Prophet didn't do?
Okay.
So that's another, you know, question.
So why the narrative says is that, how could we do something that the Prophet didn't do?
Meaning that if the Prophet didn't collect the Quran, why should we collect it?
This is a very interesting point that you make.
Right.
It just, I don't know why it reflect, I always reflect back to my biblical studies to make
an analogy for anyone watching this, you know, we have what we see as the canon now.
During like the first century, for example, various versions of Judaism had various, if
you could use the term canons, they didn't actually go by a standard, this is what we
use, that Enoch, they had all sorts of different, some of the stuff you'd go, that's not in
our Bible, we don't allow that in our Bible, they did.
So they used whatever text.
And so eventually a standardization, canonization, eventually develops in all of these systems.
Including Judaism, Christianity, and I suspect based on your books, also Islam.
And this is wonderful though.
This points out that earlier, there's no reason even in the tradition to make the assumption
that Muhammad had the whole Quran collected.
Now, one might argue in some way, well, he had it in memory and he shared it by word
of mouth orally to other people, but that comes to the question, did he really receive
or is this tradition developed over time by Muslim early scholars who are developing this
movement, creating a collection and then canonizing what they call the Quran?
I mean, again, a valid question.
And we don't have a clear answer, right?
So we don't have sources directly that go directly back to the spirit, right?
So most of our sources, they come 150 years later, reports on that period.
We don't have direct, we do have eyewitnesses.
We can talk about this also a little bit.
So we do trust many of these accounts of what was happening.
And why do we trust this?
Because we have so many conflicting reports.
So if you have one beautiful standard report about something that happened, you always have doubts.
But when you have many conflicting reports, okay, you have a general, if you want a general
story or a general account, but then the details, people differ on the details.
That's a healthy sign.
That's not a bad sign.
It tells you that generally, there is something that people are agreeing on, but they are,
they differ on the details, right?
You see, so it's the same with the Quran.
We can talk about the variant readings later on.
So my, at least my position is it's a healthy sign that the Quran has variants.
It's not the bad thing.
If it doesn't, I would be very skeptical about how far the text goes.
If it has variants, it tells me that the text is old, right?
And that's, you know, a rule of thumb, you know, for, for any text that is transmitted orally.
Same with poetry.
If you have poetry which has variants and it's transmitted by different people with variations,
it tells you that the poetry is old.
If you have one standard version of a poem, it means that it's not old and it's
standardized or canonized, right?
So same thing with historical narratives.
So you have a general narrative with many, with, with discrepancies.
That's a great sign.
We want discrepancies.
We don't want one beautiful standard, you know, narration of what happened, you know,
back then, and that's, you know, the reason why we have, you know, these three, four, five
different accounts of how the Quran was collected.
They all share, if you want a backbone, okay, of truth in a sense, of probably, you know,
something true about what happened, but they differ in the details.
And then we start asking these, you know, questions.
So what does it mean that, you know, people, you know, this companion Zaid, he was saying,
well, how, how dare we do something that the prophet didn't do?
And then it raises the question about the Quran.
What is it?
Is it, should it be just an oral text?
Should it be just, you know, you know, selections of, of recitations, you know,
shouldn't, should it be really a standardized, you know, canonized book?
And, you know, these questions, people ask them, okay, why didn't I mean, you know, the
prophet didn't die suddenly.
Okay.
You know, he lived, he was 63, 64 years old.
According to tradition, he predicted his death or he knew he was dying.
He could have, you know, said, okay, I'm going to collect the Quran and make it, make
us a final version of it before, before I die.
Why didn't he do that?
If it's important to have it written down, right?
And let me ask you this, in light of this, this is wonderful.
That makes perfect sense.
He obviously wasn't concerned about this.
If this concern develops, I think, and, and this is me, just my common sense based
on other examples in history that I've looked at, when you have Abu Bakr come on
the scene, you have his three sons, Muhammad's three sons are too young.
They're not able.
So, you know, they marry Abu Bakr's daughters, I think it is.
And like, like there seems to be a political struggle for power as well as
who's going to be the guy, the head honcho.
We need to get the narrative under control.
I'm thinking in human terms on how we would naturally come to explain this.
So here you have someone who goes, we need to have full control of the narrative.
We need to have something standardized.
And I wonder if they learned this.
Maybe this is just something in the air for common sense for people.
Or they saw how the Jews and Christians that were living in the region, that
wasn't something, you know, I've heard people try to say they weren't living it.
Yes, they were Jews.
No, you have a good common sense as well.
Because, I mean, in the same narrative, I mean, speaking of that, in this same
account or in an offshoot account after, you know, they made the first collection.
OK, so Zaid, he went around and then he started asking, you know, other
companions, OK, tell me what you memorize.
And then he started writing them down at the end, according to one narrative.
So Abu Bakr, you know, they put the, you know, the collection in front of him.
And then he said, what should we call it?
Wow. Right.
So what should we call?
I mean, see, it's again, it doesn't matter whether this account is made up or not.
It tells you something about even the person who fabricated the account
or who transmitted it.
It tells you about how people were thinking back then.
Or so he says, what should we call it?
You know, again, see, this is the the distinction between something
written and something recited.
And then one asked one answer.
They said, why don't we call it?
What did he say?
The Torah or I forgot which, you know, which term he gave.
It's like, let's call it the Torah or let's call it, like, you know, the scripture
or angel. And then he said, no, this is what the Jews call their scripture.
Right. We don't want to call it the same.
So back to your point about knowing what was happening.
Of course, they knew what was happening.
You know, Arabia was not just an isolated, you know, place
where they had no contact with what's happening around them.
And then someone suggested that.
OK, so why don't we call it Mus'haf codex?
This is what they call it in Ethiopia.
The mus'haf, right?
And they said, OK, so that's a good, that's a good.
So let's call it a mus'haf.
They didn't even call it Quran.
They call it mus'haf.
It's just a codex.
And that's from back then, not necessarily again, the account,
whether it's early or whether it's, you know, made up 100, 150 years later.
It tells you that from very, very early on, there was a distinction
between the written text and the orally performed text.
There are two distinct entities that people should realize that they are
different, at least from a theological perspective.
Now, you, as a practical person, what's the difference?
You know, what we have written is the same as what you are reciting.
OK, from a practical purpose, it's the same.
But from a theological perspective, the codex, you know, the reality
of the codex is very different from the reality of the recited text.
OK, OK.
So so one of the, for example, back to the issues or, you know, the
discrepancies, so this account, you know, has issue, has certain
discrepancies with some other accounts.
So we have other accounts that said several of them, not just, you know,
one or two, that the prophet had scribes.
OK, and whenever he received revelations, he would ask the scribes
to write them down, to write these revelations down.
And there are many of these accounts.
So there are even the list, there is a list of the name of the people
who were able to read and write, you know, these revelations.
And there are also other accounts that he would instruct, you know,
people to put this verse in front of that verse when he received
the revelations later on, no, put it in this chapter or that chapter.
Again, whether these accounts are true or not, that's not the issue here.
But then the question is, if we already have so many accounts
about the prophet making certain kind of arrangements or a certain
if you want personal collections.
So what was the purpose of this first collection?
Why did, you know, the head of the committee go when, you know,
why did he go around and started asking other companions about verses
that they memorized or looking for things written on
leaves of trees and camel shoulders and stone, flat stones.
This is the narrative, right?
If, you know, the prophet already had scribes
and he had already instructed them to write certain chapters.
Now, OK, and again, there are, you know, many interpretations of this.
Any contradiction, you can solve it.
It's not an issue to solve contradictions and tradition.
You I'm sure you know that also.
Yeah, there's always reconciling.
Oh, you can always reconcile any two contradictory accounts.
That's not the issue.
But again, we ask questions.
So what's the what's the purpose of, you know, of these accounts
about early collections and this first collection, right?
And, you know, a second point is that this image that this account gives
about, you know, the condition of the writing culture in Arabia.
It gives you a very, you know, primordial, if you want, you know,
Jurassic image of how people were reading and writing, as if they only
had flat stones and camel shoulders and leaves of trees to write on.
And we already know that, you know, they were in touch with other cultures
and they could have they could afford.
Yes, paper was expensive and, you know, but, you know, the image
this that the the account gives you, it tells you that this is the first book.
And so this is interesting to ask because as a scholar that that has read this,
you understand it in its actual language in Arabic, correct?
So this is a big red flag.
I can't even approach some of my Muslim friends without them saying to me,
you don't know the language, therefore, you can't even don't even comment.
You don't know what anything you're not allowed to pretty much in their head
because you don't have the language and you do.
And here's my question.
This goes into my biblical studies, but I want to make it relate.
I have been told, and it could be mistaken, that the Koran actually is using
other sources to develop its it's it's Surahs in in the Koran.
We have good indications that they knew of, for example, they knew
infancy narratives of Jesus, they knew these narratives, and they saw those
narratives in high esteem versus Orthodox Christianity, which they don't
even like the Trinity, it's obvious.
So they're like, no, that's pagan, that's Trinity, that's not monotheism.
We have one God, but they also like this infancy narrative.
So my common sense tells me they're reading literature and somehow
incorporating Jewish and Christian ideas and probably not just Jewish
and Christian ideas, potentially even some of the Arab, you know,
cultural religious significance.
So you have a hybrid of like three or maybe more.
More, yeah.
Yeah, going on in the development of what we see in the text.
And is this true from your understanding that it's using sources from other literature?
Again, I mean, sure, you can use it if you are, if you if you don't
believe in the tradition, you can say, you know, this person and then many
there are other scholars, you know, who who really think that, you know,
Muhammad was going to a cave and, you know, he was copying down
material, right?
From from the Quran itself says that, right?
You know, even so you are, you know, there are people now who are saying, you know,
these, oh, he, you know, he was plagiarizing.
I'm not saying plagiarism because that's a I'm very careful.
Yeah.
What I mean by that is that it's an influence.
So like sometimes people will utilize like in Genesis, we see about the
Garden of Eden and we go into the Noah's flood.
I've been studying this for a while and I see intertextuality where they're
using Mesopotamian epic of Gilgamesh narratives and they're rewriting it in
a way for their own narrative, but they are using it as a as a for their
imagination to their own context.
And I wonder if Iran is doing the same thing with earlier manuscripts.
I mean, it is doing.
Okay.
So it's doing the same thing, whether it's manuscript or not, we can get, get to
this, whether these, this information was circulating among people or whether it
was just information in manuscripts and people were reading them and recycling
them, right?
So and the point I was making is that the, the, the text itself, you know,
this, if you want accusation, it was directed at Muhammad is saying, okay,
well, you are using, it says in the Quran that all this that you are doing, all
the stories that you are telling us, you are actually writing it down.
You are taking it from other sources.
So it's not a, so people back then were not, they were also atheists back
then and nonbelievers.
It's not just a, you know, it's not like people were always, oh, everyone
believed in Muhammad.
No, there were people who didn't believe in him.
And they were saying that you are a false prophet.
And, you know, the Quran is plagiarized from other sources.
The Quran itself says that, right?
In the Quran, it says this.
Yes, yes, sure.
You know, on multiple occasions, not only once, and then the Quran responds.
No, it is not.
It is a revelation from God.
Right.
You have two, two, two different ideas here that I think are interesting
because in the New Testament, there is a book, Second Peter, where it says the
author is pretending to be Peter and it says the forgery.
And he says, brethren, these are not cleverly devised myths, as some would
suppose, now he's encouraging the brother, the brethren, but we scholars
approach this and say, hold on.
That means people are accusing this whole movement as a myth that it's
it's been created and it's not really actually true, as you want to suppose.
And I think that's interesting because for me, when you have accusations
like that, those are those are good for us to see right out the gate.
You already have people who are going, come on.
Yeah, I mean, even back then, so don't I mean, people shouldn't assume
that it's only because of the 20th century modern science or thought
or atheism.
Oh, now we have new insights into what was happening 1400 years ago.
No, people 1400 years ago, they were also skeptical about supernatural,
if you want, or metaphysical aspects.
So I'm sorry to ask this.
I don't want to lose track of where we're going.
Mohammed kills some of these skeptics according to the text.
I mean, you mean as a command, just like, oh, you said this and I'm going to issue
a no, I mean, just in general, because I've heard and I want to try and represent
Islam accurately from a scholar because there are a lot of people out there.
I want to give benefit of the doubt that will talk down, right?
They just want the prophet was a murderer.
He was this, he was that.
And it's like, hold on, guys.
I get it.
That was in a time we don't live in and things were not as pretty as they are today.
But I've heard that people who opposed him, who like this, for example, said,
no, this is not from God.
You guys are plagiarizing.
You're not a prophet of God.
This is not true, blah, blah, blah.
Did he potentially take these people out as a political kind of power struggle?
And he's saying they were they were fighting, right?
So it's not they were not living in the, you know, in the United States,
where, you know, you can go and criticize someone and then, OK, fine,
you criticize me, I criticize you.
And then it's a different setting, right?
So bad analogy then.
And also those people who were accusing him, they were not just, you know,
sitting and accusing him and not doing and taking forceful actions.
They were both factions.
They were fighting, right?
So it's a fight for survival.
So they were fighting that, right?
Wanted to clarify that because there's a lot of people who want to use that
as a tool to just bash Islam.
And it's like, well, sure, you could go to other things to try and do that,
but you don't have to go to this example and just act like he just murdered
everyone that disagreed with him and he just wanted to do bad.
I'm saying that now, if he's a prophet for all time, I have my problems with that.
You know, like.
But no, no, I understand the point and people are, I mean, in my opinion,
that's, you know, that's not, again, a scholarly opinion, just my own person.
You don't know one should quote me on this.
It's that if people, you know, don't like, you know, how this person set,
you know, himself as an example, they shouldn't be liking that, right?
So it is what it is.
And if they don't like the fact that, you know, this person, OK, he he committed,
you know, murder or he killed his opponents mean it is what it is, right?
So it happened and it happened in a sense that he was not just sitting
and then issuing a fatwa, you know, say, oh, go kill this person
because he said, you know, these bad things about me.
It was people were fighting back then.
So and if they did not fight back, you know, Islam as a movement wouldn't have.
And we were talking about the apostasy wars, you know, you know,
Muhammad died and then there are many tribes who pretended to be Muslims
because of, you know, I don't know, economical or political incentives.
They only converted outwardly.
They didn't really convert once Muhammad died.
OK, they said he died.
Now we can go back to our business.
And then the first Caliph, you know, they started the apostasy wars
and then they went and fought.
So it was, you know, 1400 years ago.
It was a different setting from from now on.
People were fighting.
Now, people are not comfortable with that.
I think it's their own, you know, choice.
They like this or they don't like it.
It's it's not my call to interpret or reinterpret.
But from a historical perspective, I would say that people were fighting,
you know, for survival.
So someone is criticizing him.
They were not just sitting and writing, you know, a column in the New Yorker,
you know, criticizing him.
They were also fighting them, fighting each other in a military aspect.
You could understand my concern and why I brought that up,
because there are a lot of people who just want to bash Islam.
And there's a lot of people who want to protect.
And it's like, hold on, there's probably a gray area here
and something in between.
I want to get back to variants or potentially variants.
Maybe we can get back into origins of the Koran, things like that.
I just find this very fascinating.
There's there's already all these traditions like you talk about.
And these traditions, I must ask, like the Abu Bakr tradition,
is this the earliest dated tradition we have?
And, you know, like, I guess when these things come out matter, for example,
a lot of Muslims I talk to, they don't like the way the hadith look.
In fact, of course, I'm a skeptic.
I have a channel that like has a bunch of skeptical thinking.
And the ones that show up once in a while when I do a live,
they're like, oh, no, just the Koran onlyist.
And I don't believe in the hadith at all.
And it's like, you just threw away like 90 percent of Islam, like throwing away
and that's their choice.
But my point is a lot of them will say,
hadith are not historically reliable because they come so much later.
They're they're developed over time.
Well, it makes me kind of wonder the Koran we have.
Also, if it comes later or at least is developed over time
and it grows into what we have now.
Can you tell us about dating and how that matters for the Koran and maybe the hadith?
I know that's a huge question.
I don't know how you want to answer it.
So you're talking about dating,
dating the trip, you're not talking about manuscripts, right?
You're just dating in a sense of to to which period of time
or to which date we can trust these hadiths or these accounts
coming from that early period.
And there's too many questions I asked there.
I guess the question will start with the the Koran.
Let's start with the Koran, because that is the the holy book.
Right.
Is now is the canonized version.
How early can we really go with manuscript data
knowing what we have is like popping on the scene.
And we go, OK, we know that this is around this time.
Muhammad dies in what, six thirty two.
I am six thirty two.
What are some of the earliest manuscripts we have of the Koran?
OK, so let me go back to a point I made at the beginning about
morality, OK, about morality and, you know, Western perspective about manuscripts.
Again, I will reiterate that.
You only trust physical objects, a manuscript.
If you don't have a manuscript, it's like, OK, well, I don't trust
what's happening, you know, in the sixth century or the seventh century.
And, you know, you are entitled, you know, to, of course, to do that.
If you don't have a manuscript of the Koran from the seventh century.
Well, OK, why do I have to trust what a person told me two hundred years later?
Can I just put a camera?
Real quick, I just want to say the reason why I'm that way is my previous research
in other fields, such as Judaism and Christianity.
Right. We have seen the development of earlier manuscripts and later manuscripts.
We've seen them change what it meant earlier in later manuscripts.
We've seen things change, and it's not always the same.
So if over, but in the case of the Bible, right, old or New Testament.
So how many hundreds of years you have from, let's say,
the beginning of an oral tradition to the writing down?
Well, this is where the dispute, a lot of scholars ago.
We're not sure if I'm sure there were oral sayings of Jesus,
let's say, floating around in the first century after he dies,
30 something AD, let's just say we Paul's letters come in fifties.
But we don't have any manuscripts of any of this stuff till
late second century at best, the earliest p 52 of John.
And so we've seen like mythologization.
We have like early church fathers saying Marcion had a different Luke.
And I'm just saying like we have tradition telling us there's problems
even in the early stuff, so we don't know what's behind these manuscripts.
It's hard. The reason I'm asking you because no, that's that's good,
because I want you to make, you know, you and the people who are listening
to make this kind of comparison.
So so even let's say the sayings of Jesus.
OK, so let's take the New Testament and not the old one.
So in which what what were the circumstances, you know, under when he was
saying something and people were, let's say, writing it down or recording it.
So in which context he was saying this, was he repeating it
or he was saying this only once?
I would think if there was a guy, he's repeating this, obviously.
There's no reason from only to say this once.
I think he's be teaching his teachings as lessons he's probably giving.
But I'm very skeptical on how they would be able to remember
like the Sermon on the Mount.
Is that put in the mouth?
A lot of the stuff in the Gospels, I think, were put in the mouth of Jesus.
I don't think he actually said it.
So I wonder if the same happens with Muhammad, like later on.
So, I mean, to be to be fair, OK, so so let's say that from a objective,
you know, point of view, there is no evidence whatsoever to really confirm
that the Quran that you have right now, OK, came from the mouth of the Prophet.
Right. Right.
There's no I mean, you want to go, you want a time machine to go back
and see if you really, you know, said these things.
I'm saying now from an objective, so you have the right to ask,
you know, this or people think, oh, so how do we know that, you know,
this Quran really came from his mouth or he really uttered these, you know,
these these words.
So that's a legitimate question.
So the issue here is that we can be there before I say that there was
a movement, I would say, 25, 30 years ago in academia, right,
to date the Quran to 200 years after Muhammad's death.
Right. And once, bro, he wrote, you know, a book on that.
And then he basically advanced the idea that the Quran was collected
during the Omayyad period, you know, later on, and then it was final
because we don't have manuscripts.
Again, he was, you know, basing his arguments on the fact that
because we don't have manuscripts and because of, you know, other arguments
he was advancing, you know, he said that the Quran could be the earliest,
you know, he could it could go back to the middle of the second century.
So I'm doing Islamic Khan.
So that would be eighth century, right?
But then many people, there are people who followed this, right?
He said, OK, well, you know, we follow one once pros, you know, argument.
And there are his students who also advocated for this opinion.
There are many people in academia who didn't write and who said, well,
we have no reason to say just because we don't have manuscripts
to to doubt that the Quran was collected 200 years later.
And the point I want to make is that.
Not having a manuscript.
At least let's say I'm talking about the Islamic tradition
because there's a peculiar issue here about orality.
OK, you see the the non-existence of a manuscript doesn't mean
that a certain tradition did not exist.
I agree with you. I'm not discrediting.
Right. My point is having confidence
on knowing what came from Muhammad, like by the time we have actual manuscripts,
like you said, there's 200 years, right?
I believe there's probably some kernels that go back to Muhammad himself.
Sure. But I ask you as an expert who's looked at this,
do we have reason to say some of the things that are said of Muhammad,
supposedly coming from his mouth, probably weren't actually said from him?
But when embellished traditions put in the mouth of Muhammad over time
and eventually they all right, we need to write this stuff down
and this needs to be for sure we need to have this and save this literature.
I mean over time over how many years over?
I don't know. I mean, because we can be we can.
I don't want to say it can be, you know, certain, but we have confidence
that from the narratives that we have and from, you know, manuscripts
that are surfacing, but even forget about manuscripts, you know,
that the from other sources.
If you just don't only look at Quranic manuscripts,
you have you have to look at also other works in the Arabic and Islamic tradition.
Right. So when you have works on grammar.
Go, let's go to a secular, you know, field, not just, you know,
Quran or something. Everything is intertwined, right?
So when you go to works of grammar and you go to works on jurisprudence
and you go to miscellaneous works that that we have manuscripts of
that where they were written in the early eighth century or even late,
you know, seven hundreds.
OK, and they were also transmitted from one person to another.
And from these books and they come from different groups.
They don't just come from the court, you know, of the caliph who was
controlling everything and who wanted to propagate it, you know, a certain.
No, there were many different factions, right?
And the Empire, if you want to call it, they didn't.
There are many groups who were opposing the central government,
but they were also writing.
Most of these people, they were writing in these books,
on grammar, literature, poetry, jurisprudence,
the text of the Quran as it appears in these books.
OK, it's more or less the same.
You see.
So you don't need a manuscript of the Quran to tell you that people
in the eighth century and in the late, you know, in the seven hundreds
that they were using a text of the Quran as they were using it
200 or 300 years later on, right?
Now, was it the whole text?
No, they were excerpts.
Of course, it's not, you know, the whole text, but all the excerpts
that you have in these early works of literature, grammar, jurisprudence,
they were people.
You have to understand that that tradition takes time.
So if people were using these texts and these Quranic, you know,
verses as textual evidence for, let's say, a work on grammar, OK,
or a legal aspect, you know, these verses were already set in the culture.
People know them.
It's not, you know, a person who said, oh, well, you know, I found,
you know, in a Quranic manuscript hidden somewhere, this verse
and other people didn't know about it, right?
And that's why, you know, scholars who opposed Wansbro
and other, you know, scholars from that perspective is that we already know
that the Arabic slash Islamic tradition from the early on,
the text was more or less standardized.
Yes, there are issues.
We can talk about that in some verses, the variant readings, codices
that they were abrogated, certain codices that are different even
in terms of syntax, you know, from the standard, you know, codex.
All this is also recorded by Muslim scholars.
So they were not, you know, if they found something that is different
from the standard version that they were using, they already recorded that.
They didn't, you know, say, oh, no, OK, well, this person, he has a codex
or he has, you know, his own copy and it has this and it's different
from the copy that we are using right now.
Right.
So my point is from very early on, there is confidence that the text
of the Quran is more or less standardized.
Right.
If you want its syntax, OK, there are yes, problems and words
and variants, pronunciations, etc.
And some variants, they have different meanings, you know, there are different
numbers of verses from one, you know, codex to another.
But the assumption that the nonexistence of a full Quranic manuscript
from the first century that it should discredit the existence
of an earthly Quran, that's not something at least in academia that we...
I agree with you, by the way.
I do.
You know, we read, I once wrote a book is on my reading list for students.
It's a very, you know, I also advise and encourage people to read it.
It's not an easy read.
He's, you know, I had to read it multiple times to understand his English.
It's just complicated.
It's English written in a French way of thinking.
I don't know.
I want everyone to know when he said first century, he's speaking of the sixth century.
Sorry.
I, my, oh, it's actually the Islamic calendar.
So sixth century, sixth, seventh.
I agree with you, by the way.
First and seventh.
Yeah.
To use an example, what we found of New Testament manuscripts, the earliest we can get is late
second century, but that's all we found.
Who knows?
There might be something earlier than that.
We just don't have.
And how much earlier is a big question?
So I definitely agree with you that there's definitely something there.
And if there is Jews and Christians in the region and they know about their textual traditions
because they're encountering these people.
I have, I mean, it's common sense to say they know that they have a standard ideas of text.
And it's like, we need to get this right.
And how it happened is where different traditions come in on trying to explain how we got the
Quran.
So if we could take this into problems of variant readings, from what I understand, it's kind
of like what we hear about Hebrew.
Before there is kind of, I guess, a grammatical, what we see with Masoretic Hebrew, you know,
you have things that don't have any grammar.
So you're reading continuous.
And if you don't know how to read this, you might have problems understanding what it
meant in its actual original language in Hebrew.
But the rabbis later on actually were able to do that.
And they have the Masoretic Hebrew text.
And it's almost a lot of scholars look at the Dead Sea Scrolls and go, this is what
they go, this is very close.
Okay.
It's not a hundred percent Xerox perfect.
But there's a lot of things that are very close.
And then there's some things though, there are these odd things like Jeremiah looks like
the book of Jeremiah has been expanded quite a bit by the later authors of the Masoretic,
whereas the Dead Sea Scroll has this kind of skeleton version.
It's not quite as thick.
There's not as much material.
So it's almost like the commentator in translator added things.
I just wanted to get that out of the way to say in terms of variants and problems and
contradictions, what are some of the big ones?
Because I have a book here on my shelf.
And this is kind of basic, right?
This is corrections and 20 examples of corrections in early Quran manuscripts.
Are there any major ones that you would say are like they, like anyone who's serious in
the research here might bump into and go, that changes like a lot of things.
If that is the actual reading that was original or whatever.
Is there something like that?
Okay.
So first, let's get this out of the way in terms of variant readings.
People in, even in academia and outside academia, they always consider variant
readings as a way.
It's as if there are, if there is a difference in meaning between two variants, it's like,
okay, voila.
Okay.
Here we go.
You have, you know, two words which are different.
So which one is the original intention, right?
Right.
And what I always say, and I said that in my writings and in lectures, is that we have
more serious problems in even words that do not have variants that were and still are
interpreted differently, that they give different interpretations, even though that they don't
have any variations.
Can you give us an example, some of these examples?
I mean, the eternal struggle, you know, between different groups and, you know, of Islamic,
you know, faith is the attributes of God.
Okay.
Does God have a hand?
Does he have a throne?
Okay.
Does he speak?
The words are very clear in the Quran, but the interpretation of how people interpreted
them, you know, does he really have a hand or the hand is a metaphor for his power?
Okay.
And this is a huge split between different factions that one faction would lead to consider
the other factions blasphemous.
If you say that God has a real hand, you are not a Muslim.
Even both are Muslims, but they, you know, and the other group is that what do you mean
that this is metaphorical?
You can't just, you know, say that this is metaphorical.
So what about this is also prayer metaphorical is fasting metaphorical metaphorical.
So where, where do you draw the line between what is metaphorical and what is not?
I laugh because this is the same thing I hear in Christianity all the time.
I mean, it's, it's everywhere.
It's not even in, you know, in.
Hindus do this.
Hindus do this.
Muslims.
Everybody does this.
Last year, we were all, you know, locked, you know, in our, in our houses.
I was watching, was it last year or two years ago, the hearings of the Supreme Court?
Yeah.
There were two of them or three of them.
And, you know, I was just, you know, home, I think, and I was watching them working.
And then it was the first time for me hearing Supreme Court hearings.
I never, you know, heard those, but they were all the time on the news channel.
So I was working and just the TV is on.
And then they were discussing certain issues on the interpretation of the constitution.
Okay.
The original lists and the textualists.
And I said, this is the same exact thing that we have in the Islamic tradition.
So you have people who wanted to interpret the Quran, you know, according to the original
intention, how it was revealed.
And there are people who are textuals.
No, we don't go back to the original.
We take it as is.
And this is just a constitution.
It's a legal document.
It's not revelation.
I would assume, you know, from, from who you ask.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
The point is, as you mentioned, this approach to interpretation, it's everywhere.
Yeah.
Okay.
So back to the question of variants and words.
So I'm saying that there are many issues in the Quran that there are no variants in it.
And the words that people agree.
This is how it is.
And the different interpretation of what these words, they lead to completely different ideologies
and different perspectives on even, you know, the nature of monotheism in Islam.
Right.
So now back to variants.
The main problem with variants is again, the issue of the Quran is the word of God.
Okay.
But people also misunderstand what does it, what does it mean?
The word of God, the Arabic word is calam.
So when you hear the word of God, you would assume that God is speaking and people say,
Oh, well, God spoke this way, but also Muslims have different interpretations of what word
means.
Okay.
Or how does God speak?
Does he actually speak?
Does he speak with sounds, you know, and letters like us?
Or is speech and the word for him is different from us?
Is the Quran eternal?
You know, if he spoke, if he spoke the Quran, so is the Quran also, you know, I don't know
if you hear that created or not created.
Okay.
Is it one of the attributes of God?
Does it subside in him?
Or is it outside of him?
It's very complicated theological topic that also Muslims from time immemorial until today,
they never agreed on.
And I'm not saying about small factions.
I'm saying about, you know, the majority of Muslims, big two factions within Sunni Islam,
not even considering outside Sunni Islam.
Right.
So the main problems with variants is that you have the text, which is, which was unveiled,
as you said, no Masoretic version of the Quran.
And, you know, one of the issues is one of the questions that I ask in the treatment
of Qiraat is that is, does the, or did the nonexistence of vowels cause the variant
readings or not?
Right.
Now, definitely, of course, this was a factor.
Okay.
If you have a perfectly vowel text, people would read the same.
Right.
But the issue is this people back then, they didn't have vowels, the vowels didn't exist.
Okay.
And this was the script that, you know, people used.
So it's their language.
So let's say now, I don't know, I give you a sentence in English and I take the ease
and A's and use and O's from it.
To what extent are you going to get the sentence right?
Right.
I'm going to have trouble for sure.
It depends on, it depends on the register of the sentence.
I think, right?
So if I'm giving you just a simple sentence and you know the context of it, I mean, look
at how people are chatting today, right?
Yeah, they're shortcut everything.
Short cut everything.
You know, if I'm not, if I'm not aware of this acronym in chatting, sometimes I read
things, I don't understand what they are.
And then I have to Google them.
Okay.
So, yeah, what was the other one?
I know LOL, right?
But R-O, what's a R-O-F-L?
Roll on floor or, yeah, there's different.
Right?
So people use it.
But you know, it has an acronym, but people who you know, people who know the context
would read it or they would know how, what it spells, right?
So the point is, it depends on the register.
If the text is, if it runs smoothly and then it's comprehensible, you wouldn't randomly
put dots and vowels on the text and read it different to what the syntax, okay?
Or the discourse of the sentence says.
That being said, there are several passages in the Quran which are ambiguous.
And everyone knows that.
And the Quran itself says that there are passages which are ambiguous in the text.
So there are clear verses and there are ambiguous verses.
And the problem is that many of, you know, these variants, there are certain variants
that have to do with dialect, pronunciation, et cetera.
There are many variants which have to do with using different verb stems.
You're just, you know, like, you know, in Hebrew, if you don't have the vowels sometimes,
not sometimes, if you don't have the vowels and you are beginning to learn the language,
how do you vocalize that?
And some of these, many of these readings, they have to do actually with the, who's doing
the action?
Is it an active?
Is it passive?
Is God doing that?
Or is it someone else doing that?
A plural singular, okay?
What else?
Pronouns, okay?
So there are many, I would say more than 50% or 60% of the variants.
These are even the standard variants that they have nothing to do with dialects or pronunciation
but actually they stem from the nature of the language itself, okay?
Should I use energetic form here or should I use the normal form?
Should I use a causative verb or should I not use a causative verb?
So a theological problem, you know, for the variants is what is the intention, okay?
What really, what does the verse really say?
If the meaning changes, but even if the meaning doesn't change, how did the prophet receive
his revelation?
Did he receive it in, you know, this reading or the second one or the third one?
And of course, you know, you have a certain narratives in the tradition that want to reconcile
that.
Well, before the prophet died, you know, Gabriel came to him and then he recited the Quran
in those seven different readings or versions.
Are there variants that you would say don't fall in that category that are obvious issues?
You mean like such as?
It's not just like the grammatical issues that like what we talked about how the Hebrew is
not vowed and then you have vowed.
Are there some variants that we know don't match previous sources?
Like I've heard, it's probably taking me off track and I hate doing this, but I'm just,
things that I've heard, that they found manuscripts with writing and that they know that this was
written over the top of an older Arabic verse and it's not the same or there's problems or
something.
Yeah, I don't know.
This is, again, without having the manuscript, we already have records in the tradition that
says that we did have codices that they are different in their arrangement and syntax from
the standardized version.
That's not again, oh, we found the palimpsest or we found the manuscript.
We already have this information in the tradition and I think I mentioned something earlier that
also theologians were struggling with this issue.
What does it mean that several companions of the prophet, they were reciting verses that
they are significantly different from the standardized text?
And again, the solution is a theological solution.
It's not a real solution.
The solution is, well, this was the recitation of the companions of the prophet during that
time and this recitation was abrogated for one reason or another, similar to other verses
in the Quran that were abrogated.
Okay, now there are people who believe in abrogation.
There are people who don't believe in abrogation, but the theological solution is that these,
yes, these readings, they exist.
We have these codices.
We record what Eben Masoud obey all these companions of the prophet recited,
but they give it, they label of their recitation.
Is this where the burning?
They distinguish between our, so it's like Muslims probably starting from the second,
from eighth century, they would refer to the standardized version as our codices or our
version versus their, i.e., the people a hundred years before us, right?
And this raises, of course, it raises the problem of, so you have really different,
I mean, I don't like the word version because it's not, you know, it's not a one book
and then another version of this book.
It's just there are verses which are, I would say, significantly different in syntax.
And they are recorded, you know, we have the manuscripts which show that,
but also they are recorded in the sources.
So yes, it is a problem and Muslim theologians struggle to try to reconcile this issue.
Church fathers did the same thing.
And I just want anyone who's knowing like this is not new.
This is something, you know, someone might go like someone who's watching this is already,
if they are Muslim, they might be reconciling this in their head going,
see, we have all the tradition and they knew what was true.
The church fathers did the same thing.
They said, we have it.
We go right back to Peter.
We have the truth.
And like they tried to lay claim to having the origin.
Wasn't there burning of some of these manuscripts?
Right.
Yes.
So when, you know, the third caliph of man, according to the narrative, the tradition,
right?
So when they collected the, so there was the first collection.
And then according to the, to the standards that there was a second collection,
because people, Muslims were reciting the Quran differently.
So that's again, probably the beginning of the variant readings.
And it seems that there, these variant readings were not issues of pronunciation or vowels.
Otherwise they would have put the vowels.
They didn't have the vowels, but it seems that people were reciting differently syntactically,
not just, you know, a variant word here and there.
And this is what caused the second collection.
So what does man did is that he formed the committee.
And there are also problems with this tradition.
We can talk about this narrative, but he formed a committee.
They created the, a copy, which is the main codex.
And then they made copies of that codex.
And the copies differ.
There are many traditions where they four, five, six, seven.
So that's either between four and 11.
And they sent it to different cities, to Iraq, to, you know, Bahrain, et cetera.
And what he did is that the existing codices that the companions of Muhammad possessed,
that he forced them from their holders and then he burned them.
Okay, or another tradition he, you know, he was, he told them apart, but he burned them.
And then so that there were only one version would survive.
Okay, which is the version that we have right now.
So this, despite this fact, we do have, there are, you know, a companion Eben Masoud,
who refused to give his own codex, his own copy to burn it.
And then he kept it.
And we do know that even 100 years later, or probably even more in Iraq,
that they were still reciting using this codex or this version of Eben Masoud.
And then it slowly died down, you know, after 2nd century, like 8th century mid, mid, you know,
probably after the 800s, it started to die down.
But many of the particulars of these readings were recorded in sources.
I think around the 800s is when there's like this scientific revolution, actually.
There's like this really interesting, you know, where, where Islam was on top of the world
when it came to scientific studies.
And they were looking from what I understand to Greek sources.
I don't want to rabbit-troll there, but like they knew, I think from the conquering of Byzantine and whatnot,
they had all these Greek ancient science books and really, really did some deep knowledge on this.
Of course, I mean, yeah, they, again, they were not isolated even before Islam and after Islam,
they were not isolated from what was happening, you know, around them.
And even as early as, you know, the Umayyads who came to power after the Fourth Caliph,
they were hiring people, you know, as scribes from Byzantium, you know, who were bilingual,
also from the Persian Empire who fell, you know, afterwards, they were hiring these people to run the state.
Interesting, that's clever, clever.
Yeah, and this is the kind of continuity and how, you know, the different traditions from Byzantium and from,
from Persia, they were all in a melting pot, you know, in a sense, alongside, you know, the Bedouinized,
if you want, Arabic, you know, culture coming from, from Arabia.
And it is the reason why you move the capital to the north, right?
So there's virtually, you have desert, right, in Arabia.
So if you want to create an empire, you move north, you don't start from Mecca.
And this is why, you know, the Fourth Caliph, you know, he left Medina and then he went to Kufa, to Iraq.
This is where the Persians were.
So he didn't stay in, you know, there were, of course, there were political conflicts there, but you move up.
And then his rival, who established the Umayyad dynasty, he went to Syria, where the Byzantine were.
So you start the expansions and the empire from the north.
You don't start it from, from the desert.
It's very difficult to do that.
So a couple questions.
And then I'd like to get into some other stuff here is the, you sent me the articles I was reading of some other scholarly work on the archaeology.
And like my simple question, I know it's not easy to answer, probably, is the Kaaba.
And I hope I'm saying the right, the Kaaba.
This, some people want to argue has pagan origins.
Others will argue that it's potentially working within the Judaic or even Christian temples in the region.
Kind of doing both in a way.
There's a stone and there's this controversy surrounding this that Muhammad is still making this something that is holy.
Like it's something that they must practice as part of the religion.
Right.
Based on your scholarly research, and this may not be your particular specialty, but what you've understood in your research, is this a pagan origin?
And is this something only from that region?
Because some traditionalist, if you will, will try to say Abraham built this house, you know, and maybe there's some traditional truth.
I'm trying to stretch here a little.
You're saying, OK, what if it's a synagogue or a Christian original temple or building?
And in that kind of way, you could say, well, it's Abrahamic.
But there seems to be some pagan influence, too, on the Kaaba.
And that's something that's foreign from Christianity and Judaism.
So what do you know about the Kaaba?
So, I mean, the first thing is that the what we know again from the sources and from archaeology that the Kaaba was not is not unique.
There were other Kaabas, right?
Red one, a red stone and a white stone.
So there were many of them.
So it was a something that is common in that region.
And we have two early books, I think, from the eighth century, ninth century, you know, on pagan pre-Islamic Arabia,
written by Muslim authors, and they describe some of these Kaabas.
It's like 11 of them or 12 of them.
And Mecca was not the biggest.
So there was even bigger, you know, Kaabas in the south and Najran or in Taif, right?
So the origins, again, I mean, I am not an expert, you know, on this.
And even archaeology is limited, unfortunately, for political reasons.
I don't think it's, you know, it's not easy to do excavations and, you know, in this part of the world.
So maybe if hopefully there would be more excavations in the future, we would know more.
But who built the Kaaba, you know, Abraham or Ishmael or something?
I don't know.
No one knows, right?
And the tradition said, it's even built, there is a tradition that it was Adam when he descended.
When he descended from heaven, you know, this is where he landed, and this is where they built the Kaaba, right?
So these are all, you know, traditions that, you know, they can fall into the category of, you know, myths.
Some people would take them literally, and this is really what happened.
I can't verify that.
No one can.
But in terms of pagan practices, I mean, for sure the Kaaba before Islam was a center for the Arab pagans.
There were idols there.
It was worshipped, right, by the pagans.
Now, originally, was this the purpose for it?
Or was it an Abrahamic shrine?
And then it turned into a pagan practice.
I'm not sure.
An expert on this can explain that from the readings I did.
That probably, yes, as you said, probably it was a synagogue or, you know, a square for a church.
And then it turned, you know, into a pagan shrine with idols.
Yeah.
Just like a church would turn into a mosque.
Right.
Exactly.
So that was what I found that I thought was beautiful in a way.
It shows the humanity, and this is what I like to point out.
I find beauty in this, you know, where people have a religious experience from the tradition.
I get what's kind of a religious experience from the history of what's really going on.
I love to find this out, and it demystifies all of the myth, if you will.
There was Byzantine artwork in early mosque and things like this.
And even I heard in that PDF you sent me a Barbara, someone from Germany.
I think her name is Barbara.
Not even that.
There was an expedition.
There was an expedition in the 80s, I think, in 1981 or 1982 by German and Saudi archaeologists.
Okay.
And they did excavations in a place called the Karyat Al Faw, F-A-W, right?
So it was, it seems that it was a center of trade between, beneath Mecca, before Mecca
started to flourish.
Right.
So this place, it seems that it was a flourishing trade center before Mecca, 100, 150 years
before Mecca, right?
And they published the findings, you can find the book online.
It's just the excavations of Karyat Al Faw, Q-A-R-Y-A-T, A-L-F-A-W.
And there are pictures of dolphin, like statues, right?
And inscriptions of dolphins, of Byzantine shoes and accessories.
So even in the 400 AD, that's 200 years before Islam, right?
There were, there was trade happening between the North and the South and Arabia or Hijaz.
It was not an isolated place that they were not, they did not know what was happening around them.
They also had crosses inside of the, some of the artwork.
Right.
I mean, it's not like what we see with Jesus on it, but like symbols.
Symbols, yeah.
I must ask you this.
I've heard this said, and I know, I need a scholar's angle here because there are people who bash Islam, who have a statement.
And not all people who think this bash Islam, but they're, it's kind of like this narrative that's spread.
Allah wasn't just the name for God, but it was a actual designated deity among the pantheon of pre-Islamic Arabic tribes that had multiple gods.
But it may have been like the supreme God.
And I'll use an example here so that people understand that I'm not coming out trying to be rude at all.
Yahweh, for example, the God of Abraham in the Old Testament, he was the God of gods.
He sat on a throne.
He reigned over a council of other gods.
When you read in Genesis, he says, let us make man in our image.
This is a divine council.
And he is the God above all gods, just like Marduk is the God above all gods in the pantheon of the Mesopotamian deities at some time, at some point.
And then it might have been in little or different deities.
So it's, I mean, it's, I mean, this image is also to what extent it exists in the Quran, not in this kind of description, but, you know, the image of God sitting on a throne.
And the angels are, you know, are around him.
And then even in the Quran, in the, when God speaks, he speaks with the we, which is interpreted in grammar to be the majestic we.
But there are also other scholars, but sometimes he's sometimes God says, I sometimes we, right?
So there are other scholars who said this we, it implies this kind of pantheon, like this image of a king or a God sitting on a throne and surrounded by the angels.
So yes, the image is there, right?
Is the name Allah, though, does that derive from the pre-Islamic Arabic pantheon where it's a specific?
I mean, I read that.
I'm not, you know, I'm not an expert on this.
I read that, you know, it is how it is derived.
Is it, you know, accurate to what extent?
I'm, you know, I don't know, you know, we have scholars who think that though, right?
Yeah, and that's, I mean, again, deriving.
So what is the, again, I say, you know, people are, you know, they, it's legitimate if, you know, if they think about these issues and, you know, in that, in that fashion.
So what's the alternative? Is that, is the alternative that the name Allah, for example, just came out of nothing?
No, I was thinking one of two things.
Maybe you can get where I'm coming from.
The name just simply means God, right?
And so it's kind of like saying Yahweh or like, like to the Israelites, they had the term for God, they might have used the term El, or like, they'll actually say Hashim.
They won't say God.
They have a respectable term they use that denotes God.
Whereas the Jews or Christians even have God, and they would say, you know, the Christ and the Father or whatever they might have as their analogy.
I was thinking one of two things.
The pre-Islamic pagan traditions had a pantheon with a specific deity that was the supreme deity.
And they incorporate this deity into their monotheistic revelation where they say, you're at the top and you are God, you are all and it's one God.
Or they are looking at the Christians and Jews idea of monotheism.
They're saying, nah, you Christians are right only some, but you're wrong some.
You Jews are right some, you're wrong some, but your idea of monotheism and we have the in Arabic.
It just means God.
So it's one of the two things I think or what a combination of both.
I don't see a problem that it's a combination of both.
Yeah.
And, you know, and the name Allah existed before Islam, right?
So I mean, the Prophet's father's name was the servant of God, like Abdullah, right?
So the name existed before that.
It's not, people have to understand that when Islam came and when Muhammad was preaching Islam, he was not preaching something new.
Okay.
So it's not, you know, he was saying something that people back then, what are you saying?
We are not familiar with these notions, right?
And even the stories, the biblical stories that he was telling them, they already knew these stories.
Tell us about the story of Alexander.
It's in the Quran.
It says, you know, they ask me, they're asking us about Alexander.
Tell us about, they knew who Alexander was.
If it's Alexander, if the one with the two horns, if it was Alexander or whoever.
I'm saying that the Joseph, you know, they know, tell us a story and he would tell them the story.
So they knew, he didn't tell them about Confucius or someone.
Good point.
He didn't tell them about someone in the East that they didn't know.
No, all the stories in the Quran and all the concepts, they are pre-Islamic.
They come from the pre-Islamic Near East context.
Otherwise, no one would follow this man.
Good point.
What are you telling us?
Who's Confucius?
If you want to tell us about someone great, you know, in the East, if he was a prophet, you know, or Buddha.
He didn't talk about the Buddha, right?
Why?
So the point is, when you talk about the origins of Islam, Muslims themselves, they don't say, well, Muhammad came
and then he reinvented the wheel.
No one says that.
Islam is a continuity of Judaism and Christianity.
That's what it says.
Now, you want to say he plagiarized it.
Okay, fine.
You can say if this is what you believe in.
But I'm saying that from our perspectives and the way that we deal with that, it is only natural that you have a new religion.
It says itself that I am coming after Judaism and Christianity.
And of course, it's going to incorporate many of the, it's not going to, again, start things again.
I'm just finishing things.
Now, whether this is true or not, whether people like that or not, that's another issue.
So the name of God of Allah, whether it came from, you know, the pagan pantheon incorporated into the monotheism of Christianity and Judaism, Judaism, that's normal.
Just as many Islamic practices were pagan practices and they were incorporated into Islam pilgrimage, for example.
Right?
Yep.
It's the same.
I mean, it is described in the Muslim sources how pagan Arabs were doing pilgrimage around the Kaaba.
The things that they were saying, even like, it's exactly the same phrases that Muslims now say when they are doing pilgrimage.
It's exactly the same phrases that the pagans were using, but you replace the name of the idol with the name of God.
That's it.
Holy snikes.
I absolutely love this stuff.
Yeah.
And I actually want more Muslim friends.
You know, I know that a lot of them that they won't like me because they're like, yeah, you're looking for the human origins.
But like, there's going to be a lot of scholars, I think, that are Muslims that I'm going to have friends that are going to be friends of mine for this reason.
I'm trying to take a balanced approach.
As you can see, I really want to be respectable because I know it's sacred to many people, just like Christianity's sacred.
I do poke holes because I was a Christian.
No, we have to poke holes.
That's what we do.
I mean, if other people are not comfortable with poking holes, they just won't.
But I think that's what we do in academia or we are curious and we want to poke holes.
We are curious.
We want to understand the origins of things.
And sometimes it would hurt other people's feelings.
You know, I understand that.
But, you know, I think that's a grand quest to poke holes.
That's not my goal.
My goal isn't to do that.
It will do that no matter what.
That's what's going to happen because people get offended.
My goal is to try and not worry about what people feel.
I'm only interested in what I can find out and learn and try to understand the origins.
Because I think too many people just, they propagate this idea.
It's their beliefs, but they propagate this idea and then they want to pressure everyone else to believe their idea.
And I like, no, sorry, I think you're wrong.
And if you're going to be allowed to run around telling other people they're wrong and that Islam is the truth and that Allah is going to burn me in hell and this, this, that and all this stuff.
And you're going to force people, you know?
No, I agree with you.
And again, that's my personal opinion.
So not, not, not, not to be footnoted, you know, is that, you know, mean what you are saying also applies among Muslims themselves, right?
So you see that there is a movement, you know, from a, from a certain group to discredit other groups and vice versa.
So what's happening in the past also 30 years that you have, you know, a group of Muslims who are more active, let's say, you know, on media, probably Internet in advocating what they think Islam should be or is, right?
And actually, I mean, I don't have numbers, but, you know, this group of Muslims, they are the minority in, you know,
so they are, I would say 10%, 15% maximum of Muslims, but they are the ones with the most resources.
Okay.
And you have the other historically majority of Muslims, the 85% who don't have such resources.
It doesn't mean the 5% or 10% they are wrong.
I'm not saying that I'm saying that they constitute a minority, you know, in Sunni Islam, at least, and they pressure other people and what you are saying is that this is what Islam is.
And of course, you have the other 85% or 80% they have different, you know, views on that.
And they said, no, this is what Islam is, and they pressure each other, even without even going outsides that no, you don't know what you're saying.
No, you don't know what you're saying.
I am right.
You are wrong.
I think it happens everywhere.
It's part of human nature, I would say so.
I did a live show on my channel, Dr. Nassir, and I had two Muslims and they were arguing over a Quranic verse that talks about, is it pre-Pubescent girls or post-Pubescent in the idea of Muhammad marrying Aisha?
I know.
I know.
And I was like, you're on a skeptic channel talking about this, hello, but they don't, you know, they didn't care.
And then two of them said, yes, this is pre-Pubescent and post, it's talking about both.
It's not just one.
And yes, it's saying in this time, for whatever reason in the culture, this was acceptable, or at least they're saying, this is what the Prophet did.
And this is okay that he consummated with a nine-year-old.
Now, we, to our standards, you already know how that is.
I don't even want to go there.
We know today we don't accept this, or at least in America.
The world might think differently, but the other guy said, are you kidding me?
And he started to yell.
He called the other guy a Taliban.
I was like, oh my gosh, did you just call him a Taliban?
And like, I didn't even have to poke holes.
I just sat back.
I grabbed my popcorn.
You're enjoying the show, huh?
Well, after about an hour of talking about women's periods, I was like, okay, this is no more.
Let's stop.
Let's talk something else.
I find that I'm using that mostly really men, they discuss these issues, whether the wife of the Prophet was nine or eight or whatever.
And then you don't have women themselves who are probably more concerned with this issue.
And then they want to discuss it, how it is.
It's always coming from the other side.
I don't know.
But yeah, I heard some of these debates, et cetera.
So it's unfortunate that even with an issue like that, it leads people to consider the other person blasphemous if they don't think it's before nine or after nine.
Either way, I want to share with you a final, let's have a little final fun here.
We get to watch another, I believe he's a doctor.
And he's definitely educated, but he was interviewed by Muhammad Hijab.
Have you ever heard of Muhammad Hijab?
I heard of the name.
Yes.
Yeah.
He's a pretty aggressive.
I don't know much about him, but I heard some of my friends, they bring up his name.
Yeah.
Yeah.
From what I have seen, he seems to be quite aggressive in his approach.
Here he is having a conversation with, correct me if I'm wrong, Yasir Qadi?
Yes.
Yasir Qadi.
Okay.
I'm going to play something.
I don't know where I'm actually at here.
Let's go with this.
This is all my buddy Abdullah Samir's channel.
He's an ex-Muslim, but he's trying to point out something that's going on here.
And Muhammad Hijab actually removed 30 minutes of the clip, I guess, that was there because you're going to see, and I'd love to get your comment.
I mean, he did something unethical.
He was expelled from the list, and the list was basically banned because of that stuff, because of that.
He couldn't refute to my argument, so he sent it to one of your medkhalis in England.
And so then, of course, this medkhali gave it to the other one, and so obviously, and everything, you know, all whatever broke loose.
But again, this was not something I brought up in public.
And I would never bring it up public.
And I don't think it is wise to bring it up public.
Every single student of knowledge knows, who studies the Qur'an, that the most difficult topics are Ahruf and Qira'at,
and the concept of Ahruf, and the reality of Ahruf, and the relationship of the medkhalis of the Ahruf,
and the preservation of the Ahruf as in one, as in three, as in seven, and the relationship of the Qira'at to the Ahruf.
This is a topic that, when you're the beginning, beginning student of knowledge, you're like,
what is all of this going on here?
When you go a little bit more, you learn to simply memorize what your teacher state and regurgitate it out,
and you don't fully comprehend.
When you do a deep dive, is when things get very, very awkward and difficult.
And this isn't new. This is from the time of the Sahaba, in the Sahih or the Hassan haditha,
the haditha of the Ahruf, that when the Prophet  mentioned the issue of Ahruf,
and that there are different Ahruf and whatnot, this is in the version of Kuslima Ahmad,
and may be Ka'b says authentic hadith,
It's not a joke for this issue.
The issue of Ahruf and Qira'at caused confusion to somebody,
when the Prophet  said, if you want to listen to the Qur'an directly, listen to the Qur'an.
May is not some even average Sahabi.
He is the Ahri of the Qur'an.
He is the master. He is who he is.
And he goes,
and the Prophet put his hand, and then he goes,
So, okay, can we comment on this just for a second on what you see so far?
And then there's maybe a little more, because Hijab tries to really pressure him.
And he's like, I told you, I didn't want to bring this public or whatever.
What did you hear there so far from what he said?
Do you pick up on what he's putting down there?
Well, I'm not aware of the context of the conversation, what they were talking after,
but at least from this side, I mean, it's right that the issue of the variant readings,
or the Ahri of it is problematic from a theological perspective.
But it depends from how you look at it.
It wasn't a problem, it depends how you look at it.
If you want to say, well, the Qur'an is one and it is the word of God,
and then you have all these variant readings,
if you belong to a certain theological school, then it is a problem for you.
If God is really uttering all these variants.
If you are not, and if you belong to other schools, it's not really an issue.
If you just follow the syntax and then the pronunciation of the words
and how they are performed, they vary.
But the issue of something that should be brought up in public or not,
I think it's something that people want to maybe protect the public
from certain issues that would cause doubt.
Now, is this right or wrong?
It's not for me to say whether these things should be brought in public or not,
but there are certain issues that, you know, the issue of variant readings,
it's not something that is hidden, you know.
It's just not known.
Yeah, it's not hidden, you know, and locked in a safe box
where you will only be given the keys.
If you pay so much.
Anyone in the past 1400 years, you go to a bookshop,
you pick up a copy of variant readings, and then you read it.
It's there, right?
So I think the issue is to what extent this issue of variant readings
or Qiraat, how important they are for the average Muslim to know.
And I think this is probably what, you know, I can't speak on his behalf,
but this is what I would say the, what most people would think.
I think we are now in an age where it's very difficult to keep things hidden
or away from public with the Internet.
You know, I remember when I was, when I wrote my dissertation,
which is my first book, I started 2007-08.
Now, there was no tube.
I don't think there was YouTube back then.
You know, so I was basically writing everything based on the resources
that we have in the library.
I didn't, there were, there were no search engines as sophisticated as you have now.
Now you have websites on different recitations, audio and YouTube channels and lectures.
But it's very difficult now to keep this issue from the public, right?
Right.
So, yeah, so that's, you know, I would say that I understand where he's coming from.
Now, whether this is right or wrong, I think it's up for debate for, you know, experts and pedagogy, you know.
To what extent can we, I mean, again, this happens, I think, in all traditions,
not just in, you know, in Islam.
To what extent can we keep certain information away from the public?
Okay.
And to what extent this is important?
And this is an issue that you find in books of creed, you know, in Islamic creed,
or they say Aqidah, you know, which means in some, in many texts, classical texts,
where the average Muslim is encouraged to not pursue certain questions that would cause doubt.
Yeah.
He talks about that.
In fact, if I could continue playing a little longer and then we're going to wrap things up here,
just to show you what he's saying here.
My buddy Samir, I love this little clip that he took because this is from the actual original.
And I'll let Samir be seen here.
And by the way, this is now a well-known, open secret amongst many Muslim graduate students and academics around the world.
And this is well-known to traditional and understanding.
Abah Rukh al-Qadir.
And this is a very well-known, open secret among many Muslim graduate students and academics around the world.
And this is well-known to traditional and understanding.
Abah Rukh al-Qadir.
We cannot answer some of these pressing questions that are now being hooked by our people outside of, by our academics,
by their academics outside of the great tradition.
You see, in a Muslim environment, there's always some respect that we have for the Quran.
We should.
In a Muslim environment, we'll press a little bit and then we'll say,
Okay, let's listen to our Quran.
And that's great, Alhamdulillah.
When you go to the Quran, there's always some respect that we have for the Quran.
And then we'll say, Okay, let's listen to our Quran.
And that's great, Alhamdulillah.
When you go to academia, they don't have that red line.
And they're going to just, you know, the famous story of the emperor with no clothes.
They're going to just point out, no, that doesn't make any sense.
Well, that's not true.
And they'll bring issues, which I'm not going to mention explicitly,
that you know are true because they're in your own books.
They're not inventing anything new.
They'll bring you liwayat and they'll bring you athal.
And then you add to that very well-known issues of,
I don't even want to be explicit.
And it's very clear to you and to every single very advanced student and specialist
that the standard narrative has holes in it.
That's what I'm going to say.
The standard narrative does not answer some very pressing questions.
This is what I'm going to say.
Well-known secrets.
Of course, my buddy Samir is pointing out,
this is a big deal for traditionalists.
And then here's he job pressing back real quick.
To try and make this as specific as possible.
I think if I were to give you a blank mushaf, yeah,
and tell you to write, what is Munezel verbatim from Allah,
into that mushaf with no human interference,
would you write something which corresponds to-
It's not an easy answer.
It's not an easy yes or no.
It is enough for the Muslim to believe that-
I think this should be an easy yes or no though.
Okay, very well.
So, Ya Muhammad, after we get off this phone,
call me and you, let's have a number of discussions.
No problem.
I'm very open with advanced students.
But these issues should not-
Look, it is kalamullah.
What is going to be written?
It is kalamullah.
What would you write?
Let's not- let's- you're pushing me.
And I'm saying it's not hikmah to- listen,
I have a condition, like I said,
everything I say is going to be factual.
If I wanted to do tauli and whatnot,
I would do it right now in front of you.
There is no need for taulia.
The Quran is the uncreated sliege of Allah.
The Quran is preserved.
The Quran is known.
The Quran is mutawatil.
And Alhamdulillah, all of the qiraat
or the Quran, all of the qiraat
are authentic, Alhamdulillah.
Leave it adachi, ahli.
Beyond this, honestly, I have no problem
we'll have discussions or take my class.
But beyond this requires background information.
It is enough for the Muslim to know
that the Quran is the sliege of Allah
that has been protected.
And what we recite is the Qalaam of Allah.
That is enough for the Muslims.
I appreciate what you're saying.
And then anyway, that has it.
I'm done doing that to you.
I just wanted you as an academic
who is the person who's capable
and willing to go past the red line
that they're describing that their academia,
we as Muslims, he says,
we can only go so far and then we just,
we kind of back off because it's,
in a lot of ways that I guess his particular tradition is like,
I am not willing to go beyond that.
I'll give you an example.
I have Christian scholars that are really good friends of mine
who actually appreciate what I do.
And it's like, what?
Christians that I talked to on the regular basis say,
how can he be your friend?
How can he appreciate what you do?
You know, and then I asked these scholars,
these are Christians in academia.
Did Jesus predictions about the apocalypse fell?
And they say, yes.
In other words, yes.
And you go, hold on.
You believe he's God in the flesh
and he got predictions wrong?
How can you do that?
And they go, well, this is my subjective.
I'm combining my academic training,
my historical training and my faith,
which is subjective.
They don't have anything to technically,
they don't cause the other one false.
Like for me, I don't know how, right?
I'm like, how can you, you know,
even I'm like shocked because I came from a Christianity
where it can't be wrong.
And if it's wrong,
I mean, it's the same.
I mean, I think one of the, I mean,
there are a few things I would comment on,
but just very quickly on your point,
I think one of the problems in,
I wouldn't call it a problem, issues, let's say,
in all traditions is that when you subscribe to a certain faith,
you feel that, of course, that, you know,
you have the mandate of God, right?
And you are right.
And, you know, anything that happens,
you are within this faith, you know,
it's being inspired directly.
So that's natural human, you know,
reaction to questions, doubts, et cetera.
I believe it's the same in Christianity and Judaism.
You know, you are, you know that better than me, right?
But I don't want to, you know,
go into detail in response.
But I think, you know, there's,
the question is problematic.
That this is Hijab, the...
Mohammad Hijab.
Yeah.
I think his question is problematic.
The question is,
the premise of the question is not accurate, right?
To say that if I'm going to give you a paper
and write down what is, you know, revealed from God,
the problem is once you, once things get,
if you, again, we are believing, we are talking theology now,
once things get to earth from the heavens
and you start writing things down,
there's a human interference, right?
So the premise of the question is problematic.
When you say, well, okay, write for me now
what is verbatim revealed from God?
The question is wrong because you can't combine something
which is, you know, oral
and then represented accurately in writing.
And this is the whole issue of...
Orality and...
Orality versus written.
And this is why Muslim scholars never called a written codex.
They never called it Quran.
Now we go to a bookstore and then you buy, you know, the Quran.
It's written on it Quran.
And it shouldn't be written on it Quran.
It should be written on it Mus'haf, which means codex.
And that's what many institutions do.
They call it the Mus'haf.
They don't call it Quran.
You shouldn't be calling a written text Quran,
at least according to the tradition, you know?
So that's the distinction when people think,
well, okay, I have a printed edition
or I have a written version on this is the Quran.
That's the issue here.
The distinction between the oral and the written.
Right?
Wow.
So, you know, as for, you know, the answer,
whether, you know, things in academia,
in Western academia being more critical
or Muslim scholars don't probe,
I may disagree a little bit with this
because in the sources, Muslim scholars probe
these issues.
We are not bringing, I mean, he himself said that
we do have hadiths and accounts that said this and that.
It tells you that even Muslim scholars,
they were probing and poking holes.
They were not just sitting and then saying,
okay, well, this is what we have.
Everything is beautiful.
No, they knew that there were problems.
Right.
And they were poking holes.
And there are many traditions and had the discrepancies,
again, which I talked about before,
is that because you have discrepancies,
because Muslim scholars, they were poking holes.
What's happening with variants?
This is a mistake.
This is a scribal error.
You know, how do we reconcile, you know,
the different discrepancies that we have in the tradition?
They did poke holes.
But at the end of the day, you know,
you say, okay, I have this, I did my best.
Okay.
I spent 40 years of my life
collecting variants, studying Arabic,
you know, trying to verify every single word in the Quran.
This is what I got.
I did my best.
God knows best.
That's the attitude.
Right.
And that's what he sounded like on there.
And then when the, when the job kept pressuring him,
he's like, stop.
And, you know, he sounds for me,
as someone who is a skeptic,
kind of like a conservative Muslim,
like he is, even though he's expanded his knowledge quite a lot,
he's still very conservative in saying this is true.
But to he job, he's liberal.
You can tell he's like, oh no, this should be an easy answer.
And it's like, you know, because there's this teaching going on
where it's like, no, you need to accept it
because this is what is the truth.
And there's no.
Right.
I mean, you, you, you wouldn't assume someone
who is advocating for his own religion or faith to say,
well, no, I have problems, right?
Right.
No one would say that in any tradition.
Of course, you want to, if you want to sell your product,
you know, you can't sell something, say, oh, well,
it's, it's defective.
There are problems here and there.
No, you want to sell it in a beautiful, embellished way.
And then after people believe you start poking,
you know, if you want, whether this is a right approach or not,
again, that's people can discuss it.
But I do understand where he's coming from.
I wouldn't, I think the issue here is not the issue here is it's
a conversation about what should we, to what,
how much should the average Muslim know?
Right.
Right.
And I don't know about also maybe in Christianity and Judaism.
It's the same.
How much should they, I mean, does every single Christian know
the details about the Trinity?
For example, I don't know.
I'm asking you, you know, do they really know?
Do they really know the different, you know, philosophical, theological
differences between this, the body of the Christ and the spirit?
Do they know that people say the Trinity, right?
You know, you'll hear it, but probably, you know, the huge percentage
of Christians, they don't understand what the Trinity is.
And the theological discussions from the very beginning, they just
think, okay, the Trinity, and that's it.
Right.
And the same in, in, in Islam, you know, the average Muslims,
they don't know the details of, of the theological debates that
happen, but it's there and it's, it's in the box.
And if you want to pursue it, you do need to undergo some kind of
training, okay, to accurately capture it.
So, you know, good.
So hard luck for whatever.
But I do understand where he's coming from.
So I'm, you know, it's up for debate.
You know, whether this is the right approach to educating people
or not, that's another issue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, final question.
Where do you see Islamic studies going in the next, let's say 100
years, for example, do you think just like Christianity, it will
become more of a discussed topic that, for example, people can
make cartoons of Jesus and not get killed, for example.
Do you think that this might happen where it will start to
become okay to be critical more?
I'm not sure about that.
It's, you know, it's all, it depends on whether Muslims want
or will separate state from church.
This is all what, what it matters, right?
So if it happens in 100 years, that there will be separation
between state and church, as you have in Christianity, then
people will do it.
So I don't think, you know, we reach that stage.
And as long as there's really no separation between, between
both, I think it's very difficult to, the premises, again, there are
Muslims who are, who are calling for certain, you know, issues to
be especially in the, in the West, like American Muslims or European
Muslims who are living in the States and they are both, you know,
they are Americans and Muslims.
So they want to exercise their rights as Americans, but also they
are constrained by certain rules in Islam, right?
And you have also the other groups of Muslims who are saying,
no, we shouldn't be constrained by that.
So the premises are, you know, once you resolve this issue of
separation of state and church, you might see that.
But if, if you don't, then I think it's not going to be okay to do
cartoons or other, or being critical slash offensive, you know,
like you could be, there are movies or caricatures on, I see on
Jesus or people do that.
And it's not a problem here because of this kind of issues.
I don't think in Islam it's at this level yet.
So what will happen in the future?
I don't know.
God knows best.
Right.
Dr. Shadi Nasir, I really appreciate you.
Everybody, please go check out his website.
He graduated and no, did you graduate from Harvard?
I did.
Yes.
Okay.
Yes, you did.
And of course you've public, you have many publications, of course,
two books specifically.
The one I have in my Amazon link is the transmission of the variant
readings of the Quran.
It is not very easy to read and it's also a little pricey here,
but if you can get it and you're really interested in getting to a
deep dive, highly recommend this work here.
Also the second canonization of the Quran.
In this book though, do you discuss specifically only the
second canonization or do you briefly give an overview of some
of the other stuff prior and then after or?
Yeah.
So the first chapter, I just break down what, what I mean by,
you know, canonization and the different stages that, you know,
the Quran underwent to its, to the final form that we have right
now, but the whole, the bulk of the book and the data at the
end, it's mostly what I call the second stage, which is, you
know, 10th century where what we call the seven readings.
I don't know if you heard that around the seven canonical
readings, how they were established during that time.
So it's mostly specifically on this period, but there's a
breakdown at the beginning of the other periods as well.
Thank you so much.
And ladies and gentlemen, if you like what I'm doing here at
MythVision, you want to see more of this, you guys want to help us
out.
Not only do you have access to hundreds of videos, including
this one we're recording right now on Patreon early.
There are many others you haven't seen.
You can get early access to that and join today.
You also are helping us grow and keeping this thing alive so
that I can make more trips to try and see more scholars and to
do these things because to be honest with you, time is money
and a lot of the people I have come on, I, I make sure that
they're funded for their time and their expertise is valuable
to me, which is why I go out of my way to offer them this.
So you, my patrons, are a huge part of why I do what I do
and I'm able to do this.
Thank you so much.
Please consider joining Dr. Nasir.
Once again, thank you so much.
This has made me appreciate the studies a little more rather
than going to one side that hates it and seems to just like
not value maybe the nuance and there's some depth to the
development of Islam.
Even though I don't believe it's divine, I still respect it in
the way of like, how did this happen within a culture?
What happened?
Why do people create these things?
And I'm fascinated with it from that angle.
Then there's the other side that says, no, you know, you can't
be skeptical.
You need to stop talking about it and they want to bash you or
whatever.
I've got both sides and I'm trying to get in the middle and
you're helping me do that.
So thank you so much.
You are very welcome.
Thanks for having me and, you know, hopefully this was a
little bit useful.
So it's always good to be in the, in the middle.
So what, what I believe, but anyways, thank you for your time
and I appreciate it.
And thank you for the $10 million that you gave me to come on
your show and never forget if you're lost, you don't know what
you are.
You can join us.
We are.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon.
Not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did
with Dr. Denison MacDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the
Patreon, early access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview
these scholars and you're helping MythVision grow.
