And I'd never heard of Asharah, and I'd never heard of a wife of God, and I thought that that was all pretty bizarre and remarkable.
And I was very curious to find out more, like the lion. The lion is a symbol of goddesses, but it becomes the lion of Judah.
The Hindus rectify their version of God with the Christian God.
So, if everyone's believing in the same God, I believe that that goes all the way back, that all the sky fathers are all the same.
It's also true for the Earth Mother. Transgender people were totally celebrated, and they were high priests, shamans.
Men would voluntarily castrate themselves and service the goddess.
They have these traditions in Sumer, the priests for Artemis and Ephesus were doing this.
The biblical writers are staunchly patriarchal and openly hostile to these other traditions that are in their community.
The mother goddess, she is the Israelite mother goddess, and she is the mother of all living.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert, ladies and gentlemen.
Interesting show we have for you today about the lost goddess from the Ice Age to the Bible.
And your book is going to be displayed here in just a second. I hope you guys go down in the description.
Take the time to read it and check out what the contents in here have. Really pretty cover.
And Edward Dodge is joining us. Welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Hi, Derek. Nice to be here. I really appreciate the chance to talk to you and you and your audience.
Thank you. Yeah, I really appreciate the opportunity as well for you coming on and talking about your book.
Anyone who's interested can go to Amazon or go to the recommended books list that's down in the description.
You guys can check it out. I'm interested to hear what you're going to do here specifically.
What you've written on and some of the information you're zeroing in on might be something fascinating going throughout history
on how civilizations have viewed women or at least have a goddess,
a divine woman figure wisdom potentially comes to mind or someone like Asherah or whatever.
There's always some type of goddess picture that's been kind of removed from these patriarchal systems.
So here we have lostgoddess.io. That's the website.
You guys can check out Mr. Dodge's website and go show him some love.
Check out what he's got going on there. You can contact him there as well.
And then we have the patron. I do tons and tons of work.
I mean, you can join, get early access. You can also steer the direction of some of the shows
by asking questions when I go to interview experts and your question can be recorded in 1080p.
High quality. Eventually, it'll probably turn into 4K when I get better equipment than I already have.
So, Mr. Dodge, tell me, what are people missing?
What is it that we don't know when it comes to this goddess, if you will?
You can call me Ed. You don't need to go with the Mr. Dodge thing.
All right, Ed.
You know, my mom still calls me Eddie. So, you know, Edward's just for writing.
So basically, I was exploring Asherah and I wanted to figure out who she was
since sort of a backstory of how I fell into this, but I'll just start with that.
You know, I grew up going to church and I heard about, you know, as an adult,
I heard about scholars saying that the early Hebrews were pagan before they were monotheists
and that God had a wife and her name was Asherah.
And I was, you know, pretty shocked, to be honest with you, to hear this
because I'd grown up going to church and I felt no biblical scholar by any stretch.
But I felt pretty familiar with the traditions and I'd never heard of Asherah
and I'd never heard of a wife of God.
And I thought that was all pretty bizarre and remarkable.
And I was very curious to find out more.
And I was curious not only who she was, but what it meant to worship her.
And at a cultural level, what were you believing in?
If you were following the wife of God, what did that mean that you believed in?
Like, what were your traditions? What were your rituals?
What were your beliefs? What was your worldview?
What were these people and what were they doing?
And so I was really curious, and this plays back to a question I had as a child in church.
I remember as a kid being like, wondering what these Canaanites were doing.
Like, what were they doing that was so awful and depraved that the prophets were so upset?
I was like, I remember as a kid being like, these are just people.
Like, what were they really doing? What was going on in those Canaanite cities?
And so that's really what I ended up digging into.
And so what I found out was, I think, truly remarkable.
And I feel that I've laid out the story of the transition from Israelite paganism to monotheism.
Because that was really the other question was like, how does this...
The scholars keep telling us this, that the Israelites were pagan for their monotheists,
but how does that jibe with the Bible story that we're taught in the traditional narrative?
And I was trying to just figure it out for my own self.
And what I finally figured out was that basically that El and Yahweh were two separate gods.
And that El is very, very ancient. And he is the ancient skyfather.
And I believe that all the skyfathers, all across tradition,
if you believe the Jews, Christians, and Muslims are all believing the same God, same skyfather, same heavenly father.
Native Americans say that their skyfather was the same as the Christian father.
The Native Americans never had a problem believing in rectifying their version of God with the Christian God.
The Hindus rectify their version of God with the Christian God.
So if everyone's believing in the same God, I believe that that goes all the way back,
that all the skyfathers are all the same.
And I think that it's also true for the Earth Mother.
And that the Earth Mother, we know well today as Mother Earth and Mother Nature,
that these traditions also go all the way back.
And Asherah is a representative of those traditions.
She is part of these Earth Mother traditions.
And that so she's not just a Canaanite goddess.
The scholars always say she's some Canaanite goddess.
She's not some Canaanite goddess. She is the mother goddess.
She is the Israelite mother goddess.
And she is the mother of all living and she represents there and she has equivalence.
Equivalence is in other traditions.
So for the Greeks, she's equivalent to Rhea, who's the mother of the Olympian Greeks.
She is the mother of the Olympian gods and mother of Zeus.
One of the Titans, the wife of Kronos.
The Greeks equated Kronos to El.
So basically the Israelites are pagan before they are monotheists.
They're worshiping El all along until Moses introduces Yahweh in the Bronze Age collapse.
And Yahweh was a young God. He was a new God.
And he's a reformer. It's not monotheism, but they're very much cultural reformers.
They want to end, the followers of Yahweh want to end idolatry,
which is the practice of having the gods like in a stone or in a statue.
The golden calf, I believe, is just the idol that represented El and represented the old traditions.
They want to end the child sacrifice that the Canaanites and the Phoenicians were, in my opinion, totally doing.
And they want to end the public sexual rituals that are associated with these goddess traditions.
So the goddess traditions are, I know you're familiar with the dying and rising God in that motif.
That motif repeats over and over again in all these cultures.
And they're all, what I finally figured out is they're all goddess traditions.
That the heart of that story is that there is typically a male figure, but not always,
typically a male figure that dies, and then he is raised by a goddess.
And every one of those stories has the goddess at the heart of it.
The goddess is the one who raises the one from the dead,
because the goddesses are at heart cycle of life traditions and nature traditions
and fertility traditions of the growth of plants.
And they're all rooted in agriculture and plant growth traditions.
And they associate sex with creation.
They associate that sex makes the flowers grow and that semen is rain,
and that these traditions are extremely sexual.
And so they have ritual prostitution. They celebrate women's sexuality.
They don't have paternal bloodlines. They have maternal bloodlines.
When you have matriarchal maternal bloodlines,
it doesn't really matter who the women are having sex with.
They don't have to be monogamous.
And these cultures were not monogamous.
And this is the stuff that Hebrew prophets are going on and on and on about,
that they can't stand it.
They can't stand that the women are running around not being monogamous
and having ritual prostitution.
And so that's what they're doing.
And then Yahweh, they want to get rid of those traditions.
They want to kick them out.
Right, right.
And so they're fighting about it the entire first temple period.
The first temple is a pagan temple.
The temple that King Solomon builds, for Yahweh,
is a pagan temple where Yahweh and El are two separate gods.
And Yahweh is leading this cultural reform movement, the Yahweh prophets.
And they fight about it the entire first temple period.
It does not get resolved.
And at the end, when the temple is destroyed,
there's still been worshiping the Queen of Heaven all along.
And they talk about it, you know, because the women, Jeremiah,
after the destruction of the temple,
Jeremiah castigates the women in, they're now in exile in Egypt
for having been worshiping the Queen of Heaven.
This is Jeremiah 44.
And the women shoot back, no.
Everything was fine when we were worshiping the Queen of Heaven.
It's your fault.
It's Yahweh's fault that we got destroyed.
And the women are like, you know, piss off, Jeremiah.
And Jeremiah gets mad and stomps off.
And the women never admit that there was anything wrong with what they were doing.
And it's only, so then they go into the Babylonian exile.
And it's there that they write the Torah.
It's there that they write the Bible.
They accumulate all the texts.
And they do the final job of writing it all up.
This is Ezra and his team of scribes, presumably.
And they bring it back to Jerusalem.
And now they're the Jews.
And now it's second temple Judaism.
Now it's monotheism.
All the paganism has been thrown out.
There's no more sex and drugs rituals.
Because the plant drugs are also a part of it too.
I write a lot about cannabis.
So cannabis is also very central to all of this.
They're totally burning it in King Solomon's temple, offering it to Yahweh.
And then, but they throw it all out.
It all is, these are the, some symbols and traditions get synchronized
and taken over by the Yahweh's, the ones that are acceptable, like the lion.
The lion is a symbol of goddesses.
But it becomes the lion of Judah.
But other symbols and other traditions, particularly around sexuality, are condemned.
And the monotheists have been condemning witches, whores, and homosexuals ever since.
So you have, so in these pagan traditions, you have things like, I was saying,
plenty of plant drugs.
They have the whole apothecary of opium, cannabis, psychedelics.
They've got transgender people.
Transgender people were totally celebrated.
And they were high priests, shamans.
Men would voluntarily castrate themselves and service the goddess.
They have these traditions in Sumer.
Well documented all through history.
And they're, you know, the priests of Sibley and Rome were doing this.
The priests for Artemis at Ephesus were doing this.
They've got these great names, like the Gali priests for Sibley and the Megabiesi for Artemis.
It's the Kadesh are in the Bible.
So the Kadesh and the Kadesh and the Bible are the priests and priestesses that, you know,
that they call temple prostitutes.
They're actually the holy men.
The word Kadesh means holy.
They're the holy ones.
They're the holy women.
And yeah, so it goes on on.
There's multiple examples of the transgender people.
Multiple examples of the ritual prostitution.
And you can find any of the cultures where they celebrate,
because they have temple sex in Greece, but they don't have the Kadesh.
And it's not the same thing where they have these sanctified holy women
and they celebrate where the men celebrate bringing their daughters to the temple to lose their virginity.
Like that was a tradition in Babylon.
That's not a tradition in Greece.
And so it's these traditions where they celebrate the women's sexuality
are the ones that have these older matriarchal goddesses.
And these are the ones that the Hebrew prophets are quite keen to eliminate.
And so it's Ashtara as the mother goddess, but then Ishtar was really,
she's the queen of heaven and she's really the most popular one in the Bible.
She's Astart and that's the one that King Solomon is worshiping.
So there's two goddesses that are being named repeatedly.
It's Astart and Ashtara.
Most people say Ashtara was the mother, was the queen of heaven.
I actually don't agree.
I think it's Astart as the queen of heaven.
But Ashtara is the mother and Ashtara is highly respected.
And so and then there's a third goddess who's also even more powerful, which is Anat.
But she's not mentioned in the Bible.
I call her she who must not be named because she is so powerful and terrifying
that the Hebrew prophets don't mention her even to insult her
because every time they mention Ashtara or Astart,
they're basically condemning them and insulting them.
But Anat, who is this goddess of death, she's like Kali.
She's a goddess of death and slaughter and destruction.
She's dripping in blood.
She's wearing a skull necklace and a belt of human hands and she delights and slaughter.
And she's Baal's consort.
We know that Baal is mentioned in the Bible many times,
but they don't mention his number one consort, which is Anat,
who is so powerful that she destroys death that she challenges El.
She's threatened to kill El and El is like, yeah, whatever, doesn't dispute it.
So Anat is she must not be named.
I'd like to ask, how does this play with Lilith?
Because I wonder if Lilith is demonized in later Jewish texts.
Yeah, so Lilith is not mentioned in the Bible, right?
She's a Jewish folk tradition.
I think that, I'm only speculating here, but I mean, I think that she's the folk version
of the memories of these earlier goddesses that were demonized,
especially Anat, who was actually quite terrifying.
But the idea that Adam had a previous marital relation before Eve
that was something dark and forbidding, I think is a folk memory of these earlier traditions, for sure.
Interesting, interesting.
So there's a lot going on here.
There's a lot, because it's a history all the way through the world.
And I found a logical thread and I just kept pulling on it and just kept taking me to the next place.
And I can trace it literally from the Venus figurines of the Ice Age to today's cultural wars today
in one unbroken thread.
So there is a lot going on.
So technically, when you say the Ice Age, you're talking the melting of the Ice Age.
When the Ice Age melts, or are you talking about pre-melting of the Ice Age?
I'm talking about, but yeah, I mean, so the humans leave,
homo sapiens leave Africa around 60,000 BC.
At some point we go through the cognitive leap where presumably we start using speech
and then you start seeing art.
The first art is there's basically three kinds of art we see in Ice Age culture.
There's ritual burials, there's cave paintings, and there's Venus figurines.
And we see those three things repeated across all of Eurasia for thousands of years, tens of thousands of years.
And then you get into the, when the Ice Age melts, you go through the Younger Dryas period,
which I believe is a total cataclysm.
What kind of cataclysm do you take?
Because I know Randall Carlson and other people have different takes on this.
I think it's a mass extinction event and that we know that all the big animal species, the megafauna,
are all wiped out, the woolly mammoths, the saber-toothed tigers, the giant sloths.
All these animals that humans have been living besides and hunting for tens of thousands of years all disappear.
We know that human populations get totally decimated by like maybe 90%,
and that it's a, I mean, a lot of people think there was a comet strike
and that it hit the ice caps and unleashes violent cataclysms,
the most extreme kind of the end-of-the-world Mad Max apocalyptic scenarios.
That's my speculation. The science on the comet strike is all pretty new stuff, but I think it lines up.
But we know that the populations were demoed, for sure.
And some people think a solar flare, like the sun had a little burst of heat.
That's another theory that covers a lot of the same data points.
Yeah, either way, at the end of the day, I think the point is the ice freaking melted, the water rose,
400 feet ocean sea levels rose, causing intense flooding and ice glaciers,
if you will, grinding Earth to the point where it was such a large magnitude.
I mean, the crust of the Earth literally was sunk, causing the Earth's shape to not be quite sphere, if you will.
I mean, that's the kind of weight these ice caps had, and they're sliding, they're grinding,
and they're causing all sorts of chaos.
So I think this is interesting. I don't want to get, stop there.
I want to get into the goddess stuff, but I think as you go on, you talk about these temple prostitutes,
it's something I've never done a deep dive on, right?
Exactly, nobody does. Nobody does. They call them prostitutes, and then you're just trained to dismiss them.
As soon as you hear the word prostitute, your mind says, these women are worthless,
don't even think about them, anything about them, just dismiss them immediately.
But I actually realized that they're central to the whole story, and that they, when I realized that the word Kadesh,
the word in the Bible is Kadesh, and they're mentioned repeatedly, and then the Kadesh are their male counterparts.
The word Kadesh means holy, like that is the definition of the word.
A holy prostitute.
It just means holy, just, and they are called the holy ones.
And then they're documented in Mesopotamian, they're all the way through Sumer, all the way back to Sumer, they're there.
And there's prostitution, it's run by women. I want to make this abundantly clear.
This is women's business. The women ran it. The women kept the money. They're not being pimped out by some man.
The women kept the money they had, and they had enormous influence and authority in the culture,
because the sacred marriage ceremony, which is the Hyrosgammos, is one of the most important traditions from Mesopotamia,
is where the goddess has to sanctify the king's right to rule.
And it's presumably a sex ritual where the king goes back behind closed doors with one of these priestesses and has to satisfy her.
And I don't think it's any like, you know, wham, bam, thank you, ma'am, either.
I think he's got to really prove his virility, because if he can't do it, then he's not fit to be king and off of his head.
So why aren't we bringing this fun back?
I know, right? They have another tradition too, which is the ritual humiliation.
So the New Year's Festival is a multi-day, it's like a 12-day-long festival in Mesopotamia.
And the Hyrosgammos is one event, and the ritual humiliation is another one, where they strip the king,
they take his way as crown and as scepter and all of his royal robes and everything down,
and the high priest has to smack the king across the face, hard enough to make him cry,
and the king has to confess all of his sins and iniquities before the high priest,
and then be absolved of all of his sins so that he has, that's his part of, again,
annually reconfirming his right to rule.
So original BDSM for anybody who's interested.
I know, right? Seriously.
That's not by the priestess. That's by the male priest.
But anyway, it's all part of the same tradition.
And, you know, you imagine our modern-day, these octogenarian politicians,
they wouldn't be able to pass those tests.
No, they wouldn't.
And, you know, I do think this is interesting what you're pointing out,
and it's kind of touched into some stuff I've actually listened to before online,
where, you know, they talk about the stone-daped theory from some people, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, and in that line of thought, they weren't patriarchal systems,
whereas ran by men.
It was an equal, open society, kind of like ancient hippies, if you will,
who really just knew how to get along, and there wasn't constant war.
There wasn't all the things we see that we now have.
And look at what happens when we men are in charge.
I mean, when we want to control everything, man, we're knuckleheads.
Absolutely. This is absolutely my whole theory,
is that all the way through the Neolithic,
so the Neolithic comes along around 10,000 years ago,
and it's the survivors of the Younger Dryas,
the traumatized survivors that start planting.
And then for the next 5,000 years, you've got Neolithic settlements
that, by all accounts, are egalitarian, there's no war,
there's no dominance hierarchies, there's no kings or observable governance
that we can observe, and men and women are treated equally,
and there's no glorious kings or heroes or any identifiable heroes.
All that stuff starts with the Bronze Age,
when the settlements have gotten a couple of things happening.
The settlements have gotten big enough and prosperous enough
that there's something worth stealing,
and then the introduction of bronze gives men weapons,
and that's when you start to see war, and that's around 4,000 BC, 3,500 BC.
And then the combination of horses and chariots and bronze weapons
is when the Indo-European men start to take over,
and that's Artemis right there.
I just want them to see the cool art in the book.
There's a lot of good art in the book.
The mistress of animals there.
So I think the men start to assert themselves with the beginning of the Bronze Age,
and that's when we get war, that's when we get kings taking over,
and the men start to assert themselves,
and you see the steady devolution of women's rights and women's authority
in the culture over the next 2,000 years,
and you can trace it through the mythology until, ultimately,
the women are totally knocked off the pedestal altogether
around, say, 500 BC when the Old Testament is completed.
But the Greeks are doing it, too.
So you steadily see the women lose their rights
until the patriarch who finally totally takes over,
and the warrior kings assert themselves completely,
and women are put into a permanently subordinate role,
but they didn't used to be,
and the key thing about these Bronze Age goddesses that they're trying to get rid of
is that they're not subordinate to any men.
Asherah, Ishtar especially, and Anet, these are not subordinate goddesses.
They're part of the matriarchy.
They don't submit to any men.
Ishtar never submits to any male figures ever.
She challenges all the other gods.
She challenges her father for authority.
She challenges all the other gods for authority,
and she doesn't submit to any men.
And you can't have a patriarch where you've got these goddesses running around,
given bad ideas to your daughters,
because Ishtar is the holy prostitute.
She is the holy harlot.
She is the horror of Babylon, and that's not an insult.
It's a title.
It's a title she wore proudly,
because they were celebrating prostitution.
So the high goddess, she's the most popular goddess the entire ancient Near East,
because they've got the king of the gods,
who's obviously going to represent all the political powers and the kings and everything,
but culturally, where all the festivals are,
and the popular events, and all the love of the people,
it's with the goddesses.
Just like the Virgin Mary is the most popular part of the Catholic traditions,
the goddesses were too in the ancient world,
because Ishtar brings all the pleasure.
She brings the blooming flowers,
and anything that's beautiful, anything that's pleasurable,
the pleasure of sex, the victory in war.
She's a goddess of love and war.
So she brings you victory in war,
and she brings you love at night,
and she brings you divination and prophecy,
and she is by far the star of the show.
And it's the same goddess across many cultures.
They give her different names.
So it's Inanna, and then she changed her name to Ishtar,
and then she becomes Astart.
The Assyrians call her Melida.
The Scythians have another name for her.
She's Aphrodite Urania, for the Greeks.
Now, the Greeks, we'll have to talk about the Greeks,
because the Greeks are parallel to the Hebrews,
which is something I never realized before doing this work.
And the Greeks are going through a parallel cultural shift,
where they're also demoting the goddesses.
But whereas the Hebrews get rid of the goddesses altogether,
the Greeks just reorder the pantheon
and make all the goddesses change their powers around
so that none of them are...
So they're all submissive to Zeus, basically,
so that they're all subordinate to the male gods.
And so they reorder the entire pantheon,
and they recognize two different Aphrodites.
There's Aphrodite Urania,
because Aphrodite is one of the oldest gods in the Greek pantheon.
They recognize her as being imported,
and they recognize her as being older.
Aphrodite Urania is the Queen of Heaven,
and she's older. She's the Ishtar version.
And then Aphrodite Pandemos is the Aphrodite from the Olympian pantheon,
and that means common Aphrodite.
And she doesn't have the war powers.
She doesn't have the divination powers.
She is not...
And she's not the High Goddess. She's not the Queen of Heaven.
All that stuff has been taken away.
They basically split her in half, give all the war powers to Athena.
All the powers of war and divination and all that,
the arts of civilization, weaving, that all goes to Athena.
Well, the sex stuff is just isolated in Aphrodite,
and she's basically turned into like a bimbo with no real powers.
She doesn't have any war powers.
And meanwhile, Hera is given the title Queen of Heaven,
but she is totally subordinate to Zeus as his wife.
When Ishtar was Queen of Heaven,
she's not married to the King of the Gods.
The Queen of Heaven and the King of the Gods were two separate characters
with separate spouses and separate roles in the theology.
So Ishtar was a very independent goddess.
She's not married to the King of the Gods,
and she's like notoriously promiscuous.
Her one husband she ever has is Damuzi.
She sends him to the underworld for his lack of righteousness.
And then, you know, she's not monogamous to him anyway.
Let me ask you this.
How has your research...
Let me put it this way.
Have you bumped into any difficulties
when you get into certain studies?
Like, for example, I have a good friend, Dr. Joshua Bowen.
He's in Assyriana.
Yeah, I'd love to talk to those guys.
I would love to talk to Dr. Josh and Megan, his wife.
Yeah, because I know they know the Sumerian.
They know the Akkadian and the Babylonian.
They know that stuff really, really well.
And they're reading this stuff in its actual languages.
They know the goddesses and all of this stuff.
They probably would see a lot of what you say and say, yes.
I wonder, have you had any kickback or any resistance
from anyone that is a scholar going,
look, I wouldn't make those connections,
but I think you're right about this part.
I haven't really had a chance.
You know, I really worked on this book in kind of a bubble.
I was really pretty isolated.
I stumbled into the story.
I wasn't actually setting out to write about goddesses.
I never even knew about any of this stuff.
You want to hear the backstory of my book?
Yeah.
I studied the history of cannabis.
And I'd been writing about the history of cannabis since I was in college.
And I've got a whole story about that.
But basically when I was a college student, I had,
I don't know if you're familiar with Jack Harris.
I don't know if you know the whole cannabis hemp, all this stuff.
But Jack Harris wrote this book, The Emperor Wears No Clothes,
that set off the whole story about how marijuana is also hemp
and has this real history.
And I read that book when I was a teenager
and it totally like changed my life.
It was like a life-changing event when I realized that marijuana was also hemp,
which is how you build ships.
And that we needed it.
Our founding fathers grew the hell out of it.
Couldn't get enough of it.
And that the government is totally lying to us
about arresting us for this wild plant
that our founding fathers couldn't possibly have enough of.
George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, they're all growing it.
I grew up in Washington, DC.
I grew up in and around the government.
So like the idea that, you know, the government was actually lying to like us,
to me personally, I kind of took it personally, was,
I didn't appreciate it to say the least.
And so I started studying that history.
And what I found really fascinating about it was that for both the fiber
and the drugs goes back to the Neolithic Revolution.
And there's an unbroken thread of history of both of them being used
all the way through human history.
And so when I was in college, I started trying to write this book.
I took a year off from, well, I got kicked out of school,
but I still had access to the library.
So I took, I was trying to write it, trying to take Jack's book
and turn it into like a narrative.
And so I was, Jack's book is like a collage of like Xerox printings
and things all sort of stitched together.
And so I was taking all of his materials and then finding the original stuff
in the libraries at college.
And then as I was doing the project, I realized like, holy cow,
this is a history of the world.
This is a history of the world and not just from one culture,
but from multiple cultures.
It's the whole history of China, the whole history of Europe,
the whole history of the Middle East, the whole history of America.
And at age 20, I was really not capable of writing the history of the world.
So I spent a year working on it and then went back to school
and graduated and went on with my life.
And I didn't finish the book, but it became like this,
an interest of mine.
And I kind of put all that stuff away for a long time,
had a family and everything.
And then went back, then went sort of, and I got to writing about,
I work in tech, so I work in renewable energy and stuff.
So I was writing about renewable energy and policy and stuff for a couple of years.
And then I went to work in the marijuana business a couple of years ago
and busted out all my old research and started getting back into it
and writing history again.
And I was looking to write a book because I wanted to have this bucket list project
of write a history of cannabis, but I didn't want to,
I was looking for a new angle because there's already a bunch of books out there,
so I wanted to write something new.
So I was looking at the references in the Bible.
So this is another conversation I'd love to have with some of the scholars,
is that according to modern scholars, there's five references to cannabis in the Hebrew,
where it's mentioned five times in the original text,
but it is mistranslated as a different plant.
It's either mistranslated as either aromatic cane or as calamus,
which is a different plant.
Now, some people will defend the calamus translation,
say that is in fact the correct plant and we can have that debate,
but the modern scholars say it's cannabis in these five references.
And so the most important one is Exodus 3023,
where it's one of the ingredients, excuse me,
Exodus 3023 at cannabis is one of the ingredients in Moses' holy anointing oil.
And if you know, the holy anointing oil is pretty important.
It blesses the Ark of the Covenant and all the sacred items in the temple
and in the tabernacle and the kings and the prophets right down to Jesus Christ,
who is the anointed one.
And so to have cannabis as an ingredient in the holy anointing oil is kind of important.
And my question was, all right, so if it's sacred at the time of Moses
and it's not sacred now, at some point it got thrown out.
At some point the Jews changed their traditions and they got rid of it.
So I was like, all right, well, at some point in history,
we can identify when that reform happened.
And so I was just looking at it as a history project trying to figure out,
this is just for myself.
I wasn't even writing anything.
I just wanted to like, all right, where in history does this happen?
And it was there that I stumbled into the story about Asherah.
And then I started learning about the Hebrews being paid,
or the Israelites being pagans and having a wife of God.
And I was like, what is this?
This is crazy.
And I was like, hmm, I wonder if this pagan goddesses and cannabis go together
and if they get thrown out together.
Because obviously if there was a wife of God at one point,
she gets thrown out at some point and some identifiable time in history.
As William Bieber says, God divorced her, but he got to keep the Israelites,
which he's like, which wasn't really that good.
You know, like he's just like kind of making a joke and trying to raise.
No, the divorce is exactly the right.
That's the same term I use.
It's exactly the right.
You could all say she was deposed.
She was the queen mother of the universe and she was deposed.
So anyway, I was trying to like, I was like, I bet these things go together.
And so that was my hypothesis as I dug into the research.
And it turned out to be totally true that cannabis is in fact,
totally sacred to these goddesses.
And that since I had already had been studying the history of cannabis all over the world
and I had this long, I already had trained my mind to follow this thread of history.
And when I realized that there was this connection between cannabis and the goddesses,
I just followed all the same cannabis connections I already had.
So it goes back to the Hindus who are where we document sacred use of cannabis
from the Rig Veda all the way through to today.
And they have the most well-defined goddess traditions in the Shakti traditions
are where we can really see the goddesses all the way through history.
And we can make these parallels.
And then I just started pulling on the thread.
And as I undercovered, I wanted to understand what the goddess traditions were.
I realized that these are the dying and rising God traditions
and that these are the mystery religions and that they're all one big cultural,
all one long cultural thread.
And so then when you get to the Israelites, they are all patriarchal shepherds.
They make this very clear that Abraham is a shepherd
and all the Israelites, they're shepherds. That's who they are.
Well, they're rivals and they never spell this out.
But once you read between the lines, their rivals are the farmers
and the farmers are the people living in the cities
because they have the settlements and the settlements from the cities.
And so the farmers are the people in the cities
and the shepherds are the people outside the cities.
And the farmers are the ones worshiping the goddesses
with these sex and drug rituals.
And the shepherds are the ones patriarchs outside the cities
and they hate the people in the cities.
And they come into Canaan and they just all the way through.
You see it with Sodom and Gomorrah. You see it with Jericho.
The patriarchal shepherds following the shepherd god,
the god of the fathers, who's the god of the patriarchs,
they have a cultural rivalry with the people in the cities
who are following the goddesses who don't have patriarchal bloodlines.
And they're letting the women run around and be crazy and do whatever they want.
And the shepherds are like,
don't want to let their daughters meet those women at all.
And so there's this real cultural rivalry that goes on for a very, very long time.
Historically speaking, I like to kind of try to speculate
on when this revolution, this...
How do I put this?
Reformation.
Yeah, we could use that term.
I almost want to say what we had in the 30s with alcohol.
Prohibition.
Prohibition, yeah, this prohibition against the deity as well as the substances and whatnot.
But it's more than that. It's the worship. It's all sorts of stuff.
When I read an Ezekiel, I read about this interesting narrative
and it's really dark actually.
Ezekiel kind of hints at this.
Like, people were passing their children through the fire
and it was God giving them this stuff like their God, right?
It's saying, well, look, I gave them those things because they disobeyed me.
And it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
That's not pretty.
But then you get into 2 Kings.
And in 2 Kings, I think it's 30 or 32,
you have this story about Josiah.
And Josiah literally goes to this place called Bethel.
He goes to all these different places.
There are these temple priests or if we could call them prostitutes,
holy people at these locations.
The priest, the priestitutes as Dr. Bob says.
Yeah, the priestitutes.
And this reminds me of a good guy who likes to comment all the time,
dutist priest. Every time I say this, it's like it makes me think of him.
He's really cool. That's his name on YouTube.
Anyway, when they go, it's weird.
It's not just that they go and they slaughter you bad guys.
Like kill every man, woman, child types of like we see in 1 Samuel 15,
where Saul's to go kill the Amalekites and all that.
These people are supposedly Israelites and get this.
They are sacrificed on the altars in those locations.
Like this horrible, horrible.
I mean, and their painting is the righteous.
Josiah is the righteous.
Like they're all the good guys, according to the author.
But like they're literally burning these humans because they worship to other gods
and they did other things on altars.
And these altars in different locations as a sacrifice.
And I'm thinking to myself, is this when some type,
because it may not just be one.
I mean, there might have been a constant struggle.
Who knows when this started,
but it makes me wonder if this might have been like one of the big elbows
in what led to it.
Because if I'm not mistaken, it's Josiah who discovers the ancient text
that was supposedly always there from Moses.
But most scholars would go, nah, it sounds to me this is when they wrote this stuff.
When they decided we're going to have an official,
this is what we're using as a text and whatnot.
I don't know.
This is speculation on my part, but it makes me think the text itself,
maybe they're using older sources,
but they're redacting and changing and trying to fix problems.
And then some of it is being actually written then created on the spot as kind of like,
all right, here's our code.
We're not with the other stuff.
And the other stuff is many gods, practices we're not okay with, et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah.
I mean, my whole method is just put everything on the historical timeline.
And then, you know, and just, and when as far as stories,
you got to note when the story was written,
but also the time period that the story is supposed to take place.
So you sort of put both those things on the timeline.
And so I think the critical inflection point, well, there's a couple of them.
The first one is the Bronze Age collapse.
This is like the, this is the inflection point where you have,
that begins this age of new gods, of the Iron Age gods.
And so you've got these old gods, these old matriarchal goddesses
that have been worshiped all to the Bronze Age for a few thousand years.
And then you're familiar with the Bronze Age collapse, right?
Yeah.
So like from 1200 to 1000 BC, more or less, it's a total dark age.
And we're all the empires in the Near East totally collapse.
And, and it's a, there's a lawless time.
It's anarchy.
Each and lapses.
This is where we get our Exodus narrative out of.
Right.
And this is the historical backdrop.
And this is the time period when Yahweh, Yahweh is not a Bronze Age God.
He doesn't exist in the Bronze Age.
There's no record of Yahweh anywhere.
The Israelites are following L.
L is very well known.
L is very well documented all over.
And so my take on the Israelites is that Abraham and Isaac and Jacob,
they're not monotheists.
They have the full, they follow L, Israel, Beth, L.
I do want to check on the Yahweh source because I want to make sure that
you're, you're right.
Go ahead.
As far as I know, there is no references to Yahweh.
There may be some obscure references that are maybe Yahweh,
but he's not a major God in the Bronze Age.
Right, right, right.
Really not exactly.
It's part of the pantheon.
Right.
Yeah.
So he gets introduced presumably during the Bronze Age collapse.
Now the oldest bit in the Bible.
So the first reference to Israelites in archeology is the Minerpus Delay,
which is like 1208 or 1206 BC,
where the Egyptians mentioned defeating Israel in Canaan.
And at this time, Egypt has been ruling Canaan with an iron fist for 300 years.
But we're getting into the fighting of the Bronze Age collapse now.
There's major battles.
I think it's 1215.
And then another really big one, 1177 is when the Sea Peoples attack Egypt
in a really dramatic fight that the Egyptians managed to hold off,
but it totally weakens their power and weakens their empire.
And then the oldest reference in the Bible,
the oldest, the people that most people think is the oldest line of the Bible
is the song of Deborah, which is in Judges 5, I think.
And that's from the oral tradition.
And that's a song.
And if that's the oldest thing in the Bible,
then that's presumably the oldest reference to Yahweh we have anywhere
because they're talking about Yahweh.
And there's a couple of things that are happening in that story.
One is it's a battle against a king and a king.
And it does sound like the fighting at the end of the Bronze Age collapse
when the Israelites are first able to move in
and that they rallied around Yahweh and found Yahweh
as being some tribal god, just another tribal god.
But the followers of Yahweh, they have the victory.
So they rally around Yahweh for the victory.
But the song of Deborah is dated to around this time period, 1100, 1150 BC.
And we know that the Egyptians left Canaan in 1140.
That's when Ramses VI withdraws from Canaan in 1140 BC.
And that opens a door for the Israelites to move in
and start establishing settlements,
which the archaeology shows that they start having new settlements.
They're all hilltop settlements.
They're not settlements in the farming zones.
They're settlements on the hilltops that are defensible.
And the song of Deborah refers to this.
It refers to, I'm not looking at it right now,
but it's like when the roads were dangerous
and the people had to take back roads
and the Israelites are getting fat off plunder.
And she also says, when the people chose new gods,
that's the key line, when the people chose new gods.
Because Yahweh is a new god at this time period.
And I believe that Zeus is a new god at this time period too.
Zeus was also introduced during the Bronze Age collapse.
Zeus does not exist in the Iron Age,
or Zeus does not exist in the Bronze Age, but he's an Iron Age god.
And so the Greeks and the Hebrews are both going through a cultural transition
where they're getting a new culture coming in,
a new pantheon, new beliefs in gods.
The Greeks reorder the goddesses to make them, as I already said,
reorder the goddesses to suit Zeus's patriarchy.
So none of the goddesses challenges authority.
Meanwhile, over in Canaan, they're still worshipping the old gods.
The Canaanites, who are the Phoenicians,
the Canaanites are the Phoenicians of the same religion,
they're the same people.
They held onto these old Bronze Age gods.
And so they've got...
Baal is an old Bronze Age god.
And he was Lord.
He was king of the gods.
He's the son of Elinashara.
And he's the king of the gods.
When Yahweh comes along, he's challenging Baal.
Yahweh wants to knock off Baal,
and Yahweh wants to be king of the hill.
Yahweh wants to take the title of Baal.
And that's what's happening during the first temple period,
is that Yahweh and Baal are fighting back and forth in the pagan world
to become...to be who's going to be the new king of the gods.
And in terms of a cultural form, I can see it happening.
If Baal is associated with the child sacrifice,
and a lot of these really nasty traditions,
and Baal is kind of a bloody, nasty god, if you read...
Have you read the Ugerdic text?
I have not.
With the Baal cycle?
That's key, because that's like the prequel to the Bible.
It's all the same characters.
El, Baal, Asherah, Ashtar, Anath, they're all in there.
And you see them in action.
This is the Divine Council in action.
And you see that Baal is the king of the gods.
And he's nasty.
He spends a lot of time killing people.
And they've got child sacrifice.
And his consort is Anath, who's even nastier.
She is like...like I said, she's like Kali.
And she is unstoppable.
She goes...so the Ugerdic text, if we want to stop here for a second,
is really fantastic, because it's a story of how it's...
It's on one hand a dying and rising god story,
where Baal dies and is restored by Anath.
But it's a story of how Baal becomes king of the gods by defeating his brother.
There's three brothers, Baal, Yam, and Mott,
who are the equivalent of Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades.
Yam is the god of the sea, and Mott is the god of death.
And these are also Israelite gods,
because Yam is the Hebrew word for sea,
and Mott is the Hebrew word for death.
So we know that these are the Hebrew gods.
So these are the old Israelite gods.
Baal has to...he defeats Yam to become king of the gods,
but then he oversteps his boundaries and wants to defeat Mott too,
but the gods say that he can't.
He has to die. He has to submit to Mott.
So Baal dies.
But let me step back for a second.
First, though, when Baal becomes king of the gods,
he needs a temple, and so they want to get a temple.
He needs approval from El and Asharah to get a temple.
So he and Anath go to visit, and everyone's terrified Anath.
When they go to visit Asharah, she's shaking in her boots
that her terrifying children are coming to visit.
She says, are you here to kill me?
And they say, no.
We just want a temple built for Baal needs a house.
And then when they go to visit El,
Anath immediately threatens them.
She says, I will throw you down like a lamb.
I will smash your skull in.
I will make your gray beard run red with gore.
I will tear down your house with my mighty arms.
And El just, like, takes it all in stride.
He doesn't challenge her. El doesn't dispute her.
He gives her what she wants.
She says, all right, yes, you're my violent and terrible daughter.
And he can have a temple.
And she says, you are very wise.
Thank you.
And she goes about her way.
And then Asharah, she chooses who's going to be king.
If you read the story, El waits for Asharah's choice,
and then El confirms her choice.
But Asharah is one making the choice as we use
to come to the king of the gods.
And the Asharah pole stands next to the altar of the gods.
It stands next to the altar of Baal.
It stands next to the altar of Yahweh.
I think there's an interesting, and I don't know why I thought about this.
I don't want to throw you off your track.
I want to keep going in this vein.
But it reminds me of Jacob and Esau.
And notice Jacob's mother knew who to choose the whole time.
And it was Jacob in this narrative, according to the story.
Even with the blind Isaac not seeing it, you know,
and he's choosing the one he likes,
but really it was the mom who was like,
listen, we're going to make sure you're the one.
So it's an interesting thing.
I wonder if it goes back into some Canaanite stuff.
Yeah, I think it goes to Native Americans too.
And I make a lot of connections.
So the Asharah pole is a totem pole, basically.
It's a carved wooden pole.
It's basically just an indigenous people's totem pole.
These are really old traditions.
So that's what I think the Asharah pole is.
And that these traditions are common.
They go back to the Ice Age and they go to the Native Americans.
Native Americans have these totem poles too.
And Native Americans talk about Sky Father and Earth Mother
the same way.
And in Native American traditions,
in a Native American tribe, you've got a chief, right?
Who's a man who's going to be the patriarch
and the war chief and everything.
But that chief gets chosen by a council of women.
And then the council of women choose the chief
and then the overall tribe has got a consent to the choice.
So it's a democracy, but it's not democracy
with politicians and voting the way we have it.
But it is a form of democracy.
And so the council of women chooses the chief.
And it's their choice.
And it's why the women have wisdom.
The men bring strength.
The men bring order and authority.
But the women bring life and the women bring wisdom.
And that's where the man, the father and mother balance each other out.
And they both have their role.
I threw you off of your Canaanite thing though.
I definitely like the stories going.
And so then you go back to Canaan,
or right back to, I want to finish the bail cycle with,
that's right.
After Bail dies, so she, after she challenges L
and threatens to smash his skull in,
which is a pretty remarkable threat when you think about it
because I don't know of any other character
and any other mythology that goes up to the Sky Father
and threatens to smash his skull in and gets away with it.
But then after Bail dies, Bail needs to submit to Mott,
who's got a death, who's Hades.
He dies.
Bail is, ain't at it, so upset about it that she comes
and confronts Mott face to face, grabs him by the collar
and screams, give me back my brother, pulls out her sword
and cleaves him in half with her sword,
grinds him up with a sieve, burns him with fire
and feeds him to the birds.
And in doing so, restores Bail to life and majesty,
and she puts Bail on the throne because she destroys death.
She can destroy anybody.
She's utterly unstoppable.
Huh, is right.
That's about how I read it.
I wonder if she's hot.
No, I'm just kidding.
Is she hot?
She is in fact hot, but hot in, you know,
if you go for your women soaked in blood
and like ready to kill you as soon as fuck you.
I think that's actually the key to Bail's power.
Bail is the only one brave enough to go seduce Ain't at
because everybody else is utterly terrified over.
And do you go in, do you cover all of this in here?
You go into all of this.
Yeah, yeah, I cover all this.
I mean, there's some stuff.
I mean, that book, I'll be the first to admit
that book could be more tightly wrapped.
I was kind of like still writing the book the day
my deadline came and I just sort of put down the pen.
What's that?
I said, there's tons of images throughout the book.
But I wanted to ask you, you said the Phoenicians
and the Canaanites were the same people or religion.
Okay.
Religious stuff is I was going to ask because from what
I understand the Greeks come from the Phoenicians
and then the Israelites came from the Canaanites
and I would need an expert.
Obviously I'm not an expert on this.
So I don't want to pretend like I know, but I think
the Phoenicians and Canaanites are the exact same people.
And that the Greeks know the Phoenicians
and the Greeks are influenced by the Phoenicians
and the Greeks interact with the Phoenicians all the time.
And there's definitely overlap between the Greeks
and the Phoenicians, but the Greeks have colonies
over in Turkey and Anatolia.
So they're totally interacting with each other.
And so this is where you can see that there is in fact
crossover between the Greek mythologies
and the biblical mythology because A,
they're totally contemporary with one another.
They're the exact same time period.
All the languages are both.
So one thing that happens in the Bronze Age collapse
is the old writing goes away.
Canaeiform stops being used after 2000 years
and hieroglyphics too.
They both completely stop being used.
You've got a couple centuries where there's no literacy at all.
And then the Phoenicians invent the phonetic alphabet
that we use today that based on vowels or based on syllables.
There's no vowels, but the 22 magic symbols
that correspond to sounds is invented by the Phoenicians.
And the Greeks and the Hebrews both copy it
to create the Greek language and the Hebrew language.
And both forms of writing appear at the same time.
So the oldest Greek writings, the oldest Hebrew writings
are totally contemporary with one another.
It's around 850 BC.
This is an interesting, I got to pause just to say
why I think this is interesting.
I have a gentleman named Russell Gamirkin.
And Russell Gamirkin comes on and he wants to date
in the Hebrew Bible.
Yeah, I agree with what somebody says.
Yeah, some of the stuff is there,
but when you see this Greek connection in the Hebrew Bible,
what in his mind, he kind of says,
well, we know Hellenism in that period,
we can see the influence and we can give a good justified reason
why there's the influence from the Greek world
to the Hebrew world.
One of the biggest or the stronger arguments he has
is when you see Platonic influence.
That's when it's really like, okay,
we could really date something like that.
But when you get into like, here you have King David
in armor going to fight a 1v1 combat,
which is a Greek idea and not a Hebrew one.
And here he is facing Goliath,
which is also a Philistine,
which is from the Greek world, if you will,
or to that region, Phoenician Greek, whatever.
It's obvious there's some type of collision
even in the myth of this stuff,
where their cultures are colliding
or even somehow trying to work out some way.
They definitely all know each other.
They're interacting with each other.
They are not...
All through the Bronze Age, they were sailing around
and trading, and for thousands of years,
the entire Mediterranean coast,
wrapping around from the Levant to around to Greece,
and throughout the whole Aegean,
all these people, they all interacted
with each other constantly with Egypt, too.
It's not crazy to think that this influence
could have taken so much...
Cross-cultured influences back and forth
all over the place, for sure.
Wow. Okay.
Did I mess you up on your going through this whole...
No, I've got so many different threads.
I can go for it in hours.
No, and I don't want to throw you off the bell cycle,
but ultimately, in the end,
the point is they're all the key players
that become enemies within the Bible
are clearly part of the story,
and they're all removed from this
as time goes by, as reforms take place,
as a patriarchal system sets up,
as marijuana, if you could use the term,
is being kicked out the door
along with its goddess,
and is there in your research...
Look, we're no experts.
You're like me, man. We love this stuff.
You have far more knowledge
in terms of diving into this stuff,
but my point is, as a layperson
who's delved into this, did you see
a direct connection between
your study of marijuana and the goddesses
of these societies,
especially the Hebrew one, let's say?
Yeah, I mean, that's kind of what the discovery I made
was that, I mean, I say it repeatedly in the book,
the places where the cannabis grows thickest
are the places where the goddesses are strongest.
So you see that in India.
You see that in Lebanon.
You see it in...
With the Scythians, who are the nomadic...
Like the Dothraki, do you see Game of Thrones?
Yeah, oh, I love that.
Dude, I love Game of Thrones.
So the Dothraki
are a lot like the Scythians.
Nomadic horse lords
running around except that
the Scythians were even more badass
because they're the Amazon warriors.
The women are trained to ride and fight alongside the men.
And so they have women on horseback
that are warriors.
And they are one of the last
matriarchal cultures where they have
a high goddess,
and they're led by queens
and they're warrior queens.
You know, Cyrus the Great,
who frees the Hebrews.
People always leave out
the part of the story that you know how he died later on
in his life?
He went and invaded the Scythians
and he got beheaded
and his head was kept as a trophy
by a Scythian warrior queen
because he had killed her son.
And so she was
vengeful. She kept his head
in a bag of wine for a trophy.
If you look at the story of Troy,
right?
It's all over a woman.
She had the power in a way
of the whole Troy city
and the warriors coming to fight.
Like a woman,
one woman in the narrative,
of course, is the whole reason
all of this is going down.
So the power she must have had
isn't something we see throughout history.
I mean, you get hints of it in Esther.
You know,
you get these kind of like
things going on and make it
orthodoxied a little
where we're allowing this woman
to be, you know, someone very
important.
Same thing though with Jesus.
Do you think that the New Testament
authors
are working off a trope somewhat in the vein
of what you're saying in the Gospel?
A whole third section of the book is about New Testament.
I talked about the resurrection in there.
There's no question about it.
The Easter
is a springtime
resurrection festival of a dying and rising God.
It is these old traditions
then usurped
and co-opted, but it's changed
from a nature festival
in a turning of the season
festival into an immortality festival.
And this is one of the key things
between the patriarchy and the matriarchy.
Matriarchy is all
steeped in cycle of life, circular
time, resurrection cycles
and
the monotheists, Jews, Christians and Muslims
are always teaching us about immortal life
and eternity
and how the immortal soul goes to heaven
and stays there forever and there is no cycle of life
and they're quite, I would say,
hostile to cycle of life traditions
that you have.
So one's kind of reincarnated in a way and the other one
is saying permanent residence with skyfather
if that makes sense. Exactly.
And so they take the
the Easter tradition is directly taken
from
all the symbols basically. You can see
a symbol is either
usurped and turned into a Christian symbol
or it's rejected and kicked out.
So the, for instance
I mentioned lions, that's usurped and taken
for the men, but snakes
they were the symbols of the goddesses
and that's turned in the Garden of Eden story
into something bad, but snakes were always good.
Snakes were good for Moses.
Moses has got a serpent staff that is a symbol
of his power and divination authority.
And then they put the snake
up on a bronze pole
and then in the
reforms of Hezekiah, they break down that pole
because it was a pagan idol. But at the time
of Moses, the snake was perfectly good.
The snake was great. Do you talk about the lifted up
of Jesus and the wilderness or the idea
of Jesus being lifted up?
Well, I'm just saying that symbols in general, this is not
Jesus per se, this is how in the Garden of Eden
the snake turned into something bad
but before the snake had been something good.
With Jesus, the virgin Mary
takes over a lot of the symbols of the goddesses, the queen of heaven,
the dove,
but other symbols are rejected.
Any
of the use of plant drugs,
the tree of knowledge is like
to me just an entheogenic experience.
They're talking about cannabis or psychedelics
or this use of sacred plants in general.
They're saying don't do it.
You can't do it anymore.
But as far as Jesus
goes,
I think the Gnostics
have one foot in all these mystery traditions
and that
they are
I would love to talk about the resurrection.
It's a whole topic under itself and Christianity.
I've got a whole thing on it.
My view is that
my number one reason
for believing Jesus was a real person
and why something really happened
back then is that you've got these
different disparate groups
following Jesus. They don't like each other at all.
They're totally rivals to one another.
You've got the original followers of Jesus
in Jerusalem as practicing Jews
under Jesus' brother James
all of whom from those part get killed
by the Romans. Then you've got the followers
of Paul who are a second group
that don't particularly get along with the
Jews. And then you've got
the Gnostics who are a third group
who are also identified. You've got Simon
Magus and Mary Magdalene.
So I think that Mary Magdalene
was really the one who was closest to Jesus
and she becomes the leader of the Gnostics
and then she's conveniently
eliminated from the Christian traditions,
the Orthodox traditions, because she's teaching
a rival theology.
See, I wouldn't be shocked
if
Paul is in the same vein
with the Gnostic sex.
I say that because
in Paul's letters, like if you take Galatians
3 at face value
where he says there's neither male nor female,
free nor slave, and then
you read later in Paul's letters
there's a lot of people who say
this was interpolated. Paul would not
have said women remain silent.
This is stuff a 2nd century
patriarchal Orthodox
tradition.
Paul is so early on
that I don't think these groups
have necessarily completely
formulated just yet. I mean, Paul is like
in the first decade, you know.
And so there's elements
of Paul that the Gnostics clearly like
and then there's, but Paul and Peter
go together and Peter
and Mary Magdalene are rivals. Like that's
clear from the Gnostic texts that Peter and Mary
Magdalene do not get along and that Peter is jealous
of Mary's closeness to Jesus.
And ultimately, Peter and Paul
end up as partners.
So, you know, a lot of the Gnostics
like John too, there's a lot of Gnostic
influence in John's gospel too.
So I don't think that
the distinctions
are
there's a fuzzy distinction, especially in the
1st century. Yeah, because I could play
the role that Peter and Paul were on
the same side or not on the same side.
You can do that with both of them and it's like
Galatians 3 makes it sound like Peter's giving
him a thumbs up and then he's facing
Peter to his faith and saying
you hypocrite, will you pretend
to be okay with the Gentiles
and the Jews show up and it was like
what the hell's going on? So
anyway, this is fun stuff.
There's a lot.
I mean, I highly recommend everybody
to go check this out. If you're into the topic
I want to do more with you on this.
I think that, yeah, I really
would love to come back anytime really and
talk to some of the other scholars
because I've got the whole, I go through
the whole, especially the Book of Kings
and I go through a lot of Scripture
in there and I would love to
I would love to go through it with people.
There's a lot here and I'm like
flying through right now but
I'd like to get some scholars on here
to come check out, you know, some of the
things you've said.
I'd like to back check some of the stuff, you know,
to give their real thoughts about it because
look, you're one guy in a bubble, right?
And like, I've
seen a lot of the things you're talking about
and I don't know, sometimes
we have what they call Parallelomania
but I like what Dennis McDonald said.
He said, the problem he sees today
isn't that people have Parallelomania.
That happens, don't get me wrong, but it's more common
people have Parallelophobia
and they just
want to act like, no, this milieu
is working in a vacuum and there was no influence
from anywhere else and this, this, that and he's like,
no, that's not the case.
He's showing there's Greek influence on the New
Testament. It's not just the Hebrew Bible
because scholars,
I'll give you one thing that I think you'll appreciate this.
He's written his thing about
Mimesis, simply saying the New Testament
is literally borrowing from
the Iliad and the Odyssey and the Aeneid
and, you know, Euripides
the Bacchai, you name it.
Mystery, you know, poets and epics and
whatnot and the Hebrew Bible.
Well, all scholars across the
board, I don't care if you're Christian or not
and I like, I favor
mostly guys who are not because
when you get into the Christian side, there's
so much bias already making things
historical that are probably not, things like that.
But, um, when you
look into it, these
scholars will bash
Dennis or disregard him or ignore
him or downplay Dennis and say, no, no,
no, no, no.
Like one of them will say, and I'm not going to
give names, I just want to point out, they'll
say, no, no, no, there's no Mimesis.
It's in the air. It's there.
It's just stuff in the air. But Dennis
said, I don't care. That's fine.
If you don't want to accept my memetic
connections, meaning there's a literary
intertextuality going on between these
other cultural texts and
the New Testament, that's fine.
You can ignore that. But how
come every commentary
that is ever written on Mark,
Matthew, Luke, or John,
or acts like almost
every single commentary unless you get to someone
who's a critical scholar that's not within Christendom,
none of you are pointing out these
things. You're acting like they're not
there. You're not even commenting on them.
So, yeah, sure. Let's just say they're
in the air. That doesn't matter.
The trope that they're using,
you're not even addressing. The
baptism of Jesus with the spirit
coming down. That's Athena
flying down to, uh, Telemachus
to empower him and tell him,
you are your father's son.
And he empowers him, and Telemachus goes back
to his hometown in Ithaca
and confronts the suitors and
his mother Penelope, and everyone's going,
what the, what got into this guy? Well,
Jesus, don't we know his brothers and his
sisters, and what happened
to the guy? Well, this dove, this
spirit flew down.
I mean, bro, the connections are fascinating.
And when you see them,
they don't address them. And
I wish they did, but they don't.
And that's why I have
to go to bat for Dennis. If he's wrong
about some of these connections, I don't
care. At the end of the day,
meaning, meaning the medically, I don't think
he's wrong about the connection. I think he's
he could potentially be wrong that they
somehow literally are doing it, because
when they learn Greek, they have to know these stories.
The point is, is they're
not even addressing them. They're ignoring
them. They're ignoring the woman who
anoints Jesus's feet with her hair
in his oil. And he says, let that wherever
my gospel, wherever my story is told, let the
story of this woman be told far and
wide. I think it's Eucalaus in Greek.
That's the name of the woman who anoints
Odysseus's feet
who birthed, who was the
she suckled him when he was a child
and recognized his scar on
on his hill and said, my master, it's
you. And he says, it's not my time.
Don't tell anyone. Well, remember when
Jesus is like, don't
tell anyone. Like these things are
there and that people are kind of ignoring
them. So
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
And it's the same. I 100% agree
like with my work, I'm not above saying
that I might make a factual
errors along the way. I'm not
disputing that my scholarship is 100%
perfect. But I totally
stand by the broad
theme of these
patterns and that you can follow
these patterns all the way through and that when you've
got the same symbol being used
over and over again, you can
you can trace the meaning
all the way through that it's a common symbol
and sometimes you see the symbol flip
when there's a cultural shift
but then when there's a new set of gods come along
that this reflects
a change
in cultural values like
we can see it today like about racism.
Like that was this is something that is
a shift in cultural values from early America
to late America.
And it would be
it does end up coming down to religion
but we don't need to go in that direction
with this conversation but
I think the influence in America
is highly religious but yes
I'm with you on this. I think there's
a lot of problem there. I'm not going to say it's all that
because I mean there's mixed churches
it's all wrapped up in this cultural
milieu you know but
the mythologies they matter and
and I disagree with the atheists who think
that this stuff is just fairy tales to be
dismissed and not paid attention to
because my challenge to the atheists
is if you don't like Christianity then
what comes next?
What about an atheist
such as myself
who values
these myths, sees them as
significant
if I could call
milestones of our evolutionary
process in our development
and seeing like where I'm at now
I don't think that you
need religion, right
religion notice I say this
I believe in things
they're not
some metaphysical or some spiritual
there's really something up in the sky
there's really something here or something like that going on
I believe in humanity
I'm a humanist. I believe in bettering our society
making equal rights
I believe in treating each other good
the golden rule like there's certain philosophical
things that just are just good
and true and noble
but I also think
mythologies it's almost like you and me
watch Iron Man. You like Iron Man
I love Iron Man. I love the movies
Robbie Downey Jr. did great job
blah blah blah blah blah you and me might walk out of there
and I feel like I'm in it like I'm part of it
I know it's fiction I know it's not
literally true it might be a symbol
for another meaning whatever
the meaning of what it's talking about might be true
but metaphysically I don't believe these things
at the end of the day though
we have these myths we know they're not
literally true
but they carry meaning and value
and that I can get on board with
I think if we have myths
that we accept I have a friend
who said she believes in Godzilla
and I'm like literally she goes no
my grandson named Hunter
he watched Godzilla
and I realized Godzilla comes out of the water
to fight the forces that try to come and destroy
and make things off balance
and he tries to balance everything kind of like the yin and yang
and she said so I believe in Godzilla
and I'm like do you really believe in Godzilla
well not like that
and I'm like okay so now we're starting
to look and say
are we getting out of these superstitions
and realizing their actual
value of what the purpose
for these things are
that's a difference to me sorry I have to clarify
because I think the only lie
is to say that these things are literally true
you know when I went to church
growing up and I was not taught
I was not raised a fundamentalist
in church we were
to read the bible
not literally to read it
metaphor and interpret everything
we looked for naturalistic explanations
or presbyterians
looked for naturalistic explanations and everything
and I was taught in church
that the fundamentalists were wrong
that's not the way to read the bible
you don't read the bible literally
I was a PCA presbyterian
and I got excommunicated but they're
like from the vein of like the Puritans
it was some really really fringe I guess
in my church background because I'd be kind of curious
what you guys thought
of folks like us
oh you guys were definitely
oh they're fighting you guys
every time you turn around
in their conferences
but now they're PCA only
they want to keep it exclusive
you guys were not even probably
regenerate
you guys were probably just like the rest of the world
there's no difference
it was a very respectable church
DC
full of government types
and like
very very respectable congregation
it was not by any stretch a fringe
and everybody there was educated
and you weren't expected to like
suspend disbelief
when you walked in the church door
and so we were taught
to look for naturalistic explanations
so like the loaves and fishes
story with Jesus
we were taught that that was a story about
it wasn't that nobody had any food
so the disciples all they had
was a couple loaves and fishes but all the people in the crowd
they'd come out for a picnic
they had all brought out their own food because they're not stupid
they brought out their own food to eat
because they weren't expecting to get fed
and so when everybody busted out their little bit
that they brought out it was a big potluck
and it was a big lesson in sharing
and the whole thing was just a big potluck
and look how nice it is to have a big potluck
when everyone's nice and generous
look how much food there is when everyone learns to share
that was how I was taught that story
not that it was a supernatural miracle or anything
yeah and I think that
we could be
sometimes I feel like
when we do those kind of interpretations
we're trying to somehow simplify and make it like
look it's not that ridiculous
there's also the idea though that like
Israel when they were wandering in the wilderness
with Moses didn't have food
and Jesus is the better
newer Moses like you see
so I take it as it's very possible
this is still a miracle type of claim
but it's just
rewriting the Moses story with the children of Israel
in the wilderness and when they murmur
oh we don't have food how are we going to do this
they're not murmuring to the point where
Moses is ready to strangle him
Jesus just does a miracle
instead of asking God to send down the food
he himself was able to
to multiply it and so
I mean as far as the mythic go
and saying that like
I totally agree with the mythic when they say that
virtually every single line in the gospels
can be
seen as total fiction
and can be seen in other traditions
and there's essentially nothing that's all that
original in the gospels
they can't be seen in other literary traditions
and that it's
impossible to discern any historical
veracity from the gospel
I totally appreciate that perspective
I totally think it's
both things can be true that
Jesus was a real historical figure doing some stuff
and that every line in the gospels is
mythical fiction
I think so too
I personally think there was a guy
but I have my reasoning and even in getting into Paul
you know he was born of a woman
he was born out of the law
he was circumcised
and he
to assume when he was
crucified and buried right
like all of those things if you take the mythic approach
the carrier is saying it's possible
I'm not ruling out the possibility of mythicism
I'm saying though they put all that in the heavens
and to me
it's not implausible
to say no
there's a guy on earth who literally gets
killed and
they're searching the scriptures and they're finding
these reasonings to apply
to him here you have him he was looking
in the scriptures Paul talks about he finds the gospel
in the scriptures these things are clearly something
I think he's searching in his bible
he's finding this stuff he's
applying it to his Christ figure
which is Jesus and that could be
just as plausible or more plausible to me
unless we had more material
saying this happened in the heavens all of this
you know it says he came down
right so the Philippian
I'm just addressing this mythicism thing
the Philippian
song if you will is him
is that he descends
right takes on flesh
he comes down and takes on flesh etc
and
and then he finally lowers himself below the angels
and then finally goes back up
this is the idea of him coming to earth
and back I don't think he stopped
in the third heaven
that's just me whereas mythicists will say he stopped
in paradise or somewhere in the third heaven probably
in the sky somewhere and then he was
like born or manufactured
if they want to interpret it that way
he was a descendant of the line of David
he was crucified he was buried
and then he finally resurrects from the dead
like all of that happened in the heavens
it's to me it's more probable
this is something of a guy who really
started the movement and they took the mythology
that they already were very
superstitious about the stuff
anyway and apply these mythos
to their Christ
and then they have narratives
like epics created about him
they're called gospels
that's basically what I believe too
more or less
yeah I mean I don't go deep into Christian
stuff as you do
you're like way out here where I've never been
and I love it I love it because I'm like
I don't I can't fact check some of the stuff
but I think what you're doing
is fantastic because
was the Hebrew Bible always patriarchal
that we see?
I mean was it always
was this religion in this culture always patriarchal
the way that we see it doesn't sound that way
when you're talking about it
I think that the biblical writers are
staunchly patriarchal
and openly hostile to these other traditions
that are in their community
but that the
and I think the Israelite tribe
is a patriarchal tribe
I think that these shepherds
because it's all about controlling women's sex lives
to have a patriarchal bloodline
you have to control your wives and daughters sex lives
you can't have them running around
and so in a
nomadic shepherding scenario
you can do that like a father could actually
keep his daughters kind of under control
and arrange their marriages
and not have them running around
which is a lot harder to keep your daughters under control
when they're just
especially they got these prostitution temples
that are like the most popular place in town
and then you know Yahweh is a jealous god
well who's he jealous of
who could rival
the omnipotent creator of the universe
that he could actually be jealous of
well it's Ishtar
where you go to the temple
and everybody gets laid
and she's got the most popular spot in town
it is by far the most popular temple
and like
she's the star of the show
and we probably don't have that much time left
but going back to Abraham
and Sumer
Abraham comes from Mesopotamia right
the bible says so it comes from the city of Ur
Ur is right nearby Aruch
Aruch was the
first major city in the history of the world
the first city to hit like 50,000 people
the first city to really be called a major city
and it was the dominant cultural power
all through like the third millennium BC
like at least a thousand years
before Babylon became the power
Aruch was
and the first major temple in Aruch
was dedicated to An
An is the same as El
he's the original sky father
so the first temple
is dedicated to An
and it's an early ziggurat
it's got one level
it's called the white temple
it's this gleaming white temple that shines bright
and you can see it from miles away
the first major temple in the city was dedicated to An
but then years later
they built another temple
the temple to Anana
and it was taller and it was built on a taller ziggurat
and that became the most popular temple
and they even tell a story of how Anana
who is Ishtar
that she stole, she invaded heaven
and stole some of her father's authority
and that he led her
and that's the story of how Anana
takes steel
some of her father's thunder
and she becomes Ishtar
and that's who King Solomon is worshiping
he's worshiping Ishtar
doing the sacred marriage ceremonies
with the song of songs is from the sacred marriage
and
that's who Yahweh is jealous of
Yahweh's got to get rid of these popular goddesses
that are stealing his thunder
everybody wants to go to the temple
and get high and get late and have a good time
and Yahweh's like no I don't want you doing that stuff
and
I gotta say one more thing
go get that damn book
I'm not kidding this is fun
this is really cool
so you have Matthew, Mark, Luke
right I'm just jumping up here
in the vein of what you just said
which I find fascinating
Mark, Matthew and Luke have a Jesus
kind of like
you know he's a little heavy
he's hard for people to want
to follow they're looking at these other gods
and they're thinking these guys are more fun
Dionysus is cool
the might adds are having orgies
out here in the woods
but Dionysus is
extremely rough around the edges
he's not a very merciful god
so according to Dennis McDonald
I'm really fascinated with his work right now
he said
the Gospel of John the one
the first version of it he thinks it's had
three layers
they're noticing this cool
aspect of Dionysus and they're like look man
the guy is all about orgies
he's drunk and all this cool stuff
but he's an asshole
if you don't accept he's not going to tolerate you
he'll kick your ass
so what they did is they made Jesus
a donor deity
in this they made him a donor deity
and had him turn the water
into wine and make them everybody
had much more fun at the party
at the wedding and things like they're trying
to do the cool shit that the old goddesses
were doing and Dionysus
was doing and applying it to Jesus
and I think the same thing with Virgin Mary
the exact same thing applies
that they would have been having these debates in town
trying to get people to come to their new Jesus
cult and some of the people were responding
by saying well everybody knows that
God's got a mother where's the mother
where's your mother goddess
and so they invent the Virgin Mary out of whole cloth
and they just say oh well he was born
of a virgin because that's one of the most
ancient traditional tropes
among the pagans
virgin birth is not a new story
like that was Ishtar
is called the virgin, Aynan is called the virgin
goddesses are called virgins and Kadeshah are called virgins
children born of the Kadeshah
are said to be virgin born
and they have special rights and properties
because they'd inherit from their mother
not from their father
so the whole virgin birth trope is really really old
even Islam had to add it to their
afterlife with 72 virgins
I mean they had to have it somewhere in there
yeah so
yeah so I think they
Dr. Price makes this point too
that there's these layers of responses
you can almost see the back and forth
but you only get one version of the story
you're not seeing the pagan side of the debate
you're just seeing the Christian side
but over the decades
they're having responses as you point out
like Dionysus is cool we'll make Jesus a little more cool
you know the other gods have a virgin mother
we'll make Jesus have a virgin mother
and so on and so forth
so I think
yeah I totally buy into all that
I definitely hope everybody watching enjoyed this
I surely did
go get the book
A History of the Goddess
from the Ice Age to the Bible
you guys can get it in paperback
that's what I have of course
and then you can do Kendall if you want
but either way you do
lots of great images
we'll take a look inside real quick
just to show some people what you've done here
let's see
I don't know if there's anything on there
you've got the images right there
you got it
see here's the one I was looking at earlier
yeah that's one of my favorite images
that's Artemis of Ephesus
one of the most important
the temple of Ephesus was the biggest
temple ever built in the ancient world
it was one of the seven wonders of the world
and it was dedicated to Artemis
also known as Diana
who
Mistress of Animals, she's the hunter
but she's
like Ishtar, she's chaste
and so she's a virgin goddess
actually virgin
and then she remains very popular
all through the middle ages
and we see her today as Wonder Woman
like Diana Prince
I know right
jeez
this is awesome so there's a lot in this
book ladies and gentlemen and Amin goes on
and on and on
get the book, check it out
let us know what you think
I.O. that's the website
if anyone wants to help me
I'm trying to turn this stuff into graphic novels
and I would love to do a podcast
I haven't been doing a podcast on my own
because I just don't have the bandwidth for all the editing
and post-production all this stuff
but I would love to do a podcast
with somebody who wants to help me
yeah
go there, contact them on there
help Juanity said
and check them out
help support them
talk about some of the goddesses
and
you can just click on the top there
just anywhere
lots of images I bet
oh yeah
that is neat
yeah, Ishtar
that's awesome
Wonder Woman is totally drawn from these traditions
we see this stuff
right through to modern day
and Anad is like Kali
that is awesome
dude, this is a really cool
there you go, your cannabis discussion
Elohim L
oh yeah, you go into all sorts of cool stuff
yeah, everybody go check out the website
that's down in the description as well
I really appreciate you
and of course if you love what we're doing here
this will be launched of course on Patreon early
be sure to go check out my Patreon
join all of these videos
you can help steer the direction of the channel
I mean it goes on and on
I've done tons and tons of videos
with so many scholars
I'm not even going to begin listing them
but there are tons, hit load more
you go to see more
you guys can join and do that to help us here
and this is good
we've got to have another one
Derek, I'm really glad to be on the show with you finally
and I would love to talk to some of the other folks
and go through this more
I want to make the case for the Divine Mother
I want to debate Atheists and Christians
and the Divine Mother
and that
she's always been around
she's around that monotheism is by definition
religion that denies the existence of the mother
but you can't deny her, she is real
there is a mother
and I want to have this debate
I want to have this conversation
I want to make the case that there's been a Divine Mother
all the way through history
and that in the Bible we see her being
getting her ass kicked out
and that that is the rise of
a whitewash history
they write a version of history where there never was a goddess
and that the whole
the innovation of Genesis 1 is that they come up
with a creation story where there is no mother
and that is in and of itself
an innovation to write a creation story
with no mother
coming out of it
well thank you, I'm interested in seeing
let us know what you think, drop a comment down below
hit the like button
you guys help us out in any way you can
thank you Ed, let's do this again my friend
we appreciate it
don't forget ladies and gentlemen
we are
MythVision
ladies and gentlemen join MythVision's Patreon
not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald
and Richard Carrier
all on the Patreon, early access
you guys can ask personal questions
when I go to interview these scholars
and you're helping MythVision grow
MythVision
MythVision
MythVision
MythVision
MythVision
MythVision
