Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can also donate through PayPal and Cash App.
Join the social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter, Facebook, all sorts of social media.
Help the community of MythVision grow.
Hit the subscribe button, hit that bell so you guys are notified every time I do a live
video and you don't miss any of my content.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I got Cam and Cam, but Cam's not here.
Camille, if you will, that's the transliterated English version of your name, I guess, right?
Yes, very good pronunciation.
Great job.
How do you say it?
We are off to a good start.
Yeah, Camille.
So people tend to pronounce it as Camille, so feel free to over pronounce the I at the
end, right, in the last syllable.
Awesome.
Yeah, look, guys, this is his YouTube channel.
Make sure you guys go over here, hit that subscribe button.
I can't believe I wasn't subscribed when I when I looked at it.
I was like, holy crap, I had it in my description from our live video not long ago.
And guys, they they use a lot of a street epistemology, but but more than that, because
that's really Doug's, you know, task is always doing that.
And if you don't know Pine Creek, Doug, welcome to Planet Earth in case you're wondering you're
a human being.
And this is a guy on YouTube who's been doing this for a while.
Very cool guy.
Love his questions.
Yes, great questions.
Cam and Camille have been on Pine Creek, Doug quite often in facilitating playing in the
Christian sandbox, as Paula Gia said on the recent show that I did with him.
He said, sometimes you got to let some of the hypercritical stuff go and just acknowledge
and accept some of the things that Christians might say and play a hypothetical game.
And some of those hypothetical games are if there was a guy, Jesus, and he came and he
was preaching these things, saying some stuff that ruffled some feathers.
Sure, someone got mad.
Maybe Roman authorities, Jewish authorities together said, hey, I don't like this guy.
He's causing an uprising among the poor.
And let's get this guy out of here.
Kill him.
They crucify this guy.
And the mythology, as we would say, develops.
But why is he a risen guy?
Why did he rise from the dead?
Or better saying, what happened to his body because he supposedly rose and appeared to
many and all that?
So that's going to be the topic of today.
Make sure you guys like the video.
Make sure you guys share this content.
They have a discord group, too.
You can go in there and ask questions, and it's a really cool discord.
I've been in there before.
These guys are all over the place with the academic stuff.
And with that being said, I'm going to shut up.
I'm just going to let Camille take over and tell us what you're bringing to the table.
Yeah, sure.
So first of all, I should probably introduce myself, right?
So a massive disclaimer, I'm not an academic.
I'm not a historian.
I've just been interested in history for a couple of years now.
And I'm actually now studying classics, but I don't have a degree in it yet.
And what I want to talk about today is just my competing hypothesis or competing explanation
of the evidence for the resurrection of Jesus, right?
And why am I doing this?
Like, I actually thought about it.
I even wrote it down.
So I have like a brief paper, an outline of the hypothesis and then how it describes
how it explains the various pieces of evidence that are usually put forward for the resurrection,
like the minimal facts and even some maximal facts that other apologists add, right?
And I just want to say, like, I'm not necessarily against, yeah, I'm not against Christians.
I'm not against Christianity necessarily.
If I wanted to put together like a list of top 10 religions, there is a good chance
Christianity just might be on the list.
And, hey, like if someone called me a cultural Christian, I wouldn't be that mad if that just
means someone who appreciates the contribution of Christians to human civilization and who
appreciates the Bible and Christian literature as a piece of art.
But at the same time, that would make me also like cultural Jew and cultural Roman and Greek,
you know.
So this is not my intention.
The only thing that I'm objecting to is a claim that some apologists, but not all make,
especially apologists of a more evangelical persuasion.
And it's this, if you just look at publicly accessible evidence without any special revelation
or without, you know, the Holy Spirit moving you and stuff like that, and you just look
at it and you employ the historical method that we normally use for all kinds of claims
about things happening 2000 years ago.
Based on the data and based on that method, it's reasonable to conclude that Jesus was
probably raised or even stronger claim is that this is not only the resurrection is
not only the most probable explanation, it's the only explanation.
And I don't think that's the case.
I think we can do better than that.
And I think it's relatively easy to come up with competing explanations.
So I thought it would be fun to do that.
And I definitely encourage all non-theists, not just Christians, to do that as well, because
what I'm a little bit frustrated about when I engage in the great debate, you know, when
I, for example, watch a debate between Bart Ehrman and some apologists or someone else
is that the non-theist, instead of actively putting forward an alternative explanation
of the evidence, they instead just raised doubt, right, which is fine.
But then imagine you're being a Christian watching it.
It comes across the impression that you get is that really the other side doesn't have
any explanation, because if they had, they would present it, right.
And Gary Habermas actually said that recently in a webinar where he said, if you surveyed
the scholarship on the resurrection of Jesus and you look at what is the explanation offered
by the other side by non-Christians, it's usually this, something happened, we don't
know what.
And he's very discontent with that, because he thinks that this is a sign of weakness.
The reason why there are not books being sold about alternative explanations of the evidence
for the resurrection is because we can't come up with anything, right.
But I think, first of all, that's not true.
And the reason why non-Christian historians don't apply for grants and don't write papers
and produce academic publications with competing explanations of the resurrection evidence
is not because we can't do it.
It's because it's so obvious that the resurrection is not the most probable explanation that
it would just be a waste of time, right.
Like historians have better things to do, better things to study.
If I actually wrote a grant asking for money to study the resurrection and come up with
an alternative hypothesis, I would be laughed at, because everyone would understand that
this is not a very efficient use of public funds, right.
And the second reason, second thing that I would say about that is, yeah, it's true
that a lot of non-Christian historians say we don't know what happened.
But they say that because that's true, right.
Just to give you an allegory or a different example, we have a claim in the historical
record that Roman Emperor Claudius died because he was poisoned by his wife, who wanted her
son Nero to become the next emperor instead of Claudius' own son Britannicus, and that's
what happened.
We don't actually know if this is true or not, right.
So when historians talk about this, they don't say, oh, Claudius was poisoned.
They say we don't really know how he died.
Could be the case that he was poisoned, but maybe he just died of old age, right.
But if there were someone who would have the same approach as Gary Habermas, he would be
really upset that the historians are saying we don't know what happened.
He would actually send them to come up with an alternative explanation for the death of
Claudius.
He would actually demand that they commit to, for example, Claudius dying of a heart attack,
right.
But I think it's a little bit silly.
I think we don't know what happened.
But I'm here to explain why the resurrection is not the most probable explanation.
So Camille, if you don't mind, I'm going to comment here for a second that I think is
interesting before we get into this.
This is great.
This is great because I'm learning a lot on myth vision.
If it weren't for this channel and me interviewing scholars, like I wouldn't, I'd be way back
in the stone age of thinking and more fundamentalist in my mindset.
And I'm glad that I've been exposed to people who study history, people who take this stuff
serious.
And the problem is, and I think Tim O'Neill was right to some degree when he says, I think
he probably is correct on this, is that there's a comfort in being certain, whether you're
a fundamentalist Christian or a fundamentalist anti-theist, you know, or some other person.
It doesn't matter what you are, to be honest with you, there's a comfort in being certain.
And in fact, Pine Creek talks about this all the time with faith, you know, there was a
comfort in knowing or thinking you have the truth and kind of even cognitive distance
kicking in and saying, you know, you have the answer, you're right, you're right.
And there's a comfort in that.
And the social structure that develops around that, everybody says yes together.
That means yes.
That means it's true.
And so another thing that I think is interesting on what you brought up is there's a recent
court case that was a show called Making a Murderer on Netflix.
And I really enjoyed it because the guy was accused of raping a woman after 18 years of
serving time.
Scientific evidence came and proved, genetically, in DNA, he did not rape the woman.
And they found that the police officer who arrested him had ill intent toward him.
So it took 18 years of him saying, I'm innocent.
And they proved it scientifically and found out he was innocent.
Then a year later, a woman shows up dead on his property.
And there's a long show on this, but long story short, he's accused of murder.
And he's saying the same thing he said those 18 years he's been saying it ever since he's
been in prison.
I'm innocent.
I'm innocent.
He had two of the greatest lawyers in that state come and they were defense lawyers against
the prosecution.
They kind of poisoned the well already, making him seem guilty.
The news already knew and put it out there.
This guy murdered and he was an innocent till proven guilty in the United States.
That's how our law works.
Well, the defense attorneys did a great job of presenting why things look like the cops
might have helped create evidence, why there were some issues and some of the problems
that go on in the case and how he doesn't seem like he could have done that thing or
this thing.
But they didn't have another alternate explanation that could be pointed to proving he didn't
do it, but they did it.
And because you can't give, all right, the Pepsi over here is guilty, all right?
If you can't say that is what it is, your arguments aren't strong enough to take the
burden of proof off of this and put onto that.
And so what you're trying to do is get into the sandbox and say, all right, we're going
to go ahead and say, put to the side that he rose again from the dead, OK?
What could be another motive?
And just a little private information.
You and me were in contact not long ago.
This isn't anything like secret or anything, but I've been reaching out to apologists to
have you debate them openly, not viciously, not trying to be rude, not trying to know
a serious discussion where you wanted to debate the resurrection and give a positive argument
rather than what we always hear.
The skeptic comes on and says, no, no, no, it's unlikely.
And here's why.
That's it.
What about he was thrown into a ditch?
Or what about he was buried in an unmarked grave?
Or what about he didn't actually die?
He actually didn't die at all.
I mean, you know, different hypotheses that make sense of the natural evidence we have
and or at least with what we have.
So with that being said, I'm going to shut up.
I just thought it was important to say those things.
Yeah, I mean, what I want to emphasize also is that, like, there are a lot of Christians
who would have no problem with what I've been saying, right?
They would acknowledge and they do acknowledge that.
They still like think that Jesus was raised, but they have reasons other than.
The historical method, right?
So we all know probably some names like Laura Robinson, who has been making rounds recently.
She's a Christian.
She does affirm that Jesus was raised.
But, you know, she's doing her PhD in New Testament studies, and she has absolutely no
problem saying that if you apply the normal historical method that you can apply to any
other question in history, the resurrection is not going to be the most probable explanation,
right?
And what you said about apologists, well, I don't want to say not wanting to debate,
but us not being very successful in that department.
Yeah, I have no idea how Tom Jump gets so many guests because I've reached out to many
people you did on my behalf as well.
And I actually even send them the brief outline, the short paper summarizing my explanation
and then sketching out how that actually explains the evidence.
And yeah, no luck so far.
There is actually one debate that I did with an apologist, Kyle.
You can watch it on my channel.
Definitely recommend it.
I think it's really interesting.
And if you want to hear more about what I have to say on the topic and even more specifically,
how I respond to some of the things that, you know, a Christian apologist would say,
what kind of objections he would put forward, then that would be the debate to look into.
But yeah, let's let's do it.
Shall we? Absolutely.
And go to the YouTube channel, subscribe, check out a stuff, go to the Discord.
I like what you said.
And we're not going to give up if you know a Christian who is interested and would be
willing to have a discussion.
I mean, it would be great to have a debate and challenge this.
But even an open discussion, if you're not really like, I don't want to hopefully
be someone who's an apologist who has a name out there who's used to arguing these things.
It'd be interesting to have that documented.
So let me know if you guys can get a hold of it.
Yeah, I just want to say, like, I'm not I'm not
insisting on having a formal debate with a formal structure.
Actually, what we did with Kyle is I basically just conceded my
like the time that I would normally have for kind of criticizing his position.
And I just said, look, this is my explanation.
And it could be the case.
It very well could be the case that there is just something that I missed.
And that's the reason why it doesn't work.
Like, I'm fairly well read, I would say, in what Christian apologists have to say about this.
But I'm not a New Testament scholar, right?
So it could be the case that someone a hundred years ago wrote
something that just doesn't make my explanation work.
And if that's the case, I definitely wanted to know about it, right?
So I think that like having a discussion like that would be a nice change of base
from what is normally taking place where, you know, Christian apologists,
it's even in the name like apologists, they are on the defensive, right?
They have to defend the faith.
But here I am putting forward a positive case.
So I would be completely willing to be on the defensive the whole time
and just explain why I think this is a better explanation of the evidence.
And one last thing before we go into it, what I really want to emphasize is that
I'm a big fan of granting things for the sake of argument.
So you already mentioned that we are going to be playing in the Christian sandbox.
And I really mean that specifically.
What I have noticed is that, you know, apologetics usually starts.
And this is what was even thought in apologetic apologetics courses.
They start with general arguments in forward in favor of theism.
So a God existing before they move to specifically
discussing the evidence for Christianity, which usually is in some way or another.
The historical case for the resurrection of Jesus.
And of course, the reason why they do that this way is because if you think
that it's at least plausible or possible that a God exists,
you are going to be much more willing to accept that Jesus was raised, right?
But the problem is that if we as non Christians start objecting
at the very moment that they open their mouth
about a cosmological argument or the moral argument,
well, then we will be just stuck on that first step forever.
Like I've watched.
Debates about the column cosmological arguments that lasted for three hours.
And the conclusion doesn't even has got in it, right?
And I'm a little bit burned out by that.
So what I'm proposing is just for the sake of argument,
let's just skip all the way to the end.
And let's talk about the resurrection and let's not waste our time
with all of these other arguments that point to Christianity specifically.
Let's let's just say that it's possible there's a God.
Let's play in the box a little if you want.
It's possible there's a God, a creator, possibly.
But what's the best evidence for Jesus, you know what I mean?
So yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
And so I'm granting things for the sake of argument.
So when I'm actually discussing it, this is not what I believe.
I'm just saying, let's just play pretend and say that this is actually true
about the world, even with me granting all of that.
I still think it's reasonable to say that the resurrection
is not the most probable explanation.
And the things that I'm granting for the sake of argument
is first of all that Yahweh exists, so not just a God,
but specifically the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
Because, you know, I don't know if you noticed,
but there are like billions of people who actually worship Yahweh.
He is a God in like 12 different religious systems.
But still, like vast majority of those people
don't think that Jesus was raised, you know,
they are called the Jews, for example, or Muslims.
So it's not like if you believe that Yahweh actually exists,
metaphysically speaking, that automatically gets you a resurrection.
And I think that even if you start with that,
granting that for the sake of argument,
the resurrection is not going to be the most probable explanation.
Then I grant for the sake of argument that the miracles do actually happen,
including resurrections.
So I don't just rule out miracles at Hock.
Sorry, I don't just rule them right away, right?
I don't say that miracles are impossible.
I just say, OK, let's just grant that there are miracles.
And let's just say that some of those stories
about 10-year-old girls in rural Africa
who are bitten by a snake, taken to a priest, who prays over them
and then they wake up, were actually genuine resurrections,
genuine supernatural events.
Because I think even if you go as far as granting that,
still the resurrection is not the most probable explanation.
And I think we can actually establish that using the historical method
which would which we would use for any other question in history.
And then I'm just granting a bunch of things just to be nice to Christians.
So I would, for example, grant that we have actually five
mutually independent sources for the resurrection.
That would be the pre-Polyon creeds, the speeches preserved in acts,
the letters of Paul, the authentic letters of Paul, the synaptics and acts.
And finally, the gospel of John.
Like, I don't actually think that these sources are independent.
I'm just saying, even if we throw this
this thing for the sake of argument on that pile,
I can still show you that the resurrection is not the most probable explanation.
And finally, and this is super spicy,
I'm granting for the sake of argument that the gospels,
the four canonical gospels that we have in the Bible
were actually written specifically in the genre of Greco-Roman biographies,
which is called, you know, Beos in Greek and Vita in Latin.
So the authorial intention of the gospel authors,
among other things, was to record what they sincerely believed happened.
Right. So I'm not claiming that these are myths.
I'm not claiming that the gospel authors were being deceptive.
So they were trying to trick people into believing it,
knowing or believing that it actually didn't happen.
Now, I'm just saying what, for example, Mike Lacuna is saying.
Look, let's just grant for the sake of argument
that the gospels are in the same genre as other ancient historiographies
that we rely on for much of our knowledge about the ancient world.
And I'm just saying that even if we grant all of that for the sake of argument,
there are really good reasons for thinking that resurrection
is not the most probable explanation for the evidence
and that I can do actually better.
I can come up with a better explanation.
It accounts for all of the evidence just as well.
But it has a nice added benefit.
It's it's much more plausible than a resurrection.
Right. So I can't wait.
Can you guys wait? I can't wait to hear what he has to say.
I mean, he practically tied both arms behind his back.
He's wobbling on one leg and now he's going to go fight Mike Tyson.
OK. So yeah.
So so I should definitely give it a name.
The hypothesis, right, so that people can refer to it.
And I was just thinking that I would call it the Old Testament hypothesis
because who among Christians would have anything against the Old Testament, right?
But that's just my marketing.
If you have a better idea, I'm all ears, right?
So the explanation is really simple.
The basic outline is just this.
The first Christians believe that the Old Testament
is a historically reliable source of information about Jesus.
And because of that, they became convinced that Jesus is raised.
He ascended to heaven and was highly exalted.
Seated on the right of God, unlike a celestial throne in heaven.
And after they concluded that they had religious
experiences with them, which they mistook for confirmation of this belief.
And what I mean specifically is that early Christians,
including the gospel authors, for example, including, for example, Paul,
already believed that Jesus was the Messiah,
probably because Jesus claimed to be the Messiah.
There is nothing extraordinary about that.
We know of many other people in the ancient rule who claim to be Messiah.
There are people who claim to be Messiah today.
And these early Christians believed specifically that the Old Testament
describes what the Messiah will do when he gets on to earth, right?
And because they had these two beliefs, they put two and two together.
And they concluded that whatever the Old Testament says, the Messiah will do.
That's what Jesus must have done when he was alive,
because that's what the Old Testament says, right?
And they became convinced of it, even though some of those things
Jesus didn't do the most importantly for our discussion,
he wasn't actually raised, he didn't ascend, right?
And what this means specifically is, for example,
they believe that the Messiah will suffer for the sins of others.
They believe that the Messiah will be humiliated and killed.
The Messiah will be raised, lifted up and highly exalted in heaven, right?
They got this information, not from what actually happened.
They got it from the Old Testament.
And to be fair, like out of all of those things, Jesus did a lot of them.
For example, he really was despised and rejected.
He was tortured, stricken and spat upon.
He was led as a lump to the slaughter.
And his hands and feet were pierced, which I'm, of course,
referring to the language, the expressions that early Christians
drawn from the Old Testament, for example, the figure of the suffering
servant in Isaiah, the language in Psalms and stuff like that.
So based on that good track record that Jesus already had,
Christians jumped to the conclusion that Jesus did the rest of the stuff
that the Old Testament says the Messiah will do,
even though Jesus didn't actually do them.
And that's suffering for the sins of others.
And being raised, lifted up and highly exalted in heaven, right?
And it's actually really easy to piece together the New Testament theology
just by identifying the Son of Man with the Messiah, which we know was
already a thing before the Bible was written before Christianity started.
We have examples of a pre-Christian text that make that connection.
And even Christian apologists like Michael Acona acknowledged that.
And identifying that figure with the suffering servant in Isaiah.
And really, if it makes you think, right, like imagine the first Christians
immediately after Jesus died, what were they thinking?
Well, they must have concluded that the death of the Messiah
was a part of God's eternal plan, right?
It's not like God didn't plan for the Messiah to be crucified,
but it happened anyway, right?
Like all must be going according to plan.
So they did what every Second Temple Jew would do.
They went to the Old Testament and tried to explain it away.
And the only connection that they had to make in order to perfectly
make sense of everything that they just witnessed is to connect the figure
of the Messiah with the suffering servant in Isaiah.
And it matches perfectly because suffering servant goes through this torture,
is rejected, and then it says that he was raised, lifted up and highly exalted in heaven.
And that's what happened.
So that's the basic outline.
And let's just go through some of the things that are offered as evidence
for the resurrection and let's see how my explanation can actually explain
these things just as well.
But it's actually much more plausible because the things that are making
the explanatory work in my hypothesis are well, very well established,
almost ubiquitous features of human psychology, human religious experiences
and literary conventions of the time.
But when it comes to the resurrection hypothesis,
the thing that does the explanatory work is something that we almost never see happen.
I'm not saying we never see that happening.
I'm granting for the sake of arguments that every once in a while
someone is raised from the dead.
But I'm just saying that if we have as historians,
if we have two competing hypotheses and in one of them,
what does the explanatory work is something that we see happening all the time
as it's like a normal feature of human human nature.
And the other explanation is based on something that we almost never see.
It's reasonable to conclude that the first one is more probable.
So which point of which piece of evidence would you like to start with?
Honestly, I you take me through what you would think a typical
William Lane Craig or Mike Lacona or
even John C. Linux, some of these more scientific minded guys that argue
like I listen to these guys for years and usually they'll go.
Well, the eyewitnesses, that's what they immediately do is they start
talking about eyewitnesses or they talk about.
They talk they talk about.
Well, they don't have a list.
So yeah, go ahead and run with your with your list.
Because yeah, maybe before we start, I think some of your listeners
might be triggered by me saying that there is evidence for the resurrection, right?
And the question is, is that really true?
Well, it depends what you mean, you know, as an obstricing one said
depends how you define evidence, because you can define the evidence
in two different ways.
One is like a very broad scope and one is very narrow scope.
What you can be by evidence is just some explananda.
So things that a hypothesis explains, right?
In with that case, there is definitely evidence for the resurrection
because there are things that the resurrection hypothesis is trying to explain.
For example, why is it the case that we have
historical writings saying that Jesus was raised, right?
But on that definition, all of those same pieces
of evidence are also evidence for my hypothesis,
because my hypothesis can also explain them, right?
So the hypothesis kind of annihilate each other.
That's the white scope definition of the word evidence.
But you can define it also as meaning something
that makes a hypothesis more probable than competing hypotheses.
This is, for example, what this is how
people kind of think about it in natural sciences, right?
So when they say we have evidence for this, let's say, interpretation of quantum physics,
what they mean is we run some experiments and the results of those experiments
positively ruled out alternative models.
So ours is the only one that can explain it, right?
That happens all the time in natural sciences.
On that on that definition, there is no evidence for the resurrection.
Because there isn't anything that we observe in the world,
which the resurrection hypothesis would explain better than the alternatives,
for example, my explanation.
But on the other hand, there isn't any evidence for my explanation either, right?
So again, the two hypotheses kind of annihilate each other.
And at worst, a reasonable person would conclude
that they explain the evidence equally well.
So we should suspend judgment about which one is actually the case.
And at best, we can say that it's reasonable to believe that my explanation is more probable
because on top of being able to explain all of the same evidence,
it also has this higher possibility because the thing that does the explanatory work
isn't a resurrection, right?
So that's it. That's that.
I just was going to say, yeah, I can see this hypothesis
that you're going to develop here on the show even.
And I love you said you are granting the evidences to play in the sandbox.
But I could already tell probably in the way that you're heading with this
that even if you don't grant these evidences or you don't grant certain things
that you're allowing even to play in the box, your hypothesis is a potentially accurate hypothesis.
Regardless, if you say, well, these are
historiographical writings similar to the Greek world here written the first century.
You know, if you take away some of those things, your hypothesis will still probably stand.
But you're saying for the sake of argument, you're going all the way in.
OK, I can't wait to see what you say. So yeah, that's definitely true.
And by the way, I should say this is very important.
Like, I don't actually believe my own hypothesis, right?
My honest position is that we don't know what happened.
I'm just saying the apologist is presenting an explanation.
And I think I can do better.
But I don't actually like positively think that I figured it out, right?
I think we will ultimately never know unless some like new amazing evidence is unearthed, which could which could happen.
So if you, for example, are a fan of D Jump, I'm essentially doing what he's doing with
paintistic naturalism, right?
He doesn't actually believe that.
That's just the thing that he thinks can explain the same evidence that Christian
apologists are putting forward as evidence for a deity, right?
So I'm kind of playing the same game just on the historical field, right?
So if I go to my example with Claudius, here we have an apologist who says,
I think what in effect happened is that Claudius was poisoned by his wife.
Now, I honestly think we don't know what happened.
But I'm just saying, no, he was actually like bitten by a dog.
The wound got infected.
And that's how he died.
Like, do I believe that? Of course not.
We don't know what happened.
I'm just saying, let's just evaluate these two competing explanations.
And at worst, we will arrive to the conclusion that we can't really know what happened, right?
Because they both account for the evidence.
But at best, the mind is more probable because the resurrection hypothesis
is really low plausibility, right?
So let's just start with the empty tomb.
That's everyone's favorite.
OK, so on my hypothesis, the narratives of the empty tomb were crafted by the
gospel authors based on Isaiah 53, verse nine, which says they made his
grave with the wicked and his tomb with the rich.
And as I again, as I just explained, you know, the gospel authors were already
Christian who already believed that Jesus was raised.
They became convinced of this probably for similar reasons that
Christians are convinced of it today, you know, not because they talk to any
eyewitnesses or because they saw that themselves.
It's because they had experiences or they were already raised in Christianity.
So these guys mistakenly believe that Jesus is talking, that Isaiah is talking
about Jesus, right?
Because in their worldview, Jesus was the suffering servant.
That's what explained his crucifixion, right?
So when they were writing the gospels, they did what every ancient historian
would do. They took what they already believed, what they already thought
was plausible on their worldview, and they took what their sources told them.
And they created a plausible scene, a plausible narrative that fits that, right?
We already know what their worldview is.
They believe that Jesus was raised.
They believe that Isaiah is talking about Jesus, so whatever Isaiah says
about the suffering servant, that what happened to Jesus, because that's an
accurate prophecy, right?
And what their sources were could be some Christian tradition.
For example, the tradition that Jesus was buried.
And out of that, they created this narrative of the empty tomb, right?
So that's how I explain it.
This is what normal Greek, Roman historians do.
It was a standard literary practice.
And it's what's important is to realize that this was not considered
deceptive, so kind of creating the scene, setting a scene in an environment,
filling it with characters, writing a dialogue for the characters.
When historians did that, for people that actually existed,
in situations that actually took place, like wars, for example,
that wasn't considered deceptive, and the audience understood it.
So the historians wouldn't be considered lying.
They were not trying to scam people, right?
And this is what many Christian apologists even affirm, like on a
Craig Keener, a Craig Evans, they actually admit that there was this
narrative flexibility that the Gospel authors were not journalists trying to
be as fair and balanced and that the Gospels are not like court transcripts.
You know, like exactly describing what happened.
It's not a CCTV camera real, right?
Can I give one example, the Josephus account where he talks about Jesus
Ben Ananias, the catapult launches the rock?
Like, how does he know that this guy at his last breath was like, whoa, is me?
Like, it almost sounds poetic.
And we know that there was a war.
We know that they were launching catapults.
We know those were accurate, but it's embellished almost like an eyewitness
was right there and heard Jesus Ben Ananias scream from the wall, whoa, is me.
And then the rock landed on him.
It sounds poetic.
Well, I can give you even a better example from Josephus.
So in the last book of the Jewish War, Josephus describes the fall of Masada,
which was the last fortress, one of the two last fortresses where the Jewish
rebels were fortified and it was kind of their last stand against Romans.
And obviously Masada was eventually conquered and the males were slaughtered.
And the only people who escaped were two women and I think seven children.
And Josephus describes what happened, right?
Like, denied essentially leading up to the fall of the fort.
And he claims that eyewitnesses, the two females, they basically told him
what happened, right?
Because he obviously needs to explain where he's getting his information
from, if everyone else is killed, right?
But the thing is that we actually excavated, like archaeologists
actually excavated Masada and what he says can't be true
because it's ruled out by archaeological evidence, right?
Like there are various things that don't match up.
And so historians looked into it and they actually found out that the
things that he describes, for example, how he structures speeches,
because he of course records speeches that the, for example, the leader
of the Jewish rebels gave before the fort was conquered, right?
Or he, for example, describes how some of the soldiers committed
suicide by burning themselves with their families on like a pyre.
So historians actually discovered that there are literally tropes in the
way how Josephus says that.
And there are these like repeating patterns of ancient, in ancient
literature, where if a similar situation is depicted, it's going to be
depicted in a similar way.
And they'd actually get it over from author to author.
And it was standard for a historian to lift these kinds of
literary tropes, topoi in Greek, and shape the narrative this way.
And I absolutely love one journal article about it, where the author,
contemporary historian writing about it today says, but wait a minute,
we can, we know that the leader of the Roman siege, the Roman leader
who eventually conquered the fort, was actually living in Rome.
Around the same time, Josephus published his Jewish war.
So if he got a manuscript of the Jewish war, and if you read it, he would
be able to tell that what, what Josephus says is not what happened.
And the author goes on to explain that he wouldn't mind, like even if
an actual eyewitness who was there and who knew that what this
historian is recording didn't actually happen, would be fine, because he
would be, he would understand that it's perfectly acceptable in the
genre of Greco-Roman historiography to take this kind of literary
license, artistic license, and basically create a scene and have
characters, oh, that this is what happened, as long as it's consistent
with your sources.
Go back just a minute, sorry.
Yep.
He creates a scene with characters and then you broke out.
Yeah, to, to create a scene with characters and have them do and say
things that the historian doesn't actually know they in fact did, as long
as it doesn't contradicts what he knows actually happened, right?
So on that hypothesis, Josephus either didn't have witnesses, eyewitnesses,
or they did have, he did have eyewitnesses, but then he chose to
depict the scene differently in order to employ these kind of tropes, right?
Because apart from just recording history, he has other literary goals.
He, for example, wants to, he has specific political agenda.
He wants to depict the Jewish rebels a certain way.
He wants to depict the Romans in certain way.
It's very complicated discussion to unpack that here.
But this is absolutely the case with the gospels, right?
Like even Christian apologists admit that gospels are not straight up
recording history.
They have obviously theological agenda.
They were written for a Christian audience and it was written specifically
to teach them certain messages.
And we can leverage that in our explanation of the resurrection.
This is interesting because I'm thinking like in my head, I'm already
regurgitating as a Christian, you know, the Jonah was in the belly of the
well for three days and three nights, and they literally take this trope
with Jesus and take a, they kind of lift that.
Well, Jonah came back, you know, he, he, he didn't get swallowed and remain
swallowed. Well, Jesus died.
He couldn't stay dead and he had to have rose and I could see them
using some of these things is like it can't in here.
So, well, I mean, it's important to emphasize it.
Like what's not what I'm saying is not just some crazy, like liberal, you
know, atheist history.
Like there are actual New Testament scholars who are very conservative,
eventually calls like Mike Lacuna, you know, Greg Evans, Greg Keener, who have
no problem saying, okay, the gospel of John, the author moved the day of the
crucifixion for theological reasons.
And therefore he had to invent all kinds of things around that, right?
Like, for example, the members of the Sunday, he didn't cancel, don't want
to enter Pilate's palace because they don't want to be defiled before eating
to mess over a lamp, right?
That on the hypothesis that this is what the gospel of John did, that didn't
happen because that wouldn't make sense on the crucifixion being on a different
date, right?
Mike Lacuna, for example, very famously thinks that the crucifixion signs, for
example, the resurrected saints marching through Jerusalem might be apocalyptic
imagery, which I agree that was really standard again, literary tropes.
So if you were writing, even if you were writing history, if you were writing
about a guy who really was crucified, if you believe that he was the Messiah, you
would depict his crucifixion, his death with the same kind of literary
conventions with the same kind of tropes that were normally employed.
And when an important person died, for example, a king, there were these divine
signs that's normal, like in Tacitus, in Suetonius, in Josephus, when something
important goes down, like Alexander the Great, for example, dies, or there is an
important battle, there are these divine signs.
And some of them are very, very similar to what Matthew is depicting.
And what I really like the most is that Michael Lacuna says that the infants
in the Rapids, in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke, might be
largely invented because, and this is what he says, literally was remembered
of Jesus's childhood.
And this is how he explains why most of the details only appear in one
gospel and not the other, right?
So he realizes this is an issue, he realizes that harmonizations of the
infants' stories are very strained, they are very improbable, they are
extremely ad hoc.
So he just says, look, by the time the Gospels were written, little was
remembered of Jesus's childhood.
So the Gospel authors just did what any good ancient historiographer would do,
right?
And what's really interesting about it, so if you think about it, the amount
of time that elapsed from Jesus's birth to when the traditional Gospel
authors would get the information about how he was born is the same amount
of time that elapsed from when Jesus was crucified to when the Gospels were
written in both cases, it's about 30 years, right?
So if you think about it, who would be a good eyewitness for the birth of
Jesus, or for example, his parents, right?
And who is like one of the Gospel authors, the Gospel of Matthew?
And what was the first opportunity for Matthew to meet Jesus' parents?
Where it would be after he was called an apostle in 30s, so it would be roughly
after 30 years.
And if you think about it, what's the amount of time between when Jesus was
crucified in 30s and when the Gospels were being written, 70s or 80s, also
about 30 years?
So I think if we apply the same standard that Michael icon is applying to the
infant's narratives, we can perfectly well say, OK, the Gospel authors didn't
really have any reliable information about how Jesus was buried, for example.
But they just did what a normal ancient historiographer would do because little
was remembered, and that would be completely consistent.
And this is, I mean, we've got Jesus is dead.
He's crucified.
He dies.
These are for the sake of argument agreeing to these facts and saying, look,
the guy got killed.
He he he died.
But what they did with it is in line with what you're suggesting.
Michael Cohen is saying about the birth narratives.
And look, it's not just the birth itself that that has its strain, the genealogy.
He's like everything in that whole package there has its issues.
Let me ask you a question, though, in light of this, if you don't mind, if we're
going to say guess, because it's really what we have to do on what happened
to his actual body, what would you think is the most plausible based on
first century literature, known ways of burial of criminals and such or things like that?
Do you think it was just thrown in a ditch on Mark Grave?
Like what is your personal opinion on this?
Yeah, that's that's that's really great question.
And before I answer that really important point, right?
So if there are Christians or Christian approaches listening to it,
they are internally in their heads, maybe even out loud.
Just screaming about how much evidence, how much amazing
historical evidence we have, for example, for the empty two story, right?
OK, fair enough.
Let me just ask you a question based on that evidence.
How probable it is that Jesus was actually buried the way it's described in the
gospels. Just let's set the resurrection aside.
Let's just say, grant for the sake of argument, that there is this amazing
evidence that very strongly points to Jesus being buried the way how it's
described in the gospels. Obviously, it's not certain that this is what happened,
right? Like history doesn't deal with certainties.
It deals with probabilities.
So what's the probability?
Is it 80 percent?
Is it 90 percent?
And what I'm saying is that let's I can even grant you that there is so much
evidence for the empty two story that the probability is right here and the
probability that Jesus wasn't buried the way how the gospels describe it is like
here. What happens when you take this and you add to it a resurrection?
It goes way down.
The probabilities go way down, right?
Because in probability theory, if you add a bunch of claims together,
their probabilities multiply.
So the thing is that I can even bite the bullet and say that initially my
explanation for the empty two narratives being there is really, really low.
The probability is really, really low.
But the thing is, it's very reasonable to say that Jesus being buried the way
how it's described in the gospels, plus him being graced.
The package deal, the total is much, much less reliable, much, much less
probable than Jesus not being buried the way how it's described in the gospels
and him not being graced.
Again, the package deal is much more reliable, right?
So if you take a claim, even if it's very probable and you put a resurrection
to it, the resurrection drags it down because it's got this really low
probability, right?
But to your question, to your question, so what happened to Jesus?
Well, if you ever talk about the empty two, here's the one million dollar
question that you need to ask.
Again, let's just grant for the sake of argument because I'm loving it.
Let's say that there were two criminals that were crucified next to Jesus,
which is what the gospels say, right?
Let's say that that happened to be the case and let's just say that these
criminals didn't really have family or friends around to bury them.
What happens to their bodies after they were taken from the cross?
And the apologists, when they talk about this, they will usually offer two
different, I would say, almost contradictory explanations, right?
On one hand, they want to say that what happened to Jesus was completely
normal, completely ordinary, because it was actually a job of the St.
Heathen Council in Jerusalem to make sure that bodies of criminals were
buried properly on the same day so that the mosaic law, specifically
Deuteronomy 21, isn't violated.
So really, what would happen to these two crucified criminals would
essentially be the same as what happened to Jesus.
Joseph of Arimathea, being the St.
Heathen Council member, would just go to the pilot, he would request the
bodies and he would just be doing his job, would be in his job description.
He would be doing it all the time, right?
Or they can say that what happened to Jesus' body was actually completely
extraordinary and that a normal criminal would not receive the same treatment.
They, for example, say that Joseph of Arimathea requested Jesus' body,
specifically because Jesus was, he was Jesus' disciple.
So he wanted to bury his teacher, right?
And he wouldn't do it for other people.
But there are problems with both horns, right?
It's like you throw the one while you get impaled, either way.
If you think that this is completely normal, then first of all, Joseph
of Arimathea wouldn't have to request the body.
He would just be doing his job.
He wouldn't be doing it in person.
There would be servants doing it, right?
Like it would be like if it was the official duty of the New York
municipality to make sure that homeless people who die on the street are buried.
The mayor of London, the mayor of New York, wouldn't be the guy like
personally picking the body up, you know, there would be infrastructure for that.
And they would argue, though, that while he was a follower, though,
you know what I mean?
They would try to...
That's the other horn, right?
So on the horn that this is completely normal, the big implosibility is that in
the Gospels, Jesus is buried in the most expensive way imaginable.
And this is something that sometimes people don't realize.
There were many different burial rites and burial types in the time period.
And they were accessible to people of different wealth and different status.
And the way how Jesus is buried is completely extraordinary.
So if you think that Joseph of Arimathea was just doing his job and that
like any other criminal would receive the same treatment, you have to imagine
that crucified criminals, you know, who were crucified for instigation against
Rome, were basically treated, given a treatment, which is equivalent to being
being held in a hotel in like a presidential suite, you know?
And we, of course, know from later sources how bodies of criminals were actually
buried, right? They are actually later sources which describe them.
Describe that there were two plots of land.
They were actually separated for criminals that died a different way for, again,
ritual reasons.
So we would just take the body.
We will dump it in this common grave and that takes care of it.
If there's family around, which wants to make sure that the body is available
for reburial so that the bones after, let's say, a year can be put in an
osuary box to make sure that the person gets special treatment during the
general resurrection, they, the family members, would make sure to mark the
grave to know where, which body it is, right?
So, like extant scholarship or existing scholarship on these burial practices
suggests that the most plausible way how to do it would be to dig up a trench
grave. So normally, these crucified criminals would be buried in a trench
grave in this common graveyard.
Trench grave is basically just a hole in a shape of a human body where you put
the body, you cover it, and if you are a family member or a friend who is
interested in knowing where that person is buried, you would make sure to mark
the grave. If there are no family or friends around, you don't do that.
And after three years, after three days, the body decomposes to a point when
it's no longer, the facial features are no longer recognizable.
This is why being raised after three days is so significant in various
religions, in various mythologies.
It's because that was the amount of days after which you could be sure that the
person is really dead.
And usually in this religious thinking, it's the amount of time after which the
soul of the person is completely disassociated with the body, because the
body no longer bears the resemblance of the person, right?
So you can't easily tell it apart from a different body.
So that's just, I hate asking this, but does that play any significance with
them not recognizing him?
I don't think so.
I think the theological reasons for that.
I don't.
Yeah, I do too.
I just didn't know if there was something there with that.
Yeah, that's interesting.
Yeah, that's, I mean, a person coming out from the dead, like returning from the
dead after three days is actually really common.
It's all over Greek mythology.
For example, it's found in the Old Testament.
Like what, what people usually don't get about the story of Jonah, you know,
him being swallowed and being in the belly of a fish for three days and then
coming out is that in these ancient cultures, there are again very frequently
stories about a person being swallowed and then being kind of spitted out after
three days, like a Heracles is, for example, in one version swallowed by a
monster and then he comes out.
And what anthropologists are thinking is that these myths actually, the person
being swallowed represents him descending to the underworld, you know, to
Hades, for example, in Greek tradition.
So it's essentially, uh, him being dead.
And then he obviously comes out.
And in different versions of myths, sometimes the person gets swallowed.
Sometimes he physically like travels to the underworld with, because it's a
location that you can access through like various, various points in the world.
Right.
Um, so that's the significance, at least I think for Jonah being swallowed
in the belly of a whale, it's representative of him being dead for
these three days, which is after which, you know, there should be no return from
the dead, but he gets, uh, right.
He returns from the dead anyway.
Right.
So that, that was just a horn.
Yeah.
So that's just a horn, uh, that says Jesus is what it was treated the same way
as any other body would be treated.
Let's just cover the option that Joseph of Ferre-Mathia was Jesus's disciple.
So he really didn't do what he would do for anyone else.
Uh, he was doing something out of the extraordinary, right?
It was extraordinary.
Well, first of all, uh, Apologists like to say that after Jesus died, his
disciples were just completely like destroyed by that.
And they abandoned all hopes and they would abandon Jesus and, you know, go
back to fishing in Galilee if he wasn't raised.
And of course they say that we don't know this, but they say that because
that they want to over emphasize, they went to overstate the contrast between
how completely the disciples were taken away by Jesus, uh, being killed, how
they're like messing expectations were destroyed and how they were, how they
acted supposedly after Jesus appeared to them.
But the thing is that this rhetoric here actually works against their
favor because against them, because you have to say that, okay, all of the
disciples were completely, their hopes were shuttered and they were ready to
abandon Jesus.
But at the same time, Joseph of Ferre-Mathia being a disciple of Jesus
still had enough respect for him to bury him, which could be the case, but you
have to realize that what you're doing is you're fine tuning the amount of grief
and disillusionment with Jesus that specific people would feel after he was
dead. And that's what's called being ad hoc, right?
That's an explanatory flaw.
It's not a virtue.
So that's one problem.
And the second problem is that, uh, that means that Joseph of Ferre-Mathia
going to Pilate, requesting the body for burial would be extraordinary.
That wouldn't be something that normally happens, right?
And I think it's really, really implausible for someone in Pilate's
position to grant that request, especially given that Jesus was supposedly
crucified for the crime of insurrection.
It's possible again, but I think the probability is low.
We have, uh, some legal documents from late antiquity, which specifically
talk about, uh, burial of insurrectionists, and it seems to be the case.
Like the inference that we can draw from the text there is that it would be
less likely that a body of someone who is specifically crucified for the
crime of insurrection would be buried as opposed to the permission would be
given for burial, as opposed to, let's say, as someone who was
thieving or even a murderer, you know?
Uh, so I think it's, uh, the story is implausible on.
And as far as I can tell, the best response to this, that Christians put
forward in literature is this, they, uh, what happened with, what would
happen with Jesus's body is what would happen with any criminal.
It's just Jesus took so long to die that there was a time constraint.
There was a pressure to quickly get him buried on the same day, right?
And there wasn't enough time to dig up a trench grave.
So Joseph of Arimatia just took the body and he put it in the first grave
that was around it, that was available.
Uh, that was the grave that in which, the tomb in which Jesus is buried
in the gospels, right?
It just happens to be the tomb of Joseph of Arimatia.
It happens to be the case that it's nearby and it happens to be the case
that no person has been buried there, which I think is in the text for
religious reasons, not because that's what actually happened, right?
So that's the story, right?
So, okay, Jesus would normally be buried, like if everything went according
to, to how it's normally went, he would be buried in this common graveyard,
just like any other criminal.
Just like two guys crucifying us to him.
But because he took so long to die, there was this time pressure
and he had to be buried in a hurry.
So Joseph of Arimatia just put him in this like really amazing, luxurious
tomb, and that's the way how that happened.
But actually, if you think about it, I think this is really silly.
The Mosaic Law prescribes that a body of a criminal needs to be buried on the
same day, uh, before sunset, because otherwise the, the ritual, the, or
the prescriptions is violated, right?
Which really means that as soon as someone is sentenced for crucifixion,
you know from that point on that by the time some goes down, you need to
have a strange grave ready.
So I think it's really implausible that this time constraint would even be there.
I think the responsible people would just automatically go dig body, like holes
for all the people that were crucified all the day.
Jesus and the two criminals, they would have them ready, right?
Because they knew that needs to happen before sunset so that the law is not
violated and they would just be hanging there by the grave, waiting for Jesus
to finally die.
And when he did, they would just take the body and put it in the grave.
That was already prepared for him.
I think this is most plausible.
Again, is this what's something that we can establish happened for sure?
Of course not.
Is it possible that Jesus is buried the way that how it's described in the
Gospels?
Of course it is possible.
But I'm just saying that even if you think that the way how he's buried is
over here in probability and my alternative account is over here in
probability, if you add a resurrection to it, it's resurrection drags it down.
So that's another problem is you're not even getting into the literary issues
between the synoptics and John.
I mean, we haven't even gone there and you don't even need to.
That's the thing because you're just going to write you.
If you are talking about this, never say a word, the word contradiction.
Don't bring this out, right?
Because Christian apologists are actually trained specifically to answer this.
Like they, I don't know if you've ever seen these courses, right?
They actually like memorize various harmonizations and they go into
excruciating details to be able to tell you exactly why is it the case that it
seems to be in the synoptics, Jesus is crucified a different day, right?
So don't just bring it up.
It's completely, they train this because this is how Bart Ehrman, to be honest,
argues, argued, right, and has argued.
He was really the one that was on the scene, you know, doing these debates back
when New Atheism became popular, right?
Like he was the horseman in the historical debate, right?
So he would always, because he didn't actually present and he doesn't present
an alternative explanation, he just raises doubt.
He would go to these contradictions in order to motivate Christian audiences
into thinking that we should not place that much historical reliability in the
gospels. So this is what Christian apologists know.
This is what they train for.
This would make for, again, like a conversation that lasts for hours.
So just don't do it, right?
Like it's much better if you will cut them by surprise, actually, because it's
going to be something that they won't expect.
This is interesting.
So you have a burial and you've given an alternate explanation, but let's just
pause it. He was buried in an actual tomb.
Now we have to explain, well, how did he go missing?
Yeah, I would actually say that what happened to Jesus is what plausibly like
this is what I actually believe, you know, providing that that was Jesus, of course.
What I think what most probably happened is just what happened to any other criminal.
I think there's no reason for thinking that he got any special treatment.
And I think that's most probable because it's just most plausible, right?
Like if you don't have any hard evidence one way or the other, I think you
should go with, you know, what's usually normal in the case, right?
Which means he gets taken out of the grave, out of the cross, sorry, and he
gets put in this communal graveyard for crucified criminals in a trench
grave and he's covered.
He doesn't have any family or friends around.
This is again something that I'm asserting as a part of my explanation.
We don't know if this is the case or not, but I'm just saying this is what happened.
And if that's what happened, like on that assumption, nobody works his grave
and after three days his body is beyond recognition.
And let's just say for the sake of argument that the disciples, Jesus's
disciples, maybe after three days, maybe after 30 days, 50 days, maybe after a year
or two, start saying, okay, Jesus was raised.
He was the Messiah, right?
And let's just say, I put it this speaking, again, I think this is really
improbable, that the people in Jerusalem are so riled up by this that they actually
go and somehow find the exact trench grave where Jesus's body was buried.
They dig it up and they drag it through the streets of Israel, the streets of
Jerusalem, and they show it to Peter, James and Jesus's disciples.
So today, these disciples are actually presented with irrefutable evidence
that Jesus wasn't raised.
Now, what happens where religious people are presented with really good evidence
against their religious beliefs?
Do they abandon them?
I haven't seen, very rarely has that ever happened.
Yeah, and I just think about how many younger creationists there are, right?
Like, if you are willing to completely throw out all of evolutionary biology,
geology, or entire sciences that like thousands and thousands of people spend
their entire careers in and that have actual, like real-world,
practical application for oil drilling and antibiotics and stuff like that.
I think it's really, really plausible that someone in the position of these
disciples would actually conclude that.
And we even have some like specific historical precedents for that, like in
18th century, there was this guy called Thomas Ames, and he claimed to be a
prophet and he gathered religious following.
And after he died, his religious followers predicted that he will be
raised and they actually did what Jesus didn't do.
Well, I guess he technically predicted the exact date when his
resurrection will take place.
So much so that the authorities of that place had to put up guards in the tomb,
like in the graveyard, in order to prevent the cult members from staging
a fake resurrection.
So there were actually police, like they had place locked down.
And when the appointed time and date arrived, his followers gathered
at his tomb and there was also like a mob of hostile, you know, people
who thought this was ridiculous and it's like insulting.
And obviously nothing happened, right?
He wasn't raised.
So what happened with these religious followers?
Did they conclude that he actually wasn't a prophet?
No, they didn't even change their belief regarding his resurrection.
Instead, what they thought is, okay, he would totally be raised.
It's just there was this unruly mob.
So they were not worthy of witnessing the resurrection.
And that's why it didn't happen, right?
And given that we have countless examples of religious people reacting to
really good evidence against their religious beliefs every time, like all the
time, you know, every time a prophecy about end times or certain people winning
elections fails to just find a way how to rationalize it away, right?
And it's not like, yeah, it's not like someone in, you know, the position
of Peter and James wouldn't have the kind of mental resources to do that.
Because you have to reimagine what did early Christians believe and what, you
know, Second Temple Jews believe.
They were apocalypticists, which means they also believed in like the strict
duality between the forces of good and evil.
And they specifically believe that the earth and the air, so everything
under the firmament, right, is actually the dominion of Satan.
You know, that these are the rulers of the age in the Bible, right?
So this world that we live in, the world of like material stuff is actually
ultimately being controlled by Satan.
That's why there's so much like evil and sickness and stuff like that.
And this controlling influence even covers authorities like governments,
heads of states, members of, you know, various people in various
positions of power, right?
This is this is why like Christians are sometimes so conspiratorial.
And that's why they are so quick to dismiss, you know, experts,
dissenting opinions and stuff like that.
Because it's a component of Christian theology.
So you can't break away often.
The fundamentalists can't break that away.
Yeah.
So again, I think it's really plausible that let's just throw play that, right?
Let's let's say I'm Peter and let's say there is a crowd coming, claiming
that this is Jesus's body, which just has been excavated from where Jesus is buried.
I think the way how Peter is going to react to that is to say, get behind me,
Satan, because he's just going to think this is the rulers of the age trying
to beat him astray, right?
And again, like, do we think this is what actually happened?
Of course not.
Is it more probable than a resurrection?
Of course it is, right?
Yeah, it's not because there is an anti-supernatural bias.
It's not because I'm ruling miracles and resurrections a priori.
I'm just saying we know there's this kind of stuff happens all the time.
Actual resurrection is not so much.
Let me let me pose something else to get your opinion on, because I had a gentleman,
a PhD Samuel Zinner.
He's a historian, he is an expert in linguistics, literature and history.
I think modern and old, something like that.
Samuel Zinner.
And he I recently interviewed with him and he said something like
this, that the reason why you had to have him rise, even if he did not rise,
is that in this belief system, in this messianism that you're talking about,
the end is near all of these prophecies.
Once you see, it's one thing to say, oh, they cherish the guy.
Cool.
They like the guy.
Of course, he's their master, their teacher, they follow him.
But when you factor in all, it's almost like.
It's almost like if we're swimming in the ocean and I have a little board,
what do you call a boogie board and I get on the boogie board and I'm riding with the wave.
And then I want to turn around.
The wave still got momentum.
It's still heading toward the shore.
It's harder to fight the wave and easier to just go with the flow, regardless of what one thinks.
So what I'm getting at, and that's a bad example, the point I'm making is,
is that the whole weight of everything they believed, not just the man himself,
the man himself was an element of the whole thing.
When he died, the whole projection of the end being near everything else,
that can't be a lie.
Therefore, we must mistake something.
Something isn't right.
We obviously are missing the point.
And therefore, he did rise.
Ah, so here's the question I have.
And I think this is an important question to ask, a plausible question to ask.
Did the earliest form of this resurrection, was it spiritual?
Was it potentially a spiritual body in which Jesus rose?
I know the Gospels definitely say they act like he literally rose.
Especially John.
John tries to paint that picture.
But Paul, what do you think?
Do you think they all?
I think that's a good question.
And I can just completely grant for the sake of argument that the earliest
Christians, Peter, James, John, actually believe that it was a physical resurrection.
OK, you know, the same way how it's eventually depicted in the Gospels.
And like, you can ask why resurrection, right?
Like, why did they conclude that Jesus was raised?
Why didn't they, for example, conclude that, oh, he's just in heaven with God
or he's in the Abraham's bosom or, you know, some other location in Hades,
for example, you know, in Sheol?
Well, I think that the key is that, again, you know, if you solve the question
of why the Messiah had to be killed with identifying the Messiah and the
suffering servant, then the suffering servant gets highly exalted and in heaven.
Right. And then you, of course, have all of this language of, you know,
from Psalms, the Lord said to my Lord, sit and my at my right hand side.
You have the Son of Man being associated with, can being exalted,
like he's coming with the clouds of heaven.
He's presented before God and he's exalted.
So you have, obviously, if you are, if this is your, like,
theological speculation of what happened to Jesus after he died, then I think
a physical resurrection, so his body being kind of rivified and then physically
ascending up like a like a hot air balloon to heaven would just make sense
in that worldview, because this is what happens to people in, you know,
Second Temple Jewish literature.
Like if you think about it, for example, when Elisha is taken to heaven,
it's not like he just drops dead and his body is left on still on earth
and his soul or spirit goes to heaven to be with God.
Right. No, he's just like with his body, he's taken up.
He ascends, you know, the same way he disappears.
Right. And in, of course, in later interdistamental literature that gets much
more fleshed out, Moses also, there is interdistamental Jewish literature
where he, his body disappears because he's taken and highly exalted.
So, of course, the difference is that Elisha and Enoch, they didn't die first.
Right. That's the important difference.
But what I'm saying is that in the minds of these Second Temple Jews,
who also happened to be followers of Jesus, it would be really plausible for
someone like the transportation method for how to get a corpse who's
that's that on earth to heaven where it's highly exalted would be this ascension.
And that would be preceding by preceded by a body leader as a reaction.
Right. So that's kind of an assumption on their part based on the scriptures.
So at this point, it becomes theological and spiritual that he had
to have rise because, look, Moses did, Elijah did,
Enoch did and Jonah did and all these people did.
Well, duh, so did Jesus.
And therefore, they didn't need to really see someone rise for them to believe
that they rose. They believed and had faith.
So, in essence, they're the resurrection of Jesus becomes a faith thing right off the bat.
Well, I mean, I wouldn't quite put it like that, but let's actually move to
the appearances that we don't.
Yeah, we don't just spend our time talking about the two right.
So then they're the biggest point on the bullet point list of the minimal
facts and stuff like that are these appearances to Jesus specifically.
And what's brought up very often is that they happened to groups of people,
not just individuals.
At least that's what depicted in New Testament.
Right. And of course, everyone's favorite hallucination hypothesis
can't explain that because, you know, explain these dreams
and hallucinations are private to the mind of individuals.
I can't wake up my wife in the middle of the night and say, honey,
I'm having this amazing dream. We do want to join me in my dream.
That's not how it works. Right.
This is the this is the stick.
Fair enough.
Let's just break the appearances that we have narrated in literature into two categories.
What's in the gospels and what's in Pauline literature,
specifically in the first Corinthians 15, that's what's again,
grand for the sake of argument.
That's actually a critical statement that Paul didn't make up.
He was told this critical statement by someone else.
Let's even say he was told it by Peter, James and John, right, the Jerusalem
fellows. OK, let's let's just look at these two piles.
When it comes to the appearance narratives in the gospels,
it's extremely easy to explain them.
But you have to ask yourself this question first.
Let's say that we could travel back in time and we could interrogate
people in the first century, first Christians.
Would we be able to find a person who would honestly believe
that he had breakfast with resurrected Jesus?
Or would we be able to find a person who would honestly believe
in the first century among Jesus's followers that honestly believe that,
yeah, I touched Jesus's wounds.
I touched Jesus's resurrected body, you know, where are there people
who honestly believe in the first century?
I'm not saying whether that happened or not.
Were they even people who believe that's happened in the first place
among these first Christians that, yeah, I experienced to
resurrected Jesus teaching me for 40 days.
And I think my answer to that is no, right?
So it's not only the case that nobody touched the wounds
of resurrected Jesus.
There wasn't even a person who thought he did.
That's a very important distinction, right, because when Christians
think about alternative explanations to resurrection,
they take the Gospels at face value.
But if you do that, then, of course, these alternative explanations
are going to look very implausible, right?
Like, yeah, I agree that if there were groups,
entire groups of people who could all agree that they were,
they saw the reason Jesus appeared to them in the same room
and they like interacted with him, they saw him eat a piece of fish
and stuff like that.
That would not be very plausible on the hallucination hypothesis,
for example, right, because that's not really how hallucinations work.
But the obvious move to make and like every reasonable person would make it
and every reasonable person does that with everything else other than Christianity
is to say that there were no people like that in the first place, right?
And that the narratives of the appearances in the Gospels specifically
are, again, literary creations, right?
So the Gospel authors, again, were doing what any other ancient
Gregoroman historian would do.
They just took what they already believed, they took their existing worldview
and they took what their sources told them.
And out of that, they created a plausible story
in order to tell an important message, right?
So what was their worldview?
Well, they obviously already believe that Jesus was raised from to death
because they were Christians, these Gospel authors.
And they already believed that Jesus was raised bodily.
That's what I'm grating for the sake of argument.
And they already believed that they had sources that told them
that after Jesus was raised, he appears to people.
For example, for example, they had a credo statement
similar to which we find in 1 Corinthians 15, right?
And out of that, they just created this scene.
And the reason why Jesus appears and does various things
is not because they were actually people recording it, you know,
as it was happening or not, they were not people interviewing
some eyewitnesses, eyewitnesses who were recollecting what actually happened.
No, they were communicating important theological points, right?
For example, the reason why Jesus eats a piece of fish
is to show that he is not a spirit.
He's not a right. He's not a ghost.
It's to say that dosetists are not correct
when they say that Jesus's body was just illusory.
And really, he was a supernatural being, right?
And again, the reason why Thomas is allowed to touch Jesus's wounds
is because that's a lesson, theological lesson
about the virtue of believing without seeing.
Yeah, because I can imagine in the communities
where these gospels were being written, they were probably people like me
who had doubts, right?
So a gospel author who wanted to do something about it
would just include this short snippet, this short narrative,
where the punchline is, blessed are those who didn't see but still believe.
No, didn't see, yeah, didn't see but still believe.
So that's just my explanation of the
gospel narratives, the appearances.
Again, explains all of the evidence that we have perfectly well.
More specifically, it specifically explains
why is it that there are texts called, you know, the gospels
that have these narratives in them?
It's not because that's what actually happened.
Alternative explanation, explains it perfectly well.
And again, much, much more plausible
because what does the explanatory work are just features of ancient historiography
that are very, very well attested.
We have all kinds of examples of ancient authors doing these kinds of things.
We have them acknowledging that we have them criticizing other historians
for doing it.
We have them congratulating other historians for doing it well.
But the alternative explanation to resurrection is really, really implausible.
So if we have two explanations and one of them, the explanatory work,
you know, is what's doing the explanatory work is something well established.
And the other one, it's something that almost never happens as far as we can tell.
Then I think it's reasonable to believe that the first one is more probable.
I agree. And I think just commenting on your group hallucination thing.
Yeah, I know hallucination takes place within one's own mind.
However, the idea of group, I'll call it group cognitive dissonance,
if you will, can play a huge role.
They say like Mother Mary statue in South America,
where there's thousands of people that say they witnessed a miracle or something.
All it takes is a couple people coming up with the idea
and then everyone else starts to follow in line in that.
And so there now you have this mass group of people are now communicating.
I experienced this thing and they created the narrative in their mind
where they really never actually did witness a real miracle.
So I mean, even if you granted some of these places, even though like the 500,
I hear that that's taken from an extra canonical book
that is actually maybe even referencing the axe narrative
where there's 500 witnesses, the idea is actually talking about Pentecost
and somewhere in Pentecost has a connection to that.
There's so many alternative
alternate explanations that are natural,
that make plenty of sense, that don't require
the face value reality that people want to read at this literature.
So yeah, eyewitnesses, thank you.
Yeah, so these are child again, like if you are a Christian,
you are probably screaming right now that we have this amazing evidence
that the Gospels were actually written by people who were there.
You know, they were actually there where Jesus ate a piece of fish,
like Matthew and the beloved disciple,
or they were written by people who had access to them like Luke,
you know, Mark, who of course got his information from Peter.
Great, let's just say that this evidence is really amazing.
How probable it is that this gospel authorship is true.
It's not certain because nothing in history is or it is very little, right?
So again, is it up here and my explanation is somewhere here
because yeah, I'm saying that they were not based on any eyewitness testimony.
Again, if that's the case, I can buy that bullet
because if you then add resurrection to this,
that's going to drag the probability down, right?
Yeah, so that's the point.
Again, I don't think it's very probable
that the Gospels were written by the traditional authors.
I think there are very good reasons for that that I can show.
And I've been doing it on my channel.
So definitely check that out if you are interested.
But go check it out.
But even if you just grant that,
what the thing is that you can start with this
like very high probability of this partial claim.
But if you add the resurrection to it, the package deal,
the traditional authorship plus the resurrection
is going to be less probable than traditional authorship being false
and no resurrection, right?
So that was the appearances in the Gospels.
And then we have the appearances in 1 Corinthians 15,
which is also to groups of people, you know,
the 12th, all of the apostles and then to 500.
Again, let's just grant for the sake of argument
that this isn't made up either by Paul or by someone else before him.
Let's grant for the sake of argument.
It's not interpolated, which is what I think Robert Price believes, right?
Let's just say that this creed actually records a real experience
that real people had and that when Paul says,
you can actually go talk to these people, he's not lying
or he's not being misinformed, right?
That they were actually people who, if you told them to creed,
they would be able to tell you, yeah, I was one of them, right?
Let's just grant all of that.
So how do I get out of this, right?
I just like not only tied myself behind the back,
but I like someone smashed that over over the head as well.
Yeah, smashed me over. Yeah.
So what's the most important thing to realize
that the first Corinthians 15 creed, the appearances part,
is completely devoid of specificity,
unlike the Gospel narratives, right?
So the Gospel narratives tells us where the appearance took place,
how it looked like, what Jesus was doing, what he was saying.
You could you could turn it into a movie, essentially, right?
And people have turned it into a movie.
But imagine if you were to film the content,
the appearances in First Corinthians 15 based only
on what First Corinthians 15 says, how would you do it?
You, as a screenwriter and director, would have much greater freedom.
You could depict it in many different ways
because it just doesn't tell us any details.
It doesn't tell us where it happened, when it happened,
how Jesus looked like, what he was doing,
what was the nature of the appearance.
And it, for example, it doesn't even tell us how much time
elapsed between these different experiences, right?
He first appeared to Cephas then to the 12th.
Well, was it a year later?
Was it the same day?
Was it, you know, two weeks apart?
Doesn't say that.
And what Christians naturally do is they will impose
the content of the appearances in the Gospels
on to this First Corinthians creed,
because they think it's talking about the same stuff, right?
So when they see it, when they when they read it
and it says he appeared to the 12th, they immediately imagine
the appearances to the disciples in the Gospels.
But the thing is that if we are relying on First Corinthians 15
Creed only, and I already explained where the narratives
in the Gospels come from, then there is no content.
The only content that's there is that Jesus appeared.
So it actually uses the word word horror or horror in Koine,
which means that the the lexical term is just I see, right?
That signifies sight.
So apparently they saw something.
The word because in Greek, kind of the semantic range,
the range of meaning of words was much, much broader.
There were these words that meant all kinds of different things,
right, like logos, apples, atos, topos, right?
Like 50, like 10 different authors had 12 different ways
how they how they like work with the concept and what that meant, right?
And the word horror is actually the same way.
It does in specifically Second Temple Jewish literature
describe purely mental phenomena.
For example, Philo of Harges Andrea uses the same verb to refer
to his personal, mental, like private experiences, right?
So he talks about seeing, but it doesn't mean seeing with his eyes
or in the the Septuagint in the Greek translation of the Old Testament.
It, for example, refers to people's dreams,
like what they experience in dreams.
It says I saw something, but it's a context of dreaming.
But let's just say that this isn't a case, right?
Let's just grant for the sake of argument that these people
that are depicted in the first Grand 15 Creed actually saw something
with their eyes. Now, how do you get around this problem of hallucinations
not being purely mental?
Well, the thing is there are still very many
perfectly plausible phenomena that appear all the time
and that have religious significance that multiple people can see at the same time
because they have external existence.
You can point to them, right?
And like if you point to them, a person standing next to will turn their head
and they will see it as well.
So you don't have to rely when you're explaining it on what's happening in your mind.
You have it can still be something that exists, right?
And out of many, many of these potential candidates, I'm just picking out,
picking one again, just asserting it.
We don't know if that happened.
I'm just saying this is what happened and this is my alternative explanation.
I don't believe it.
I'm just saying if that happened, that explains the evidence equally well.
And it's much more probable,
possibly which is which makes it more probable explanation under this.
This explanation is pareidolia,
which is just a human tendency to incorrectly perceive a stimulus
as a meaningful pattern and pareidolia has a very wide range
of religious applications.
It shows up all the time, not only in Christianity,
but, for example, in Islam, Hinduism and stuff like that, right?
So, for example, you know, believers would see images
in Jesus or Mary or other figures in cloud formations,
tree barks, rock, walls, windows, you know, even pictures of nebulas.
You will see Christians sharing around pictures of nebulas
on social media that kind of look like Jesus, maybe.
And they will assign very like deep, sincere religious significance
to these images and they will use them as evidence
pointing towards their religion being true.
We know that pareidolia, instances of pareidolia,
become very highly valued positions.
They turn into places of worship.
So that's an example of something that has external existence
and multiple people, 500 people, 5,000 people can see it at the same time, right?
They can see it with their own eyes.
So if you imagine, like if you had a newspaper headline,
which is essentially what First Corinthians 15 is, right?
It doesn't give any details.
It's just a very brief summary, a couple of words of what happened.
It would say 500 people saw Mary.
OK, and imagine in 2000 years, we would only have the headline.
We wouldn't have the body of the article.
But actually what the article goes on to say is, yeah, like these people
saw this like optical illusion or they saw a face of Mary on a rock.
And, you know, that became a place of worship.
Maybe a church was built around it.
You know, it's called the church of the face of the Mary on the rock.
And, you know, skeptics, of course, don't take it seriously.
And it's clearly an instance of pareidolia.
But the headline, nevertheless, is going to say 500 Christians saw Mary.
And that's my explanation of First Corinthians 15.
It makes a lot of sense.
I mean, I think it's interesting that Paul even says he saw him.
I mean, he wasn't even part of the original group.
So, you know, this this adds some interesting value to the context,
maybe of like, and how did you see him?
You know, because most of the time in our minds as Christians,
we run to the Gospels, we automatically think of the Gospels.
And we know the 12 were involved.
And another interesting thing is how did he appear to the 12?
According to First Corinthians 15, when one of them was knocked off,
he hung himself or he died in a field.
So how did he appear to 12 when there's only 11?
But anyway, I mean, I'm not trying to create too many problems.
I'm just throwing out funny little hypotheticals in my head.
And what I think is interesting about what you said is he appears to Paul as well,
which is when like how's that's a great question.
Like, what's really interesting is that Paul never actually describes
his appearance, like his interactions with the risen Jesus, right?
Like, he doesn't actually say, I'm hearing a voice or I saw, you know,
Jesus standing in my room or something like that.
The only thing where he gets close to that is this passage where he says,
you know, there was a man who was lifted to the third heaven
and he all heard all kinds of secrets, you know.
And most scholars think this is Paul talking about himself.
He just doesn't want to boast.
So he kind of unanalyzes it.
And he even says specifically, I don't know if in a body or out of the body.
So when the seems the only instance where he's describing what he saw,
what he experienced, he's actually being skeptical.
He's being a good skeptic about his own experiences because he's saying, look,
I don't know if I was physically lifted up to heaven, if I was still in my body
or if this was kind of some kind of like out of the body experience, right?
And obviously, everyone always says the Damascus service experience.
But again, we have to realize that that's not actually narrated by Paul.
Like Paul never says that he had an experience on his way to Damascus.
That's only found in acts.
And again, I'm explaining those narratives as literary creations.
I think there is a really good case to be made that the way
how the Damascus experience is narrated is specifically so that it's modeled
after the conversion of Heliodorus, who was one of the persecutors
of the Jews in the second Maccabees in the Maccabeean literature.
And because if you actually and he again starts persecuting the Jews,
then he has this divine revelation and he even loses consciousness.
And he's taken care of by a righteous person, a Jew.
And then he actually converts and he starts proclaiming the message.
And, you know, people suggested, OK, if we if we had two stories
which were equally similar, like it's not all completely exactly the same, right?
There are differences, obviously, right?
But if we had two stories that had the same similarities,
one of them and one of them was about, let's say, Heracles.
And the other one was about Mithra.
Every other historian, every other scholar would obviously conclude
that either one is based on the other or they are just drawing
from the common like cultural imagery of the time.
They wouldn't say, OK, these are two separate actual instances
of these divine beings appearing, right?
So again, if you if you if you use the same kind of toolkit
that historians use for everyone else and you give
don't give, you know, you just meant then that's that's the conclusion.
And you can give it special treatment like you be a Christian, go be a Christian.
Knock yourself out, right?
Just don't go walk around saying, if we use the history method,
we can actually conclude that this is probable.
I'm saying that's not the case.
Even if you throw in the existing miracles and stuff like that, you know, what's interesting.
I think someone like Laura Robinson and even Ian Mills,
who are Christians, I'm good friends with Ian.
I've actually planned on interviewing Laura at some point
because they do contribute a lot of fine, great information from the
from their education.
But as you see, I've interviewed Ian and I wish my audio I had used.
I have a microphone that attaches to the top of my camera
and it was picking up the transmitter from the Wi-Fi
and it was making a click noise on the audio, which disrupted my audio.
But anyway, I go and interview him all the time.
I bet you he would be as a Christian right here with us, agreeing with everything that we're saying.
Well, I mean, to be honest, I because they are actual like New Testament scholars
or at least they are studying to become one.
I think I don't know if Ian actually finished his PhD if he defended his PhD.
But anyway, I'm not right.
So I can imagine that if they did a review of this video,
they would find all kinds of things that are impossible about my alternative explanations, right?
So they would think, OK, we can establish like this wasn't probably the case given, you know, this evidence.
Some of it I might not even be aware of, right?
But I think they would conclude they would agree with this.
Yeah, we don't know what happened.
My explanation isn't probably the correct explanation.
It's an explanation, right?
But it's still a better story than the resurrection, right?
It's more probable than the resurrection.
That's the key point in using the historic method.
Yeah, if you agree, yeah, they would said that.
Yeah, they would still obviously say, I think that Jesus was raised.
They would have reasons for thinking that, right?
But those would be different reasons.
They don't have anything to do with history.
Exactly. That's what I do have a lot of respect for them for that.
Now, now just to wrap up the point about the appearances, I have to drop my meme.
This is something that's original to me and share the screen if you want.
That's OK. It's just a verbal meme.
This is something that I will definitely become like a very infamous for.
So when I'm proposing Pareidolia as an explanation,
I think we can go even more further, right?
So here's my explanation of for the content of first Corinthians 15.
Now, again, I'm not saying this is what happened.
Just offering it up as a theoretical unobservable,
just asserting it as a hypothesis and saying, if this,
then we can explain all of the evidence better, actually, than a resurrection, right?
And it's going to sound completely laughable, right?
Like every time I say that, especially to Christians, they think it's a joke.
But here it goes, right?
So a large group of early Christian followers were walking outside one day
shortly after Jesus was raised, after they already went through the Old Testament
and they concluded that Jesus was actually raised,
sorry, after Jesus was killed, after they already concluded that Jesus was raised
and that he's now sitting or standing at the right hand side
of God's celestial throne in heaven.
So they are outside on the fresh air and suddenly they see a Jesus shaped cloud
and, you know, Cephas sees it, then the 12th,
then more than 500 brethren see it at the same time,
then James see it and then all of the apostles see it.
And based on that, like this cements, in the sense of Paredulia,
cements, they're already existing belief that Jesus was raised.
Now, is this completely ridiculous?
Of course it is, but it's important to realize that we should not conflate
how reasonable a claim is to believe with how probable it is
that especially religious people would believe it, right?
Because we have a lot of instances of religious people
believing all kinds of things that are not very reasonable.
And we even have like specific instances of religious people believing
these kinds of claims for these kinds of reasons,
like many Christians, for example,
really believe that like Mary appears to them in various
situations where like multiple people can look at it
and you can touch it and stuff like that.
And I think I can actually raise the probability or plausibility of that
and maybe like overcome some of that initial rejection
by pointing out that, first of all,
celestial phenomena was very important in antiquity
and it was associated with the divine.
And actually it seems that instances of Paredulia
are good explanations for all kinds of historical accounts,
specifically where Greek and Roman historians are describing
appearances of divine signs or omens or prodigies
signifying like the will of the gods,
you know, what's happening in the supernatural, in the divine realm
when it comes to specific historical settings, right?
So, for example, in Levy or Plutarch, you will see them talking about
ships appearing in the sky, around shields in the sky,
weapons flying, flaming spears, you know,
there was a huge flame-like body seen to fall between two armies, right?
This is what's actually found in historical writings
next to very kind of mundane, basic descriptions of battles.
Like, do I think that this is describing an actual event?
Of course not. I think these are invented or they are exaggerated.
But I think the insiding instances,
the kind of the reason why this kind of the strobe developed
of specifically assigning, depicting these kind of celestial events
is because there were religious people living at the time
who saw instances of pareidulia and this is how they explained them.
And Cicero, for example, I have a really good quote, he says,
two sons, which, as I have heard my father say,
happened in the consulate of Dudianus and Aquilius,
and in which year also another son was extinguished.
These things terrified mankind and raised in them
a firm belief of the existence of some celestial or divine power.
What he's describing there is specifically the thing that's called two sons.
I think I had the specific name somewhere,
but let me see if I can find it real quick.
Yeah, it's called Pahelion,
which is just defined as a bright spot on one or two sides of the sun.
Right. So and here Cicero is literally saying there were two sons
because that's how it would appear to you just looking at it.
Right. And I think we can go even better than that.
We can tie a celestial motif to Jesus,
especially this motif of seeing Jesus in heaven, you know, in the clouds,
either sitting or standing at the right hand side of God.
We have, for example, the Book of Daniels saying that, you know,
the one like the Son of Man will come with the clouds of heaven.
We have Psalm again, 110, which says,
you know, Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand side.
We have celestial phenomena like the crucifixion darkness.
Peter in Acts quotes various, you know, an Old Testament passage
and he uses it to lay down like various
evidences for thinking that Jesus really was the Messiah.
And it, for example, includes a blood moon.
Right. And Stephen in the Book of Acts again,
what he sees when he dies before he dies is, you know,
he saw heaven open with the Son of Man standing at the right hand side of God.
So I think you can go even further.
And you can say that the specific instance of Paradoleia
that cemented this existing belief in Jesus being the Messiah
was them seeing a figure of Jesus in the clouds
and that convinced them that, yeah, Jesus is really sitting or standing
on the right hand side of God in heaven, in this like celestial kingdom
where he was highly exalted, just like the Old Testament says he would be.
Interesting. Yeah.
That's it. It's completely crazy.
I don't believe it, right?
But again, it's much more probable that something like this happened,
given it happens all the time, you know, than an actual resurrection.
You can go the other route and you can say that what's actually contained
in the creed are some kind of charismatic experiences,
like, you know, Pine Creek says Jesus appears to Pentecostals every Sunday
at eleven thirty when the music starts playing, right?
And I can definitely imagine that there was a group of people
who had this kind of this kind of charismatic experience, right?
And when they were reflecting on it, they say, you know what?
We saw Jesus and they would use this Greek word or Horao,
which the range of meaning would completely cover
the kind of experience that they had, you know, that, you know,
Pentecostal Christians get every Sunday.
That's that's the alternative road.
I like Paraitulia more.
But if you don't like it, then more power to you.
Yeah, I mean, it just shows there's multiple ways of potentially explaining the data.
And there is some ambiguous, you know, you can't be as concrete.
That's what history does, though.
It's never like absolute, you know, a lot of this stuff, at least ancient history
that we're dealing with, you have to deal with probabilities and things like that.
And that's the difficulty.
We go right back to the beginning.
What's most comforting knowing the truth and the truth is this, you know?
So I like that you're presenting that.
But I think there's something psychological, like you said, in a believer's mind
that prevents this being an option.
It's it's almost like a light switch has to go off at some point for them to consider.
Well, could it be even like you see it with brilliant men like Michael
Akona and even he talks about his doubts in the past?
Yeah, well, I mean, there was that there is this kind of famous stream by
you know, capturing Christiana Dica, Cameron Betuzzi, where he had two guys on.
The resurrection for like three hours, something like that.
And, you know, like they were towards the end of the stream.
They were asked by Cameron, which I think is excellent question.
What would be like a viable competing hypothesis?
And these guys were two Christian apologists, right?
And one of them starts sketching a really good explanation, right?
Like I was applauding him if he really spent like one afternoon developing it.
I think it would be better explanation than the resurrection.
You know, and really, like Christian apologists should set up workshops.
They should be like a workshop in this really sit down with your like friends,
you know, take Richard Swinburne, Gary Habermas and try to come up
with the second best explanation for the resurrection.
Really try, right?
And put it out there.
And there you go.
Like you don't have to believe it.
You can still think that the resurrection is more probable even on historical grounds.
Just say, OK, we really tried and this is what we were able to come up with.
And I do that all the time.
Like when I'm talking with a Christian, more often than not,
I am defending opposing views held by different Christians, right?
Just to point out that what they believe about specific issue
is not necessarily the Christian position, right?
Because there are Christians that disagree.
Yeah, that's a great point.
And again, like people are going to be saying, OK,
like I'm just asserting these that these things happened,
but I don't have any evidence for that, right?
Like we don't have any evidence that they saw a cloud.
This is just made up. Sure.
But again, I can just leverage what Christian apologists say themselves
from to my advantage, right?
Like, for example, William Lane Craig says
and this is going to be, I think,
exact quotation that scholars don't need to have direct access
to the that explanatory entities to infer them.
They can just invoke theoretical unobservables, right?
Like if you think about it, this is how natural scientists,
essential scientists, sciences work as well.
If you see something weird in a lab or in nature and you just posit, OK,
there are these things called atoms.
If they actually exist, can it explain it?
It can. So we are it's reasonable for us to believe that they actually exist, right?
But we don't have like any direct access to atoms,
just like we don't have any direct access to what happened 2000 years ago.
We just ask the question,
is this a good explanation of the evidence or not?
In natural sciences, we can, of course, do much better
because we can then specifically create experiments
that generate new data that can either confirm or rule out explanations.
That's something that we can't do in history, unfortunately,
until we have a time machine, of course.
But yeah, like what William Lane Craig is saying is,
look, I don't have to show you a God.
I can just propose a God as an explanation for, you know, morality,
the origin of the universe, stuff like that.
And that's perfectly fine.
It's a theoretical unobservable and I'm doing exactly the same thing.
Just with my hypothesis, right?
So I'm just asserting that these various things happened in history.
I don't have any evidence for that.
The point is that they do the exact same explanatory work
that the resurrection hypothesis does and they do it better
because they are much more probable.
Well, that you bring up a really good point, Camille.
It's I mean, it's not direct evidence.
No, but what you're suggesting has
it has explanatory power because when you compare a religious system
and you have to ask them basic questions,
are you willing to participate in a hypothetical discussion?
Sure. Would you be willing to just go wherever I take you,
even if at the end of the day you just believe what you believe?
I'm not here to try and change that. Sure. OK.
Do you believe there are other religious systems
that believe things that aren't true? Yes.
All right. You go from basic baby steps.
And then you can give them examples of miraculous claims
or people believe they really experience these things,
that those are true and you take them on these steps
and you can kind of start to compare and say, OK,
and then now look at this.
What if I told you that the same level of scrutiny
and criticism you have towards Muhammad, towards Buddha,
towards, you know, whatever the system of religion or God may be,
the deity, the same can be leveled at this book.
And instead of believing what the first hand witness
or account of Muhammad and the Quran or Hadith or whatever
the religious text might be, we're doing the same thing here.
But you're not willing to adventure as this being a possible
or better explanation for the evidence.
You're doing what the Muslims doing that you don't want the Muslim doing.
You want the Muslim to believe in your Jesus or whoever it might be.
I just keep using that example and just kind of like make them think that way.
But see, they don't usually use logic.
It's it's I don't think they come to their conclusions
ultimately based on that, even when I talk to Ian Mills in person
when I interviewed him, I said, Ian, I got to ask you, man,
because he's such a nice guy.
I love Ian to death. I really do.
Like he's such a cool dude.
I said, Ian, you just explained how the apocalyptic Jesus
predicted things that didn't happen.
And I was like, you got to imagine, man, I was a fundamentalist.
So I said, I said, Ian, can I ask you a question?
You know, and he's like, what he's I have this shit grin on my face
all the time, always smiling hard.
And he says, what? I said, I said, Ian, how are you a Christian?
You know, because I couldn't understand it.
And he says, what do you mean?
Like he didn't understand because he's more of a liberal type Christian.
And I said, how can you believe that Jesus said that things would
happen that didn't happen and there were failure?
And he says, first of all, my faith in Jesus is purely subjective.
So I don't use any arguments as like here's historical evidence
or I have evidence or proof of any of it.
I don't even use these texts, so to speak, as proof or evidence.
It's a subjective experience that makes me believe in this faith.
And I said, wow, much respect for admitting that.
Because after that, there's nothing else I could do from there.
It's like I think I would.
I would say that like with, you know, Ian and Laura and, you know, her husband,
I think actually that like their faith is much, much stronger
than faith of a Christian who like needs to, you know, buy books written
by cold case detectives to, you know, boost their confidence.
That's a good point.
You know, their own religion being true, right?
Like I don't think Christianity is true, but you have to at least
like reflect on this, right?
And I mean, if I had a conversation and when I do have conversations
with Christians, my goal is absolutely is not to de-convert them.
The only thing that I want to achieve in a conversation is I want them
to at least consider that if we use the normal like historical methods
that we use for everything else, the most probable conclusion
that we don't, that we arrive is not going to be the resurrection, right?
And that's completely fine.
I, you know, go be a Christian.
I think because I think like there are honestly very, very few Christians,
at least in my experience that believe Christianity just because
of the historical evidence, right?
It's always either arguments in favor of general theism that are then
applied to Christianity.
It's some spiritual experiences, some amazing coincidences.
Like we needed money for surgery and then like a priest show up at our doorstep
with exactly the right amount and stuff like that, right?
Fine.
Like you can have those reasons.
I think almost every Christian has them on top of this intellectual case
based on the historical evidence.
So yeah, I just want to like make them consider that on top of all
the reasons that they already have, this kind of historical stuff,
they shouldn't put it on that pile, right?
You still have a really good pile, right?
They just shouldn't put it there.
But again, like I think that a lot of Christians actually do realize
that if you take this historical stuff out, the reasons that they have
for being Christians are actually pretty weak, right?
Because they imagine, they, for example, realize that, yeah,
every single religion says exactly the same thing as we say about our own minds,
right?
Yeah, I just want to wrap up the appearances and maybe just like very
quickly go through some of the other things that are also put forward as
evidence for the resurrection, right?
So conversion of Paul, Mike Lacuna is just a gift that keeps on giving.
He basically once said that, look, if Paul was the only guy who hallucinated,
hallucination would be a better hypothesis than the resurrection.
Works for me.
Okay, so if I, if I just leave the conversion of Paul completely unexplained,
that's, that's fine.
Still, I get a better explanation according to Mike Lacuna, right?
Conversion of James, a funny thing is the idea that James started as someone
who was hostile to Jesus and then he converted.
That's not found in any Christian, early Christian writings.
That's like, you only get that if you stitch two things together, the gospel of
Mark, when it says that Jesus's family, including his brother, thought that
he's insane, he's crazy and they wanted to drag him away.
And then acts, which depicts James, brother of Jesus, as being one of the
leaders of the church, right?
So you have these kinds of data points and you infer from them that there must
have been something that convinced him and apologists assert that it was an
appearance, although they don't have any reason to assert that, right?
But the thing is that these data points are actually not even in the same text.
They are in two different texts.
And what's really interesting about it is that we all know that Luke, the
author of Luke and the author of Matthew copied from Mark.
And we can actually see what kind of alterations they do when they copy.
They don't copy it word for word, even though they very often do.
They just make changes and they sometimes make changes systematically, right?
So when they change a passage, they always change it in certain direction.
And from that, we can infer what their theological, let's say, goals were.
They used the gospel of Mark as a blueprint and they made alterations
because they wanted to tell a different message, theological message ultimately,
right?
Like if they didn't have any disagreements with Mark, well, they would just
copy Mark, they wouldn't create a new gospel, right?
So if you viewed it in that way, it's really interesting that when both Luke
and Matthew copy the passage where in Mark, it says that Jesus's family
thought he's crazy.
They just omitted.
They don't copy the part where it says Jesus's family is crazy.
Jesus is, Jesus is, Jesus is family thinking he's crazy, right?
They copy the story.
They copy Jesus's family there, being there, but they just drop this specific
claim.
Why is that?
I think that's because the gospel of Matthew and the gospel of Luke are the
only two gospels that have an infancy narrative, which means that it would be
really weird for Jesus's parents being told that their son is, uh,
just as apparently told by like revelations from angels that their son
is going to be a son of God, but then think that he's crazy, right?
It would create this tension in the story.
Like if Mary and Joseph really were visited by angels, why did they think
that Jesus was crazy later in his life when he was doing the exact thing that
the angels told them he's going to do, right?
So they just deleted it.
Uh, and that's why I think, I think this is not historically, this is not
recording actual history, right?
If we traveled back in time, we obviously wouldn't see Joseph and Mary
being visited by angels.
We wouldn't see the matchup.
We wouldn't see the star of Bethlehem.
And also we wouldn't see Jesus's family thinking that Jesus is crazy.
That just wouldn't be the case, right?
So this is how I'm explaining conversions of James.
It's not a thing, right?
You don't even have a case to build, right?
I'm not dismantling the case and just showing you don't, you don't even
have it to begin with.
And then just really quickly hit a couple of things, transformed
lives of the disciples, their martyrdom, the spread of Christianity, shifting
the main day of worship from Saturday to Sunday, the church of the
Holy Sepulcher and stuff like that.
All of that is explained by my hypothesis, just as well as the resurrection
hypothesis, hypothesis.
And that's because in my hypothesis, the early Christians were sincerely, but
mistakenly convinced that Jesus was raised, right?
So they were not scamming people.
They were not trying to sell them on something they knew is a lie.
They really believed that, but they just believed for bad reasons, essentially,
right?
The reasons were not, not connected with actual states of affairs.
And if you just have that one component in your explanation that completely
covers everything like Josh McDowell, or is it Sean McDowell, the younger one,
like his entire career in looking into martyrdom, completely irrelevant, right?
You can just take his book and throw them out of the window because no
problem with martyrdom, right?
If you sincerely believe that Jesus is raised and if you sincerely believe
that you will go to heaven if you affirm him before the Romans and the
Jews, and you will go to hell if you deny him, well, then you are going to
do exactly what the disciples of Jesus are depicted as doing in the
martyrological literature, right?
Nothing to explain there.
Yeah.
So that's when it comes to the evidence.
And I think if you if you're still up to it, there is one last thing that I
want to cover because I kept saying that, okay, I can explain all of the
evidence equally well, but I can actually even explain it better.
Because the resurrection hypothesis is more plausible.
You know, it has better, higher intrinsic or prior probability.
And I kept saying, you know, if you start here and I start here, well, if
you add resurrection here, it's the resurrection claim is going to track
the probability of the whole package down.
Now, why am I saying that, right?
So now let's not talk about evidence.
Let's not talk about explanatory power and scope.
Let's just talk about plausibility.
Because I think this is where my explanations, explanation wins big time,
right?
I can even grant you that my explanation explains some of the pieces of
evidence worse than the resurrection hypothesis.
I would be happy to grant that for the sake of argument.
But I think when it comes to the posterior or the total probability, it's
massively wins because it has this advantage of being very intrinsically
plausible, probable.
And that's because, as I said, the things that make the explanatory work in
my explanation are things that we can establish happen all the time.
Like how religious people think, how they evaluate claims, how they jump
to conclusions that confirm their existing theologies, how ancient
authors compose their narratives and stuff like that.
So that's one side of the story.
And the other side is the resurrection, right?
And of course, apologists are going to say, well, if you reject
miracles and if you don't think there is a God, of course, you are going
to think that resurrection is improbable or implausible.
But to that I respond, I don't reject it.
I actually grant it for the sake of argument, right?
But the problem is that there is, even if you think that Yahweh specifically
exists, then between that belief and the resurrection of Jesus, there is
a lot of steps that you have to make, right?
Just think about it.
As I mentioned, there are billions of people who already believe in
Yahweh in the same God that you do.
Jews, for example, right?
But they don't think it's very plausible that this God would raise
someone like Jesus.
They might think that resurrection sometimes happen, but they don't happen
very often, so the plausibility of that is fairly low.
And Christians, of course, will say, well, Jesus isn't just anyone.
Like, I agree as a Christian that, you know, my next door neighbor, when he
dies, he's probably not going to be raised from the dead by God, at least
not until the age of the age, right?
He will just stay dead.
But Jesus wasn't just anyone, don't you know?
There are good reasons for thinking that God would make an exception and raise
specifically Jesus, right?
And they make these arguments, like Richard Svermband does it, Blake
Guntah does it.
But all of the reasons that they give for Jesus are either circular, ad hoc.
The conclusion doesn't follow, or, yeah, it does raise the plausibility
of the resurrection hypothesis, but it also, proportionately to that, raises
the plausibility of my competing explanation.
So they get like one step ahead, but I also get one step ahead, right?
So I went anyway.
Yeah, so that's it.
And that's the reason why there are these deficiencies with the reasons
that are supposed to motivate you into thinking that God would be interested
in raising somewhat like Jesus are the reasons why, oh, nobody else, apart
from Christians, buys it, buys the resurrection clay, not even people
who worship the same God, right?
We can just look at one example and that's, let's say, Jesus leading
a sinless life, right?
That's like a character trait of Jesus that identifies him supposedly
as a person that God, Yahweh, would be interested in raising from the dead.
And I'm just asking, well, how do you know that, right?
Like, what makes you think that a person leading a sinless life is more likely
to be raised by Yahweh than a guy who doesn't?
They connect the dots.
And what I'm saying is that there is no connective material.
This is just asserted as a component of the theology, but there is no reason
for us to think that this is the case, even if we start with believing
that Yahweh exists, right?
So that's very important.
And we can make it even more spicier because like, remember how at the
beginning we started by accepting for the sake of argument that sometimes
bringing in all of these resurrection instances, right?
I can grant for the sake of argument that the thick book that Craig Keene
wrote about miracles is actually full of actual resurrections that really happened.
But the thing is that now we have a data set of resurrection, like real
resurrections and we can compare those people to Jesus.
You're granting a lot.
Oh, yeah.
But what I'm saying is this actually works in my favor, right?
Because what I'm saying is that if you ask a Christian,
why would God be interested in raising Jesus as opposed to my next
to a neighbor, they will just start listing things that are unique about
Jesus and those are supposed to be the reasons.
But actually, if you look at people who are supposed to be raised, those
reasons don't apply.
Like this, that little girl who was raised in Africa, she didn't lay
this endless life.
She wasn't a son of God, a daughter of God.
You know, she wasn't the son of man or the Messiah.
So why, why think that these reasons are the reasons why God did it?
If they don't apply to any other situation.
And I think the reason why Christian apologists don't see this point is
because they obviously already start with the conclusion that Jesus was raised.
And because they acknowledge that resurrections don't happen that often, or
they will even say that Jesus's resurrection was unique.
It's really a category error to compare it with other instances of
revivification, you know.
Okay, they start with the supposition.
And so they think, okay, okay, well, there must be something unique about
Jesus, and that's the reason why God raised him, right?
So what else is unique about Jesus?
And they start listing these things.
And when they have to list, they naturally jump to the conclusion that, okay,
oh, these might must be the reasons why Yahweh raised him, right?
But what I'm saying is that that actually doesn't fall.
Like there is no, it actually doesn't fall, right?
There isn't anything that connects Jesus having these specific traits with
Yahweh being interested in raising him.
You know, doesn't come from the Old Testament, you know, because the Old
Testament doesn't say, for example, that the Messiah is going to be raised, right?
Michael Acona very famously is on record saying that the claim that the Messiah
will be raised from the dead is not found anywhere in the Old Testament.
And if it was found in the Old Testament, that would just raise the possibility
of my explanation, because that would be the place where a first
Christian got the idea from.
So, you know, how it's, how this is working, right?
Oh, yeah.
So really, for a Christian, the resurrection of Jesus being plausible as
something that God would want to do is it's only plausible if you already
accept everything else about Christian theology, you know?
Oh, yeah.
Like if you think that, okay, God is all loving, there is a sin problem.
The sin problem is so grave that we can't possibly pay for our sins ourselves.
We are actually deserving death, but Jesus, God is so merciful that he's
going to do something about it.
Okay.
The thing that he's going to do, do about it is send his own son specifically
to be killed as a atonement for our sins, right?
If you accept all of that, then I guess it's plausible, right?
But it's like 20 different steps that got you from Yahweh existing to the
resurrection, right?
And you have to stack all these claims on top of each other, for which
there is no external evidence, right?
And oftentimes there's no connection.
Oftentimes you have to create the connection.
Yeah.
But I mean, this is what, for example, it's just when we're does, right?
Like we went, which in Spermburn argues that the resurrection of Jesus has
a, at least somewhat high prior probability, he has to go through like 50
different steps, you know, and with each step, he's adding more and more pieces.
When in the end he has the entire New Testament theology and he's just missing
that piece in the middle.
This is the resurrection.
Well, of course, if you already have that entire mosaic, then of course it's
going to look like that final piece fits there, right?
But this is just because you already constructed the complete picture, you
know, Jesus is the best match with Jesus.
It's not surprising that if you start with the New Testament theology, that it
would make sense in light of that, that Jesus was raised.
But what I'm saying is that you need to have some external reasons for thinking
that Yahweh specifically would want to do it.
And like, if you, for example, look at a book of Church of Chess, who argues
that, you know, God is this perfect being and there are various attributes that
perfect being would have.
Maybe he would be all loving.
He would be interested in what we do and stuff like that.
That's all great.
But it's still like 100 miles away from Jesus being raised, right?
It doesn't even get you incarnation.
It doesn't get you crucifixion, right?
So I don't really see how, yeah, it's either ad hoc.
It's circular, it's non sequitur, or you, as a Christian, get 10 steps ahead.
But I also get 10 steps ahead because it's just going to boost possibility of
my explanation as well.
So this is why I say, look, the resurrection is just so implausible that it
drags all of these other things down with it.
Right.
So even if I just stay, you know, start here, the resurrection hypothesis ends up
being so far this way, that it's hovering somewhere above Fiji on the other
side of the planet, right?
And I can say that even if I grant for the sake of argument that Yahweh exists
and there are resurrections, I am not an anti-supernaturalists, you know, and
this is why Jews don't buy it, Mandians don't buy it, Manikians don't buy it,
Zoroastrians don't buy it, you know, those are old religious systems.
Muslims don't buy it.
Yeah, Muslims.
Yeah.
Yeah, there is a God, you know, in many of them, he's called Yahweh.
He's all loving, obviously.
He's interested in what we do.
He cares about us, runs the afterlife.
Don't you know, there is a system of like sorting people after they die.
But they just don't, like a Jew is never going to wake up thinking, you know what,
like I think especially, let's imagine that there is a Jew living 100 years
before Jesus was born.
Like first century BCE, he wouldn't wake up in the morning thinking,
I think our religion is missing something.
I think it's missing the resurrection of the Messiah, you know.
You just don't arrive there with purely theological and philosophical arguments.
And even if you did, the fact that you can arrive there today means that
the first Christians could have arrived there 2000 years ago without Jesus being
graced. That's what I'm saying, right?
So Richard Svernborn is actually shooting himself in the foot because if he's
correct and the resurrection is very plausible and we can actually establish
that it's very plausible without any historical evidence just based on these
theological speculations.
Well, then it would look very plausible even for the first Christians.
So they would be convinced by it, even though it didn't actually happen.
And they didn't have good reasons.
They only have bad reasons.
So, yeah, that's my explanation.
Well, I hope we can actually get it abated at some point where Christian would
be willing to.
And I'd like to see a structured, a structured format, you know, give them
the outline, let them see what you're going to present, you know, in the sense
that what you're what you're trying to hypothesize.
And let's make something like this happen.
If you guys know somebody who's a Christian, pastor,
apologist that likes to debate on these topics or even would be interested
in like a debate slash discussion, let me know.
Comment down below and go to his channel.
He doesn't have a million people bugging him.
So I'm sure if you go and comment on his videos and just say, Hey,
I saw you over at MythVision, I'd like to get you linked up with this guy.
He'd be interested in debating you, preferably not just anybody, someone
that is in the field of apologetics that is somewhat known.
It would be of interest.
But regardless, if you got somebody who's a pastor, someone is a youth pastor,
someone who's just getting into apologetics, is going to school for this
and has a little bit of a grasp on apologetics, I would like to see that.
I wouldn't want just anybody, someone who knows what they're talking
about to some degree in the apologetics area.
Yeah. And I think there are actually like in apologetics courses,
they sometimes recommend students to go sharpen their teeth and talk to atheists.
Right. So here I am, I volunteer as a test subject, as an educational tool
in your apologetics curriculum could talk to me, you know, like worst case,
I will be unconvinced and the best case you will actually convert me to Christianity.
So there we go.
There is one guy who would be definitely willing to debate,
but I have something, something special for him.
I don't want to spoil it, but it unfortunately does take some preparation,
which I haven't been able to do.
So I'm just saving him for a special occasion.
But apart from that, like anyone, please.
And again, as I'm saying, I'm just kidding.
I think we do know who it is.
I give you, if you've seen me around, you probably do know who I'm talking about.
But yeah, as I'm saying, like I would be just happy to be on the defensive
because I'm like honestly interested in what, you know, Christian apologies
and other people as well have to say about it.
And if there is a flaw that makes it not viable.
Yeah, I want to know about it.
OK, well, ladies and gentlemen, Camille Gregor, go subscribe to the YouTube channel
and let me know what you guys think down in the description.
And this is a long video, but we got to play in the Christian sandbox.
And you guys got to hear from a different angle.
Oftentimes we have a lot of criticisms like we don't grant like he was Oprah.
You know, you get a bus and you get a bus and you get a school.
He was giving away so many grants today.
It was just amazing to see granting this, granting that.
But, you know, on our show, oftentimes we like to like we like to
point out how those things aren't plausible, what that are better explanations
for the narrative like you talked about briefly.
But like let's just concede and look at what we got here, right?
So there are other explanations, no matter how far you're willing to concede
until you concede to ludicrous ideas.
And then at that point, it's like really, you know, so it becomes illogical
or it just doesn't make sense.
So common sense will lead you in the direction of becoming
more skeptical of what we've been told.
And it's really coming down to the subjective experience.
Usually comes down to experience and I experience things all the time.
Listen to good music, loving my kids and my wife.
The seasons change when winter time comes.
I get a scent of the air and the cold weather.
I feel an experience from nature.
And then the spring comes in the summer comes like I experience things.
Christians have similar experiences, except they jump to
two different conclusions about a lot of stuff.
So with that being said, thanks for joining me, brother.
I hope we can do this again and make a debate.
I am now an apologist for my explanation.
You Christians can be skeptics, you know,
you can tell me how you just don't buy it.
And I will tell you that you are biased against my alternative explanations.
So let's have fun.
That'd be awesome.
I'd love to get William Lane Craig or somebody, but he only debates PhDs.
Be cool to have him debate you.
Well, I do have a PhD.
It's just not in a relevant field.
We we already approached a apologist who has that same condition.
And yeah, he said it's not in the relevant field, but I'm working on it.
So book me for like 2026 or something like that, where I should
hopefully have PhD in classics.
And by the way, this is something that we were talking about
before we started.
So we are going to actually time the release of this episode
so that I will be streaming on my channel just as this ends.
So if you like this and if you think that this is interesting
and you want to hear more from me, then there I should be actually
starting my own stream right now on the Kevin Ken channel.
Go right now.
Yes, go right now.
Literally down in the description, click that button.
Subscribe, you'll see that he's live right now.
I won't be there, but he will.
And I'm sure it would be there in your in your stream.
OK, I see.
Are you going to be?
Are you going to be just streaming it like this content?
Yeah, you're going to be commenting.
No, no, no, I have my own.
I can actually give you the topic for the stream.
I will title it one simple argument, which completely destroys
the look and authorship of acts, and it's been put forward in literature
fairly recently.
I haven't seen it before and it was new to me.
I think it's really interesting.
You haven't heard that from anyone else, either an apologist or a non-Christian.
So yeah, if you're interested, if you're wondering what that simple argument
that completely destroys the look and authorship is, then go to my stream right now.
OK, well, we're going to have to check that out.
I'll see you guys there.
Thank you for joining, bro.
And don't forget we are Mithvision.
