Warning, this is an in-depth scholarly excavation of what we call the sinful woman, or what others
have known as the adulterous woman, where Jesus and John 8 is coming to this woman who
had committed some type of sinful act, and he is drawing in the sand facing the Pharisees
of the day.
Stay tuned, I hope you really enjoy this in-depth with Dr. Richard Carrier and Dr. Dennis R.
McDonald, and be sure to subscribe to Dr. Kip Davis.
His channel is in the description, as well as in the comments section.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have switched the arrangement up today, because we're going
to let you see scholars diving into the information about the adulterous woman on this particular
topic.
So Dennis, please take us off.
Derek, thank you very much.
Thank you, Richard.
I'm so looking forward to this.
It allows you to be flies on a wall, to see how scholars work both individually and together,
and agree and disagree with respect to actual texts.
So we're going to do one clip on the famous story of the so-called adulterous woman, which
I prefer to call the sinful woman.
And this will be because, actually, in the history of the reception of the text, she's
not an adulterous, she's a prostitute.
So I'll talk about the pericope, that is, the unit of text in the Gospel, the pericope
peccatory instead of the adultery, because peccatory simply means a sinful woman.
So sometimes I'll actually call it the PP, just to save some time.
I want to introduce some critical texts, modern texts, scholarly books, that are important
for understanding the synoptic question.
The most important of these is Elan's Greek Gospel Parallel, the synopsis of the four
Gospels, and it will remain the standard.
What I'm doing is not a replacement, most obviously because I present the parallels
in English just to make these arguments more available in the modern world.
It also includes the very important issues of textual variance and has lavish footnotes
and appendices that are indispensable for any scholar who wishes to work on the synoptic
problem.
But it has shortcomings, and in fact all of these synopses written before, the one that
I'm working on, share some of these problems.
Let me tell you what the problems are.
First of all, it's difficult to put the Gospel of John coherently in a synopsis because the
Gospel of John itself went through several additions, and these additions are differently
related to the synoptics.
So we have to have a different solution for the Gospel of John.
Secondly, as in the Eusebian canons and in the New Testament itself, the columns are
arranged not chronologically but canonically.
So instead of going chronologically from Mark to Matthew to Luke, it's Matthew, Mark,
and Luke, which means you can't use the synopsis very easily to monitor the growth of the synoptic
tradition as most scholars would want to do.
But your work does go Mark, Matthew, Luke, which is unique.
And it includes Q at the beginning.
So you can see how scholars, myself included, try to reconstruct the lost Gospel and see
its influence on subsequent Gospels.
But anyway, the third shortcoming of the synopsis is all of the intertexts that are brought
into bear on the synoptic Gospels are Jewish or Christian.
Some of them will be patristic, some of them will be Jewish apocrypha.
But it's as if these texts never came out of the Greco-Roman world, so that there's
a silence about all parallels.
There is absolutely no reference to any literature outside of the Christian or Jewish tradition
that is brought to bear on the synoptics, and this is a major problem.
Another is that the Q document is entirely missing.
Now there's huge controversies about the Q document, and Dr. Carrier is one of the skeptics
about it, and surely we'll talk about it.
But it's actually less mysterious than one might think, but the recovery of the document
is very difficult, and it has to do with comparing texts in Greek and having criteria to determine
which of the readings is earlier and later, and that's something we can't do on YouTube.
But we can take an example that is very famous, the so-called Perikope adultery, which as
I said, I will call the Perikope peccatory, and it appears in late texts of the Gospel
of John no earlier than the end of the third century.
And scholars have wondered where it came from, and what we're going to do is an excavation.
We're going to start with the most recent attestation of the text, including the one
in the Gospel of John, and we're going to bore down in the tradition to see how early
in the tradition we can monitor this famous story.
We'll actually then be introduced to the story itself as we go along, but you're welcome
to look up John chapter 7 and the beginning of chapter 8 and follow along in your Bibles
just so you know that we're not spouting you falsehoods.
I can tell you that Dr. Carrier and I are going to disagree at certain points, and that's
all a part of the importance of scholarly discourse.
We aren't in a position to be dogmatic about very much, and so this kind of discourse is
important, and I'm sure that you're going to make your own judgments as we go along.
I'm going to turn to Richard and Derek to see if they have any other introductory comments
to make, and then we're going to plunge into reading an appendix to my synopsis.
Let me say that my synopsis is different in many regards.
That is, it gives a separate synopsis for the Gospel of John, because the Gospel of
John came out probably in three editions, and I think I've unbraided those compositions
layers, and so one can compare the growth of the fourth Gospel on its own.
The arrangement is no longer canonical but chronological.
That is, it goes from Q to Mark, Matthew and Luke, and every scholar can use it by blocking
out the Q column and just doing Mark, Matthew and Luke, so it's intended to be useful for
anyone with a Mark and Priority understanding of the synoptics.
It also has extensive introductions and my own translations of classical Greek poetry,
especially the Homeric epics, but also Athenian poetry.
It also has extensive footnotes on Byzantine rewritings of these stories that use Homer
and the Tragedians as a way of interpreting the biblical text.
This is almost unheard of in biblical scholarship.
I think it's very important.
It also is different from others, because it does include the Q document, and I would
like to think that apart from textual criticism and examining the Greek text, this is going
to be what scholars call the vadi mekkum in the field.
That is, if you want to know how the Gospels function in their literary and historical
context, and how they're related to each other, this is the go-to.
That's my goal, and we'll have to see if other people think it has that virtue.
Anyway, Richard and Derek.
Yeah, it'll definitely have that use.
Regardless of, even if someone is pro-Q or not, this synoptic is super helpful for examining.
They can use it for their own material to try and come up with their own hypotheses for
the construction of the text, but also it allows you to actually analyze the case for
the hypothesis of a Q. That's the kind of thing that we want as historians, is a real
clear breakdown, pieces by piece, so you can actually go in and look at how does the logical
structure of this argument work.
This is going to be extremely invaluable, I think.
I just want everyone to know, we've talked, Dennis and I and Richard, Dennis is open and
honest in saying, he's probably wrong about some of the things, right?
Every scholar is, like, let's be honest.
We don't have everything right, but that's why we are trying to test and constantly test,
and we're not dogmatists like you here fundamentalists who are going to say, we know, and I want
to say in this whole topic, and I want to get right into it because time is limited,
there are Christians, some scholarly Christians, and they are, you could tell they know some
things that are saying, stop preaching from this passage in John because this is not original
and this was not there, and they're literally telling their congregations, this was not there,
so let's not trust that this was something early, and so you guys should stop preaching
from it.
So this will be interesting.
Actually, Augustine knows that early Christians did not like this story, and they removed
it from their copies of the New Testament because they thought Jesus forgiving, a sinful
woman meant their wives could play around, so that kind of stuff.
So I'm looking, gentlemen, at page 282.
282 or 281?
No, 282 now.
Excavating the Pericope peccatory from John 7.53 to 8.11 back to Logoi, which is my word
for the Q document, which is probably its original title.
The most famous version of this controversy between Jesus and Jewish authorities appears
in manuscripts of the Gospel of John, but in none earlier than the late third century,
around a century and a half after the final redaction of that Gospel.
Here is my translation of the core story as it appears in a standard Greek edition.
Derek, can you read the scribes?
Sure.
The scribes in the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery and standing
her in the center.
They spoke to him saying, Teacher, this woman was caught in the very act of adultery.
Moses commanded us in the law to stone such women.
So what do you say?
They were saying this to test him in order to have an accusation against him.
According to Deuteronomy 2221, if a man discovers that his wife is not a virgin, he may bring
charges against her father.
And if they are sustained, the judges will bring the girl out of the door of her father's
house and the men of the city will stone her with stones and she will die.
Derek, pick it up.
But Jesus stooped down and was riding in the ground with his finger, and as they continued
interrogating him, he straightened up and said to them, Let the one among you without
sin be the first to cast a stone at her.
And he stooped down again and was riding on the ground.
But when they heard that his reply, one by one, beginning with the elders, they left
and only he and the woman who had been in the middle remained.
And Jesus straightened up and said to her, Woman, where are they?
No one is condemning you, are they?
She said, No one, Lord.
But Jesus said, I do not condemn you either, go, and from now on, sin no longer.
Three aspects of this text offended ancient readers.
Jesus intentionally disobeys a mosaic commandment.
Second, the text does not indicate what Jesus' finger twice wrote in the ground.
And third, Jesus forgives a woman even though she was guilty and unrepentant.
William Peterson, in an important study, cites Augustine of Hippo as a witness to this last
objection.
Sir Richard?
Certain persons of scant faith, or better, I believe, enemies of the true faith, fearing
that their wives be given impunity and sinning, removed from their manuscripts of the Gospel
of John, the Lord's act of kindness towards the adulterous, as if the Lord had given permission
to sin.
This testimony, together with the remark of Ambrose about the unease caused by the passage,
and the omission in many sources of the words, Uda ego se cata crino, I do not condemn you
either, suggest a motive for the suppression of the story, which Augustine unambiguously
says occurred.
As we shall see, such allergies to this passage were not confined to readers of the Gospel
of John.
That's another, we found another typo.
Here you go.
Such allergies to this passage.
Allergies.
Give me.
That should be allusion.
No, no.
It's allergies.
Really?
Allergies?
Yeah, it's allergies to this passage.
They appear in virtually every stage of the transmission of the tale, including traces
in all three synoptics, and that is the revolutionary part of this argument.
Originally Jennifer Knust and Tommy Wasserman published a magisterial study on the textual
transmission of this agraphon, or extra canonical login, but avoided speculating about its genesis.
They did, however, demonstrate that originally it had nothing whatever to do with the Gospel
of John, and that the earliest witnesses associated with other Gospels.
Now here's Didimus the Blind.
Our excavation begins with Augustine's older Greek-speaking contemporary, Didimus the Blind
of Alexandria, who died at the end of the 4th century, who wrote this.
So again, Derek.
Okay.
We report that in some Gospels, a story, says that a woman was condemned by the Jews
for a sin, and was taken to be stoned at the place where this customarily happened.
It says that when the Savior saw her and observed that they were ready to stone her, he said
to those who were about to throw stones at her, whoever has not sinned, let him lift
a stone and throw it.
If someone is certain that he has not sinned, let him take a stone and strike her, and no
one dared to do so.
When they knew in themselves and recognized that they were guilty in some respects, they
did not dare to strike her.
One of my critics, aware of this important passage, Opinus, in certain Gospels could
refer to the Gospel of John.
Any other Gospel remains speculative.
But Caneust and Wasserman rightly show that the phrase in certain Gospels acknowledges
that the story he was about to tell stands outside the fourfold tradition.
It's available only in certain other Gospel books, according to them.
But it can be regarded as authoritative nonetheless.
In any case, the missing from Didimus' Precy is any hint of Jesus' disobedience to biblical
law.
The villains are the Jews, not Moses himself.
He also does not write in the dirt, so where else might the scribe responsible for the
insertion into John 8 have found it?
We must dig deeper.
The Didascalia Apostolorum.
About a Century Before Didimus, an anonymous author composed instructions to church fathers
called the Didache.
And here I'm going to have to summarize and ask Richard to finish that paragraph, and
then I'll give some extemporaneous comments.
About a Century Before Didimus.
About a Century Before Didimus, an anonymous author composed instructions to church leaders
called the Didascalia Apostolorum, which likewise refers to P.P., but without the three troublesome
details.
According to this author, local bishops should receive those who repent as Jesus did with
her who had sinned, whom the elders placed before him, leaving the judgment in his hands
and departed.
But he, the searcher of hearts, asked her and said to her, Have the elders condemned
you, my daughter?
She says to him, No, Lord.
And he said to her, Go, I do not condemn you either.
Apparently, Jesus, the searcher of hearts, knew that in her heart she had repented.
She does not do so openly, and thus could serve as a model for penitents whom the author
advises the bishops to forgive.
Arno also, do you want me to keep going?
No, no.
The reason this is important is that this document was written in Syria at the beginning
of the third century, and that is that it's about 50 years before the first time we find
the peccatory story in Latin texts and even longer before it enters into Greek text of
the Gospel of John.
So we know that the story was pre-existent, and that we've already seen the Didymus the
Blind saw it in several non-canonical gospels.
Now one of those probably was the Gospel of the Egyptians, because Didymus knows the Gospel
of the Egyptians, and Eusebius says this story appeared in that text, although it doesn't
survive.
But it appeared in more than the Gospel according to the Egyptians, and of course it did not
appear in Didymus's copy of the Gospel of John.
The next example is really quite amazing, and I'm going to have to spend some time on
it.
The proto-gospel of James, it's also called the Prote Evangelium.
No witnesses to P.P. survive between the Didascalia and the mid-second century when one finds
a fascinating potential witness to it in the Prote Evangelium Iacobi.
According to this apocryphon, Jesus discovered Mary to be six months pregnant, and because
he knew the baby was not his, he wanted to keep a secret, her sexual indiscretion.
Quote, Joseph feared greatly, pondered what he should do about her, and said to himself,
If I hide the sin, I will be found fighting the nomos, the law of the Lord.
The legislation that he feared violating appears in Deuteronomy 22, 23 to 24.
Derek?
If a young virgin is betrothed to a man, and if a man is found sleeping with her in the
city, you will bring both of them to the gate of their city, and they will be stoned with
stones and will die.
The young woman, because she did not cry out in the street, and the man, because he demeaned
his neighbor's wife.
Just one verse in Deuteronomy separates this legislation from the verse invoked in the
P.P.
Moses commanded us in the law to stone such women, referring to Deuteronomy 22, 21.
They will bring the girl out of her father's house, and the men of the city will stone
her with stones, and she will die.
The juxtaposition of the commandments in Deuteronomy 22, within a few verses of each other, separate
it only by one verse, is probably not coincidental.
Despite Joseph's occulting of Mary's pregnancy, the scribe saw her baby bulge and ran to inform
the priest.
Hey, look, Joseph has gravely violated the law.
As you can confirm, send assistance, and you will find the virgin to be pregnant.
Now we have some parallels, and I'm going to ask Derek to read the column in the right
hand column, and I'll read from the left hand column.
This is my reconstruction of the story in the Lost Gospel Cue, which I'll defend later.
The elders brought a woman who had been accused of many sins, and standing her in the center,
they said to him...
This is the proto of James.
The assistants went off and found her, just as he had said, brought her to the temple,
and she stood in the court, the high priest said to her, Mary.
And Richard can see the similarities in Greek, and they really are quite striking.
Mary protested the priest's accusation.
She wept bitterly and said, As the Lord lives, I am pure before him, and have not known a
man.
The sinful woman, on the other hand, neither contested the charge against her, nor repented.
The high priest then tested Mary and Joseph by means of the water of conviction, which
proved negative.
So Derek, you're going to do this again.
And Jesus said, I do not condemn you either, u the ego se catechrino go.
And the high priest said, If the Lord God did not reveal your sin, I do not condemn
you either, and he released them.
And the phrase is almost identical.
U the ego creno imas.
So the scholar Peterson, I mentioned before, is going to be read by Richard.
Okay.
We are driven to conclude that some sort of dependence exists between the Proto-Vangelian
and the Pericope Adulterai.
Furthermore, we may stipulate that the form of the Pericope Adulterai, from which the
Proto-Vangelian borrowed these words, must have been similar to the form of the episode
now has, to the form the episode now has in the Gospel of John, in that the transgression
was, one, explicitly sexual in nature, two, the accused was presented by a mob to the
authority figure for judgment, and three, the story contained the words, neither do
I judge you.
The words neither do I judge you are then textual evidence that three consecutive elements
of the Pericope Adulterai, as it is now known to us from the Gospel of John, were known
in the second half of the second century, the date assigned to the Proto-Vangelian
Jacobi.
And that date is not very far later than the Gospel of Luke.
I'm going to skip over the next section, except to say that the story of the woman
who shows great repentance in the Gospel of Luke is Luke's transformation of the story.
The woman in the Pericope Adulterai never repents.
The woman in Luke 7 is excessive in her repentance, and therefore is forgiven.
And Luke has placed that story right after the statement, Jesus is the friend of tax
collectors and sinners.
And in the Q document, in my view, this story, the Pericope Adulterai, Peccatory, explains
that.
But the next item is the sketchy, but is the most important witness to an early date
for this story ever.
The next earliest reference that we have to the Pericope Precatory is a fragment that
is preserved by Eusebius of Caesarea of Papius.
And here's what we find.
Papius wrote his five-volume work before the composition of Luke and John.
It is around 110 CE, give or take ten years.
According to Eusebius, it concluded a tale about a woman who had been accused before
the Lord of many sins, a tale that the Gospel of the Hebrews contains.
So Eusebius does not know it in his copy of the Gospel of John.
He knows it in the Gospel of the Hebrews.
He sees it in Papius and did a Mr. Blind saw it in multiple Gospels.
So it's a widespread, documented tale in different languages at a relatively early
date, but far be earlier than the inclusion in the Gospel of John.
Eusebius clearly did not know the story from the Gospel of John.
Tragically, nothing more survived from the Gospel of the Hebrews relevant to our excavation.
In any case, Papius could not have inherited the PP from that apocryphon, which was written
later.
As we shall see, he probably saw it in his lost Gospel according to Matthew that no
longer survives, that is, the Q-document or the Logo of Jesus.
Now if the Methodian evangelists saw it in the lost Gospel, he omitted it except for
a telltale scrap.
After the charge that Jesus was a friend of sinners, precisely where Luke had located
the story of the repentant woman, one reads that Jesus began to rebuke the cities in which
most of the miracles had been done because they did not repent.
Instead of a story of Jesus forgiving an unrepentant woman, in Matthew one finds him rebuking
entire unrepentant cities.
Matthew also expertly sidestepped Jesus's snubbing a biblical commandment and scribbling
in the dirt.
So before Luke, we also have evidence of this story known in Papius, although the story
has not survived.
And I think it's likely that it didn't survive because Jesus disobeys a Mosaic commandment.
He scribbles something in the dirt and even in ancient texts, people didn't know what
that meant and were somewhat offended by it.
And third, Jesus is forgiving a woman who doesn't repent and apparently was in fact
a prostitute.
And are you suggesting potentially that Matthew's gospel is because it's so Torah minded, so
to speak, he's actually saying, I just rebuked the whole city, like let's get rid of this
hymn disobeying Torah idea if it is there.
Yes, yes, yes.
And especially the issue of repentance.
This woman doesn't repent and Jesus forgives her.
Well, what does that mean?
In the Gospel of Mark, and here things become really kind of dicey, but fun.
Mark is the earliest surviving book about the life and teachings of Jesus and its author
too may have known P.P., but radically transformed it into a defense of faithful monogamy.
Note the impressive parallels between the controversies over the sinful woman in the
lost gospel and over divorce in Mark.
And here I'm going to ask Richard to read the Marken equivalents because of the Greek.
I want you to read the Greek, Richard.
The elders brought in a woman, Gnaika, who had been accused of many sins and standing
her in the center, they said to him, Pharisees came and asked him, if it was permitted for
a man to divorce his wife, Gnaika.
Okay, so there we have the same word, Gnaika, and we're going to find this idea of being
of attempt of testing Jesus or asking Jesus with similar wording in the law of Jesus.
A teacher, Moses commanded us in a teletah in the law to stone such women.
So what do you say?
But they were saying, this detest him, perazintas auton.
To test him, perazintas auton, and in response he said to them, what did Moses command you?
And a teletah, Moses, they said, Moses allowed him to write, grapsai, a scroll of dissolution
and to divorce.
But Jesus, the Jesus, stooped down and was writing, called agribsen, in the ground with
his finger, and as they continued to interrogate him, erotasintas auton, he straightened up
and said to them, apen aftis.
But Jesus, harte Jesus, said to them, apen autois, whoever is not sinned, let him lift
a stone and throw it, and he stooped down again and was writing agribsen in the ground
and no one dared to do it.
For your hard hearts, he wrote agribsen, you this commandment entolene.
Now unfortunately, at this point you can't see the parallel texts, but the wording and
the sequencing here is quite remarkable, and it's difficult to explain those parallels
without some literary connection.
Now, of course, I'm assuming the rightness of my reconstruction of Q, but it's not based
on the Markin account, it's based on the other textual evidence, but I think if you
could see it in Greek, you would recognize that these are very similar tales.
Now notice the following possibility, similarities also, in addition to these lexical ones, and
I'm going to invite my friends to help me do the bulleted items.
So Derek, if you would read the first one, and then Richard the second one, I'll read
the third one, and so on.
So Derek, in both stories.
In both stories, Jewish authorities, elders, or Pharisees, test Jesus.
About sexual issues, promiscuity, or divorce.
In both, at the core of the dispute is what Moses had commanded, and its redaction, I'm
sorry, Moses had commanded, the name of Moses is the subject of the verb, I command, appears
in the New Testament only here in Mark 10, verse 3.
And its redaction in Matthew 19, verse 7, both of which apparently inherited the expression
from Logoi 5, verse 19.
In other words, what Moses commanded appears only in this story in the New Testament, and
it appears in both of these stories about sex.
In both the text to be interpreted comes from Deuteronomy, either chapter 22 or 24, Derek.
Both portray Jesus' opponents as sinners.
And Richard?
Jesus and Moses both wrote commandments.
Confirmation of Mark's transformation of our tale appears just a few verses later in 17
to 21, where Jesus applause and inquire for obeying the Ten Commandments, including the
commandment not to commit adultery.
Whereas Logoi's Jesus disobeys a mosaic commandment to protect a woman, Mark's Jesus loves a wealthy
man who obeyed the Ten Commandments from his youth, and implies that such compliance is
requisite to inherit eternal life.
Mark's transformation thus deathly makes Jesus, Torah observant, removes his writing
in the dirt, and makes his refusal to stone the promiscuous woman as required in Deuteronomy
2221 into a prohibition of divorce as permitted in Deuteronomy 24.
So finally, the Logoi of Jesus.
Thus far the arguments for attributing P.P. to Logoi, or Q, have been external and diachronic.
That is, our excavation digging down.
Our excavation has discovered that the following authors were familiar with the story in texts
independent of the Jehanin witnesses to it.
Didimus the blind saw it in more than one extra canonical gospel.
The author of the Didaskalia Apostolorum expected his readers to be familiar with it.
The authors of the Prodevangelium of James and the Gospel of Luke apparently transformed
it.
Papius's exposition retold it, Matthew snubbed it, and Mark replaced it with a prohibition
of divorce.
Furthermore, the Q plus papius hypothesis holds that the lost gospel was known to the authors
of Mark, Matthew, and the exposition, that is papius, and Luke.
Therefore, if one were to propose the origin of P.P., none would be more attractive than
the Logoi of Jesus, in my view.
The stoning that builders of the critical edition of Q discarded, this one has become
a gem in Q plus.
Even stronger than these external and text critical arguments are arguments internal
and synchronic, that is, inside the text itself.
Logoi's rewriting Deuteronomy accounts for Jesus' disobedience to a Mosaic commandment,
his writing in the dirt rather than stone, and his forgiveness of an unrepentant harmatolos,
or that is a sinner.
And here I'm going to extemporize in order to have a discussion about these texts.
The rewriting of Deuteronomy in the Logoi of Jesus presents Jesus as being concerned
the Jewish law not oppress sinners and tax collectors and the poor, because these groups
are not able to obey the commandments as much as others.
So this idea that Jesus forgives a woman who's unrepentant fits into Jesus being a
chum of tax collectors and sinners.
In fact, in my Q document I preserve the statement in Matthew, prostitutes will enter the kingdom
of God before the Pharisees, that is, the Torah enforcers.
The second thing about the writing with a finger in the dirt probably is an indication
is an alternative to Moses writing the law with his finger, the same word in Greek, in
stone.
Whereas the Pharisees probably are depicted here as Moses writing the law in stone and
every commandment needed to be obeyed, Jesus is writing the same commandment but in the
dirt to show its temporality, its flexibility, that it's ephemeral.
Finally, Jesus forgiving the unrepentant woman, I think that's enough so that the
Perikopei adultery seems to have been known by the synoptic evangelists in my view.
It was too radical for them to retain without adjustments but it fits quite nicely in the
Reconstruction of Q if Jesus is preaching an alternative Torah.
Now, so my Reconstruction of Q, and by the way the synopsis has its own Reconstruction
of it, both in English and in Greek, one could see that it fits really quite beautifully
in the context of the lost gospel.
Now I know Professor Carrier or Dr. Carrier does not hold to the Q hypothesis so my guess
is he's going to be able to follow me down the trail but deviate in the trail at some
point and maybe at more than one point.
I'm sure because Derek is making himself an expert in the field, he's going to have
his own questions so I'm going to stop and let you ask questions.
Yeah, so this is a good example of proving for instance that some version of the Perikopei
adultery predates Luke, I think is the key thing.
So the additional step is does it predate Mark?
So the alternative analysis of this would be that Mark has his passage on divorce, someone
wanted to expand on that, do it a little bit differently, and Luke knows that other gospel,
whatever that is, theoretically.
What would you say against that alternative theory, like what renders that theory implausible?
That Luke knows a text or Mark knows a text differently?
Well that Mark doesn't.
Let's assume Mark, there's no Perikopei adultery when Mark writes, he writes his section on
divorce and then someone expands that into this kind of narrative.
And then Luke is aware of that expanded narrative.
So instead of Q, it's like a Q after Mark rather than a Q before Mark.
Well it requires a hypothetical source but of course Q is a hypothetical source too.
So then we're at 50-50 between two now.
And Luke also knows that many people have written these accounts and it's not impossible
that you'd have that.
The biggest issue for me would be that if that's the case, somebody else came in and
really radically rewrote the Mark and the prohibition of divorce into something that
really is quite permissive and radical.
Deliberately so.
Deliberately so.
Someone's deliberately turning this into a more liberal, inter-terporate case.
Exactly.
So it's not implausible that, so it's possible.
But then I would say that it fits, this, my interpretation of it fits with other things
I would attribute to the lost gospel.
So to ask in the vein, both of you guys wrap your head around this pretty well.
The way I understood that is, and I get where you're coming from, like a post-Q.
Mark doesn't know it, but this is a good question based on when we were reading in Matthew.
When you suggested Matthew snubbed it, no wonder he would snub something like this based
on him being such a pro-geo-Christian.
For people who might not have followed this, it's key to note that Luke almost certainly
must follow Papias.
This is like what crucial component of this.
And this is the thing a lot of scholars don't know or don't think about because someone
might come along and say, well, what if it's Mark, Luke expands it, someone else riffs
on Luke, and then that's the version that Papias knows, but if you're going to do that,
you have to conclude that Luke predates Papias.
Well, why doesn't Papias know Luke in that case?
So that's an important example of how you can do what he's calling diachronic analysis,
where you can show that whatever, there's some version of this that definitely is not
in our gospels now that predates Papias, which means it must predate Luke.
So it has to fall between Mark and Luke, possibly between Matthew and Luke as well.
Or before Mark, if you take his position.
Right.
That's the alternative, right?
So the alternative is that.
Of course, what Dennis will do is he'll, he'll, he builds up many more examples of these.
And then that becomes an argument for a coherent text.
I think that's, that's the case that he's making.
I, I think, I find that entirely plausible.
I just don't think that final step of confirming that these all came from the same pre-Mark and
Q is the evidence is strong enough to be confident of it, because all these authors are doing
riffs off of Deuteronomy and doing these kinds of things.
And we have many examples of trying to liberalize passages as a trend in the gospels, especially
the further on you get in the gospels outside the canon.
So, so I'm not convinced by it, but I, I like the theory.
It's plausible.
And of course, what we would have to do is replicate such a detailed analysis for all
of the places where you have a diachronic traditions in this.
Which is what this does, right?
This is what this does, but we can't do it on YouTube.
Right.
Not on video.
This is really cool.
It's because both positions in my head actually work themselves out like you're suggesting.
The creativity of each author, they're all seeing, well, I mean, to some degree, even
Marx sees Jesus as this newer, better Moses Elijah, all of that.
So he's not quite as like.
Even Matthew is doing that as well.
But yeah, all the gospel authors, that's kind of the Christian thing, right?
As they depict Jesus as somehow a superior improver on Moses or superior interpreter
of Moses.
And my thing is that if Mark knows Q and he's got this parikopee, this center.
That's another point.
Yeah.
Why is he going to marriage?
This analysis requires you to assume Mark knew and used Q and, and that I find more
plausible than the standard traditional Q theory where the, oh, Mark doesn't know Q, because
I find that a circular argument.
And so this is a much more plausible construction attempt.
One more question in this vein for you, Dennis, and then maybe you might agree with what
I'm assessing here in Mark, when we read that, Mark, if I'm not mistaken, he's not like,
it's talking about marriage in his passage.
Why would Mark look at this in Q, see this parikopee adultery or this sinning woman and
then write it about marriage instead of, in particular, what we see come later?
Oh, that's a great question.
And I have a better answer.
Okay.
We already know in our excavation that the text was embarrassing to people in Augustine's
world and with Ambrose, because it can be interpreted that Jesus is okay with people
being promiscuous and their promiscuity can be forgiven.
Now that's not what's going on in Q.
The issue is Jesus's compassion and reinterpretation of Jewish law and making it more flexible.
After all, Jesus is writing the same commandment in the dirt, apparently.
He just wants to make it flexible so that people are not harmed by the law.
So Mark reads that, and he has the same problem that people had in the 4th century reading
the text.
Is Jesus allowing promiscuity?
Can people be forgiven for being prostitutes without their repentance?
And we see that's obviously the case in Luke, where Luke makes it into a story of an extraordinarily
repentant woman.
So Mark wants to have reset the stage and have Jesus affirm marriage.
And a few verses later, he has this man who obeys all the commandments and Jesus loves
him, and you have to do this to inherit eternal life.
So he's embarrassed, like the rest of the tradition, that Jesus is allowing promiscuity.
Before we go, what would your alternative to this be?
You get where I'm going in my head.
No, that's what I was saying.
This is an example of proving that there's at least a third source that Luke is using,
at the very least.
So the question is, is that a source?
Is it the same source as all this other stuff comes from, like the coal-constructed theory?
Is it a source that predates Mark?
Is it a source that builds it, built on Mark?
And so for me, there's too many possibilities, and we can't rule them out.
We have one elegant theory that fits, and so I find it entirely plausible, but I don't
see enough evidence to confirm that that theory of all the alternative theories is the one
that is correct.
But there is something interesting being done here, regardless, which is that this does
prove that Luke must be using a source that we don't have.
So that is a key takeaway from all of this.
And I have to point out, so this is just a really good example, and this whole book that
you've created, this whole synopsis, is what allows scholars, or even if you lay people,
if you really want to get into the material, to actually do this stuff, to actually check
all of these examples to see like, okay, what can we get out of the diachronic analysis
of all of these texts?
And also the Greek parallels, because even if you don't know Greek, you can look on the
page and you can see the similarities, the etymological similarities between the letters.
So even a lay person can benefit from this, but especially scholars.
So it allows you to actually gain insights, like that's the fact that we're looking now.
There must be some source that Luke has modified.
And also it allows you to test different hypotheses, right?
So you don't have to agree with the hypothesis that's being promoted here.
This is just a hypothesis that you can test, but because the structure of the book, the
synopsis and everything, all the material is here so that you can actually evaluate
that hypothesis and test other hypotheses against the evidence available.
Exactly.
And by the way, you'll notice that this is in an appendix.
It's not in the synopsis itself.
So the argument is cumulative and it requires one to compare the texts earlier on.
And this is an answer to someone who is skeptical about the inclusion.
But the other thing I like about it, and Richard, I thank you very much for highlighting this,
this helps one understand how one can read the Gospels non-chronologically, that you
can see how the tradition grows by doing an excavation of the most recent example, let's
say the Gospel of John.
Then you can drill down to the Gospel of Luke, you can go to Matthew, you can go to Mark,
and then you can assess, is there anything further?
Right.
What about the historical Jesus?
What about a Q, Doctor?
Triangulate.
What about my...
You can triangulate with external sources that are relevant, like Papias, Augustine,
Ambrose, and all that.
And it tells you how the text was read and seen.
The Progeny of Galeon of James and others.
How it was embarrassing.
Yeah.
So I find this fascinating too, as a lay person, you can at least get someone who's done this
for a long time, come to a conclusion, seeing what he says, and then poke holes and say,
is there a blind spot or are there other possible...
And then you can test that.
The material is here for you to test any theory that you've come up with.
That's what makes it so unique.
So if you're comfortable and you go, you know what, I'm going with his conclusion.
And I should...
A lot of scholars will write a book and then they'll make their case and they leave out
a ton of stuff, right?
So they just look how confidently I can reconstruct this narrative.
But it's hard to test because they haven't put everything in.
So this book has the advantage that it has everything relevant is here.
There's nothing that's left out.
So that you have all the material basically sitting on the table that you could use to
test various hypotheses, which is this, that's what makes a resource like this so valuable.
And so useful.
And this is the kind of thing I've been looking forward to.
Well, and let me put a coda on that.
The importance of this book is that is not that people know what I think.
It's rather that the texts are out here so people can make their own judgments.
This is not my victory.
I'm hoping it's the victory of the texts themselves.
Right.
Yeah.
In the way that I traveled with you and him at the same time, it was really cool having
you also come in and say, okay, look, you're already looking for potential alternate ideas.
Yeah.
And which one should I always do?
Even if it's a theory you are advocating, the one thing you should do is how do I falsify
my theory, right?
So you're always like, well, what could be true and how would I, what could, what otherwise
could be true and how would I know it?
And that's the thing that scholars need to do most of all, right?
Is to like actually try to just prove their own theory as much as possible.
And then because it's by failing to do that, if you've done it sincerely, if you've really
tried not rig the game, but if you've actually sincerely tried to refute it, done everything
possible and you failed, that's how you gain confidence in a theory.
And this is a tool that helps doing that.
So at the end of the day, if I could say to my Christian scholar friends who would like
to have people know whether they should still be preaching this or not, this isn't some
third, fourth century necessarily complete interpolation of something.
Sure it goes missing.
We know why.
Here's some evidence.
But if you're a person who's a believer who wants to preach a sermon, I wouldn't steer
clear from being able to do that.
That is a really good point.
I mean, quite frankly, if you're, if let's get into the mindset, if you're a devout Christian
and you think these texts contain deep meaning that you want to extract from it, you have
to have this tool because you don't know the Gospels until you know these things, like
these parallels and stuff, the relationship between them and even the underlying Greek,
like you don't have to read Greek to see the underlying Greek matching up and stuff,
that like this, even for a devout Christian who wants, thinks this is the Word of God,
this is a tool that you even you could use for that purpose and for really getting to
understand the Gospels and their purpose and their meaning.
And it allows, it puts pressure on people who want to preach from a text.
If they compare the text across the page in a synopsis to think theologically for themselves,
which of these versions makes most sense to you?
And can you see that the text you might want to preach on is problematic already in the
Gospel tradition?
Because these texts aren't saying the same thing.
And the advantage of an assessment like this with Q, whether you, wherever you want to
place missing pieces, is that you can see that they are struggling with the Jesus tradition
and changing it in a way to make it more compatible to their own Torah observance commitments
or attitudes towards sexuality and so on.
So it really is, it's intended to be almost an endless, to encourage endless thinking
about how the text works.
Thank you.
