We are MythVision, home of MythVision Podcast and MythVision Radio Group.
My co-host is Kevin Maxwell.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams.
Check us out on Facebook and give us a like, will you?
On YouTube, you can like, subscribe, share, comment, contact us for sure, and be sure
and grab that Patreon and PayPal so we can keep bringing you the best, okay?
On March 14th, we've got author Bill Darleson talking to us about his brand new book, Moses
the Matador.
That's right, we get to shoot the bull with Bill.
You know I couldn't resist that, right?
Ladies and gentlemen, we here at MythVision love to hear that our show is helping people
to live, to think through important issues to express themselves.
And one of our famous viewers says he has given up a life of crime and is now going to church
on a regular basis because of our show.
Don't worry, he's not becoming a pastor.
He was Batman's arch enemy and winner of the Best Dressed Villain Award for four years
in a row, the Thinking Person's criminal, please welcome, the Riddler.
Riddler, I thought you were serving a jail term.
Oh, I'm a changed man, guys.
The Riddler goes to church now.
It's a Riddler's paradise.
Everybody has questions and nobody has any answers.
That's why I watch your show.
The myths you guys talk about give me plenty of material for new Riddles.
Here's one.
Riddle me this, Batman.
Oops, old habits.
Riddle me this.
What's allegorical, esoteric, astrothiological and red all over, Riddler out.
Dag, Riddler, you're going to do us like that?
You're going to drop the mic like that?
Kevin, can you solve that, Riddler?
The Riddler says, what's allegorical, esoteric, astrothiological and red all over?
What do you think?
I think the answer is the Bible because you got the allegories, right?
Jesus says, I speak things hidden since the foundation of the world.
There you go.
That's beginning to the end.
That's allegory.
You got esoteric, right?
You can study the Bible your whole life and you can learn new, deeper meanings.
You got astrothiological because, of course, he says to look to the sun, the moon and the
stars for its second coming and it's red all over, right?
People read it all over the world and it's also red.
It's the blood.
It's Adam.
It's the last supper, so that makes sense to me.
Wow, Kevin.
That makes a lot of sense to me too, but I was just wondering if the answer is him.
The Ritler, you know, because he was red all over.
He was pretty angry when he first started listening to the show because the truth will
make you free, but before that, it'll piss you off.
Our special guest today goes by the name, Truthseeker.
He's a Christian mystic, visionary artist, interview program host and rapper who operates
under the office of prophet and seer with a vision to release the spirit of awakening.
He's the host of the Truthseeker podcast, a weekly show that discusses spiritual esoteric
and metaphysical topics and is designed to help people grow on their spiritual journey.
He was born in Homa, Louisiana and is married and lives in Mobile, Alabama.
His website is truthseeker.com.
That's one word and Seeker is spelled S-E-E-K-A-H and his music and podcast are on iTunes where
you can download the MP3 versions.
Truthseeker is available for individual private sessions offering intuitive personal and guidance
techniques to awaken your life's purpose and creativity as you go into your journey of
inner peace and transformation.
Welcome to MythVision Truthseeker.
It's great to have you with us.
Hey, thanks guys for having me.
I look forward to it.
Man, us too.
You were born in Homa, Louisiana.
You know, I used to go there to rehearse with a singing group I belong to.
Do they still do the Native American festival down there every year?
I think they do.
I think they do.
I didn't stay there long, just a couple of years and then I moved on the east side of
New Orleans.
Yeah, but I've heard about it, so I'm not really sure though.
Wow.
Man, you're out of the frying pan into the fire because I'm from New Orleans, so you're
not going to get away from me at all tonight.
There we go.
Yeah, so do you have a Native American heritage since you're from Homa at all?
Yes, my mom is on the road, but the Porch Creek Indians out of Atmore, Alabama.
So my mom, through my mom's side, I'm a Creek Indian, Muskogee Creek.
Man, man, beautiful, beautiful.
Tell us something about your key spiritual experiences growing up and maybe your early
religious framework.
Yeah, I would say a lot of it kind of happened early, especially being over there in Louisiana
around New Orleans, the home of that area, is the fact that Voodoo is practiced over
there.
It's kind of nonchalant.
I just remember my earliest memories when my mom and grandmother would get into quarrels
with other women and other people gossiping.
They would burn candles and they would call each other up and say, hey, do you have a
red candle?
I need a bar, a candle from your girl, and it's like, oh yeah, I got one for you.
Come get it.
And they would just exchange candles, and it was just something that they would do.
So there was always these different candles burning in the house, and that's something
that was done commonly.
It wasn't looked at as witchcraft or something taboo, and that's just something small.
So being in a house where that kind of stuff was practiced openly, and there's like packs
made with spirits, whether knowingly or unknowingly, we were susceptible to that kind of stuff.
And then my parents had a partying lifestyle, letting drunk people and drug use come in
and out of the house.
So there's all of these different things going on in the spirit realm as well.
So mind you, I would wake up as a kid, remember like four years old with beings in my room,
outside my bed, or pinning me down to the bed as a kid.
So I feel like some of the stuff that my mom and dad were entertaining was like opening
up doors to the spirit realm, to these other entities coming through.
So as that scared me as a kid, it piqued my interest into the occult, or at the time just
kind of trying to figure out what was that?
What were those things?
And asking people, hey, have you ever had this happen?
And then you hear people say, yeah, I've had this happen, and this is what they're called.
They're called witches.
And they're good.
And sometimes they, I've heard stories that they wake you up in the middle of the night
if your house is on fire, and you just hear these different lore and these stories and
it just kind of piqued my interest because I knew that something was real on the other
side.
So was that like the beginning of your journey with the supernatural was like when you were
four years old then?
Yeah.
I think everything kind of points back to that, man.
Just some of the, you know, the founding things that kind of happened when you were
younger and just seeing other stuff.
So that kind of stuff got me into more of the supernatural stuff on television, to more
of the supernatural stuff in film.
So I'm watching movies about witchcraft, you know, and I'm just obsessed with it.
And the other side and then as a teenager, begin to be, you know, rebellious and try
to tap into some of that stuff and was still hungry for it.
And as I look back at all stems from the stuff that happened when I was a kid.
So I got into witchcraft.
If I got into occultism as a teenager, Satanic Bible, just wanted to find out what was on
the other side.
But then I had this encounter where my mom actually moved in with this guy she was dating
and his son kind of mentored me and he was in his early thirties and he would take me
to play basketball and stuff like that.
And he would always invite me to church.
He was a Christian guy.
And I knew about Christians, but they were kind of a joke at the time.
They were just what they, they were known for what they didn't do.
We don't smoke, don't watch the Simpsons, you know, things.
So you know, that was my, you know, idea of what a Christian was.
But when I met him, it was a little bit different.
I could tell that he cared about me, right?
And so he kind of, he kind of mentored me and I never would go to church with him.
He'd always asked me to come and I never would.
And he didn't, he would invite us to Bible studies and I didn't really want to go to
a Bible study either as a teenager into the occult and into stuff like that.
And, but finally he told me one time, he said, you know, once you come to this Bible study,
there's going to be a prophet there.
And I said, okay, what's a prophet?
He said, well, a prophet is like a Christian psychic almost someone who can like read your
future and tell you things about yourself.
They hear the voice of God and that kind of piqued my interest like, wow, this is, this
is pretty cool.
Sure.
I would try this out.
So I went to the, I went to the Bible study with them and it was just a little home meeting
and I just noticed it just seemed different.
It seemed like the people there had a peace about them that they just enjoyed life.
They enjoyed being in their body, maybe, you know, as just being a depressed kid with this,
just wearing this shell on me, I would see these people just kind of letting their guard
down and they were listening to worship music and crying and had their hands raised and
I've never seen that before, you know.
So I just sense a really a peace there and this, this guy come up to me and that, uh,
he said, Hey, Derek, my name is Brother Barry and, uh, would you like to ask Jesus to come
into your life and forgive you of your sins?
And I thought about it.
I didn't, you know, go there wanting to be a Christian or anything like that.
But you know, the question, do I want Jesus to forgive me of my sins and I'm like, yeah,
I don't want to, I don't want him to hold my sins against me, you know.
So I said, yeah, and he led me in a prayer, you know, the prayer of salvation or whatever
and, uh, you know, acknowledging that Jesus died on the cross for my sins and what he
did and the propitiation for me and he gave his life in my place.
And so I said that prayer and immediately when I did this immense fire came down my
back and I just started to cry and weep and shake and started to sweat and I felt like
it was burning out all the wrong stuff that I had ever done.
Every time I've lied, cheated, stole, did, you know, curse people, anything I've ever
done, I felt like it was being washed off of me and cleansed out of me with this consuming
fire and I would just begin to shake and I didn't, I had no idea what it was.
Nobody coached me.
I said, Jesus asked you to come into my life, forgive me.
You know, I went through that prayer and then immediately this heavenly fire come upon me
and it was so beautiful.
I went home and, uh, got rid of all of my CDs and clothing and, you know, send a little
drugs I had, the weed or whatever.
And I was a teenager.
I was 13 when that happened and that was in 1998 and, um, so I gave my life to the Lord,
started doing the Christian experience, going to church, going to Bible studies and we would
kind of cultivate that presence, you know, we would go to church, but we couldn't wait
to leave church because we would always go to somebody's house for like a deeper, we
would say Bible study, but it was essentially a prayer meeting.
Everybody would hold hands and pray and other people would get to encounter that same thing
that I encountered and I would get to kind of stick my hand back in it and then bring
it home and cultivate it by reading the scriptures and God just kind of, you know, opening up
the description, revealing it to me and showing them, uh, showing themself to me through it
and that presence will come upon me while I'm reading the word and I just get caught
up as a teenager and it just felt so good, so refreshing, so euphoric.
And so that was when I was 13, I fell back into the dark stuff because I was, I had moved
to a new town.
I didn't know anybody but the Christian people as I went to school for the next year we started
the school year, I got into, um, some of the occult stuff, I started hanging the first
day of school, I started hanging with the, you know, people who listened to corn and
Marilyn Manson and you know, Metallica stuff like that, the darker music and I just started
hanging with them slowly but surely just kind of weaning away from the church stuff, you
know, and so I ended up getting into that and, um, you know, using drugs and acid and
stuff like that for the first time and really the Christian thing was behind me but I was
still was striving for something deeper.
I knew the other realm exists, I knew demons exist from my childhood, I knew God existed
so, um, I ended up meeting a witch, he was a warlock and, uh, he was, um, he was a lot
older than us and, but he was really good at what he did.
We would go to parties at his house and there would be like 30 teenagers just hanging out
on a Friday night and he would teach us stuff out of the, uh, uh, the Satanic Bible and
some stuff from like the different Wiccan materials and stuff and I was just consuming
it all and, um, he'd tell us all these stories about demons and spirits and dreams and I
would just consume with it so I ended up like every time we would go over there people were
just drinking and hanging out but I wanted to hear from this guy.
So I basically began to just kind of, kind of show me the ropes and teach us little spells
and stuff like that and, uh, I ended up getting into a situation where I, um, went back to
Louisiana at this time, um, I was in Alabama but I moved to Louisiana and for the summer
I just came back for a couple of days to visit my girlfriend and I needed a place to stay.
I was staying with different friends because I was only going to be there for a couple
of days, um, staying with some friends, um, and I'd stole everything from them because
I knew I was going to go back to Louisiana for the summer, uh, had a duffel bag, I'd
stay with a friend and I would take video games and t-shirts and CDs and I'd go stay
with another friend, same thing, t-shirts.
See, I had a huge duffel bag full of all types of merchandise and then my mom was supposed
to come back and get me that Sunday night.
Um, well that Sunday night she, she didn't come to car, she had car problems so, uh,
we needed another place to stay but I couldn't go back and stay with the people I've been
ripping off so we asked the warlock, hey, can I crash on your couch?
He said, sure, why not?
You know, and, uh, so that was like Sunday night, um, I ended up stealing some stuff
from the warlocks, just some video games that he had laying around, put them in my bag.
My bag was across the street at another friend's house stuck, stuck down in his closet, um,
so he's still having these parties and my mom's still having car problems and can't
come get me so we're trying to find these places to stay so I'm going to be staying
with the warlock again, um, the next night and there was a party there, there's all these
people, um, over at his house and they were, they're drinking and a bunch of teenagers
and stuff and, um, so there was a bunch of people, other people there, a bunch of older
gentlemen who I've never seen before and they were all wearing all black and just all sitting
in a circle in the, in the living room area with a house full of teenagers just kind of
hanging out and drinking and stuff like that and, um, they, uh, actually lit up a joint
and my cousin was with me and they were passing the joint around and we were going to smoke
and just hang out with everybody or about that time, um, the door opened and another
friend comes walking in to the party, holding the game that I stole from the warlock and
I seen it and he hands it to them and they look around at each other and they said, okay,
we know what we got to do and they're all into gang involvement, like they get into
some crazy esoteric, uh, insane gangster disciples, like reading the Bible upside down
and crazy folklore that goes with their stuff and they, so they, they take it serious.
I thought we were going to get jumped right there.
Uh, one of them stood up, walked to the back.
I thought they were going to go get a gun or get a bat.
Another one stood up, walked to the back, another one stood up and they all went to
the back and I looked at my cousin and said, hey, we got to go right now.
He said, why?
There's a bunch of girls here.
We're about to smoke a joint.
You know, we're going to stay.
We got to go now.
You know, you didn't see what happened.
So we get up and walk outside.
I told him what happened.
He's like, oh man, kind of panicking a little bit.
Uh, there was some guy in this car talking to some girls and I asked him if he can give
us a ride down the road.
My girlfriend lived right down the road with her parents and we're going to just go crash
at her place and, and, and sleep in her tree house where we had stayed one of the nights
while we were down.
So he brings us towards her house, drops us off, uh, just maybe two blocks away and we,
so we can walk and kind of sneak up to the tree house without being seen by her parents.
We're walking up there and there's a tree line there.
So we're kind of hiding in the tree line around by this field, you know, just trying
to see when we can make a, um, a beeline to the tree house without being saw seen.
And, um, so we're sitting there looking and I see this light and this light's floating
around back in the yard.
And for some reason I felt like this, this light kind of mesmerized us as we're watching
it.
I felt like it was her dad.
I don't know why, but I felt like it was her dad walking through the yard with a flashlight.
And we, we, we, we probably watched that light for about 45 minutes and until the sun went
down.
And so as the sun's going down, it's not dark yet.
Um, we like, okay, we got, we got to make a run for it.
It's getting dark.
The light goes away.
We walk around to the side of this big open field by the trees.
And then this being appears, um, and the best thing I can describe it as is like a eight
foot tall camel appeared out of nowhere, darker than the blackest of night, runs by me and
my cousin screams, knocks us down, both of us down to the ground and disappears on the
other side.
We get up freaked out and we run as fast as we can to the, uh, to the tree house.
Her dad ends up coming outside because the dogs bark in and they ended up finding us.
And anyway, um, after that time, we started having all this weird stuff happening and
my girlfriend started hearing all kinds of stuff outside of her, her window.
People walking around sounding like moaning noises and stuff, seeing random lights outside
of her window.
Just really eerie stuff.
I ended up going back to Louisiana and, uh, staying in the woods with my mom and, uh,
in a little trailer and, uh, she's going to work working all night at the bar rooms and
I'm at home reading the satanic Bible and doing satanic rituals after all of this stuff
happened.
Um, and I start hearing stuff as well.
You know, trying to make these packs with demons and stuff and, uh, uh, ended up, um,
you know, uh, you know, getting in over my head after all this stuff and, uh, got to
a place I didn't want to be.
Um, my girlfriend ended up moving to Louisiana with me when she graduated.
So we just live with my grandmother, uh, still doing tarot readings and witchcraft and opening
up our minds to spirits.
We would steal books from the, the bookstore, the witch, we'd steal with witchcraft idols
and all kinds of whatever we could from the witchcraft store.
We'd take all that stuff and then go to volunteer nobles and we get all these books.
So I'm trying to do all the rituals and I'm reading like every book and just seeing which
one will work.
Cause I know that side is real.
You know, I've seen some type of demons, some type of being and you think that that would
scare you and say, stay away, but that kind of let us fire him is like, no, if he can
do it, I can do it.
If he can summon demons, I can.
So what, what ended up happening was they said that that was a, uh, a, um, elemental
spirit that he had a protection spell on his belongings that it would, uh, come back and
track his stuff down.
If anybody ever stole anything, it would protect his belongings and they came out and, and
would, you know, torture the people who did it.
So he ended up getting his stuff back and it just kind of like, kind of, you know what
I mean, I lingered around just kind of, kind of messing with us or whatever.
But I got deeper into it and doing all the laying down and opening my mind and trying
to get these talk to any spirit I wanted to come through all of it.
I did all of it.
And just crazy.
You know, if you're going to do that, that's not the way to do it.
Like it should be done in order or something.
If you're going to, there wasn't a way to.
T, T at what point did you know you were free from the wrath of the warlock?
I mean, come on, man, you, you ripped off a warlock.
So, so at what point did you finally feel peace about that and regain your composure
in the Lord?
If I can put it that way.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, that came a little bit later.
I ended up, um, even before I got into, got, got back into the Lord, I would, I would go
over there and hang out with, with the old friends and I see, ended up seeing the warlock
after and I apologized to him.
I said, Hey, I'm, I'm sorry, but you have to tell me what did you do?
Like what was that?
He's laughing.
What do, what is it?
I want to know more, you know, and then he would take us even deeper and show us things.
But I need to picking up some weird stuff though, because like I found out, um, even
though he would share these interesting stories, he would be, he would be tortured and, um,
tormented by the spirits as well.
He would, um, you know, say, he would wake up in the middle of the night and he would
think that all of these people were at his house having a party and he would walk into
the living room and not a soul is in his house.
He would hear, you know, an audience and stuff.
And then, you know, have these, he was tormented by these demons, even though they gave him
power and things.
So that's one thing I picked that always lingered with me, but, um, back in Louisiana, I'm doing
all of these, these saying, all this and stuff, trying to get to a level to where he was.
I want to be able to summon demons to, to, you know, at my command, uh, cause it's possible
and, um, open it up my mind.
It took me into another realm, another portal.
I had no control over it.
Um, it got really bad because, um, I would be sitting down watching television with,
with my girlfriend and immediately I would be sucked into a trance into another realm.
There's colors, there's shapes, there's spirits, there's ghosts moving around and I, it's,
you can't even make it out.
You know, and, and, uh, I turned pale, I can't breathe and I start sweating and get really
cold, get real clammy.
And then finally I catch my breath and I'm pulled out of it and I'm crying cause I can't,
I feel like I'm going insane.
Like, and it would just happen at random time, just sitting around the house.
My health got really bad.
I started coughing up blood every day, just feeling tormented.
I ended up having this weird schizophrenia come upon me.
Um, ended up becoming a hypochondriac.
Every, every medical condition that I heard on television, I thought I had it.
We're just flipping through the channels and there's a medical show on and somebody's
talking about testicular cancer.
I remember it, this guy or brain cancer.
It was just overwhelming feeling that I had it and, uh, it was, it was demonic is what
it was.
And so I felt that and so I had problems breathing and stuff and like, I knew I was at Witson
and it would, it was scary.
I would see shadows run by the TV and at the corner of my eye watching me and I got to
a place I didn't want to be.
We'd be out in public trying to order food at McDonald's and I can't look nobody in the
eye.
I'm having a whisper in my girlfriend's ear.
Let me get the number three and they would ask people ask me questions and I just turned
away.
I just couldn't look.
I can feel spirits communicating with me through people and stuff and, um, so I knew
about that piece that I have found in Christ a couple of years before that beautiful presence
of the Holy Spirit.
Um, so, you know, I remember that piece that, that love that I found and I was just in this
place that I was like, man, it's no hope.
I felt like I'm going crazy.
Like I'm going to have to check myself into a mental institution.
I just have a question because I just read this book.
It's called, uh, The Laughing Jesus by Timothy Freik and Freik.
Yeah.
And he was, he was on our channel pretty recently, but he's talking about, uh, dreams
and, and lucid living and, uh, how to sort of awaken and, and he's talking about how
a dream is like, well, first of all, are you the dream or are you experiencing the dream?
And he's saying, well, it's actually, we are the dream and we're experiencing the dream.
So I'm wondering, okay, what's actually happening psychologically, uh, with these supernatural
experiences?
Cause the Bible also talks about, uh, whoever has faith, uh, they will see it.
And I'm like wondering like, well, if we believe that there's these demons and stuff, uh, is
that why they're appearing and like, um, so, and there's like, cause there's these
preterist community who thinks, well, Satan's been destroyed now and, uh, because they're
looking at these time statements and, and I'm like wondering, okay, how do we actually
talk to them about these supernatural experiences and stuff?
So, yeah, it opens up, I mean, it's, there's just levels to it, you know, when, when I
was going through that stuff, I needed out.
I needed a way out.
Like I was literally going insane.
So I was in it, you know, um, my relationship with those demons and that younger version
of myself is a lot different now.
I have a respect for demons, you know, I have a risk and I have a respect for, you know,
for Father God for sending those demons to me, to, to chastise me and to punish me and
to teach me a lesson, you know, that, that type.
So the whole dichotomy of it changes and evolves.
I didn't know that at the time.
I'm thankful now that I encountered that at the time.
I thought I was going to die.
I was going crazy, you know, having all, thinking all of these crazy thoughts, but in
the midst of that, I longed for the peace of Christ that I once had, you know, um, ended
up telling my girlfriend, look, I need Jesus back in my life.
I need to, I got to repent.
I got to get rid of all this stuff.
She prayed for me when I was having a panic attack one night.
Um, and I felt some peace and I got up that next morning and I just went crazy.
I just took all the CDs, all the T-shirts, took most of it, threw it away.
All the idols, the statues, broke them, the posters, threw it all the way.
Anything that we can salvage, like some of the books and stuff, I ended up taking them
to like, uh, the witchcraft stores and getting, uh, some money for it till we went
out and bought Bible's with.
So we took all the witchcraft books, gave them back to the play, we sold them back
to the places we got them from and had some money to buy Bible.
So we went out and bought Bibles.
I bought church clothes so I can go to church.
But anyway, my girlfriend was freaking out cause I'm throwing everything away.
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
I said, no, I'm done.
I'm done.
I got to have Christ back in my life.
You can either do this with me or you can go back and live with your family.
I don't care.
And she was crying.
I'm throwing all of it, breaking her CDs, throwing stuff away.
And she said, I don't believe in Jesus.
How do you want me to act like I believe?
So well, if we can believe in the goddess and the God and the fairies and pan and
all this, you could believe in Jesus.
You can do it.
Just try it.
And I said, in two weeks, if our life isn't 100% better, then, you know, I'll
come back and follow any God or Satan or whatever, I'll do it.
But I knew that's how much I knew that I was, you know, making that decision.
She said, okay, I'll do it.
You know, I'll give it two weeks and, um, got rid of that stuff.
And we had a certain amount of prayers that we prayed every night, just asking
God for godly friends to relocate us to get a job.
All of these like seven or eight things that we had on the list that we prayed
for every night, we're believing for.
And, um, and within like a week or two, every single one of them were like,
like answered, like above and beyond.
And it was like, just God, just proving to self, you know what I'm saying?
To me and my wife that, uh, you know what I'm saying?
He loves us.
He's got a plan for us and stuff.
So man, that was in, uh, I came back to the Lord September 7th, 2000.
So I know that's a long story, but it's, it really gives you some background
about where I am today and all that kind of stuff.
That's powerful and talk about coming full circle.
So the Bible now is your preeminent book.
You've got, you've, you've got, uh, faith in it to the point that as I heard you
say on another podcast, your experiences are being filtered through the Bible.
Yeah.
And, and that happened to me too, T in, in, uh, about the same time really in
the late nineties, I was seeing myself in the various scenarios that I
would read in the Bible.
I mean, it's one thing to read about, you know, what happened with David, you
know, what, what happened with Paul and so forth.
So another thing for you to actually experience these things and, and, and say,
it'll really freak you out, you know, and say, actually, it seems as if I'm
going through the same thing at the time.
I did have that, have that happen.
You can actually pinpoint yourself where you are.
I'm right between these two chapters.
Yeah.
Oh, did you get that detail too?
Man, it was crazy.
Yeah, right between.
Yeah.
Right.
That's exactly right.
Wow.
So, so, uh, as you progressed, what are some other ancient texts besides the
Bible that became important to you or through which you, uh, filtered your experience?
Well, um, I would definitely say just looking into the books that were so
called taken out of the Bible, you know, the apocrypha.
Was definitely one of them.
I got into the Hebrew movement.
Um, so the, the Messianic Sidor became a beautiful book, you know, these prayers
and, and rituals that the, uh, you know, the ancient Jews would, would perform and
stuff.
So getting into that, I got into a little bit of, uh, you know what I'm saying?
Messianic Christianity.
So we started keeping Sabbath, eating kosher, that led into getting involved
with Hebrew Israelites and it just kind of snowballed or whatever.
So I ended up running with some of those texts.
So a lot of the texts that were taken out, definitely, you know, the apocrypha,
the book of Enoch, that, you know, lit a fire within me as it does, you know, most
people, Enoch, um, the recognitions of Clement is a really good read, uh, deals
with the spirituality, a lot about how demons get access to our body and to our
mind through food and intake and things like that.
So some, a lot of the books that were taken out and then wanting to know why
were they taken out and studying what, you know, hearing about the Illuminati and
the secret governments and stuff.
And the Vatican and Catholic church are holding these things from you and you
find out mostly because it shows who they worship, like those ancient gods and kind
of pulls the, uh, you know what I'm saying, the, the, the, the curtain back and
shows you the gods that were being worshiped back then that are still being
worshiped today through the iconography and through, you know what I'm saying,
the temple rituals and things like that.
But far as the books, those are definitely just the books that were taken out.
Um, that, you know what I'm saying, that meant a lot to me.
Uh, yeah, sorry, I was trying to get myself unneeded, but I just have a
question about like a lot of this stuff, this is in our present reality.
This is a, this is what we're experiencing.
This is what we're actually observing.
And I feel like it's possible that maybe these ancient peoples, they would,
they're living this way.
They're, they're, they have a lot more time, maybe, uh, in their communities
with people, uh, and, uh, they're having these sort of experiences, seeing things.
And, and, uh, then writing gets invented, uh, a part of me thinks, well, they
want to give the complete cycle of a transformed life and they want to put
it in story form and they want to have it, uh, in the book.
So, so my thing is like how much of this, uh, is talking about like a
different actual dimension or how much of it is actually just what
observe, they're observing what's happening in nature.
And, and like, how does that, uh, relate to like heaven and hell or
these different doctrines that the traditional orthodoxy maybe has taught?
Uh, what do you think, what are your thoughts on those sort of things?
Yeah, my, you know, with the hero's journey, Joseph Campbell, I remember
just even a couple of years ago, before I even got into that, I'm
asking, I remember just getting frustrated with all the movies because
there's nothing new.
It's the same plots being reiterated and there's cause and effect and then
there's someone who takes something and then they're trying to get it back.
And then there's never these, these new plots in these movies.
It's the same things over and over.
And then you hear about the hero's journey and you hear about how, you
know, the story of Jesus and the story of all these other risen
saviors or whatever, uh, is in Star Wars.
It's in the jungle book.
It's like, so it's the hero's journey that's in every story.
And as, as I, as I ponder that story and the story of Jesus, right?
The story of Christ and I know how powerful that is for me and other
people on the earth and whatever other hero's journey that's powerful to
someone of being, you know, um, you know, being crucified, whether it's
literally spiritually, um, you know, socially, and then rising again, having
your dark night and coming back using that.
And so that story just takes place everywhere.
Um, as far as the allegory in the Bible and that story, I'll just say this
to about the hero's journey, I'm convinced that there's something, the
power is somewhere in that story to the fact that if, um, the world, the
earth was destroyed and a new civilization rose, that story would
eventually find its way back within that people who started over from scratch.
There's something about that story and, and, and what it means to us, as
far as the allegory in the Bible and, and just all ancient writings, really,
the Bible is kind of what we, you know, I get into anyway, for the most part.
Um, I don't know where it starts.
That's the question.
Does it start at birth or does it start when you beat, you get born again?
Or, or when one becomes spiritually awake, which kind of the same thing.
That's the question I have about the allegory in the Bible starting with
Genesis and just kind of seeing that progression of where you are coming
out of Egypt, dealing with your golden calfs, dealing with your giants, et cetera.
Tee, fantastic.
Uh, so, so let's, let's key in on the expansion of, of the hero's journey,
which I'm sure is valid for other cultures.
Wherever there's life, that story has got to be relevant.
So how did you develop your interest in aliens and UFOs?
You know, because, uh, you do talk about it a lot.
And a few years ago I was gathering with some card carrying Southern Baptist.
And man, and man, we were discussing everything from UFOs to the therapeutic
effects of drinking urine.
And, and, and, and, and yeah, yeah.
Okay.
So before that, I had no idea that Baptists were into this kind of stuff.
You know, that was my naivety, you know, yeah, me too.
So, so, so with the church, it's like there's on the record and then there's
off the record because people are exploring because they are doing things
that you're not aware of.
So how did you overcome the church's stigma against ets or aliens?
Yeah.
Well, I'm, I'm, I'm currently undoing that right now.
It's kind of a big, it's kind of a big topic now, but when I got into it,
probably, um, man, 20, 2011, maybe 2010, 2011, just really researching it.
Um, I started having dreams years ago and these aliens were in my dreams,
right?
Um, but didn't even before that, as a kid, I was terrified as I got into the
sci-fi in the horror, I was seeing, you know, uh, movies such as Fire in the
Sky and these aliens were these monsters that want to abduct you and take
you away forever and do experiments on you.
And that was like a constant fear that that might happen to me as a kid.
So we see lights in the sky.
There was a sense of wonder, but then there was like, okay, be careful
because they're going to come get you and never bring you back.
And so that was always like a waking fear that I had.
And, um, so I was, I was always fascinated with it.
And I'm beginning to have dreams about aliens back in like, um, man,
probably early on 2004 or five or whatever, just a couple of little
dreams that just really stuck with me.
And I remember drawing pictures of the dream and, and it was just, I think
it was really a symbolic dream.
I don't think it was literally about aliens, but they were in it.
But, um, I just had this fascination and then the fascination came
back a little bit around 2010.
Um, so I just started doing research and I found a website called, uh,
BibleUFO.com by Patrick Cook.
And, uh, just that, that website is just slammed with Bible verses that
says, could this be UFOs?
And he was talking about, you know, the cloud by day and the fire by night.
And I was like, wow, you know, UFOs do look like a blur or a cloud by day that,
and then at night they look like a flame of fire traveling and whatever that
is God Yahweh traveled through, you know what I'm saying?
The desert leading the children of Israel and they would follow it.
And there was all these other, uh, scriptures that he had.
And this, this was a wealth of, of scriptures.
And then he had, uh, different, uh, biblical references and, and, and some
of the books that were taken out and Jasher and even on that website, that
kind of hit, that was a great website.
Um, because he had a whole section on there that, uh, was for the books
that were taken out.
And so, you know, early on a Christian, you're like, Hey, if it's, if
it's not in the Bible, God took it out for a reason.
It wasn't supposed to be there.
So you had this kind of thing, but he's showing you on the website, which
convinced me was the fact that, hold on, these books were quoted in the Bible.
And so that kind of like, okay, they're quoting in it.
There's like, man, 30 books or something as it is written in the
book of Shamiah, the prophet.
And at me as a seeker, hold on, who is Shamiah the prophet?
Who is he to the prophet?
And they're quoting them as it is written in the, written in the book of Jasher,
the book of Jubilee.
And the, and the Bible's quoting these, the prophets and sages and, and Jesus
and, and Peter and, uh, and Jude, they're quoting Enoch and all these people.
And you're like, hold on, what, where are those books?
And then we've found, we get, we definitely can get some of them.
So anyway, all of that stuff was on Patrick Cook's website.
And I was just consuming that website and consuming his interviews, listening
to his talk shows and going on record as a Christian talking about
UFOs and it wasn't, his perspective for the most part was more of an
angelic approach.
And, but then I would be led to Lynn Marzulli and all these PID radio and
all these other guys who come from the evil alien approach where the Christians
would say that the aliens were demons and they're, they're monsters and things.
And so the majority of what I was hearing from the Christian realm is that
it was all demonic except for Patrick Cook.
Eventually, after all that studying, I just began to open up and say, okay,
let me, you would hear other names and they would refer back to Dr.
Stephen Greer or so and so.
And I said, okay, let me check out Dr.
Stephen Greer and then I would listen to him and from my standpoint, as a
Christian, I was, I would listen to him and think, okay, I know the Christians
kind of have this agenda, the evil alien agenda.
This guy, I don't think he does like his agendas.
Like he's just really a seeker and this is what he's having and they're
having encounters and seeing UFOs in the night sky.
And in that same time, even before I was led to Stephen Greer's work about
what's going on in the night sky, I seen another video, Profit Yahweh on YouTube.
And this is a black guy who they interviewed and said that he had the
power to summon UFOs on command.
He's wearing all white.
They brought the news crew out there with them and they say, you know, you
know, we can try it and they're all filming the sky and stuff.
And he's doing it on command.
And they said that he learned how to summon UFOs by reading the Hebrew version
of the Bible.
And I was like, hold on, I read the Hebrew version, you know, and this, you
start, is something clicks in you.
And then the fascination with aliens.
And I watched the video and he's like, he's got his hands up to heaven.
He's like, Lord, would you allow one to appear, one of your heavenly watchers,
one of your Elohim, whatever.
And they see things in the air and they film it.
And supposedly he convinced the news crew and they made an awesome
segment out of it.
And that led me to his work and that led me to other work.
And then I would have the dialogue with some of the Hebrew Israelites.
And we would talk about aliens.
And it was, oh, yeah, that's the chariots of the most high.
Yeah, they, yeah, that's the chariots.
They watch over us.
He's got them out there and we'd read Bible stories where they would appear
and watch over the children of Israel.
So I go out, stargazing father, if they're out there and there are angels
and they're watching over me, will you let me see one?
I really want to see one.
If they're the seraphim, which means fiery serpents.
If Enoch says they travel back and forth from heaven to earth
and they appear as a flame of fire, it's quoted in Psalms.
He maketh his ministering angels, his ministering spirits as a flame of fire.
Let me see one.
I begin to have crazy encounters under the night sky by myself
and just seeing them fly by and stop on a dime, fly by, stop and fly another
direction, light up across the sky and blink and and seeing all types of
anomaly, more than just lights in the sky.
I started seeing them during the day.
I started seeing fleets and it was when I prayed and I'm asking God.
And so there's some fear there and saying, Derek, you need to be careful.
What if, what if these are demons?
What if you do get abducted?
And so that's still in the back of my head.
I'm just like, I'm praying.
I'm asking my father to show me.
I'm not asking a demon.
And then there's that scripture that always stuck with me where he says,
Jesus says, if you ask your father for a fist, he's not going to throw you a serpent.
If you ask your father for a loaf of bread, he's not going to hand you a stone.
So I'm like, I'm asking my father to let me see one of his boxes,
one of his angels, the Elohim, the Seraphim.
I don't have to worry if I'm going to get abducted by an evil alien or something.
And that just, man, I just had so many encounters and I just, it just changed my life.
That verse set me free too.
Cause like I was, I was in this cult in for 2016.
It was one of those Korean Jesus cults.
I was in it for nine months.
And I remember reading that verse, uh, if you're, you who are evil,
give your children good things, right?
So it was like, because of their whole doctrine,
is they have to work to earn their Holy Spirit or keep his feet or whatever.
But, uh, no, I have a roommate who's in the UFOs quite a lot.
And he showed me this one video that he said really did it for him was like,
uh, it's basically this news report journalist who's out filming this crazy guy.
And they like cut the news for a second and go to this journalist.
And she's like, so this guy's going to show us the UFO or something.
And this guy, he says a prayer in this YouTube video.
And then he basically turns around.
He's like, father in heaven, show me, can you please show us the UFO or something?
And he like turns around and there's like this UFO.
She's in this news channel thing.
Yeah, yeah.
I was like, what?
So, oh, he's no longer with us.
I try, I wanted to get, I wanted to interview him.
So don't, you know, it passed away a couple of years ago.
So I think in 2016, Prophet Yahweh Raymond Watkins was his name.
He was an interesting individual because I'm like, show me more.
How are you doing it?
You know, I'm trying to, you know, I'm wanting, I'm seeking, you know,
and I'll watch other videos and other videos were just, I just scratched my head.
You know, they would be, you know, drinking and watching boxing.
And like just, you would think that they would carry themselves
that these holy men who were like monks and praying and meditating all day.
But you find out that, you know, he's cursing and using foul language
and there's just all of these other footage of them.
So it just makes you wonder at times.
And so that was a whole nother realm as well.
So yeah, like I'll just say one more thing because like I've had experience
like in 2014, 15, I went out with my friend and we would see people healed.
Went to like this youth conference and saw 50 teenagers healed in one weekend.
And and like you would actually see the physical manifestation of
like people's legs growing out and and they're they feel it in their lungs
are being healed.
So it's not too much to think.
Well, there's a physical manifestation in the sky somewhere.
Once you've seen it right in front of you with your own eyes.
Yeah.
You can go ahead, Luther, if you want a question.
Hey, man, that's I mean, it's cool that the spirit has no limits, no boundaries.
Let's let's look for a moment at the other side of that.
If we if we can kind of shift our perspective to ministry
and talk about the fivefold ministry, Ephesians four, right?
OK, and we all know if Ephesians four mentions the apostle, the prophet,
the evangelist, the pastor and the teacher as some combined the pastor and teacher,
the you know, four and five.
How did we get as somebody who's very much concerned about
the fivefold ministry, who functions fully as a minister, as you do, T,
how did we wind up getting a swollen number four, which is the pastor,
a shrunken number three, which is the evangelist, a disappearing numbers one
and two, which is the apostle and the prophet and a pretentious number five,
where everybody and his mother-in-law fancies themselves, a teacher.
So I want to I want you to address somewhat the distortion of the fivefold ministry
and then tell us the other side of it.
What happens when the fivefold operates effectively?
Maybe you have seen examples of the fivefold operating in an effective manner.
Definitely. I don't know if we can pinpoint what happened to one thing.
I'm sure there's a bunch of things.
You know, I'm sure there's, you know, the death of the, you know,
the gifts of the spirit in a lot of evangelical Christian churches,
as far as they don't operate under the gifts of the spirit.
So we don't need the prophet anymore.
We now we have Jesus or now we have the, you know, I'm saying the Bible,
which is that which is perfect has come, as some people believe, is the Bible.
And if we're a real Berean, we know that which one, like which one is perfect?
Or is the word is Jesus perfect, like him in spirit?
You know, so there's all of these different
contentions that have come up over the years with that.
And then even with the with the whole church structure, maybe a paycheck model,
maybe the priest's model, I don't know if you can,
you can give the the pastor, prophet, preacher, teacher, evangelist, all a paycheck,
you know, so it kind of transformed into this one man overseeing all of these people,
whether it's, you know, 50 people, 100 people, 200 or whatever,
which they can't do.
Now you have your deacons, they kind of give deacons roles to kind of help
see things happen, you know, you know, kind of kind of oversee things in the church.
But most of them have no mention of of the five fold,
or they kind of send you out to be a five fold in the streets or in your home or
whatever the case is, but so you don't really see that in the churches anymore.
Now, there are some and I have seen it.
What I have seen in the smaller settings and I feel like what God has called me
to is the home group setting, right?
Because that's what I got saved under.
I was, I got born again at a home group and there was, you know, 15 people there.
There's this notion even of, I've heard it called the government of 12.
And so Jesus had 12 people that he just poured himself into.
Y'all, how many could he handle 70, 15?
There was something sacred about the number 12.
It's always been there that he poured into and shared everything with those 12.
As as I begin to, you know, get, you know, get a, you know, bigger audience
and I have people hitting me up and different, I feel the same way.
I can't just really pour into and disciple and build all of 70 people up.
I could share my teachings with you.
We could do a podcast.
We can hang out, but to really take you in, you know, 12, even 12 is hard.
Like that's a I look at that and just see how it's working.
And then that 12 reach another 12 and that 12 reach another 12.
I really believe that's the model of the early church and how they built up.
And so in a small cell group, in a home meeting, I've definitely seen the spirit
come into play.
And so someone who is called as a prophet or as an apostle, one who is there
to oversee a teacher, an evangelist, like each one of those as the body of Christ.
We need each, each part.
We can't just have 17 pastors in the building, you know,
we need for us to operate and I've seen it.
And and with the death of the gifts of the spirit and the majority
of the evangelical Christianity, they don't even they don't even know what that is.
Like it sounds like witchcraft.
If we were to talk about the gifts of the spirit, really, to somebody's people.
And so I really feel like with your reformed theology and stuff like that, they they have to
the Bible, the scripture says, these signs shall follow them that believe.
So these signs and these things that you're going to do casting out
demons, healing the sick, raising the dead, all of these things that you're going to do.
And if someone's not doing it, then we need to make an excuse.
Why? Oh, because it doesn't happen anymore.
Someone has to say something like, why? OK, John MacArthur,
why aren't you healing the sick?
Why aren't you raising the dead?
Why aren't you doing these things?
Why don't you prophesy?
Why don't you speak in tongues?
Whatever the case is, anything of this so-called spiritual stuff.
If you're not doing it, you have to kind of lay the foundation of why it doesn't exist.
And that's definitely happened.
But when those who are operating under those gifts and you finally come together
under the headship of Christ, not in this authoritarian
egotistical system where it's built like a like a pyramid structure or pyramid scheme.
But everyone is accountable to each other.
And nobody is a head over each other, but we're all together and you're open.
And you and you're you're open to that.
When the spirit moves, it may take the prophet to say, OK,
I really feel like we should move in this direction.
And then the teacher is able. OK, you're right.
So he'll be able to teach it.
The apostle is like the overseer or the pastor is like the shepherd and this.
Everybody plays their part.
And you don't have to have the pastor who while I operate under all the five
fold, I'm the pastor, preacher, teacher and evangelist.
And so you feel like you have to do it all.
But when you really get together and there's no ego involved, man,
the Holy Spirit moves and we can listen to what the voice of the spirit wants to say.
It's beautiful, man.
It is beautiful.
If if guy, if you go to a church and the Lord gives you a word
that he wants to heal somebody or he feels like we should.
I know I know you're teaching on this,
but I feel like the father's heart is Matthew seven.
I feel like we should dig into.
I really feel this burden.
If you go walking to a church, I don't know many churches that operate like that.
I've been to some who have.
I've been to some that are open, but, you know, they you have to know those
who labor among you, trust them that they hear the Spirit of Christ.
And it's not just anybody saying, hey, let's do this.
And I've seen it happen.
And it's beautiful when it works right.
I mean, it is beautiful.
I've I've been to landmark meetings like that.
There's a conference that I went to yearly down in El Campo, Texas.
And, you know, I mean, you have certain expectations in a church setting.
You know, and one of them is you don't answer your cell phone if it go.
If it happens to go off in in church, you know, but I remember that everybody
was so intensely involved in praise and worship that it didn't matter.
Cell phones were going off.
They just opened the cell phone and whoever was calling, they let them hear
some of the praise and worship that was going on.
And at one time, the cell phone went off and somebody answered the call.
And it was somebody that wanted to give the church.
I think it was something like $15,000 or something.
And everybody was already praising.
So they just came.
They just continued to praise in the middle of worship.
So flexibility is the key.
I like to look at it as as wine and wine skins, you know, wine skins are
given to to direct and to add form and and to and to give shape to the wine
that that it contains that wine skin is is right.
Then I think you have something successful.
Yeah, definitely, definitely being able to follow the wind of the Holy Spirit.
I mean, the whole, you know, word, when it when the Bible talks about walking
in the spirit, the word that's that's used there in the Greek, I believe
it's Storcheo, which means to walk in a cadence.
When I say, go left, you go left.
When I say, right, left, right, left, you have to be able to follow the wind
and voice of the Holy Spirit in a meeting in your day to day life.
I mean, and that's that's we have examples all throughout the scriptures
from Genesis to Revelation where they did that and great things happen.
They had a plan.
Hey, we're going to take this route.
No, no, no, no spirit gave me a dream spirit woke me up last night.
It wouldn't let me sleep.
He told me not to go through this city.
If we do, we're going to, you know, we're going to get shipwrecked.
We take that ship all of these examples where God was speaking to the disciples
and it changed the course of history because they listen.
Yeah, awesome.
Like there it talks about the divine nature, right?
And if you read like Cicero in 46 BC, he's he explains what he thinks
is the nature of the gods and it's and he's actually describing
how Hercules became a constellation by living a virtuous life.
And so like for me, like with the time statements
and it says like Romans, the fullness of the Gentiles would come in.
And and that seems to happen in 80, 70.
So we have this sort of audience on on Facebook that I've been a part of.
And and so there's this group called Israel only and they're like called Heretics,
but they're they're they're logical, but there's there's not like the spirit part of it.
Yeah, but because so for me, it's like if I look at the Bible historically,
I actually lose the spiritual aspect of it because the fullness of the Gentiles were saved.
And but when I look at it in terms of mythology,
all of a sudden the spirituality can be real and that opens the door.
And now it can be practical for me to actually so I'm kind of wondering
what your thoughts are on taking more of the mythological view of the Bible
so that we can have more of a spiritual aspect.
Exactly what you said, man.
Exactly what you said, man, and I kind of learned the hard way
because when I was into running with the Hebrew Israelites back in the day,
they taught me a lot.
They taught me how to break the Bible apart and to really break it down
and study it and cross reference and where this was quoted and what this means
and how to look up the and so they were really good at it.
They all are they're really good at that.
And I wasn't taught that in church.
I was just taught how to read the Bible or just study this chapter.
But I'm like verses, you know, chapters in context and the words and bring it back.
So they taught me a lot.
But I was still like, you know, I would still go to church a little bit.
We would have home meetings and we do worship services.
And I was leading worship with the friend of mine.
We had a hip hop worship project that we did and was really powerful.
And so I was still doing that kind of stuff when I was with the Israelites.
And and I noticed that there wasn't a lot of spiritual stuff
with this sect that I was involved with, with the majority of the sects.
Now, the sect that they came out of was back in the day out of New York
called the Light and Body of Christ Church.
They were Hebrew Israelites, but they were they were more spiritual.
They were casting out demons in the street.
They were preaching repentance and they were talking about baptism
and just just beautiful stuff and doing it on the street.
So that's what kind of caught my attention.
But then it got more as that kind of that group kind of dissipated a little bit.
I got to to the more legalistic side and they were good about historic.
They're good about showing you breaking up, breaking down the scriptures.
But when they would pray, I guess they were sincere,
but it was just just like a dead prayer and I'm used to the spirit moving.
So I felt like there was always a balance that's needed.
And I still feel like that as far as the spirit and the truth.
We know that, you know, charismatic Christianity has the spirit,
but they don't have a lot of truth. They got a little bit, you know.
So I really believe that there's a balance there.
But I ended up seeing like, and it all came to a head really for me.
They ended up changing their weekly gatherings to breaking down the scriptures to,
hey, we need to leave America because America is going to be destroyed.
And I started getting into that theology and they're quoting scriptures out of context and
they bought land in Egypt and they started to cult and they moved everybody out
and they were trying to get people to move.
And I was like, that was a red flag at first.
But then they called me on three way with all of these elders from the Hebrew Israelites and stuff.
They called me and it was at the time where you could do an answer tone
or the person who called you a song would play to them.
And it was a worship song to my Holy Spirit come and fill me with your love.
And so whoever called me heard that song and I answered and they were all laughing.
They said, brother, what is that?
I said, oh, that's a powerful song, man. I love this.
I said, you need to change that song, man. That song.
I'm like, okay, I'll see what kind of spiritual operate.
I don't know nothing about that.
But I imparted a lot to me and a lot of it I had to unlearn just like any groups we get into.
We have to repent a lot of stuff I've learned over the years.
I didn't think that I would be able to unlearn.
I'm like, man, I'm in too deep.
Ain't no way I can look at Christians that I can look at the Bible.
I can't look at them the same anymore.
I can't watch TV the same because we're learning this stuff.
And I remember just having to repent before God and just repent to my brothers and ask for prayer.
And I feel spirit lift off of me.
That was come from me from watching racist Hebrew Israelites and talk about how the white man is
the devil and how Esau is going to be destroyed and all this stuff.
And there was a heaviness that was on me and it left.
And God's spirit and the spirit of joy came.
And so you have to be careful when dealing with that.
But I really believe there's a balance there.
But the allegory side goes without saying.
People are scared of that because you're telling them that like...
And I try not to tell them that it didn't exist.
I wasn't there.
But I tell them you wasn't there either.
None of us were.
But we do know that if we apply the principles of these stories,
then that's how we get this power.
There is no power if it physically existed.
If you dig up the bones to find Goliath, that's what they're doing.
They're trying to find Goliath's grave.
There's no power.
It doesn't prove the Bible.
What proves the Bible is the life transformed.
That you can look at King David's life and his stories,
take those principles, apply them to your life,
when you're facing your giant.
You know what I'm saying?
When the golden calf is in front of you,
when the world is against you,
you do what they did to overcome your enemies.
And that's where the power is.
The power is not in if it didn't happen.
And I said that.
Like I have enough faith to say,
I don't care if everyone comes out and proves that it was a hoax.
And we made it up.
And it is the greatest story ever sold and all of this stuff.
It doesn't lose its power.
Even if they prove that Jesus was made up,
it doesn't prove it.
It doesn't lose its power.
Not to me.
Not to me when I was 14 years old,
possessed by demons.
And what that did for me,
that don't change nothing.
What's that change?
Nothing.
So I know the power of agreement.
I know the power of belief.
And if Jesus, people debunk them all the time.
You can't debunk that story.
I don't care.
There's something to it.
When you put your faith in something greater than yourself
and the hero's journey is involved in,
God, I need you right now.
Whatever your name is.
If he answers by Jesus,
if he answers by Buddha, Muhammad,
I can't judge you.
I probably showed up when I needed him.
Buddha didn't.
Well, yeah.
And that's what I like.
Because a lot of people wouldn't see it that way.
They would say, well, if it was not historical,
then it was just made up and blah, blah, blah.
And then all this conspiracy thinking.
And you see how the spiritual side gets lost
in the left brain, sort of thing.
You know what?
And so I run in those circles.
But I tell you what.
When they go through hard times,
when their spouse leaves them,
when they get evicted,
guess who they call?
Guess who they message?
Even when they mock me and make fun of you.
Jesus freaking, blah, blah, blah.
And because in that realm of those people,
especially when you're dealing with the other religions,
they look at Christianity as something weak
and something that's not deep.
And maybe get into Hinduism
or get into Islam or something more deeper.
I don't think it's as deep as it's different.
It's new to us in the West.
Like Christianity is handed down by our grandparents.
So something different, esoteric difference.
So hey, we're into this deep knowledge.
I don't think it gets any deeper than Christianity, honestly.
When we're breaking out spirituality and spirits
and authority in Christ and His name
and all of that kind of stuff.
And like we mentioned, if it's all fake,
but if you believe it, it works.
It works.
Why go to lesser spirits
when you can go to the greatest one?
They end up getting possessed and tormented
just so you can have monetary gain or...
You gotta pay for that stuff, man.
Yeah, that stuff isn't free.
Those demons come back.
Like whatever type of spirit it is.
So if it's any witch who's dealing with that kind of stuff,
man, that's freedom found in Christ.
Man, there's grace found in Christ.
And I'm into a lot of the deep esoteric stuff,
mostly because it proves the Bible.
Mostly because we study vibration.
We understand authority.
We understand the power of the voice.
And God spoke everything and everything's moving.
So we have that...
All the esoteric deep sciences proves the Bible to me.
The angels, the aliens, the morning stars singing out.
Lucifer and what that really is.
And the allegory, they knew about it.
It proves the Bible.
We started finding about the allegory.
And they're like, hey, Paul was talking about this allegory too.
And it just starts making more sense.
All of it does, man.
Well, yeah, I went through these deliverance training sessions
I found on YouTube.
And I think it was called Hardcore Christianity or something.
But it would be nice if they could harmonize
the spirituality with their doctrines.
Because sometimes the doctrines actually contradict
their spiritual teaching where God is love.
And love is what transforms you.
Whereas on the other hand, they're saying,
well, God's going to come and condemn everybody soon
and burn his enemies.
That's what...
Yeah, that doesn't...
Like, I think the longer...
And I think it's becoming more accepted.
Maybe it's just in my head and what I perceive and what I'm into.
But the people I'm involved with and rubbing shoulders with,
it's becoming...
We're seeing a lot of big name evangelical pastors
by a while and say, hey, y'all take it.
That's not for me.
I feel like God is this now.
I think the longer we're into the love of God
and the spiritual aspect, we can't fathom how a loving God
is going to destroy his creation for eternity.
Just because, in my point of view, you had a bad representation.
Like, if the only representation you had of Christ
was the Hebrew Israelites,
and you say, that's Jesus?
Keep them.
Y'all keep them.
I don't want them.
I see y'all keep y'all's Jesus.
I'm good by myself.
I'm good what I'm doing with my spirituality,
with my Wicco, whatever it is.
Or you see Fred Phelps in the Westboro Baptist Church?
Oh, that's Jesus?
No.
I don't think God's going to judge the world, the nations,
because of these false representations.
I really believe he judges us by the conscious of our heart
that he's written his law upon our hearts
and that when we steal, when we do wrong,
we know we're doing wrong.
We don't have to have the pastor telling us
or hitting us in the hand.
That's what the Holy Spirit does.
And he's written his laws upon our hearts.
And nobody had to tell us anything about that.
And so, at the end of the day, I see a lot of people
going to more of a universalist, even a Christian approach.
Even if it's annihilation.
There's a lot of people, you know, the Preterist stuff,
it's like, even with annihilation,
they're getting more into that versus, you know,
God created you to destroy you type deal, you know?
Yeah, definitely.
Do you do a lot of traveling outside of the United States?
I imagine you have a lot of correspondence with Christians
who are based in other countries.
Very little.
I do get those emails.
I don't do much traveling.
We're starting to do some more stuff.
I got some more stuff coming up on the books now.
I did more when I was doing gospel hip hop music.
And so, I would do more stuff.
I was booked out of state a lot to come do concerts
and share my story with youth groups and stuff like that.
But now it's more, because a lot of the stuff is taboo,
or at least was.
Now, I think a lot of this is being accepted now
when people are asking the bigger questions.
Maybe it's the information is there now
and they have more questions.
Where people were sheltered, now it's everywhere, you know?
So, they need somebody who's talking about this stuff
and even from a Christian perspective.
Because if you don't, the new age will get you.
I mean, they have the answers for spiritual gifts.
Oh, yeah, we'll tell you how to use psychic abilities.
Yeah, you can hear the voice of God.
Let me show you how to do it.
And so, they're welcoming it.
So, that's why I feel a burden to talk about this stuff.
Because the churches I've been involved with,
they've told me, I've asked questions when I was seeking
and they would say, well, that's demonic,
or that's the devil.
And we'll just pray against it and shut it down.
And you don't feel that.
So, I think we have to have answers for people
who are into this type of stuff.
Who are looking for podcasts like this for a reason,
you know what I'm saying?
It's far in to an episode like this.
Right, the spiritual awareness you're talking about
is really worldwide.
I'm looking at the traditional American model,
going back about 20 years,
and it was all about Americans sending missionaries abroad.
But I have quite a few Christian friends
from South America and from Africa
who helped me see that the paradigm shifts to,
and it is shifted today,
to the United States being in need of missionaries.
These people talk in terms of sending missionaries
to the United States, you know?
And there are Americans that have an arrogance about that,
you know?
And so, do you think that people here are willing
to learn about Christ from the rest of the world?
Is that something that has increased in recent years,
or do you find that there's that arrogance of,
hey, we're in America?
You don't tell us anything about Jesus.
It kind of works both ways.
I think just for one,
just the charisma and the mystique behind
someone coming here with a different accent,
we just feel like they're telling the truth,
or if there's a British person telling the same story,
it sounds a little bit more eloquent
and a little bit more well-spoken.
They receive it, whether it's the gospel.
And, you know, so I definitely see that happening now.
We're in a really weird spot.
I remember, you know, maybe 20 years ago, 15 years ago,
we'd always hear about the coming persecution to America,
you know, and that Christians are going to be persecuted
and all this kind of stuff.
I really feel like that's here now.
You know, and it may just be a social,
it's not just social persecution,
because if you stand for your faith,
you'll be de-platformed, your algorithms will be silenced.
I mean, there's so much stuff that's happening
if you're a Christian.
You get unfriended and called a bigot.
A lot of it's, you know what I'm saying, socially,
but it definitely is.
You're not, if you say especially,
it's probably something to have to do with the media
and everything that comes from Hollywood and from the left,
which permeates the freaking Netflix
and YouTube algorithms and what's on the homepage
and all of these apps and our ads and stuff like that.
They've infiltrated, so things are changing.
And so for some, it's a bad thing,
but it's a good thing at the same time,
because with persecution kind of filters out
those who were just playing church
and those who really don't believe.
And when that persecution's there,
you're going to prove what you really believe in
when it's tested.
So all of these things that test our faith
and test what we believe in,
all of these other doctrines and theologies,
I've found, I probably shouldn't believe in any of this stuff,
just from dealing with so many people
and seeing things in the Bible that,
man, I've been challenged on so many,
you know, theologies.
And even when I'm just trying to keep it Christ-centered,
and then the next day to meet somebody
who shows me things in the Bible that just like blow my mind
and it's like, it's crazy.
And that stuff's out there.
It's kind of rampant or whatever,
with knowledge increasing in the earth.
But I think it's good.
I think with persecution as well,
I think there's a reward for those who,
you know what I'm saying, endure to the end
and those who, you know,
and I think the reward for me is this presence, man,
just more of the presence of God in our lives.
And so that for me is what does it all,
is just the presence of God and being in the will of God,
the perfect will of God for my life and being on that
and see out of that everything flows,
all the miracles, all the blessings,
the job, the podcast, like everything comes out
of just more of the presence of God.
And if you're not in that, you got to watch out.
You know what I'm saying?
And it's an interesting times though.
And I have to think about it a lot
because I have a mixed audience too,
you know what I'm saying?
As far as how much do you give them
and how much new age do you get into?
How much aliens do you talk about
before you share the gospel?
You know what I'm saying?
So I have to kind of weigh all of this stuff too
and make sure that my walk is right
because I've got a large audience and things like that.
So it's interesting times, you know what I'm saying?
And but I think there's room for all of it, you know?
And we've been told that there isn't.
It's only the gospel or only Jesus.
Yeah, until you start talking about tithing,
should we tithe or it's only Jesus
until we talk about speaking in tongues or whatever.
And so it's never, we want to keep it gospel-centered,
but there's all of these other things
that people have questions for.
And I think those questions are in them for a reason.
Like if there's a passion within them,
I think God put it there, you know, for a reason.
And that's what I've kind of come to find out
that I felt like I was supposed to stay away
from a lot of this stuff about the church,
but I had these genuine questions that nobody could answer
until I had to kind of go on my own path.
And those are quick, Kevin, just one thing.
And those are questions that surface everywhere.
As you said, T, on the job, wherever you are,
and speaking of that, you don't have to go into it
in into detail, but we know that within the last year
or a couple of years, you had a crisis on your job.
You had a job that you were in for 11 years.
So is that being worked out?
Are you seeing something come of that
that worked out to be a blessing?
And you don't have to be specific, brother.
We just want to know that you're working your way through.
Yeah, we're just working.
Every day is something new.
There's levels to it, but it's definitely a blessing.
It's definitely the start of something big,
the start of my destiny.
All of it was there, but it's kind of like pushing me
out the boat.
I would have never quit my job to try to do ministry
or to try to do something.
I have a wife and a child, and I'm not backed up
by any organizations or anything.
It's just me.
So it was scary, but we felt a peace about it
on someone we should be panicking out.
We had a perfect peace, and my wife said,
hey, I don't want you to be 60, 70 years old and say,
you know what?
I wish I would have tried it.
So August would make two years of me being let go
from my job and still.
Right.
But yeah, we're making it.
We're God's goddess.
We never, we're good.
You know what I'm saying?
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Yeah, I get to wake up and do what I love for a living.
There's no price on that.
And it's like a dream come true.
I'm living my dream.
And it's only the beginning.
So I'm just grateful, man, every day, really.
Yeah.
Cool.
You're talking about tithes and baptism.
And I remember I went to the Seventh Day Adventist Church
because the cult I was in was kind of rooted in that.
And I was like, what are these guys actually teaching?
And they gave me this brochure that it was all mushy
and about the fruit of the Spirit.
And then, of course, you get to the last page.
And it's like, oh, and you have to do this, this, and this.
And you have to keep the Sabbath day.
So to me, it's like you read Second Peter chapter one.
It talks about brotherly love, the divine nature.
And I'm like, well, Jesus talks, the only way Jesus said
to discern these false prophets is in Matthew 7.
It says, you shall know them by their fruit.
Right.
So that's what helped me when I was coming out
of this cult and trying to make this list of these weird
interpretations as I was just figuring things out.
Because like, what is this producing the fruit in my life?
Is this, do I have harmony with my family?
Do I have?
And like always arguing with everybody,
you got to win the conversation.
Hold on, what the hell am I doing?
Yeah, exactly.
So it's, yeah, for me, it was shall know them by their fruit.
And that was like a good starting point.
Because, yeah, because it wasn't just an echo of somebody
else's revelation, right?
It was, you have to know it for yourself.
Yeah, I remember the first time that I was able to hang out
with a guy who told me he was Catholic and not corner him
and tell him he was in a cult and he's worshiping idols.
And the first time, because that's what I wanted to do.
I was trained to do it.
I watched videos.
I got the scriptures.
I got the, you know, which is what we do.
And the first time I was able to hang out with them
and hold my peace and say, okay, you love the Lord?
Yeah, he's good, ain't he?
He's real good.
You know, just kind of build with them.
And after just hanging out with this guy,
and it was just him passing through other friends.
He wasn't like a camaraderie friend.
And I was like, you know what?
He did it, man.
He showed self-control.
Even though I believe that at the time, I don't, it's not.
Man, I just felt like I gained the new ground
by just not having to always tell people
and win the conversation and convince them
that what they're in is not of God.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Look, let's shift gears yet again.
Let's talk about magic mushrooms, okay?
What?
Is that Kevin laughing about that?
Well, I saw it on there on your question sheet.
Yeah, yeah, it's there.
So, and I know you talk about, T,
you talk about magic mushrooms.
And we want to get a little bit into hallucinogens.
Are you familiar with John Mark Allegro's controversial
and sometimes banned book, The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross?
Yes.
Okay, you're familiar with that.
Many of our listeners may not be familiar with it,
but that book has been banned in certain circles
in the United States, including on amazon.com.
So, if you want it, send me an email.
Yeah, send me an email, okay?
MythVisionRadio at gmail.com
or MythVisionPodcast at gmail.com.
We'll get your PDF.
We'll get your copy of this book.
But John Mark Allegro was not a believer
and he was a Dead Sea scholar
and he was the only Dead Sea scholar,
scroll scholar who was not a believer.
And he believed that Christianity was essentially
a mushroom cult, a cult that centered
on the Ammonita, Muscaria mushroom,
and that the scriptures were written in code
to talk about the experience
that came about through this mushroom.
So, do hallucinogens have a place under the governing
of the Spirit or under the larger umbrella
of what it is that the Divine Consciousness wants to do?
I think so.
And I think so just off of my, I mean,
couple experiences with it as a believer
and it was just beautiful.
It changed my life.
And so, to do that and then have this life-changing encounter
on psilocybin magic mushrooms at a men's retreat
with a bunch of other Christian brothers
who were trying to work out some stuff in their life
and still struggling with secret sins
and pill addiction and stuff like that.
And we came together, we did some chanting
and we really, we were fasting and praying
and expecting God to show up and encounter
the heavenly angels if possible.
And we were just really expecting a move of God.
And so, we had heard so many stories about
psilocybin curing depression, helping cancer patients
overcome the fear of dying and all of these things.
And so, I would just kind of consume
with a lot of podcasts listening to that stuff.
And so, it was just calling out to me.
And I kind of, I was hesitant because of my past
with witchcraft and with feeling like I gave my mind
over to spirit speaking to me.
I didn't want to be, I didn't want to,
I don't, I still don't want to do that.
You know, I didn't want to do something
that would open a door for eight hours or whatever
for these demons to pull me into this realm
because I've been there.
I don't want that to happen.
So, I was really hesitant to even try it
because I hear Christians talk about it
or watch movies on it or whatever.
And you hear about bad trips.
Like, I don't think I could fathom a bad trip or whatever.
Just with my past PTSD, if you will.
But after watching all of that stuff
and listening to so many podcasts,
I still prided myself of being able to reach
heightened states of awareness through meditation
through prayer, through fasting, through breath work,
being able to do these things naturally.
The body produces DMT and chemicals
and put your body in a relaxed state.
To go into a trance, as the Bible says,
and either astral travel or commune with God or the angels
where you're able to receive, the Bible is full of that stuff.
And so, I did that.
So, I kind of prided myself that I didn't need
anything outside of myself.
Everything is within.
And I still do.
But it was something that was calling to me
after listening to everything that
Amber Lyon was reset that in me
and just the health benefits and stuff.
And so, we did it on that excursion men's trip
and it changed my life.
And so, as a Christian,
the Christians talking about magic mushrooms or whatever,
hey, you don't need to be telling people that.
And I felt like I had to talk about it
and do interviews like this.
As a Christian, I still consider myself a believer in Christ.
I'm a follower of Christ, if that makes me a Christian.
Because other Christians wouldn't.
Like they weren't.
Even though they had life-changing encounters,
they would not talk about it because of their job.
They would not talk about it because of their wife's job
or their pastor.
They still want to go to church.
How are you going to go to church
and you're on a podcast talking about
mushrooms changed your life or whatever.
But as something that was as beautiful as that was for me,
even from a Christian perspective,
when I got born again,
I had to tell everybody about Jesus.
Like we were hanging out through car windows.
Jesus loves you.
He's got a plan for you.
You know, and it would just do all of these things
and we weren't ashamed of it.
So if something as powerful and life-changing
as psilocybin mushrooms,
even as a Christian,
and I believe in the power of it,
I'm going to have to talk about it.
I'm going to keep it a secret.
Like I'm going to keep that a secret
when I know it's probably what you need
or something that can help you.
I mean, people do that about their faith already
and not, you know, not want to talk about Jesus
or not want to talk about the things
because it's taboo.
And mushrooms, psilocybin mushrooms
was definitely one of it.
But as a bunch of Christians getting together,
doing mushrooms,
having this encounter with God,
encounter with the spirit realm,
angels synced together.
We went on a journey together that was synced.
And man, found the answers that we were looking for.
Got healed of addictions and listening to worship music.
And it was just,
I've never experienced anything like it.
And it was just so beautiful.
But that was just like scratching the surface,
but it's just a lot of really deep encounters.
So for me to like keep it a secret
or only for the initiated or only for my friends,
no, no, you got to know about this.
Not, I don't think it's for everyone.
I don't think it like everyone,
I'm not telling everybody to go out and do it.
But for someone like me,
I felt like it was calling me at the time.
And I did it.
So I really do feel,
and all of these people were Christians.
And now that we're talking about it,
other Christians are coming.
I say, you know what?
You're right.
I came, I encountered Christ
when I'm in suicide by mushrooms.
And I'm a follower of Christ today
because I did mushrooms or whatever.
And it's just, it's in the conversation now.
And we can't be scared to have it
as believers or unbelievers, whatever.
You know, I heard a minister talk about what a demon is.
And he gave a very useful definition.
He says, a demon is anything that seduces you away
from the government of God.
And so the converse of that
is that when you're one with the divine consciousness
and keep that relationship and you remain it,
there's so much freedom within that.
That these kinds of experiences
and many more experiences
that we haven't even begun to scratch the surface of
become part of this freedom that you can experience.
Like with me, no, I'm not obsessing over it,
but one of the things where my attention
is being led right now
is the making of the holy anointing oil.
And so I'm gathering the ingredients,
the cinnamon, the cassia, the frankincense,
the myrrh, and the cannabis, all of those things.
Yes, because the high priest took,
it's in the Bible, right, in the Old Testament,
cannabis is part of it.
And so all of these things that high priest did it.
Now, can it be abused?
Yes.
Then as now, even in Revelation,
they repented not of their sorceries.
And you know, as well as I do,
that the word sorcery is pharmacitis, pharmacy.
They were doing drugs.
And who was it?
It was the priests at the time.
They exported it to other nations.
The priests of Israel were doing those sorts of things,
but there is also a godly expression of it.
It was part of the government that God set up.
So thanks for weighing in on that, okay?
Yeah.
Cool, cool.
And one more thing,
can't progress too much further without this.
Look, your rap mystic mind is dope, man.
When you are rapping, you are in another mode.
And I saw you, I've seen you on the podcast,
I've seen you with interview guests,
but man, when you are rapping,
there is something there that's free form it takes off.
And that's your home element, man.
Thank you.
Tell us something, you're very welcome.
Tell us something about the origin of that particular rap.
Yeah, mystic mind, I remember it so played out at this point,
I have to kind of remember the beauty of creating it,
because it was very beautiful.
You know, it's when everybody likes the song,
and I've heard it so many times,
and I see the flaws in it,
and the flaws in the video,
but I have to go back and recapture the beauty of it.
And so I was so happy when I wrote that song,
just because it was like the first song on the new album.
So the album Awaken to Fire was my first esoteric type album.
And so that's when I was really just getting into
some of the esoteric,
and I got to see what that did,
and the doors that it opened.
And so, and there was a lot of journey
back and forth spiritually with that album.
I even pulled the album, and so Awaken to Fire,
I was putting the album out,
and I had about 50 pre-orders sold,
and that was kind of a lot for being an underground artist.
50 pre-orders with t-shirts.
I refunded everybody's money,
and broke all the CDs,
and burnt the t-shirts,
and had this thing with Barb.
I was talking to Barb just dealing with the church realm,
and you know, I'm quoting mystics,
and psychics,
and David Wilcock,
and alien clips,
and I was going back and forth
just trying to figure out who I was
as a believer in Christ.
And I felt called to that,
but then my surroundings, man,
like, I've got alienated,
and laughed at,
and, you know, it's called a witch,
and all of that stuff that God called me out of
that felt like they were...
I almost felt like in this weird, wet way,
I ended up just...
It was a dark night that I went through,
but I felt like those same demons that I overcame
were like trying to pull me back into witchcraft,
and not even knowing and stuff,
and it just got really weird.
So that was a journey.
So Mystic Mind was like the first song
on the second project,
Spiritual Alchemy, that I wrote,
and I just started off with just that first phrase,
transcend the physical, spiritual, individual,
faith followed by works.
You're really blasting it at work.
Don't stop, T. Come on, man.
That's where I was leading you.
You got to give us a piece of it.
Give us a piece, because our audience can handle it.
We're ready to receive you.
We'll suck you up.
Yeah, and it's a funny thing, for the most part,
like I'm coming from a Christian mystic perspective.
So there's a lot of biblical stuff,
so transcend the physical, spiritual, individual,
faith followed by works,
so we're healing them with the syllables.
Third eye, visual, teacher, mystical principles,
knowledge held from the prudent,
and given unto the simple.
Look, overactive imagination,
they medicate it, and decedate it,
expect the worst, and exaggerate it.
I'm frustrated.
Where we headed is not where we been.
It's Caliuga.
We got the hands of the fallen men,
righteous teachers.
We're giving wisdom like Solomon.
I grab my pen and write blessings
that will bond up the gen.
It's God's breath, and I'm feeling it
like I'm feeling the wind.
I've come too far to look back or start over again.
Stimulate your mind, you see,
and you will find the kingdom that's inside.
Wake up and realize you need nothing that's outside.
The blind, leading the blind.
Fever, season, false, scribes, religion
will only blind.
Yeah, man.
That first, man.
And it was just, man.
I just, it's beautiful.
And then I get the, I get the,
it's just weird, weird feeling too,
because now like I get to,
I get to get ministered to by my own music
in this weird sort of mystical channeled way that,
like, because I step away from it months
or go through depression or whatever,
and I listen.
I'm like, I wrote that.
And now I, like, it just,
and I listen to it and my own words wash over me.
It's something about when you're able to,
whether you want to say channel or what,
but when you're inspired by the Holy Spirit
or God's birthing something in you,
I listen to a lot of my clips on the podcast.
A lot of it I'm just talking.
We're having fun.
We laugh and we're joking.
But sometimes I can feel the anointing on me.
And I know that when I speak,
strongholds are falling down off of people.
People are being set free, even healed,
through our conversation and dialogue.
Years of, of, of that stuff on them is being washed away.
I can feel it.
And then I'll listen to even myself talking.
And if it's the spirit, I'm like, man,
that's me in this spirit.
It's just washing over me.
That's right.
So I'm a partaker of it as well.
So I'm just, I'm just blessed to just be a vessel of it
and stuff.
So it's crazy.
It's a really crazy experience.
And it just opened up so many doors for me
and an avenue of creativity, really,
which I believe is the Father's heart.
He's the most creative one ever.
He created things.
And I'm just on this kick now of just creating anything.
I have a lot of stuff that I create.
But just what I feel when I create something,
and I can't wait to show people.
And we're created in the image and likeness of a creator who
we have that.
And I think that's the highest form of worship
when we're able to create something.
And especially if it's something beautiful,
something lofty, something that's going to help people,
you know, we can create that and, and offer it to,
you know what I'm saying, to mankind.
And we can't wait to show people our work.
And God has realms and God has mountains and sunsets
that he's painted and things he wants to show.
Silas Simon, I created something.
I created another realm.
You want to see it?
Yeah, Father.
You know, if it's of him, and I really feel, man,
he loves to show us the deep secret mysteries of this reality
that he wants, man.
And it's up to us to, to seek it out if that's what we want.
You know, and it's there.
It's beautiful.
Just that whole dialogue in and of itself.
You know?
Yeah.
What's the, what would you say to like,
I believe you have something important to offer anybody
who's beginning their experience or like,
sometimes people need to hear it most won't listen to it.
But what would you say to somebody who's just starting
their spiritual journey or is retracing their steps?
Love is the key, man.
Love is the key.
And it goes back to what you said a while ago,
like the fruit of it.
What fruit are you producing?
Whether what sect you're following?
What, what your part take?
What type of wine you're drinking?
Because wine is symbolic for doctrine in the Bible.
So what, what type of wine are you being drunk under?
You know?
And so a lot of things you will find out that like,
if it's conspiracy theories, are you always afraid?
Are you always freaking your family out?
There's nobody, are people staying away from you?
Because you quote unquote, have the truth is the truth.
Like, are you the only one who has the truth?
Or your sect, or your church, or your building,
or your religion?
Like, all of this red flags that come up.
Look at the fruit that you're producing.
And I feel like it all has to point back to love.
I believe that God is love, that Christ,
this person we call Jesus, is love made manifest
in human form, who we can encounter in the spirit.
And it's really about that fruit, man.
You know, becoming a blessing to other people
and helping them out on that journey, whatever that is.
So, you know?
It's not all but under this bad stuff out there, right?
But the scriptures are key when it says that,
if there be anything true, if there be anything noble,
anything of good virtue, anything of praise,
think about these things.
It says that for a reason.
It says it for a reason, to protect your heart,
protect your spirit, as people are vexed out there.
We get to what is ecclesiastes at the end of Solomon's life.
He says, look, I've given my heart to seek after wisdom,
to seek after understanding.
And I found it to be vexation of spirit.
And I use this man's name.
I love him without my heart.
Jordan Maxwell, he's a big name in that area.
But we're talking about being up there in age,
someone who's been vexed by learning knowledge
and understanding knowledge at the end of their life.
And they don't even know what to do with it.
They don't have any friends.
They don't have any family.
They've kind of ran them all the way because of this stuff.
And Solomon says, look, this is what I wanted.
I got it.
But at the end of the day, it's vexation of spirit.
I'm interested in things that nobody gives a damn about.
And so just when love is the key, make sure that there's
the fruit, the fruit of love and the peace and joy
in the whole spirit, man.
That's what I'm impart to somebody starting out.
Truth seeker, Jordan loves you.
You know that.
And you love him.
And we see that love.
You know, love is a conversation.
It goes back to something you were saying earlier
about stepping away from your own work,
about you being enveloped by it.
It's sort of like a conversation.
And I'm going to model it this way.
It doesn't have to be modeled this way, but it can be.
It's sort of like listening in on a conversation
between the father and the son.
Does that make sense?
And you're in the middle of it.
And you're just kind of like caught in a love stream.
You're there, but you're not there.
You're doing it, but you're not doing it.
I know I'm speaking cryptically.
Yeah, yeah.
But and at the same time, I'm still mission minded.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I still have a heart for people
and I'm still mission minded.
So I know, I mean, I get, I get, you know,
a lot of clicks and a lot of traffic
because I do interviews with him, you know?
And and sometimes I don't want to.
And I have to bite the bullet.
You know, I think, I think, you know,
I think we've already got the good stuff.
We're getting out of Jordan Maxwell.
Years ago, you know, but I still have him on
because I first of all, I do, I do care about him, you know,
but I'm, I'm want to infiltrate his audience, you know?
And so, and I have, it's happened.
And if I, if it doesn't go any further, I'm good,
but I've like, we're, we're friends, right?
And I tell him that too.
But like, you know, and I'm open,
even though like in an interview like that,
that may not be the, the one,
but I made to give a freaking altar call.
At the end of a Jordan Maxwell interview,
you were talking about aliens and psilocybin and all of these new,
you know, one of my ones is up to like,
it's almost a hundred thousand views on YouTube.
But I don't have a hundred thousand people following me.
I don't have that, that, those kind of numbers.
So there's, those are, that's, it's what the term broadcasting means,
taking your seeds and you're just broadcasting them.
And whoever's to come, whoever's to pick up and hear it.
Hey, you're, we're, we're in a,
we're in a realm where everyone claims to have the truth
or know the truth or seek the truth.
And I feel like as believers, we have the spirit of Christ
and the Holy spirit.
I really feel like we have what they're looking for.
You know, maybe not right now, but they're, they're searching.
You know, even Dr. Michael Heiser,
one of the most Christian people in this realm,
I asked him on an interview, why are you talking to,
to people about UFOs and ufology?
He said, because these are the people who ask the bigger questions.
I can't go, that people at church aren't concerned
with the most of the stuff, but the people in ufology
and into aliens and, you know, all fallen angels,
they're asking the bigger questions.
They're already seeking.
So my work is going to resonate with them.
He said it straight up.
He infiltrated that movement, you know, the UFO movement.
So that's what we're here to do, man.
We're here to be, you know, why is this serpent
homeless as doves and it's working?
Awesome. Awesome.
Hey, Kevin, take us out, man.
You want to say some final words?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
Do you want to just say a quick prayer or just a, yeah.
Well, I just want to say, like, I, this is actually powerful,
like that I would come across.
I actually found you looking at Santhos Bonacci.
Yeah. Same thing.
Right. So you're, it's true.
It's working and, and it's, it's, we're all on a journey.
We're all growing and that's, and we have to keep growing.
If we're going to stay healthy and that's, we're like water,
we move, we grow and, and, but I don't know.
I'll just say, like, God, thanks for bringing us together.
Thanks for, thanks for this podcast.
Thanks for our journey and sincerity and truth.
And thanks for that, the golden ratio of life that we get to partake in.
And yeah, I just bless you guys and bless the future.
And I, I hope we, I hope we increase in hope.
And I hope that I, I hope this happens more and that I,
I get to become more intimate even in my journey,
because I know I've been very left-brained.
And that was prophesied over me actually a long time ago.
That I would get into the Bible.
But no, I just want to thank you, Lord in the universe,
for showing yourself through nature,
showing yourself through what happens through these ancient texts.
And I just want to be thankful.
I don't want to have that attitude going forward too.
So yeah, amen, I guess.
Amen, Kevin. Amen, true Sika.
But in the future, where, like, where,
how can people get, get access to you?
Yeah, I always tell people just, you know,
wherever they consume media, I'm there.
But you can check out my website, truthsika.com.
If you like to watch YouTube videos,
if you're on Twitter, if you're on Facebook,
wherever you consume media, just type in truth Sika.
And I'm there. I've got some, something there.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah, you.
Oh, you cut out Luther.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Wait a minute. Can you hear me?
Yeah, can you hear me?
You got me?
Okay, all right.
CDs, digital downloads at truthsika.com,
or go to iTunes, download the music and the podcast.
Truth Seeker, unforgettable interview.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Thank you guys for having me, man.
I really enjoyed this conversation, guys.
Really appreciate it.
Yeah, our pleasure.
Luther G. Williams and Kevin Maxwell
for MythVision Podcast.
Peace out.
Peace out.
Shalom.
