If you want to help Mithish and podcast grow, you can join our Patreon.
There are different tiers as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much.
Don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
My name is Derek Lambert and I'm going to be talking about my conversion as a young
man into Christianity, pretty much everything that surrounds what we call the canon, the
Bible.
Christianity.
And talk about why I left, what led me in that direction and made me end up giving out.
The story will start once upon a time and end happily ever after.
Alright, first, what legend do Christianity mean?
I'd have to say my mom was a major influence on my becoming a Christian.
She was a Christian, Pentecostal growing up.
I know she went to snake handling churches and stuff, like real redneck stuff.
Like on the next level, like test your faith because there's a scripture in Mark that says
that you'll be able to handle serpents and they take that literally and they literally
play with rattlesnakes in church.
So she came from that kind of background, Pentecostal, whereas my dad, Roman Catholic,
would go in, confess your sins, you know, say a few Hail Marys, Father, Son, Holy Ghost,
take the toast, you know, consume of the transom instantiation, if you will, the Lord's Supper
Communion.
And he was a traditional Catholic, but he didn't go much.
He was more of an alcoholic in my life.
So being introduced to Christianity came from my mom.
And I went to a private school called Cornerstone Christian Academy.
That's where I really asked the Lord into my life, you know, from my personal Lord and
Savior, Jesus.
And I accepted him into my heart because I felt guilty.
They gave a lesson on lies and from there, I felt bad, you know, because I told quite
a few of lies, but Jesus would be able to redeem me from those sins and I wouldn't have
to dwell on them anymore.
In fact, his crucifixion and dying on the cross for our sins took all those sins away.
So that's pretty much where it all started.
Can you take me through the experience of being a Christian?
Yeah, this is going to take a little longer, obviously, to explain because there's so much
I could cover in my experience through Christianity.
And I'll try and make it brief as much as possible because this could take a very long
time.
Number one, I'm a young kid.
I had had experiences and knew the name of Jesus and knew a little bit about the stories,
but I didn't latch on.
They didn't become like an obsession until I got a little older.
I remember asking him into my heart and I felt a warm, like a warm sensation, a physical
experience, if you will, an emotional gratitude or satisfaction that came from this type of
belief, faith, if you will, in Jesus Christ.
And so I had become a Christian and I bumped into a guy who introduced me to this church,
a home church.
Later on, realized how much of a cult type church this was, but they spoke in tongues,
gibberish, not like trying to speak in another language.
They prophesied.
They did the whole laying on of hands and healing type stuff and all of that.
And so that was the kind of Christianity that I had known early on was this fringe type
extreme, charismatic, non-denominational type Christianity.
And I remember my Christian life never 100% matched reality for me.
Just living this perfect life according to God's word and all this kind of stuff.
And then when reality set, it was very difficult to make those line up for me.
I wasn't able to make the biblical world and who I am as a real human completely, perfectly
matched.
It was always a struggle.
And Christians would describe that the battling of the flesh, you know.
You're fighting spirit against flesh, the spirit of God, you're warring against the
flesh with yourself and die to self daily, this constant battle.
It just didn't make sense to me though, because I could never figure out why I kept stumbling,
why I would have pornography issues, why I would run into issues with drugs and alcohol
or girls and things like that.
Like, I always had these things.
And then I'd go off in these tangents, living this lifestyle contrary to what Christians
say you're supposed to live.
And then I'd end up hitting a wall, struggling, either addiction or something else, whether
it was me habitually smoking pot like I used to do in high school, felling at school.
I wasn't doing good in class in my senior year, so I had to pull myself out.
I had a kid on the way.
It was actually your sister.
And, you know, life, life was coming at me.
So I pulled myself out of 12th grade and I remember giving myself back to the Lord.
Dude, I can't tell you how many times I've been saved.
Like, I've been saved so many times.
You know what I mean?
Like, no, this time it was the real time, you know, and I meant it.
I really did.
And I know that Christians out there will say, the Calvinist ones, which is what I ended
up later on becoming, will say, well, you were never a sheep to begin with.
You were never really an elect chosen.
God never really had you chosen from the beginning.
This is why you didn't continue because they have what's called perseverance of the saints.
The five, tulip, total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace,
perseverance of the saints, tulip.
And they'll say, well, you didn't persevere therefore.
You were never really one of us.
You were never really a chosen son of God.
And you may be a reprobate, which is why you continue to fall into these traps of doing
the things contrary to God.
Anyway, not going there necessarily.
I gave my life back to Jesus, back to God.
And this is the Bible I actually owned in high school.
I remember in class, I was obsessed, and I don't know if you guys can see some of the
like, highlights and stuff, but I was obsessed.
I was obsessed with the story.
And when I read that book in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
And the earth was without form and void and darkness was upon the face of the deep.
And I began into this journey.
It was like that movie, the kid with the dog, the never-ending story.
And he was reading the book, and when he opened the book and the storm was going,
he was riding on the dog's back, flying, and then he ends up to this place.
It was like a journey.
I went through this journey as I read this book.
It kept me off drugs for a while.
I'm obsessed with it.
I remember when I read it, the visuals of the Noah's flood taking place, I was there.
When Moses went on the mountain of God to get the tablets of the stones that he wrote his laws on, I was there.
When the children of Israel left Egypt from bondage, I was there.
And these stories came to life.
They had an experience behind them.
They gave me visuals.
And so I started digging deeper.
And I remember I read the whole book, this whole King James version only, which that cultic church taught me King James only.
And I read the whole thing, from Genesis to Revelation.
And I knew there was a disconnect when I got to the New Testament.
Something narrative-wise didn't connect.
In fact, there was some genealogical stuff in the Old Testament that I wasn't a big fan of either,
but I just didn't like the story as good as the story was in the Old Testament.
People had to unpack the New Testament to make it sound like a good story.
They were just better well written in my opinion than the Old Testament.
So I ended up getting clean off drugs.
I got my life together, was reading the Bible, and then damn it, if you wouldn't know it, I relapsed.
Struggled again.
I couldn't understand why, if I had God's Holy Spirit, if I was praying and I was going to church,
why would a temptation cross my path that wasn't for just a moment,
that once I put the substance in my body, I could not stop using the drug or alcohol
and abusing it to numb the way I felt.
I mean, I told you I grew up with an alcoholic father.
So there was some disconnect there growing up.
I had some issues with forgiveness and forgiving my father.
How could someone say they're sorry, and then the next night, or that very night,
drink again, turn into a werewolf, abuse his family verbally,
and then turn around the next morning with tears in his eyes, meaning it.
Saying, I mean it, I'm sorry, I didn't even mean to do this.
I didn't mean to.
You gotta imagine psychologically what that'll do to someone.
Christianity was a great psychological comfort.
It gave me what I needed in times of need.
That's pretty much what it boils down to is an experience.
So I needed more than just experience because I got challenged along the way
by people who did not believe in this book.
Man, don't talk about my book.
Don't talk about my Bible.
And I wanted to defend it because there were words in here that said,
study and meditate on my word day and night.
Show yourself approved the New Testament says,
prove that you're worthy and defend the faith.
I've actually seen you study day and night.
Right.
So I got really serious about wanting to know the truth.
And the way I looked at it as a Christian was truly honest.
Like, God is real.
He is the way, the truth, the life, right?
No one can get to the Father except through him.
And that if this is true, there is no way it can be wrong.
Because it's true.
Therefore, it doesn't matter what you bring, this will win if it's true.
And I believe that.
Now, every time you battle with addiction.
Yeah.
You got clean.
You went to faith.
Right.
Always went back to faith.
Always went back to faith.
We're not there yet.
But now, you got clean.
This is the longest you've been clean.
Yeah.
Five years, October the 25th, without faith, without Jesus.
Yeah.
And I think that there's a reason for that too.
I think that there was addiction to this as well.
That there was more of a, it gave me a high.
And I still get these, right?
I study.
We seek our hobbies and things like that.
But for me, psychologically, it was working against me because I had read too much.
I knew a little too much.
Once you know too much about it, you've opened up Pandora's Box.
You've opened up some problems.
Because then you start to look into it and go,
okay, well, you guys keep saying God loves everybody, but the book doesn't say that.
Jacob, I loved Esau, I hated.
Psalms 5 verse 5, he abhors, he hates workers of iniquity.
Well, I was doing iniquity.
I was living a lifestyle of iniquity.
Does God really love me?
Or does God hate me?
You have to really ask these questions because unless you can live that lifestyle,
obedient to his law, according to the Old Testament,
he abhors workers of iniquity.
He hates those who do evil.
Was I doing evil?
Yeah, according to the law, according to the things that were written in this book.
And therefore, did God hate me?
So I asked these questions and I was honest.
I was truly sincere.
And I think anyone who's going to be authentic and truly sincere
are going to run into situations that eventually,
they're going to either be dishonest with themselves for a period of time
or remain dishonest with themselves because of the fear
that comes with letting go of something sacred,
something that you believe is deeper than anything in this world.
More important than my children, than my wife,
than anything that was real that I could manifest in this actual reality,
was God, Jesus, this Bible.
This was more important than everything to me, ultimately.
It was the reason I did love my wife.
It was the reason that I did love my kid.
It was the backdrop to anything that was good in my life.
It was all God.
And therefore, that was how I thought.
So there's an extreme depth to this that I won't even be able to cover in this
and to be able to explain in depth.
But what did you, when you opened Pandora's box for yourself,
what did you discover?
I found out there was a world of interpretation about this book
that ultimately now, today I look and I go,
wow, even the most brilliant minds cannot agree.
Even the most brilliant men who are coming at this
that know the languages and the original sources we have,
the original Greek sources, the original Hebrew sources that we have,
the oldest sources we have, the evidence that we have.
Guys who have no axe to grind necessarily are looking at this
and they're looking at another man who has no axe to grind it
and they go, I disagree with you on that one.
Sorry, this is what this means.
No, no, no, this is what it means and you guys are wrong because you're deducting this.
When you get into the depth of this book,
you'll find out everyone has their own opinions.
Nobody really knows the totality of everything that's written here.
I mean, we're talking just in the canon, the Protestant version
that I'm holding in my hand has 66 books.
And out of the 66 books, Christians say,
66 authors, they're really wrong about that.
There were far more authors, even like Isaiah was written
by at least two to four different authors,
just the one book by written by the author Isaiah.
Had multiple authors that had patched in different ideas.
The New Testament writings may not have been written by one author in these books.
They could have been patchworked by multiple authors, just one book itself.
So there's a complexity to it when you start to remove the veil.
Now, if you're getting everything filtered through a pastor like I did for many years, it works.
But I remember Ravi Zacharias, and he was one of my favorite apologists
because he had an emotion to the intelligence he wanted to bring to the table of Christianity.
He says, I connect the mind and the heart.
We're bringing Christianity where it connects the mind and the heart.
When you really dig, those two do not match.
They don't really...
If you mean mind as an intelligence and real history, you're not going to get it.
It doesn't connect.
There are so many assumptions and apologetics to Christianity
that when you really look at actual history to try and dig,
you have to make a lot of assumptions.
And there's a lot more faith on that end than the critical stance.
So anyway, I might be speaking gibberish to you, but I have to say,
Pandora's box for me was when I approached the pastor one day.
He was giving a lesson at church.
I was going to a Calvary Chapel church.
I had left the cult church because I believed at this point,
speaking in tongues was not,
all that crap, and they laid on hands and like,
you convulse and lay on the ground,
which I've had a few times where I purposely did it for psychological reasons
and other people watch where I laid on the ground
as if I was slain in the spirit.
But really, it was more just a hypnosis type
and more like I wanted to go with the flow
what everyone else was doing in the church.
It wasn't real, like you didn't really knock me on my ass.
This was part of the hypnotic effect of the church.
And when I realized this speaking in tongues was not gibberish,
rather it was another language according to the book of Acts.
They spoke a language that they understood.
The miracle was that they either understood the language,
they could hear their own, the gospel in their own language,
or that the people had the gift of being able to speak in another language,
Spanish, German, Italian, whatever that language might have been,
to the people.
And so it was not, it was actual language.
And when I saw that, I said, dude, this is culting.
So I started investigating it from other Christians.
And at this time, all my investigations were from other Christians about Christians.
I never went outside of Christianity at first.
I mean, who would?
That's scary territory.
You don't go to the enemy.
You go to someone who sounds like he's on your side to say,
listen, our brother's over there are mistaken.
Not going to learn.
And I approached a pastor who mistakenly misquoted somewhere in John
where he says, I will tear down this temple and rebuild it in three days.
And they responded and said, it took us 46 years to build this temple,
right, somewhere in the Gospel of John.
Well, he said 40 years.
And I knew I was like, pastor was going off the top of his mind,
and he missed what it actually says.
So I said, he misquoted the Bible.
That's how like I started getting so deep.
I'm realizing mistakes the pastor's making by quoting the book.
And I said, it's 46 years, not 40.
He said 40.
So then I approached him after not to correct or anything.
I was very polite.
But I said, do you know how I can learn more?
I want to know more.
And he says, you should check out going to Carolina Bible College.
It's right on the street.
And maybe talk about becoming a pastor.
I thought about that.
I was always interested in that.
I said, maybe I'll be a pastor.
Maybe I'll lead a flock and have my own church and teach
because I felt that passion.
So I went to college.
And that's a whole another story.
So what's the reason why you left Christianity
or discuss your exodus?
OK, so yeah, the exodus.
Let me back up to leading up to my exodus from Christianity
because I had already tasted a few flavors of the rainbow,
so to speak, when it comes to a varieties of different Christianities,
Protestant versions of Christianity.
They were not liberal.
They were very conservative.
And I was interested in finding out more.
So I went to Carolina Bible College.
I was an Arminian, so to speak.
I didn't know what the hell that was at the time.
Practically, I believe God knew the future.
He planned everything, but he gave us all free will.
So this goes into philosophy.
And there's a huge debate within Christianity
on what's called Calvinism and Arminianism
and Pelagianism in these different groups.
Open theism, absolute hard determinism.
I'm throwing out lingo here that's used a lot in the debate.
Does God really know the future?
Or does God not only know the future,
but absolutely determines everything that ever happens
in human history, or ever.
God's in absolute control.
Calvinism on steroids, or Pelagian open theism,
where God actually doesn't even know the future.
He kind of wings it as he goes.
He kind of adjusts things as he goes, so to speak.
And there's two spectrums within Christianity like this.
Of course, I was going with what I saw.
What appeared to me in the Bible from all these passages
was that God knew what was going to happen and planned it.
In fact, he would tell, according to the narrative,
he would tell Abraham,
you know, I'm going to take your kids
and bring them into the land of Egypt and make them slaves.
But don't worry, I'm going to make them free 400,
you know, 430 years later.
And of course, he predicted and planned and purposed
their slavery in Egypt,
just so that he could, by his own power, save them.
So it's like, he led them in Egypt,
where a place where they end up becoming slaves,
and then he saves them from Egypt.
So he was able to show his kindness and mercy,
and also show judgment.
And so this is the way, philosophically,
the only way God could show good and evil,
and this goes into a whole other spectrum.
So I went to a guy who was teaching at the college,
and he was a Calvinist. He was a pastor.
And his name was Andy Webb, a very nice guy.
Till this day, he's a great guy.
But he taught me Calvinism, and he also taught a few classes,
where I became a great student.
And I took this guy real serious. I said,
where's your church at? Let me come check it out.
So while I was getting my bachelor's degree
in biblical studies and theology,
I went to this church, and this church was Providence, PCA.
It was a PCA Presbyterian church where there were Calvinists.
And I kept studying and went to college.
And as I was doing that, I was realizing, even in this,
how many different types of Christianity there really are,
even within Calvinists.
Baptists, Calvinists, Reformed, Presbyterian type Calvinists,
with infant baptism.
And then there's, are you supposed to infant baptize,
only baptize as believing professing Christians?
Like they debate over this stuff,
and sometimes people draw lines in the sand.
And if you don't, if you don't believe like them,
you're not thinking biblical.
So I started going to this Providence PCA church.
And I was investigating a theory of eschatology
that I've never heard of.
You might be going, what the heck?
You're throwing a lot of junk, like all these words around,
and I don't know what half of them may mean.
That's okay, because I didn't either.
And the college that I went to would teach me
what a lot of these terms mean.
And eschatology is the study of last things.
You've got things like angelology, or demonology,
or soteriology, salvation, soter.
A lot of these are technical terms
to try and define theological things.
All this stuff is theology.
It's all Bible theology type stuff that I'm into.
And I looked into eschatology.
And I always, as a Christian believed,
Jesus was going to come back.
The second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ was going to return.
And not only that, the final judgment,
the resurrection from the dead,
all these teachings that the church has been saying
are going to happen that are in the Bible,
that are supposed to happen, are going to happen.
And along this path, I remember I relapsed again.
Like I kept finding myself screwing up.
Whether it was alcohol, whether it was drugs,
I kept having a tough time trying to stay a good Christian
who wasn't doing the wrong thing,
trying to go to church and do what's right.
But I'd be ashamed.
And so through this struggle,
every time I would relapse, I would open up my mind
and think of things I wouldn't have usually thought of,
or I wouldn't have even entertained.
It took humbling me because I always thought I was right.
I found something I thought was true.
I was right, and I pushed it and maximized it,
built all my walls and this giant castle out of it.
And then later on, coming to find out after I tore it down
from my humbleness, getting my ass beat by addiction or something,
that I was like, maybe I was wrong.
Maybe I'm not believing in something that's true
because my belief in these things
aren't giving me the power to really be able to stay clean.
I couldn't do it.
I kept trying. I couldn't stay clean.
I went to church, we had communion, and this church was real wine.
And even that little bit of wine when I sifted,
I felt the warm wine go down my esophagus
and I felt a warm, fuzzy, tingly sensation.
I said, well, Jesus, drink wine.
Why can't I?
So I just brought wine home and started drinking wine.
The wine turned into malt liquor,
malt liquor turned into liquor, and there you are.
Here I am drinking again.
And I'm an alcoholic, like, openly.
Like, scientific.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, well, you're a bad morale, you're a bad person.
You're a bad person.
That's why you did these things
and realized there's some science to a lot
of all the things I'm talking about here.
I started studying eschatology.
I started listening to what's called partial preterism
and amillennialism.
I read a book called A Case for Amillennialism
when I was a premilled dispensationalist.
All this mumbo-jumbo.
And then you're like, what the freak is all this stuff?
Well, amillennialism, I was convinced of it.
Just by reading one book, it was enough evidence
for me to see that there's something more going on.
And then I started looking into partial preterism,
post-millennialism.
And there was R.C. Spruill, Gary DeMar,
and Kenneth Gentry.
These guys said, look, guys, you're missing it.
All that stuff that you guys are waiting to happen
was fulfilled in 70 AD in the first century
with the temple's destruction.
And as I heard these guys over many lectures
that I thought it rang so true my ears,
they kept mentioning this thing called 70 AD doctrine.
And they said, heretical full preterism.
It's a heresy, it's a biblical,
these guys are totally off the rockers,
and they're wrong, period.
Which made me kind of want to know, what do they teach?
Because I want to know what they teach
just so I can at least say, yeah, they're wrong with you.
And I didn't dig into it yet.
Years later, when I did not even realize
I'm on YouTube after another relapse,
I saw this man named Don Preston.
And in this video he said,
Jesus Christ did come back in the first century.
The second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ
already happened in the past.
And when I heard him say that,
I said, what kind of drugs is this mother on?
Like, who believes Jesus came back already?
This is such a fringe conspiracy theory.
I gotta click the next video.
And I clicked it.
And as I clicked that, I wanted to click the next one.
And I started to watch this guy, like, holy crap.
I opened my Bible, I started looking and going,
whoa, that makes sense.
In English, in my English translation,
that I have, it made sense.
Like, dude, he did come back.
How could I miss it?
He said he would.
Either he did, or he didn't.
And if he didn't, he lied.
And how could God in the flesh, being a Trinitarian,
someone who believes that God, the Father,
the Son, and the Holy Spirit are one God,
three bodies, and three persons, and one God,
how could I say that God would lie?
He said he was coming.
Am I gonna deny that?
Am I gonna accept it?
And then I accepted it.
I became a full-preterist.
Which set me up in a weird way when the church found out
that I was actually believing this
and talking to other members of the church.
Like, they were telling me, you need to stop.
They even had a council.
They sat five men in front of me, five elders,
trying to talk to me and telling me,
you need to stop the terracy.
You need to drop it.
And try to convince me to stop with full-preterism.
Because it was against the church doctrines.
But they were kind, but I felt I was on the heat.
I was on the hot seat.
And I felt very judged at that moment.
I mean, they were practically all sitting there.
And from that day, I felt very uncomfortable
coming back to the church.
Because they couldn't convince me from the scripture,
from the Bible.
And I was like, dude, it says very clearly that it had to.
So either you accept it, did or didn't.
And I became a full-preterist.
And over time, a religious full-preterist
went to a church in Michael Miano's church,
a blue-point Bible church, blue letter Bible.
I can't remember what it's called.
In Long Island, New York, I went and gave my testimony.
And I taught a lesson on this.
And how the first century was the end.
And how it did happen.
And that relapsed.
And this happened a lot.
Gave my life to the Lord a lot.
And I remember watching Zeitgeist, this movie.
Which now knowing there's a lot of mistakes
that I believe are taking place in this.
There's a lot of errors in how they connect like chorus
and things like that.
But it did something psychologically that I needed.
Because along this whole path that I've explained to you,
I was in apologetics.
I wanted to rationalize my faith.
I wanted to give solid concrete evidence
to defend Christianity.
The more people came on and were acting like,
it's not true, the more I wanted to prove it real true.
Because it's the truth, right?
I wanted to prove it.
And the more I went to go prove it from the Christian side,
I learned more from their angle.
I thought I had more evidence.
And then one day came,
when I saw this video, Zeitgeist, psychologically,
it compares Jesus to all these other divine beings.
All these other gods.
Makes them look identical to them.
Even though he wasn't.
And it's not a factual document.
There's not everything in it as factual.
But it compared him to the Son.
It said he's all like all these other gods.
And that's when I started to look into that.
I started to open up to the side that I never was on,
the dark side.
Don't ever look there.
Once you do,
and you really take into consideration if you're like me,
and you really want to figure out what the truth is saying,
once you go there, you won't want to come back.
You won't want to stop looking into it
and investigating what's going on.
So I started.
And when I started looking into Jesus,
I started running into faces that I saw debating Christians,
that I once was like, yes, beat him.
The Christian won.
The guy that he was debating is the guy I'm now listening to,
just to see what he has to say honestly.
Not watching the debate, hoping the Christian bashes him,
just so the Christian could win, so that my book is safe,
and my faith is protected.
No, I actually started listening to the side
and started going, what are you saying?
I want to honestly think, could you be right?
I really was honestly willing to say,
could you be right?
And as I listened to them,
I started considering maybe they are.
Maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe all this time I've been wrong.
But I didn't accept it.
It was too emotional for me to let go of.
I couldn't just let go of Jesus.
I couldn't just let go of the Bible and God.
So I started seeing a bigger picture.
I saw patterns.
I looked at scholars and said,
you know the story of Noah and the flood
actually came from an older story of the Epic of Gogamesh?
Like, this is borrowed from a different story.
And I said, well, how can that be?
You know, Christians used to debate and argue
and say, no, this is the oldest version.
Everyone else copied it.
Or they're all similar stories of the same event.
And they always had an explanation.
But when I listened to real scholars,
real serious, non-axe grinding,
not having a bias,
I got something I have to protect
in order to just coming at this thing raw
and uncensored, so to speak,
came out on the other side saying,
yeah, we have archaeological evidence.
We have evidence that this is older
than in the biblical count.
And at that point, I started to go,
oh, wow, okay.
This book, is this really infallible in Aaron?
I came from a fundamentalist background.
Like, is this the perfect book?
This is the one true book.
If anything, they had to copy from this.
But now I'm finding out this book
and its authors might be copied from
other books and other stories.
Started abroad in my perspective
and realized, okay, at this point,
I still believe in God, I still believe in Jesus.
Maybe there's a bigger picture.
Maybe God is like
the God of all people
and he tells his own
in different ways has a story told
in all the cultures.
Kind of like the poem,
The Six Wise Men of Hindustan.
If you haven't read it, check it out.
It's actually interesting. It's about an elephant.
And all these men who are blind come and touch the elephant.
One touches the tusk, one touches the tail,
Oh God, this elephant is like a fan.
Elephants like a rope.
No elephants like a saw.
And they're all disputing far and wide
and at the end, all what they mean and what they think.
On an elephant, they haven't even seen.
And that's what I found out.
Maybe God is the elephant, right?
But then I took in further
the reality that maybe
there's more human
and natural explanations
that I never, ever even thought
that would right in front of my eyes
like me.
Like I actually saw me for once.
And I went, you're a real dude.
You know, like I've been lost in this world
of like fantasy metaphysics
and all this like deep lost philosophy.
And at this point in my life,
I'm gonna die.
I mean, I'm mainlining heroin in my veins.
I'm dying.
And God is not saving me.
The last time I used heroin,
I ended up at this lady's house
and it was some strange stuff that did happen to me.
But when you're in traumatic situations,
the world can line up
if you really want it to.
And I said some prayers.
This is the last time I really, really called out to God.
Five years ago, just about.
And I was crying out. I said,
I can't do it.
I need your help.
I can't do it by myself.
It took me a year or two
to look back to that moment,
the beginning of my getting off heroin,
to realize that that was me talking to me
the whole time.
And I was telling myself,
you better get your shit together, man.
You have to make it where you're gonna die.
Survival of the fittest.
And I did.
And I latched on to anything
that could potentially help me
and I cried out for help and I surrendered.
And I used all the principles
of Christianity, so to speak.
You know, surrender and be honest
and tell the truth and really
mean what I say and say what I mean.
But really do it.
And I haven't used drugs since.
But every time I was religious,
it was like superficial.
Like I said at the beginning of this,
I couldn't line up reality
like me
with what I was believing.
And that's where we come in today on my Exodus.
I got excommunicated from the church
for absence, not going to church.
Even though full preterism
played a huge part on me not wanting to go.
I mean, would you like to constantly appear
so that people can look at you sideways and go,
you know, he believes in some weird crap.
Like, you're supposed to have someone who believes
is the people you go to church to.
You're supposed to have stuff in common.
And my wife and I were excommunicated.
So I actually took it and I said,
well, I still love the book.
But this book mystifies me now more than ever.
I actually love this book more now
than ever have in a different way.
Because I see the human.
I see the guys who wrote this
for what they really were.
Humans writing something
during a time in which they were probably in a crisis too.
And from what they understood,
the God of the gaps idea pops in.
They don't understand what's happening to their people.
So they're calling out God,
why are you doing this?
They don't realize maybe
there's some other natural explanations.
Why are these earthquakes and hurricanes
God, it must be.
I can only imagine if we were in the ancient world
we'd think the same thing.
But now we have plate tectonics
and understanding how certain temperatures
and sciences cause certain things to happen
in an actual world, unlike the ancients.
I know I'm rabbit trailing all the books.
So basically there,
God is
what you don't understand.
I mean practically, yeah,
like anything that we can't explain
is usually God comes in
Right.
What we think
is God fills in that gap
is God of the gaps argument.
We still don't know scientifically
how to explain ultimately the origins of the universe.
There's certain,
mathematically, we can't go back
to anything prior to
the decimal point that they would say
where our universe is expanding and contracted
at some point. I'm no scientist.
I'm not acting like I know.
I've listened to the debates from the Christians
that has come back and forth, but
something had to always exist.
So Christians and those
who are theists will say, well, God
created everything and God always existed.
And then people go, but then where did
God come from? Did who created God?
I used to think that was the dumbest questions
that atheists could ever ask.
Because it was right in front of my eyes.
Dude, you didn't hear me?
Nothing, because God is eternal.
God always was.
Nothing created God, but that's a cop out too.
That's acting as if
you know that God is eternal and that
he's everlasting.
Why couldn't the universe have always existed?
Maybe it's too
too complex for me to even explain or our brains
to even wrap our heads around
on
really trying to understand this.
You know? There's a theory
that we're in a matrix for real.
I mean, there's different ideas, but they were plugged
in somewhere and that this is all
virtual reality, that we're practically living
a video game, so to speak.
So I just thought, you know, I don't buy it.
Personally, I'm not going to say it's not possible.
I'm just saying I don't buy it.
To me, the natural world
seems so
you know, I used to think
like I used to have this like
self-aware thoughts, if you will,
if this makes sense, that it's not my time
to die. Like, I won't be dying anytime soon.
There's nothing that's going to make me die right now
or anytime soon. It just, she's going to come.
That I was chosen by God
and that at some point down the road
when he's done using me for his mission, I'll die.
Right now?
No. And that
psychological
if you will view on me
it is carried on
even into this time. Now I have to catch myself and go,
bro, you can die
real easily if you keep playing with thunder.
You know what I'm saying? Light me. Fire.
Whatever. It's going to get you.
So along this whole path
and I wanted to
know more, if you will,
I started discovering different theories
about the Bible
that were not
the ones the church taught.
Kind of a conspiratorial angle,
if you will. I mean, I did have a kind of conspiracy.
I mean, if full preterist
are right, as I was toward the end,
that the whole church missed Jesus'
second coming, the resurrection
of the dead, because they misunderstood
the terms, the way that full preterist
define these terms.
How can I trust the church
which has taught these doctrines for 2,000 years
if they didn't get that right?
So at that point
I was not orthodox. I had
an unorthodox position
you could call me a heretic.
And if the church is wrong about that, what else
are they wrong about?
When I looked at all these other people who did not believe
in the Bible and started looking at the theories,
I came across different ideas.
Joseph Atwell with his Caesar's
Messiah book and
looked at the Roman provenance angle with
James Stevens Valiant and
Warren Fye, creating Christ.
That's the Roman provenance angle that I looked at.
I started looking at Astro Theology.
I looked at Acharya S.
I was checking out videos on the Astro Theology
and there was a couple other names that are out there
that talk on this topic.
And as I started looking at that, I saw pieces of this
and at first I believed all of it.
Like I was like, whoa, hook, line, and sinker
convinced 100% of these theories.
And as I delved deeper, I began to
be more critical, even on the critical
thinkers.
So now I'm being critical
of the critical thinkers that are
bringing different ideas out.
Because if I'm going to be
consistent and I'm going to be true,
I'm not going to believe in something because
it sounds true. That's what I did as Christian.
As a Christian, I saw it,
it seemed true because I could see it in God's word.
I started with these ideas, therefore it was true.
Now I poke holes
in the hole pokers.
If that sounds right.
The guys who poke holes, I'm poking holes
in the guys who poke holes.
I want to really test them to see
what they're saying is true.
I started a program, MythVision
podcast on YouTube.
Literally just kind of a journaling type
show
of my quest
trying to find out
fringe ideas
and other non-fringe ideas,
mainstream ideas and scholarship
about whether even Jesus Christ
existed at all.
Now think about this.
Two billion people on the planet
practically go by
the religion of Christianity.
Two billion people on the planet that are
Christians believe
that Jesus Christ in the Bible
existed in history.
What would that mean
if he did not exist?
I mean,
think about this for a second.
How serious this is.
Two billion people
believe
in him
as some type of faith
and to find out
he may not even existed
at all.
It's an interesting question.
Whether it's true or not, I'm agnostic on
whether or not Jesus actually existed or not.
Even though I lean, depending on the day
and the evidence and whatever being said,
I can lean that there could have been a guy at the basis.
But it's extremely mythologized
and there's a lot of fiction in there.
So it's hard for me to say
with the evidence I've seen
and the arguments that have been made
on whether or not this guy actually existed
or not.
So that's been a question on my channel.
Did he exist?
Then other questions come up.
Like the whole borrowing concept
from Noah's Flood or Adam and Eve.
All these stories are borrowed.
For weeks, there's borrowing from other
ancient Near Eastern mythologies.
Beautiful stories. I love them.
I really do. But the borrowing.
What about the New Testament?
Is that borrowing?
I found a lot of liberal Christians believe
that a lot of the stories in the Old Testament are math.
Even Jonah, getting swallowed by a giant fish
or a whale, whoever wants to accept
either one for three days and three nights
and then he comes up and he goes and preaches to Nineveh.
A lot of liberal Christians say,
yeah, that's allegory.
We don't buy that literally.
But then when you come to Jesus Christ,
a man who's supposedly walking through ancient Palestine
or in Israel,
and he's supposedly healing the blind
and the deaf and the dumb and everyone
of all these illnesses,
he himself gets crucified,
buried in a rich man's tomb,
rises from the dead
three days and three nights later,
which not literally, if you actually see the account,
it's not literally three days and three nights,
but supposedly three days later
on Sunday, he rises from the dead.
That's literal, though.
There are certain areas
we're not willing to go there,
and I'm going, hmm,
that's weird.
So then you've got to wrestle with these ideas.
Like, did he really rise from the dead?
Did any other gods
that weren't Jesus
actually do the miracles that they say?
I mean, Vespasian, who was the emperor
at the end of the first century
during the Jewish-Roman war,
around 70-70 something
CE or AD,
it says that he healed a blind man
with spit.
And I don't know if it was mud,
but definitely spittle. Spittle's what they call it.
He healed a blind man with spit.
Jesus healed a blind man with spit.
Who's lying?
Did they both heal a blind man with spit?
Did Jesus actually do it, but Vespasian didn't?
Did Vespasian do it?
Jesus didn't?
So now you've got to pick.
You've got to pick which one's true, which one's wrong.
Or they all saying something
that we're not sure what they're trying to say.
Or they adding value to the narrative,
value to the character
to mythologize and make them greater
than what they might have been
as a common practice of mythologizing people
in ancient history.
Your guess is as good as mine,
but I'm on a journey trying to figure it out.
Because I believed
he definitely died
in Rose again. I used to say
if the Bible said Jonah swallowing
well, I'd believe it.
If Jonah swallowing well.
So,
yeah, that's kind of my exodus.
Out.
I really took to the next level.
I always tell people
reading the Bible and truly studying the Bible
led me out of the Bible.
Where are you at today with all of it?
So I believe that this
where I'm at today. I love
research in the book. A lot of people who leave Christianity
want nothing to do with it at this point.
They're done. They're like, okay,
I found out that the book is not true
in that sense that
it's mysteries are solved. It's a man
made book.
And I don't buy it. I found issues with this
book. I don't believe it. Therefore I'm done.
I wash my hands of it. I'm not like
that. I actually find it
interesting. I'm intrigued with it because
as much as this is mythology,
it's also history
for me. And it is
actual history even if it's mythologized history.
I find beauty in the book.
I really do.
There might be some stuff that isn't true
in the literal sense, but
neither is. Let's just take for example
Jack and the Beanstalk
but the story is really interesting.
You know, you start reading
these other
other fictional types of
counts, legends, you know
Paul Bunyan and the Blocks
and things like this. And you go, well there are
people, places and things that are here that are
literal history. And then
the story itself is fiction.
Taking place in possibly a real
geographic, you know, geographic
location. It might be a literal place, a literal
people, but it's fictional.
When something
has you as clawed as deep as this did
and it's almost like, let me use a
negative example.
Imagine if someone was sexually abused
by someone.
They can't help but obsess over the person
that raped them or did something
molested them, whatever it might be. They can't help
but obsess over them for what
they did to them. In a sense
there's nothing like that, but
this book and my perception of it
and what I was taught
it had its claws so deep, my
relationship with it was like a marriage
and to find out she was cheating on me
the whole time and I didn't even know it.
I want to know everything I can
about this, especially when it
claws 2 billion people on the planet
and it doesn't just affect the 2 billion Christians
on the planet. This book has caused
a trickle effect. Out of Judaism
from the Old Testament caused Christianity
and fringe sex like
Gnosticism and other views.
And out of the New Testament and the Old
Testament you had Islam
or the Muslim faith that came
and that came later, but all
affected from the monotheistic views that are found
in the Old Testament Bible and some heretical
books that are probably found from the New Testament
or pseudographical
writings that are utilized in the Islamic
faith. All coming from
a monotheistic type of view
but this book has touched
so many people on the planet and it just blows
me away how many people every day
have no clue
what they're reading or
they're not really taking a critical
stance and I get it, I don't blame
them, I understand it and I don't hate Christians.
In fact, I'm very
patient with them because I understand what they're like. A lot
of atheists turn out to be douchebags
and assholes and
it's not me, it's not me, I love
them because I understand where they're at. In
fact, faith to me
is blind and
they're faith, they have faith.
It's blind.
They believe in things
that may not be real good reason to believe
in real history, there's no actual good
reasons to believe these things literally.
However, it's
an emotion.
It's an emotional gratification.
So,
I know that I was a Christian
not because I knew with absolute certainty
or scientific evidence or anything like that
that something was true. I did it because I felt
like it was true.
It felt right and what he said meant something
that was good to me. It's all emotion.
What is MythVision Podcast?
Ultimately is a journey, like I said, MythVision
Podcast is my own journey, but
it is a place where
heresy
is committed.
It is where you're allowed
to touch the untouchable.
Where we're able to talk about things that
I would never have been allowed to talk about.
It is my sacred ground.
It's where I tell you to take your sandals
off because you're getting on
holy ground here.
To me, MythVision is a
place where
all ideas are welcomed
and tested.
It's my journey on exploring
what really is going on.
When I say with this book, that's a broad
question because really
sometimes it's down to the chapter
or paragraph.
Even down to the sentence in this book.
Acts 17, when Paul says
your poet say
and he's quoting a pagan poet
to an audience in the
Aeropagus
and Athens in Rome.
Why is he quoting a pagan poet?
There's complexity to this.
There's a lot here
and arguments are made
theologically, philosophically.
You name it. This book is caused havoc.
People have killed so many people
because of this book. And this
book here has helped many people
get out of tough times.
So it's a mystery, but
MythVision Podcast to me is
not only exploring this book,
which has been the primary focus so far
early on in this show,
but it will be exploring the other
sacred books that have influenced countless other
people from other cultures.
That's the goal of MythVision.
That's what MythVision is. MythVision is a journey.
So on your journey
what do you find of everything?
I'm trying to look at things naturally.
I want to take a naturalistic approach.
I mean, I thought God
created Adam from the dust
and then blew a life-giving spirit.
He breathed
into Adam and made this
man of dust
into a living being.
That's how Genesis depicts
Adam's creation. From dust and dirt
he breathed
life into him and then boom, he's alive.
And so, I said,
okay, evolution can't be
true. Let's just start looking into
science and checking biology
and looking at fossil records and checking into this
and saying, well, did we
come from something
other than what we are right now?
And investigating that
honestly, like I did the Biblical one
I started to say, maybe this is the case.
I'm still skeptical on certain things.
I'm not certain, but I'm pretty convinced
with the evidence that I see
that we came from previous
species. I have no reason
to doubt these ideas now
in my opinion. I mean, I know that's not
necessarily Biblically related, but
the Bible also talks about the earth sitting
on foundations as if
it's flat.
And science says the earth's a sphere.
Why?
I know there's a lot of flat-earthers out there that
will say, well, the earth is flat. Scientists
are lying. Trust me, I know your face is
like, what? Yes, there are
people who believe the earth is flat. A lot of
them Biblical-minded
or Islamic-minded, because a lot
of the Islam folks believe
the earth is flat. There's arguments for that.
But science is what I started
looking into and saying, well, there might be a natural
explanation. Then there was epistemology.
You start looking at what's called epistemology.
You start checking into
I tried to consider
what I can see
and what I can test as
primarily my sources for trying to understand
and get at truth. That would be
my best guess. And then some of it's going to be
absolutely speculative based on probability,
all that kind of stuff. Those are fun to me.
It's kind of like guessing
with good data.
And that's why MythVision is so fun, because
you can come on and go, wow, the Caesars
might have been involved in the creation of the New Testament.
It seems like it could be possible.
And then the next episode
doesn't seem like it's possible.
Sounds like some other explanation might
make sense for why it was created, or who wrote this
and why, and all those interesting
theories.
Well, that sounds like a lot of people
need to check out MythVision.
Yeah, if you're into this kind of stuff,
you know. Yeah, well, I appreciate you
coming. Yeah, brother.
