Shut up dog.
All right, that was our introduction, the dog barked
and that means it's time to kick ass and take names
or is it kick ass, chew bubblegum?
We're all out of bubblegum, something like that.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I have a few special guests with us today.
Professor Dave explains, he's got a massive YouTube channel.
Welcome back, my friend.
Thanks for having me.
And Aron Ra, we know Aron Ra, he's been around quite a bit
and he is always challenging superstitious claims.
He wants to get to the facts using reason, logic, science.
You name it, welcome back Aron.
How are you doing, my friend?
Sorry, I'm inundated with dogs.
What?
Just so everybody knows some context.
You have a YouTube channel, Dave on here.
You have two and a half million subscribers, man.
Your stuff's grown since I first introduced you
to MythVision, you were like 1.2, now you're at 2.5.
Yeah, that was a while ago.
And you also have a Patreon for anyone
who wants to support your work.
They can go over there and support you that way.
I suspect you have other ways in which people can help out.
Yeah, YouTube memberships or there's all kinds
of little super things and whatever people leave
on the videos or yeah, that's about it.
The same goes for Aron.
I hope you subscribe to both YouTube channels.
Aron is always diving into evolution.
I love his science stuff.
In fact, that's why I got lost
in a mini series of his over the years
and he also has a Patreon, Patreon.
You can support him there
and he's made it very clear to me.
It's these two sources, you watching his videos
and supporting through Patreon that keeps him going.
Any other options or ways in which people could support you?
Well, I can also accept PayPal donations,
but those aren't as regular.
Yeah, me too, it's pretty rare.
If you believe in what these gentlemen say
and you like what they are doing, you can support them
and I hope you will and consider also checking out
MythVision's Patreon, Patreon, however you pronounce it.
Patreon.
I've dropped like 50 videos in the last,
I don't know, 10, 15 days and they're all not public.
They're all hidden behind the payroll here
for people who support us.
So help support all three of us,
the Trinity, the scientific Trinity
and welcome guys.
Seems you had a debate, Dave, recently.
It was you and Dr. James Torres saying kumbaya
for two hours, just high-fiving each other,
best friends and everything.
A lovely affair.
You know, I got a clip, Arn-Raw's question.
I heard through the grapevine, Arn-Raw told me
that some Christians thought that his question
was the dumbest question of all questions,
something like that, right?
I don't wanna put words in your mouth, Arn,
but supposedly people were making light
of what you asked in the question section.
Is that true?
Well, the believers are gonna come up with whatever excuse
because it's all some kind of a spin game, right?
Yeah.
So they don't understand the question.
They certainly don't understand the reason
behind the question.
When I have the same discussion that Professor Dave
is debating or was debating that night,
I always have to preface it with let's set the stage first.
This is what we know up to this point
because that's the part the creationists
are arguing against.
They're rejecting paleontology, they're rejecting deep time,
they're rejecting radioisometric dating,
they're rejecting all of that wholesale
because they've got a magic book of fables.
And they are determined to make believe
what obviously is not true.
And so any argument about the origin of life
necessarily has to be couched in other scientific evidence.
And if you open with that, we find out right away
that they're just gonna reject everything wholesale.
So there's no point in even having discussion
beyond this point.
I wanna just warn, I guess give you a tip
if you're watching this now
and you haven't watched the debate
between Professor Dave and James Tore, Dr. James Tore.
I hope you do, go check it out
on Professor Dave Explains Channel
and watch it yourself.
We're not going to be reviewing nitpicky
the whole episode here.
In fact, I think Dave plans on doing that himself.
I'm gonna do that.
Yeah, I'll at least sit next week.
Perfect.
I can say that of all the things I heard shouted
or screamed like a married couple in a tirade,
kumbaya was not one of those words unintelligible.
I tell you what, I had to work through that debate
over different times.
It's a lot to take in and I'm, look,
I'm an ignoramus when it comes to chemistry.
So like for one, I'm already at a disadvantage
of not understanding a lot of the lingo,
but there was a lot going on
and it was much more than just the arguments, of course,
in that debate.
We'll get into some of that.
But the first thing I wanna mention
is this whole argument that you bring up on
and I'm coming at this as someone who's not scientifically
literate on the level of you, both of you,
but he wanted to throw up very early on
this idea of the time argument.
He wanted to go, don't give us the time
of the gaps argument.
And he threw this out there
and then Aaron Ross question came up.
So can I play Aaron's question real quick
and then I want us to dive into this
because it's a simple common sense question.
I think we should use another analogy to get to
and I'd love to get your thoughts.
How's that sound guys?
True.
Okay.
Sorry, I took like a whole walk around the mountain
to kind of get my point out.
Here we go.
Thank you.
If you want a clue,
let me switch my audio here real quick here.
All right.
Scratching that back a little bit.
Oh, here we go.
A hydrophobic pocket.
We're over 30 seconds.
And essentially my question to you is,
do you admit the common,
methodology is not prebiotically relevant.
I was just getting a chemist to dunk on James.
Really funny.
Yeah, that was a dumb question that guy asked.
Next question.
If you want a clue,
then we need a fact in evidence, right?
So if we're talking about the origin life
and how this happens,
one of the facts and evidence would be
the combination of embryology and the molecular clock
and the fossil record and so forth
and demonstrated observed evolution and everything
that we know that there's no vertebrates,
no terrestrial vertebrates 300 million years ago.
There's no land animals at all 400 million years ago.
There's no vertebrates at all 500 million years ago.
And so on, protests at best
or maybe a billion years ago in prior to that.
We're at 30 seconds.
First, microscopic anything's alive
would be 3.8 billion years ago.
And so there's nothing multicellular
for that whole billion years.
Wouldn't that be an indication that it happened
since prior to that, there's nothing at all?
Okay, I know you guys probably have stuff to say.
So I just, please give me one second to give my thoughts here.
Aaron, you live in Texas.
Where do you live, Dave?
Los Angeles.
Los Angeles, okay.
I live in Washington state.
If I were to fly to you in Los Angeles,
it would take me two, two and a half hours.
To get to Texas, I think it's like three,
three and a half, something like that.
If I was just talking to you, and you knew I was here,
okay, and I ended up on your couch,
like in an hour or two or something, something crazy,
like what the heck just happened?
So how did it get here?
You wouldn't automatically think time machine
or wizard somehow teleported me or something like that.
You would probably start using deductive reasoning.
You'd probably go, all right,
maybe he knows someone who has a private jet.
Maybe he took a flight and this flight had a direct flight
somehow and went faster than usual.
The pilot had hurt.
You would use natural world reasoning to deduce,
how did he end up on my couch?
Now imagine I was dead and I couldn't be examined.
You couldn't ask me questions,
but I just am on your couch.
I got there somehow.
Now, life is here.
Life got here somehow.
And while James Tor continuously does the scientific,
we don't know, he likes to throw the we don't know,
and I feel like he's hiding behind that.
Ultimately though, we're here.
How did we get here?
And using what you just asked there, Arne,
it seems common sense to me,
we would look for natural processes,
even if we don't know the exact model
in which actually fits the criteria.
One of those is more probable.
A biogenesis is more probable
than any alternative aliens came implanted
or God with a wand or God spoke kind of thing.
Wouldn't we all agree
that that would be the most common sense approach?
James Tor had already admitted early on in the debate
in a more or less subtle way
that he favors the biblical mythology.
So it wouldn't matter.
I had to prove it with a quote.
Okay, that's what it was.
You're quoting him from somewhere else.
So he didn't want to admit that in the course of the debate.
But in a friendly audience, he's outright says it, yeah.
Yeah, so has he ever admitted
to being a young earth creationist?
Cause I've heard that from a number of other people.
So he hasn't flat out admitted,
but he's made content where he goes,
how old is the earth?
I don't know, I don't know how to.
So he's either a young earth creationist
and won't come out and say it
or he's not a young earth creationist,
but he kind of like plays agnostic on it to keep
cause he knows there's young earth creationists
in his flock and he wants to hang on to him.
So he can't go, no, the earth is 4.6 billion years old,
you idiot.
He has to like, I'm not sure I'm not a ge...
It's like, well, how about you trust what geologists say?
Huh? How's that for a concept?
But he'll say, I don't work in that field, so I don't know.
But he doesn't work in origin of life research either.
And he doesn't understand that field.
So it's just a lot of hypocrisy.
But anyway, no, it's a new...
Here's the thing, the point of the debate is,
are we clueless?
So that means all you need to do to win
is to provide a clue, a single fact and evidence, right?
And it's better if you get a ball bunch of them.
But the way I always open up this discussion,
okay, here's our first clue.
We have all of these things where they don't,
none of these things show up until after some point
in history and we can go back down
to the different developmental stages.
You heard him counting out, that's 30 seconds.
So I'm on a time limit here.
When Tour dodged my question, and I'm in the last in line,
and they're trying to hurry and get this massive crowd
out of this building, I already know,
they're not going to allow me a follow-up.
I'm not gonna be able to pursue him.
So when he says, hey, we got here somehow,
and he's just not gonna answer it at all.
So there's nowhere I can go with that.
The only problem with the question,
I mean, it's a very commonsensical question,
but what you were framing was that
the evidence overwhelmingly suggests
that all life evolved from a single common ancestor
that we would call the first living organism.
So the only problem is that that's not quite
how the debate was framed.
We were trying to discuss the event
that led to that first common ancestor.
So although he totally denies evolution too,
and all of those DI guys,
they all deny evolution as well,
that's not what the discussion was.
So he was able to evade that question
because we were talking about bottom up
to get to that first protocell,
that's the common ancestor of all life.
So like, yeah, it totally makes sense what you said.
Like everything is suggesting that life arose
and then all life evolved from this thing,
but it's just that you were looking at it
from the flip side of that one event going forward,
whereas everything was supposed to be framed
in terms of getting to that.
So that's why he was able to just dodge it
and not care about it.
He gave courtesy of your quote,
we have his position because I've noticed
when you debate with like flat earth people
or young earth creationists,
they don't have a model.
They don't have any explanation for fuck all ever.
Nothing.
Right, it just, it's every,
it all comes down to whatever science can't explain,
therefore is explained by magic.
So unexplained means explained by magic.
And yeah, they'll say that it's not magic,
but supernatural miracles, enchantments, blessings,
curses, necromancy, magic.
If it's supernatural, it's magical.
That's the same.
That's why I was saying, Aaron,
imagine I was on your couch in let's say
an hour and a half or two hours,
but you know a typical regular flight takes three and a half.
Let's just play that game.
You're still not going to go,
damn, we found a time machine or somehow a portal
Did you catch a ride in an F16?
Right, I may have.
Or you lied, you were not actually at home.
That was pre-recorded footage or something.
Anything's more possible or more plausible
than the magical one is.
So one of the things I would have hit him on
because, you know, Farina's quote,
so he's going to go with the biblical mythology.
Hit him on that first.
We get to the other stuff when we get there,
but first we set the stage.
So he has to then deny all of this evidence.
You know, if it's not a clue,
I mean, we have 80% of the history of life on earth
is microscopic and microbial.
That implies something.
You know, so that's data that must be considered,
but he's not going to consider that.
What Tours said instead in another one
of Farina's quotes from him,
and this was stunningly stupid.
James Tours gave a definition of abiogenesis
that was actually a grotesque,
chick-tracked parody of evolution,
wherein he said, the second dumbest thing
I've ever heard a creationist say
to describe evolution slash abiogenesis.
He says a bunch of molecules get together
to become slithering creatures.
And then those molecules crawl out of the water.
Yeah.
This is a guy with a PhD.
Yeah, it's one of the dumbest lies he tells.
And so I made it a point in one of my prompts
to hammer him on some of these lies
that he tells all the time.
And I got that quote, and it was a direct quote,
and I put it on a slide,
and I highlighted in red the parts that matter.
And he says that that's what all the textbooks say.
And so I hammered him and said,
where are the textbooks?
Show me a textbook that says this.
He can't do it.
He goes, here's the list of textbooks.
That's just a list of textbooks.
Show me a page where it says that.
I'm showing you what the textbooks actually say.
And he just kept squirming and squirming,
and that's where he started to really ramp up the volume
because he knows he's lying, but he's a narcissist.
So he cannot admit that he has lied.
So he has to like always be right,
but it's just undeniable that he lies
about what's in the textbooks.
And he says it all the time.
So he started to get really angry
because I was exposing numerous lies.
If you make a claim of fact or truth,
that you're gonna assert that something is true
or the truth, and it's not evidently true,
and there's no way you could possibly know that either way,
there's two ways to describe that.
That's either faith or it's lies.
And I don't know that there's a way
to distinguish between the two.
Oh, it's for sure lies.
I mean, it's the difference, yeah.
You're claiming things to be true that are not true.
It's not evidently true, there's no evidence to show it,
and there's no way you could know that either.
So your faith is all about pretending
to know what you don't know, which is itself a lie,
claiming facts or not facts, which is also a lie.
But this is very easy to know.
You could look in the books and see that they don't say that.
So I've been offering to prove evolution
to the creationists own satisfaction
because you can't prove anything mathematically
in science as you know,
but you can prove something to somebody's satisfaction
doing a colloquial definition.
And I always say that we're gonna do this
like an illegal context of an overwhelming preponderance
of evidence beyond reasonable doubt.
But in the very few times that I've made that challenge
and the creationists haven't just scattered like cockroaches
when you turn on the kitchen light
because they are afraid of the light of reason.
In the very few instances where one has such emboldened faith
that they would actually take on the challenge,
they plummet face plant right at the very beginning
because we open with definitions.
And they're straw men, doesn't work.
They have to show academic science sources
that this is what is being taught.
Here it is from Berkeley University of Evolution 101.
Here it is from Stanford or whatever.
Here are the citations.
Here's how they define evolution.
Funny, it's never one kind of thing
changing into another fundamentally different kind of thing.
It's never life from non-life.
It's not everything from nothing.
It's not Darwinism.
It's not Darwinism.
Exactly, so I can never get them to admit
the fact already demonstrated
that here's the definition from all these different universities,
all these different textbooks.
Here's the direct quotations from all of them.
Do you understand and accept that this is the definition
and not the one that you got
from the convicted fraud with the phony degree?
Right, not answers in Genesis straw man version, right?
Yeah, so right there is where the debate ends.
Yeah, because they don't even understand
any of the words that you used.
Are you suggesting that Dr. Tore doesn't,
I mean, obviously in his rhetoric it sounds this way,
but are you suggesting he doesn't even really know
what evolution is or is he purposely downplaying it?
Well, no, I mean, two things about this,
we are getting a little bit sidetracked
because although there is some overlap,
these are legitimately two different,
evolutionary biology is not the same
as molecular biology and origin of life research,
but there is overlap as we are learning,
there is chemical evolution.
Systems of molecules can evolve.
So Darwinian principles do emerge prior
to the emergence of a living organism.
That is demonstrated empirically and is absolutely true,
but these are still slightly different realms, right?
Once you have life and the way life evolves
is a slightly different tier
from the actual process of a biogenesis.
So that's what the debate was about.
I mean, it's all one, I mean, to the Discovery Institute,
it's all the same thing.
It's just that Tore is the only guy they have
that can open his mouth with any perceived credibility
about a biogenesis because he's a chemist.
All the other guys are idiots.
I mean, they can't talk about this,
they can't talk about a biogenesis.
They don't even have the vernacular,
they don't have the vocabulary, only Tore does.
I mean, he's lying the whole time,
but I mean, you think Stephen Meyer
could have had this debate with me?
You think Casey Luskin could have had this debate with me?
It would have been a joke.
But Tore, that he can use the vernacular
because he's a chemist.
Again, he's lying the whole time,
but he can offer the facade of knowledge
because he is a chemist, right?
And so everybody just eats it up.
He must be right, he must be right.
But so-
He must be right because he agrees with me.
So they will tout his credentials as a legitimate PhD
if he agrees with them,
but they will discount and ignore
the entire global international consensus
of all the best educated expert specialists
anywhere ever, all of whom-
In that field, which he doesn't work in.
Exactly, because they don't agree with him.
And then they will side with the convicted fraud
with the phony degree.
Oh yeah, Kent or whoever.
Yeah, so to get back on that,
you mentioned chemical evolution.
And while that phrase does exist and has been used,
and abiogenesis is not an actual scientific nomenclature,
it's not a term, the origin of life research
is the way they describe it.
Abiogenesis is kind of an antiquated word,
but I know that the believers understand what this means.
We're talking about something as distinguished from,
because this is important too,
distinguished from spontaneous generation.
It is hugely frustrating to me
that if you look up most English dictionaries,
if you look up abiogenesis,
it will give the description of spontaneous,
or it'll give a cursory description
of spontaneous generation.
This was disproven in the 18th century.
Yeah, it conflates the two.
There's no relationship
between abiogenesis and spontaneous generation.
Spontaneous generation,
is it, yes, we have to cover this for anybody watching.
Spontaneous generation is a supernatural belief
in life force, what George Stahl coined as vitalism,
the idea that life is animated by a vaporous spirit,
and that when the living thing dies,
not only does the body rot return to the dust and so forth,
but the spirit within the body also rots.
But the way that it rots, instead of turning to dust,
because it can't turn to dust,
life has to turn into other forms of life.
And so this is where they come up with the idea
that maggots, mold, and mice are produced
by decaying life force.
Yeah, this all happened because we would observe
that maggots would appear in rotting flesh.
And so some people thought,
hey, that's just a thing that happens.
Maggots just magically appear in rotting flesh.
And then Francesco Reddy thought,
well, no, hang on, let me isolate it.
So then he realized, oh, flies come and lay eggs,
and that's where the maggots come from.
So if flies can't land and do that, that doesn't happen.
So it's not the case that maggots magically appear.
It's from flies that lay the eggs.
So that was in the 1600s or something like that,
or maybe 1700s, I forget.
But again, this is absolutely nothing to do.
We didn't even know that molecules exist,
not by a long shot back then.
There's nothing to do with abiogenesis
as a process of chemical evolution.
So it's just, when people throw that out there,
I'm like, what are you talking about?
So abiogenesis, the way that word is used,
it is separate, it always has been separate.
That word was coined, I think,
before spontaneous generation was ultimately disproved.
So the name of the word came from Huxley,
and then there's a story that traces back to Rudolf Virchow,
who famously, he created the law of biogenesis
where he said that cells come from cells.
And then somebody asked him,
well, where did diseased cells come from?
And he says diseased cells come from diseased cells.
But then he had to reflect on that
and realize that there had to be a first diseased cell
that was not already initially diseased.
And this caused him to reflect on his other pondering, too,
that there obviously had to be a first cell
that wasn't already alive.
Now, Virchow was an atheist.
So he did not like Darwin's theory
because he's a contemporary.
And so this was a new concept for him.
He's a cell biologist.
He doesn't know population genetics
and all like that, nobody did.
But he had to concede.
His law of biogenesis is not a law.
And at the same time, another contemporary,
Ernst Teckl also came out with the biogenetic law,
almost the same name, right?
Where ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny.
Just because you call it a law, don't make it a law.
And so both the law of biogenesis
and the biogenetic law, which are both very different
from each other, have both fallen apart
because of a fundamental technicality,
that the law has to be very specific.
And you don't want to add anything to it
because you might add a detriment that will tear it apart.
I mean, life begins life, but at one point,
non-life begat life.
Right.
Exactly, yes.
And so the way that that happens is not
by tearing open a Kool-Aid mix and adding water in a blender,
like the creationists like to imagine,
and that out pops a rabbit.
So abiogenesis research is actually,
it's a collection of many different hypotheses,
most of which have been verified,
that almost all of which could be true at the same time
as part of this study.
Like, Penn's Permia is one that elements of life
could have come from outer space.
But you know what, this is not necessary.
Everything we need is already here.
Yeah, or a combination, right?
There's prebiotic synthetic pathways
and seeding from meteors.
I mean, yeah, meteors definitely brought
organic molecules to Earth.
That's a fact.
We see them now and we collect them.
And there's other stuff there too.
There's like L amino acids predominate over R on meteors.
So why is that?
And is that something that was amplified
by some mechanism to produce,
whether it was an anti-opurity prior to polymerization
or if it was just a bias
and then that was amplified in the polymers?
Like, this is the thing about James is like,
there's all of this literature
that talks about all of these things
and he just pretends that none of it exists.
That's basically his entire approach.
This is, we're supposed to avoid psychoanalyzing here,
but it's almost inevitable.
Like, what?
What do you do?
When he says we have, nobody has figured out
any way to do this.
And then there's tons of papers
where people have figured out how to do this.
I mean, it's like-
So he ran to that chart or-
He could just go to Google Scholar and search for it,
but he doesn't want to.
He's hiding from it, you know what I mean?
So let me ask you this.
What do you think he was doing
when he kept going to that chart?
I think he was trying to whip his stuff out
and say, I got a big one in the end.
I'll tell you what he was doing.
I know exactly what he was doing.
Yeah.
So he's trying to narrow the parameters
as much as possible.
So he's trying to set the stage for Farina.
Now, you go with the open topic.
We don't have a clue.
He then has to redefine things
because he walked into a trap.
All Dave has to do is produce any number
of facts and evidence that indicate this.
Any number, and he wins, that's it.
So Tour then has to get him to do a trick,
which the studies that I've read,
like especially the one from Sutherland,
that was a favorite one where they're talking about
how you have these spontaneous development
of bribonucleotides,
where you have this cycle of inundation,
dehydration and irradiation,
where these, I forget what the constituent,
what the word for the constituent component was,
but in the study it said that in the continuing cycle
it become increasingly complex.
And then when you add a phosphate at the right moment,
you spontaneously have ribonucleotides.
It just has to match a level of complexity.
How could Farina ever have demonstrated any part of that
in the specific line in chemistry that Tour,
so Tour has put him in a shoebox
and said, you can't explain anything else.
You've only got to explain this one thing
and this study doesn't cover that thing.
And so I'm the only one, no, so that was the trick.
There's a bunch of aspects to it.
Number one, if he wants somebody to show
small molecules to RNA or something like that,
number one, I mean, the schemes that you'd have to draw,
like it would take half an hour.
Macromolecule?
Yeah, from small molecules to RNA.
You don't have enough chalkboard.
No, there's not even enough room.
Polypeptides or polynucleotides, either of those.
If we're talking about all of the reactions
prebiotically to get there,
not only would it take too much room,
part of it has to do with like catalytic mineral surfaces.
So now I'm like doing artwork and like it's like,
it's just, it's absolutely ridiculous to expect that.
And number two, it's in the papers.
It's in the papers and I showed the schemes.
So what he was doing was posturing for his followers,
going like, I'm the smart professor.
I can draw an amino acid,
which a freshman undergraduate can do.
I'm so smart, I drew an amino acid,
which by the way, he wrote aspartic acid
and he kept calling it arginine.
So it doesn't even know what he's talking about.
But I can draw a molecule and Dave can't draw a molecule.
That's basically what he's trying to do.
Knowing that there's no reason for me to draw anything.
We're supposed to be discussing
the primary scientific literature
and the schemes are in the papers.
So it would take way too long to draw it.
It doesn't, not even enough room and it's just,
it was a complete, it was just a stunt.
It was just a stunt.
And it worked for his followers.
It was a stunt to try and make you look like
you don't know what you're talking about.
And of course, I didn't know what the hell he was drawing.
So, you know, but I already-
Amino acids, like so-
I'm just saying, I don't-
See how he's limited?
He's got free and unlimited.
We couldn't go to any of the,
you'd have to go to one that specifically only dealt
with amino acids and then even those studies
wouldn't have been able to provide Farina an opportunity
to do the illustration that Tours commanding him to do.
Well, right.
But that's also why he whined about the sidechains
because I had showed him many, many, many papers.
So in his content,
he denied any prebiotically plausible
aqueous peptide synthesis.
He was just like, no, you can't do it.
Show me the references.
I show him the references in his next series.
He goes, you didn't do it.
It just doesn't show any of the papers I show.
So I brought those papers.
He understands now he screwed.
He can't just go, this is impossible.
So he had to move the goalposts immediately
and focus on the sidechains.
So he drew two amino acids
with highly reactive sidechains, right?
You've got a carboxylate moiety
and you've got an amino moiety.
So those are gonna maybe mess up the reaction.
But yeah, I had papers ready for that too.
So he started whining about those papers.
And then-
Yeah, I gotta give you credit for that,
for having everything on the ready.
So that as soon as he said, you can't show this,
you hit a button and there it is.
It's like a hundred papers.
I don't know what he's gonna lie about
or what he's gonna complain about.
See, this is what people need to understand,
is that I was at the extreme disadvantage.
Because he can lie about anything.
He can just go, nope, nobody has done that.
Well, yes they have.
And I have to be ready to prove him wrong.
So I have to have all of the papers.
I have to have everything ready to go.
And almost every time I was like, nope,
here's a study, here's a study, here's a study.
But then the thing is that that's a hundred papers.
So I can't take screenshots
of every single section of every single paper.
It would make the slideshow unnavigable.
So there were moments where I go, like, okay,
I don't have the exact scheme you're looking for.
I guess I could quit the slideshow
and pull up the paper and try to search for it.
But then he's just running the clock out, right?
It's just, it's like, it's a mess either way.
So yeah, it got a little dicey where he was just like,
you can't show me the data.
And it's like, dude, this is what the paper is about.
All proteinogenic side chains.
Pounder got polymerization of amino acids
with all proteinogenic side chains,
lysine, aspartic acid, all of them.
Can you read what this says?
And he's like, well, I need a data table.
And it's like, it's, he, and then everybody's like,
oh, you don't know the paper.
You just read the abstract.
It's like, cause the abstract proves him wrong, man.
I don't know what to tell you.
All proteinogenic side chains.
If you don't know what those words mean,
I can't help you.
They prove him wrong.
Meanwhile, tour is saying that the abstract,
that these professional scientists in the abstract
are lying that it's all part of the scam.
That they are all, that the, he literally said
that the entire worldwide scientific community
that is involved in this research
are involved in a massive cohesive fraud.
It's a conspiracy.
Yeah.
So this is what, before we get to super chats
and we're going to get there, I want to ask you.
We haven't even gotten started in our conversation yet.
Exactly.
I know.
We've got so much to say.
I want to throw in one other thing
before we get too far sidetracked.
He mentioned chemical evolution.
When you, unless otherwise specified,
because you can talk about different type,
you can have some other word, an adjective,
well, for the word evolution.
But if you just say evolution itself, by itself, that word,
if scientists don't have any other thing
to talk about specifically what they're talking about,
they're not just talking about any old change over time.
They are talking specifically about population genetics.
Right?
The theory of evolution, Darwin's theory,
it has nothing at all to do with the origin of life
or the origin of space or time or anything else.
Yeah.
Creationists always would have, well,
there's many different levels of evolution.
You said chemical evolution.
So you're just feeding the trailer pressure.
You just impersonated someone.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
They're trying to shift the burden so that you, yeah.
But it's just that after the fact, we have realized,
I mean, once we realize that Darwinian principles
apply to sets of molecules,
then it becomes an apt title,
but you're right that it's just a,
it's a parlor trick for creationists to try.
When I said trailer trash, by the way,
I wasn't referring to people in a certain financial set.
I was talking about where Kent Hovind got his degree.
Correct. Yeah.
So the guy that they had, the chemist,
it sounded like he was a chemist
who was supposed to fact check you.
What was that about, Dave?
That was odd.
I'm like, hold on.
You have a guy who's gonna not let you get off the hook
about some things.
Did you know that was gonna happen?
Well, I suspected it.
I let James pick the moderator
because I was like, I don't care.
You do whatever you want and I'll come there and bury you.
And so obviously the moderator was in his pocket.
He tried to correct me three times
and all three times he was wrong.
All three times he was wrong.
First, he tried to talk about the 13C NMR spectrum
where Benner had gotten ribose on borate minerals,
which is why he got ribose borate
because it reacted on borate minerals.
And he goes, oh, the 13C NMR,
we usually don't include boric acid
or we don't do that with borates.
I'm like, yeah, the reaction was run on borate minerals.
That's why it was ribose borate.
Why did you just open your mouth about that?
The second time he was talking
about the functional ribozymes,
he's like, so ribozymes either have to be mRNA or the,
and I was like, what are you talking about?
You're talking about extant cells.
We're talking about abiogenesis.
What are you saying?
Why are you opening your mouth right now?
But it's like, he has to say something
and then the fans are like,
Dave is pushing back against the moderator.
I'm like, yeah, because he has no clue
what he's talking about.
I remember a couple of those correction,
but for the most part,
it looked to the audience like you had been corrected,
which is unfortunate.
I do remember when you were explaining to him,
we're talking about before there were,
before we have a biology to speak of,
because that's the point of the debate.
And you kind of put the moderator in his place there.
Yeah.
The fact that he said mRNA,
I was like, oh my God,
you have no clue what you're talking about.
What are you talking about?
In order to have mitochondria,
you first have to have the bacteria
that became mitochondria, endosymbiosis.
Well, messenger RNA, we're talking about,
but anyway, messenger RNA is a feature of modern cells.
That's nothing to do with abiogenesis, right?
We're talking about catalytic RNA strands
that can perform any kinds,
all kinds of different functions,
has nothing to do with mRNA.
So...
I got one more for you before I,
you guys feel free to get your stuff off your chest,
but there's some super chats that overlap
some of the things we discussed arm
before we end up going live.
But my one question is to put it very simply,
Christians trust the authority of Christian men
and women often.
I'm not saying all, okay,
don't let me pigeonhole
and try and act like all Christians do this.
I'm sure that the same goes for people who aren't Christians.
They hear someone who's in their camp,
kind of part of the tribe,
they listen and they agree.
That seems to be a lot of what was going on
and what toward does.
It's not just in your debate.
It's on his channel.
I'm a man of God, a man of faith.
Jesus is Lord, God created the world and that.
So whatever he's gonna say,
they're already gonna kind of wanna lean in that direction.
What a great guy.
Exactly.
I wanna push back on that.
I wanna push back on that.
Okay, go ahead.
What I've noticed is the creationists can't,
they could be older,
they could be younger,
they could be flat earth,
it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter what they say
or how wrong it is
or how immediately you can prove that it's wrong.
They're all gonna rally their little,
they're wagons together
because you're going against God versus no God.
Got it, got it.
That's what it all comes down to.
Mm-hmm.
When I had an opportunity,
my first debate,
I get to chose the moderators
and I chose a geneticist,
a geologist and a paleontologist,
all of whom were,
one of them was on the Human Genome Project
and the other two were relatively famous.
And I chose all Christians
because I wanted to make sure
that if my opponent says something stupid
about genetics and paleontology
or whatever that these other people
would be able to correct him.
That's not what they did.
Instead, they circled their wagons
against the unbeliever.
At my invitation,
they're arguing against atheism.
They don't correct each other.
When that guy says anything and everything wrong,
there is no correction from the believers.
But let me say something wrong.
On any of my science videos or worse,
if I speak about history and I make a mistake,
there are people in my own camp,
atheists who have written books,
not kidding, not exaggerating
about how I made a mistake in something,
a whole book on that.
So it's not that the believers,
yeah, they'll side with a great guy,
he agrees with us and then we'll just ignore everything.
But on our side, oh, hell no.
We're more skeptical of each other even.
And that's why,
if I'd have put it in a political comparison,
that's why George Santos is still up there
and Al Franken isn't.
Because it's not the same on both sides.
Okay, okay.
I stand corrected.
I wanna make a point though that I think is,
if we're using kind of this,
what is the expert in the room saying,
this Dr. James Tore completely,
just to get both of your take here
before we go to super chats,
he completely disagrees with the consensus
or really another way of asking is,
is there a single serious academic
in origin of life research
who denies that a origin of life,
a biogenesis not in the way that,
I guess a false way of understanding it,
but the idea that life came from non-life,
not because of a creator necessarily,
is there a single serious one
that's out there that denies this?
No, why would they be working in the field
if there was nothing to do in the field, right?
Is that why he attacks the whole category
and wants to take down the whole field?
The Bible doesn't win, however you treat this.
Okay, so we all believe that a biogenesis happened.
The creationists, the religious people,
the supernaturalists,
what it's the superstitious, if you want,
they believe that it happened magically
and scientists accept that it must have happened naturally,
right, but we all accept that there was a time
when there was no life on this earth and then there was.
So by definition, that's a biogenesis.
We're looking for a chemical, a biogenesis.
They're looking for a magical a biogenesis
and theirs comes with this whole other folklore
that life was poofed out of nothing
by a magic incantation, abracadabra,
and it all happened relatively recently.
Even in the old earth model, it's still relatively,
you still don't have two billion years of microbes
before anything develops,
typically not even on the old earth scale, do you get that?
There's always some element of magic mixed in there.
So the problem is that James does have to deny
an entire field of science
and the only way he can do it
is by some narrative regarding corruption.
That's why scam, scam, scam, lies, lies, lies.
But in order to do that, to make it more credible,
this is another one of the lies I slammed him on
was he has said origin of life research is a boutique field.
There's only about a dozen people
or a dozen teams working on it.
Flat out lie, thousands of people work in this field.
So I hammered him on that lie over and over again
and he was squirming again.
Oh, no, I meant that the people doing
the Sutherland Pounder style of synthesis,
there's only a dozen people working on that.
You said origin of life research is a dozen people.
This is a direct quote.
And he, oh, oh, I don't know what to do.
And that's why I started yelling
because I was just hammering these lies right into his face.
Right?
So that would imply that Craig Ventures,
that would imply that Craig Ventures team alone
is only like a dozen people.
Yeah, but anyway, Ventures isn't an ecologist.
He's not even really an origin of life researcher.
But I mean, but yeah, but no, I mean,
even if you count teams, even to count teams,
there's hundreds and hundreds of teams.
I mean, in every country, all over the place.
So his narrative falls apart.
You can't say all thousands of these people
in every country in the world are all lying
or corrupt or stupid, right?
It doesn't make any sense.
He needs it to be.
NASA hide the Earth this flat, though, Dave.
Exactly, yeah.
I mean, come on, man, you know.
It's flat Earth level conspiracy.
So the textbook thing, the number of people
working in the field thing,
I really wanted to just shove that in his face
as aggressively as possible because it's like,
the guy is misrepresenting the entire field
in this abominable way.
And I'm not gonna let him get away with that.
I'm gonna expose this live in front of his face,
in front of these people.
And, you know, he's a narcissist,
so he wouldn't admit it, but he got real triggered by it.
And then that was what ended up humiliating him
even more than anything I said.
Have you noticed how narcissism is correlated
with all of this, the whole religious movement somehow?
And the debate that you had with Tor reminds me
of so many debates that I've had myself
and also like the, when they grilled Bayhee
on the Kitzmiller versus Dover trial,
when he said that he's arguing
for irreducible complexity.
He says, the science will never have an explanation for this.
Factorial, phageology, whatever.
And they immediately stack 51.
Oh, it was about the immune system.
Immune system, yes. 51 published books
and peer reviewed articles, all explaining that thing.
51 independent studies, all explaining that thing.
And textbooks, yeah.
And his argument is that it's not good enough
because they can't admit error.
That's the problem.
They are absolutely wrong,
but they cannot admit that they're wrong.
So if I have a debate and I've done,
if I have a debate over transitional species,
I will have them arguing, trying to dismiss,
diminish the minutiae of what makes it,
maybe it's not really entirely 100% transitional,
some kind of excuse, beneficial mutation.
Well, if it has a benefit,
there must certainly be a deficit there somewhere.
There has to be something wrong with it as well.
And if there's anything wrong with it as well,
if you have unbreakable bones,
then they must be heavier and it will harder to swim.
And therefore we can't say that it's a benefit, right?
Any excuse at all.
That's what tour was doing.
He's trying to find any kind of minutiae
wherein he doesn't have to admit published studies
by people he says are now involved
in this massive global conspiracy.
Going to a super chat.
I might as well, we might as well get into Q and A.
Thank you for the support everybody
and tuning in, hit the like button.
Go check out R&R and Professor Dave Explains'
YouTube channel and subscribe.
Check out the Patreon too to help support him.
You can also help us out here.
Danish debater says, okay, sadly can't watch now,
but Dave, what was the reason for the rhetoric
and semantic choices you made,
especially towards the audience,
but also versus James and the moderator and in the emails?
I mean, I don't know what that means.
Rhetoric semantic choices towards the audience,
they were heckling the shit out of me.
So I put them in their place because they're idiots.
Were they allowed there by the way?
Oh yeah, what happened was there was quite a lot
of believers because of tour course,
tour wanted to stack the audience
with his own congregation.
He roped off central post.
The room was absolutely full and a lot of his people,
his supporters ended up in the overflow room.
I understood there was like 80 tour supporters
that had to be locked in that other room.
I was almost locked in that other room
despite trying to get there an hour early.
So I mean, they blocked me at the door
and I insisted until they let me in
because they put the arm out in front of me.
Okay, you're the last one.
Oh no, no, no, we're not playing this.
I don't need a seat.
Just stand and let me stand in the corner
but I'm getting in this room.
But yeah, so they were just heckling and booing every time.
Let's see, the thing is semantic choices towards James.
James is a liar.
He's a pathological liar
that exclusively lies about this field.
So my strategy is to show how much he lies
about the topic we're debating.
And every time I would show his lies,
I get booze, of course.
And then every time we're talking about literature
that they don't understand, they're like,
oh, I got such like, you guys have no idea what you're talking about.
And that's where I have to contest you, unfortunately,
because I've done the same thing.
I mean, you and I have both debated Kent Hovind, right?
So yeah, what's a more obvious example
of a pathological liar?
I've got a guy who made every seminar for decades.
He's constantly corrected on the same five major lies,
and he keeps repeating those lies.
He'll never, ever correct them.
He knows they're wrong, but they've made him money,
and he can't sell used cars and make that kind of money,
which is the only talent that he has, right?
But it's not a trick to show that a guy who has been convicted
of dozens of counts of three different types of fraud,
it's not a trick to show that that guy's a liar.
But the problem is there's a whole lot of other people
that are telling the same lies,
but they haven't been convicted of anything.
So what is necessary is you have to attack the lie.
Show that it is a lie without necessarily saying
that he is a liar, that everybody who says this is lying.
That's the important thing, not just that one guy.
Yeah, so like to be more blunt, why the direct,
direct did you feel that?
Cause look, it's not my style, right?
To go in like, someone might be lying
and they might be a liar, but it's,
I guess I'm different, of course.
I wouldn't be like that.
I don't even debate, but if I did, I wouldn't be as direct.
What was the mindset going in?
Cause your presentation had that built into it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, no, I mean, I knew I was gonna,
I mean, there's a couple of years of build up here
and the amount of character assassination
that he's thrown my way, I'm not gonna like
come at this all happy Rosie.
But the thing is, when he is discussing this research,
he's exclusively lying.
So I need to demonstrate that fact that he is lying
and it's much easier to do that about things
that everybody can understand.
So that they can then extrapolate that to the research.
So it's not that I just brought up like the textbook thing
and the number of researchers thing.
I also brought up a research that he attacked
from like Stephen Benner, where I show that like
he misinterpreted the C13 NMR spectrum
or he like his strategies to go through the supplemental
section and pick out some technical detail
and pretend it's a flaw when it's actually him
just not understanding the experimental method, right?
So it's not like I just went liar, liar.
I was like, here are all these very ultra specific ways
that he has lied.
This is priming you to understand that throughout the debate
when he has these objections about technical details
of the paper, he is lying, right?
You can't just blindly believe him cause,
oh, the smart molecule man said smart molecule words.
He is perpetually lying.
I needed that to be part of it.
We're not going to come in and say,
I, oh, he's a smart guy, but here's some research.
No, no, no, no.
This guy's a pathological liar, right?
That has to be made perfectly known, you know?
But we have to know why it is a lie
that the lie itself is indefensible no matter who says it.
Sure, we know that creationists,
we know that creationists by their very job description
are professional liars.
They are determined to make believe
what is not evidently true.
They make claims of fact and claims of knowledge
they don't have, both of which are lying.
At best, they're asserting baseless speculation
as if it's a matter of fact, which is also lying.
My favorite quote from Abraham Lincoln,
that he who asserts, he who makes an assertion
without knowing whether it is true or false
is guilty of falsehood.
And the accidental truth of the assertion
does not justify or excuse him.
So when you tell me what Jesus does
or how God loves me or fuck all,
if you can't show me the truth of it,
there is no truth to it.
You are lying, you should know that.
Yeah.
So we circled around and I think we're kind of in agreement,
but we're also like, I may not have done it that way.
I guess.
I know, our women in our lives would like, you know,
hey, tone it down a little, right?
I'm scorched earth, man.
I mean, it's like, this is not a good,
like this is not a good faith discussion
because he is not approaching it in good faith.
So I have to expose the bad faith.
I would never do this in a good faith discussion of anything,
but yeah.
I want that on the record,
because I think that a lot of people
who may not even have been,
they might side with you at the end of the day
in terms of the belief.
I don't want people to walk away necessarily looking at you
and just going, this guy's just a rude,
he is just obnoxiously rude.
I mean, he targeted the guy,
he kept calling him a liar, this and that.
But I've had conversations with you before.
I don't know why,
but I guess there's oil and water for some people.
I mean, look, people have to get their priorities straight.
James Tours, a guy who lies about a field of science
because Jesus and slanders researchers in the field.
I mean, this is really, really inappropriate,
unprofessional behavior.
And he's been character assassinating
and lying about me for years.
That's why I brought that slide with all the insults.
And notice what an unbelievable narcissist he is.
I demonstrated that he kept saying,
Dave doesn't know chemistry.
He cannot, the man cannot understand chemistry.
He can't read papers, blah, blah, blah.
His content is a manure dump.
And then I demonstrated through crowd applause
that all of his students use my tutorials to pass his class.
So this doesn't make sense.
If I can explain chemistry better than James can
to his students, how is it that I don't understand chemistry?
And he would not, he would not concede
that that was an absolutely ridiculous thing for him to say.
He would not concede an inch on the intense insults
that he'd thrown at me in all of his content.
He just won't do it.
He can't do it.
So-
Here's an important thing.
And I tweeted when you did that zinger
because that was well played.
But here's an important thing.
Often we hear that evolution is a fraud.
As a matter of fact, that was one of the chapters
of my book and the foundational false sets of creationism.
So I offer a challenge to anybody
who wants to hold this position.
If you want to think that both sides are the same
because they are absolutely not.
We're not talking about two sides of the same coin.
We're not talking about two valid opinions.
We're not talking about two possibilities.
We're talking about fact versus fiction.
Truth versus lies, literally.
So to make that explicitly clear,
I would challenge anybody that you okay,
find me, name for me.
Any, shut up dog, name for me.
Any evolutionary scientist
who ever lied while promoting evolution over creationism.
Now, I know everybody's gonna go to Erd's Tekel,
but I've already done videos on that.
No, that's not the thing that you think it is.
You don't know what you're talking about.
But if you want to de-converse of that,
is you just, you give me that, you tell me the name,
quote, the lie verbatim, right?
And the alternative side of that is
name me one professional creationist
who did not lie while promoting creationism over evolution.
And in that case, you don't have to give me the lie.
Just give me the name,
and I'll start listing the lies for you.
And I will show you how we know
that not only that every claim they made is wrong,
but how we know that they know that every claim is wrong.
So it's very important for me to demonstrate
that James Ture is of that ilk.
He is that, right?
He's not just this guy going,
and you know, I have some doubts,
I have my chemistry expertise,
and these are valid objections.
No, they're not.
No, they're not.
It's a script of lies just like,
he's Kent Hoven with a PhD, essentially.
There's really no difference.
Well, actually, I want to give him a little more charity.
I think that he has deluded himself
to the degree that he thinks he's right.
I think Kent, okay, I'll peddle back,
but he's no different than any
of the Discovery Institute people.
He just knows more about chemistry, but he uses it.
I got to tell you, Dave,
I've been criticized by believers,
you know, believers don't care about facts.
They will openly admit.
Oh yeah.
They don't care what the facts are, right?
They don't care what the truth is.
They have these like, feel good,
little emotional things that they go by,
and you're a meanie.
Yep.
And that means that he won the debate
because he was nice.
He gave you a gift at the beginning.
Except the thing is, he was shouting like a maniac,
and so that kind of.
I'm not talking about as a reasonable person.
I'm talking about what the audience
of unreasonable people feel.
Unreasonable, yeah.
Feel, not think.
But that's why it was so,
I was so happy to trigger him into behaving that way
because it makes it so much more difficult
for them to adopt that narrative.
Many still do, right?
I mean, you might have said he was a liar.
You might have told the audience,
they have no clue what they're talking about.
You did directly say, I was like,
did he just, I've never heard in a debate
something like this yet.
That's true.
But I got another challenge for you,
for any creationist listening, right?
I've often made this challenge.
And again, it's never been answered,
just like the one I just gave, never been answered.
Show me one actual fact
that is positively indicative of the creationist model.
In fact, show me a creationist model, period,
but then show a fact in support of it.
Something we can both verify to be true.
Not something we have to believe on faith,
because somebody who told me today
that the evidence that they have is belief in Jesus.
No, your belief is not evidence.
Do we have to have like the definition of what evidence is?
It's a fact that indicates.
DNA is too complicated, it's a code.
Codes need a creator.
Exactly, that's all you're gonna get is mind games
or word games rather.
But there's not, here's what I would suggest.
We have a thing to be explained
and it is not the case that whatever science
cannot explain or that you don't know
the scientific explanation,
yet therefore it is evidence of magic.
No, you have to show me the evidence
of your magic imaginary friend.
So here's the thing that needs to be explained.
Here's the scientific data to support that.
Now you show me your data
that implies the magical alternative.
And yes, I'm saying miracles, the Bible,
whatever, supernatural, anything,
hocus pocus, it's all magic.
There is not one actual fact anywhere ever,
nothing nowhere that implies creationism.
All there is is this mountain of evidence
that they pretend doesn't exist,
that contradicts that and promotes evolution
and other sciences.
And they deny it, hence got to the gaps.
Real quick, my simple point was like,
you were really calm,
even though you were using very harsh words,
you were very calm.
All true words.
There was a moment during that debate.
And I mean, I watched it in four different sections.
I could only stomach so much
before I was like, dude, I got to turn the shit off.
And then I played it some more.
But there was this moment where he lost his,
he looked crazy for a second.
They had the camera on, I mean, it was like.
That wasn't a second.
That was like a half hour.
It was a lot, yeah.
But there was a peak moment I remember.
I was like, whoa.
It's like this guy is gonna have an aneurysm
in front of all of us, like.
Anyway, that's.
Not gonna lie, that would have been a video moment.
Oh no, I'll be using some of those snippets
for various purposes.
No, if he had had an aneurysm.
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, that would be,
well, that'd be interesting.
Because I was looking for that to happen.
I wouldn't have been surprised,
but that wasn't the goal.
But anyway, it's just, this is like he whines,
he whines, oh, you can psychoanalyze me.
I'm glad you can mind me.
It's like, bro, you are an open book, right?
You have all of these facts pressing up against your faith
and invalidating it, and you are going berserk.
The turmoil in his mind is just unparalleled.
This is why the outbursts occur.
A rational person who all of their world view is aligned
does not behave that way.
It just doesn't happen.
All right, now I got the next super key here.
Nitty being a member.
Really appreciate your support.
Young Earth creationists are a cash cow
through donation to get anyone to validate the Bible.
Correct.
Thank you, Nitty.
Appreciate the support.
I think you guys mentioned that several times
during this already.
Jerry Pina, Pina, forgive me if I butchered it, my friend.
Thank you for the super chat.
Pine Creek just exposed Turr as a liar.
Did I say that right?
Is it Turr?
Well, it's Turr.
That's a misspell, but whatever if we know who you are.
Okay, got it, got it, got it.
Turr is a liar, like Professor Dave.
Turr said he never, as a scientist,
I can't say God can't poof something into existence.
And through science says God clearly comes out.
Not sure I fully understand.
I also don't know who Pine Creek is,
but I mean, I'm not sure what this means,
but the fact remains that James believes
that life arising was a divine act.
He has expressed this publicly.
And so, I don't know what God is there with his hands
and he goes, okay, here we go, we got,
and I don't know, see the thing is I don't,
like he's purposely ambiguous
because from my understanding,
he believes in Adam and Eve, right?
The literal Adam and Eve mythology.
So he's not thinking that God made a cell,
but I think in order to appear even remotely scientific,
he's talking about a single cell.
At least that's the way he presents himself publicly.
And then in private, he, or in his church groups,
he's like, okay, Adam and Eve is the thing.
But-
What he really says is that God conducted a Golem spell
where you make a clay figurine
and you breathe into it the breath of life,
which means you do like basically CPR on your statue
when it comes to life.
And then you take a rib.
Yeah, rabbis admit that the Golem spell
is old rabbinic magic, right?
Or we're old Semitic magic.
And then the pulling out of the rib
and then like it's not even a clone spell.
I don't know what it is, a transfiguration.
It's a different kind of spell, but these are spells.
Yeah. It's magic.
Men are not made of clay
and women are not made of rib.
I don't know how to do it. Thank you so much.
Appreciate that.
Jerry Ichipod, I hope I'm saying it right this time.
Glad Derek mispronounces Patreon like he does.
I think I say Ichipod, I forget.
Dave, love ya.
I cringe when you said as if I give off
what any of you think.
Any regrets?
I don't think I said exactly that.
Maybe I did. I remember an F word
directed at the audience.
I think I said something like as if any of you
have a fucking clue what we're talking about
because they don't.
We were there talking about,
I mean, it's not even the church people.
It's even the science students.
Like we were talking about very esoteric stuff.
When we were talking about two prime,
three prime RNA link, nucleotide linkages.
I mean, this is stuff that like you're even science students
and the audience are probably like,
okay, I don't know exactly what they're talking about.
It's very esoteric stuff.
So you better believe it's church group.
I mean, they don't know what RNA is.
They have no clue.
They don't know a single thing that we're talking about.
But James goes, ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba.
Wow.
And Dave goes, ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba.
Boo.
It's like, you guys are idiots.
And if you don't shut up,
if you don't keep your face out of this,
I'm going to call you out and shut you up myself.
You don't shut up hecklers, you know?
Bear in mind, when you're doing a debate,
you're gonna, you know, if the game is to win the debate,
you have to win that audience.
Oh, but they're unwinnable.
That year, they just unwinnable.
You just, but no, they're not.
If you had shown the lie without attacking the person,
you don't have to attack a person.
Show how this is a lie in such a way
that people realize this can't be right.
Not that group.
And then they realize that guy is wrong.
Some people, but not that group.
James could have conceded defeat
and they would have found a way to twist it
and pretend he won.
They're-
And I get what you're saying.
I have people in my own family-
Nothing I could have said to change
the minds of those people.
People in my own family who would tell me something
like that Trump never lied,
doesn't matter the 30,000 lies on record,
but you never lied.
And so I show a video of him bragging
about what a good liar he is.
And there still isn't a good mission.
Right.
Yep.
Same thing.
Tour and Trump have a lot in common
and tour fans and Trump followers have a lot in common.
That's it.
Thank you for that super chat, my friend.
Constellation Pegasus.
Wait, that professor wouldn't answer the question
of a 6,000 year old Earth?
Did I hear that correctly?
I mean, I don't know what-
I mean-
The young Earth creationism idea.
Has Tour ever been directly asked that?
Well, yeah, so he has a whole video
and the thumbnail has Earth and then young
and old are on top of each other blurry
as if to be like, how old is it?
I don't know.
So like he's very receptive to young Earth rhetoric.
He doesn't outright-
See, this is the thing with these guys.
Like he's like, I never called Dave stupid.
Yeah, he didn't use the word stupid.
He said all this other insulting crap.
He doesn't outright say,
I believe the Earth is 6,000 years old.
But he's like, hmm, I don't know.
Maybe it could be.
What do I know?
You know what I mean?
He's very receptive to the young Earth crowd
because that's a big part of his flock.
So he can't dismiss them.
He needs them in his camp, you know?
So but he-
I would love for somebody to explain to me
where the value is in having to make believe things
that are not evidently true,
that are not even possibly true,
that you certainly know are not true.
Because we've heard that minister say
that if the Bible were to say the two plus two equals five,
I would believe it.
William Jennings Bryan said in 100 years ago
when he was running for president,
he said, if the Bible said that Jonah swallowed the whale,
I would believe it.
So we know even when you have
mathematic proof that it's wrong,
they're going to make believe anyway.
Yeah.
Why?
Why doesn't truth matter to these people?
I mean, if you want an honest answer,
it's because they're afraid to die
and their faith gives them hope of life after death.
That's the honest answer, I think.
Or heaven or something, yeah.
Yeah.
Yep.
Constellation, thank you for that.
He said, what university does he teach at?
Rice University and I don't think he should get to.
We'll see if there's any negative ramifications
anytime soon for him.
Wow.
What's going on with the machines and motors and cells
that engine has heat,
heats and a clutch in them,
gets the flagellum RPMs up pretty high?
Yeah, I don't know.
That's all creationist lingo,
to try to liken a cell to an actual machine
that humans build to imply that cells
must also have been built.
Anyway.
So we'll go to Michael.
Michael has all that.
I'm sorry.
If you look at a biological model of these things,
it doesn't look like the way that the intelligent design
people, they will find, well, this aspect of this molecule
represents or that this configuration
would be equivalent to a stator.
So we're going to call it a stator
and we're going to illustrate it
so that it looks like a stator.
So that you end up with a biological,
what in real life looks like an absolute mess
of macromolecules in a very organic shape.
But in the depiction, it looks like a rotary motor
that you bought at the Home Improvement Depot.
Correct.
Because they want it to look intelligently designed.
So they're going to misrepresent this however they can
to come to that conclusion.
Precisely.
Thank you so much.
Accurate.
You usual, my dudes, good seeing you
on Speaker's Corner via YouTube, I mean.
Well, thank you so much for the support.
Appreciate the love.
Heng-fa-shi, Dave, what do you think about
maybe having taken up the chalk
and erasing one of the sections he drew
and ask him how they found out what went there
before they found it out since he relies on,
I think, God of the Gaps.
God of the Gaps.
I mean, that would have been kind of funny
if I erased or crossed out some of the clues.
I mean, whatever.
It's like, at the end, I was just so like,
fed up with his dumb stunt that I was like,
oh, okay, should I write not clueless?
And then I win, I guess.
Okay, let me do that.
So that was a fun moment, I guess.
But I mean, it's like, I don't want to play games.
Like he's the one playing games, right?
He just was like, I'm going to write these five things
and I'm going to write clueless whenever I want
and everyone will cheer.
No matter what Dave says, I'm going to write clueless
and proclaim myself the winner.
And that's exactly what he did.
It's just a stunt, but yeah, I don't know.
I mean, I guess it could have been funny
if I was like, nope, not clueless.
I mean, here's the thing.
Like it's so ridiculous for him,
like for polypeptides and polynucleotides,
we were discussing research of prebiotically plausible
polypeptide and polynucleotide synthesis.
So, but he, because he was whining about the side chains
or about the two prime, three prime linkage,
that doesn't even negate the fact
that these synthesis are exist.
So that he wrote clueless after we just discussed
all this research that demonstrates that it can happen
is just like mind boggling.
It's just bananas that he will do that.
You know what I mean?
Again, I either flew on an airplane,
lied about where I was at when I got to your couch
or abracadabra and Aaron's magical position there
makes the most sense.
Come on.
Yeah, thank you so much for that, Hengfa.
Michael Gartner, tour misrepresenting Cronin.
Ari Scam was telling.
He left out Cronin saying it was tongue and cheek
and I meant it as tongue and cheek and more.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then he goes on to Lee made a little bit of a statement
that I'm going to include in my review video.
But I mean, that is a stunning display
that just shows how unwilling James is
to have a good faith conversation
that he's going to quote mine to that degree
that an origin of life researcher said a joke in a tweet
and I'm going to use that to pretend that he's saying
all origin of life research is invalid.
It's like, what better demonstration is there
that you're not going to have a good faith conversation here?
You're going to just lie and misrepresent everything,
misrepresent the field, misrepresent what people say.
So it's like, why should I approach this
as though there's going to be a good faith conversation?
I know that there isn't.
And that tweet was like the perfect example of that.
So.
I had a conversation in email with Dr. Richard Leakey
wherein he told me that he was talking about
how creationists are dishonest operators
and misquotation is the hallmark of their work.
And in the same email,
he also described him as having astonishing stupidity.
If you don't mind,
I'm asking a really private personal question here,
but Dave, are you in conversation with any scholars
that are in original life research right now
that are legit serious,
that are telling you how insane some of this
or how dishonest they're seeing
what's going on on the other side?
Of course, every single one.
Most of them are aware of it and just don't care.
Right.
But they just don't want,
I mean, most don't want to get involved at all.
It's drama, right?
Yeah.
Well, they don't want to invite just all this harassment,
but I still, I've got about four,
I got about four of them to make statements
for the analysis.
So that's four new ones
that he's going to have to go and expose
because anyone who goes on Dave's channel,
I got to expose them.
So he's going to have four more people to expose
once I put that out.
So you can have fun with that.
And, you know, he can keep digging that hole
of everybody's corrupt, everybody's a liar
in this entire field.
But anyway, I'm going to get some of those statements,
or I got them already.
I'm making the video now.
As many critiques as I have of the debate
and how things were done,
I got to give you a credit for your rebuttal
on your video series for him because, I mean,
the tour was faced with this.
And how do I continue?
Because I guess changing my name is no longer an option.
Yeah. I mean, he has to go to cartoons and memes
and pretending Stephen Benner is a fraud
and Lee Cronin is a fraud.
And it's just like, he really,
I'm just backing him further and further
and further into this corner where after this debate
and after my analysis of the debate,
there's just no room left.
I don't know what he's going to do next.
I can't imagine he's going to stop,
but it's just like the whole scientific community
and anybody with any scientific inclination whatsoever
is now acutely aware
of what an unbelievable lying fraud this guy is.
So it's like, it's not like it was two years ago
where it was like, huh, this chemist guy saying some stuff.
I don't know what he's saying.
Now it's like, oh yeah, Dave annihilated this guy
over like 12 videos.
Like he's a clown.
Everybody knows it.
What are you talking about?
I can't wait to just think about the sycophants though,
because I mean,
Oh yeah.
Hovind followers will tell me how he destroyed me.
Well, Flatter love to say that I got destroyed.
I destroyed David Weiss
and then David Weiss puts out a video.
I destroyed Professor Dave and like he destroyed me.
What?
I saw that.
That was bad.
I didn't even watch it,
but I don't know what the hell you're talking about.
I'm talking about you.
I'm talking about the debate you had with that guy.
I was like, dude, what in the world just happened?
Two things.
I emailed, so I saw an interview
that was on Sean McDowell Christian Apologist YouTube
channel with David, with a Professor Tor, James Tor.
And he had an invitation at the end.
He invited skeptics, non-believers to email him
because he said he would come on their channels.
He would present to them his evidence for the resurrection
and that he said like 80% of skeptic non-believers
who listened to his story and his evidence,
for the resurrection, end up converting that same hour.
I'm not kidding, this is what he said.
So I, Derek Lambert, emailed him and said,
I am interested in having this discussion.
Just wanting to be sure that we can talk back and forth,
that it's not a one-way street.
He wrote me to decline and said, no, I'm not interested,
because dude, if it's a serious academic in the field
and they're critical, I mean,
I have absolutely interviewed them more than once.
And I know several hypotheses that are on a natural point
of view or even just skeptical from the legendary,
the full on myth to hallucinogenic type, you name it, right?
So everything under the sun is more plausible
than this guy really rose from that.
Even the whole, he is swoon theory.
He didn't really die.
He was in the hole for three days and then he came out.
I mean, all of that's more likely.
He declined and he said, no, I said,
if you'd let me have an hour to just talk,
he wants to pretty much give his testimony.
Oh, he wants to lecture you.
He wants to lecture and tell his testimony
or whatever it is.
That's not what I was hoping to do.
I was gonna give some pushback
and try to have a conversation, not a debate.
He declined.
And I actually think I emailed you that,
but I can't remember if I said that.
Yeah, I remember you mentioned it.
What a number of people,
a number of people have asked to be on my channel
to reason with me and I'm all about that.
I really am.
I am eager to talk to people
who don't agree with me about whatever.
And well, it's just gotta be something
I'm remotely interested in.
There's some things I just don't care.
But sometimes these people will come on.
They're gonna have a back and forth with me
to try to get me to understand why they believe
what they believe.
And then they wanna grandstand my forum
so that they have their PowerPoint presentation
and they just need 20 minutes
to tell me about the infallible truth of Islam
in the Quran.
Yeah, fuck, I'm not, no.
No, you speak from the top of your own fucking head.
Yeah.
And we'll go sentence by sentence and see how it plays.
Aaron, listen how you're talking to the audience now, man.
I'm just kidding.
Oh, I had to do that to you, man.
Yeah, but this whole, the pearl clutching,
the tone policing thing, it's just a typical,
it's a typical Christian thing where they're just like,
I'm going to clutch my pearls
because you said the F word
and therefore nothing you're saying is true.
I heard them through the mic go,
like, oh my God, he said the four letter word.
How dare him?
It's like, get your priorities straight.
This guy is a toxic influence on society,
lies through his teeth, slanders researchers.
But I said a naughty word.
Give me a break, grow up.
Yeah.
So my next dog is going to be named PHU QUE.
Full Q?
Constellation Pegasus,
Cracker Jacks needs to have select boxes
with a Rice University degree in them.
Discovering ancient history with Pat Lohner just said,
yeah, but the seven day cycle proves God.
Of course he's joking, he's buddy of mine.
And so we've had a guy actually say
because we all have seven days in a week that we live by,
that means this God who started the seven day thing
is the one in authority over creation.
There's anything goes, right?
Can we talk about that just for a moment?
Sure, sure.
So let's, let's, why does nothing match up
the way it would if there would be an intelligent designer?
Why is it seven days?
Why is a month not 28 days?
Well, there's one month that's 28 days,
but none of the rest of them, right?
The rest of them are 30 or 31, whatever the hell,
because it's all variable.
Why is it 365 days?
Why does nothing, why is it 24 hours
and some change in a few seconds?
And why is it changing all the time?
And what's a day before the sun even exists?
None of the divisions we have for anything
imply that anybody with an intelligence set about
setting that up with an intended design in mind.
It's humans recognizing natural cycles
and trying to apply some kind of order
with increasing success over time
as it becomes more and more refined.
I'm literally writing,
Otenilo is only a distraction.
Yeah, that guy's an idiot.
Oh my gosh, the shroud of Turin has been,
I've got a video that's like 15 minutes long,
and it rips it in half.
It would be wonderful if I could end up,
it would be wonderful if I would be in a thread like this,
you know, a discussion like we're having right now,
and people like Otenilo wouldn't stink up the entire place,
like by pooping in the middle of a crowded room.
They pull their pants down,
they literally don't even warn you,
they just go Turin, shroud of Turin!
A shroud of Turin.
Nobody cares, nobody cares about you, man.
MNag, I wish I could watch the stream,
unfortunately I'm super busy,
please keep calling out the lies.
As always, I'm showing my support.
Brocco.
I want to point out that nobody,
people will debate me on various different topics,
but they will never debate me on creationism, not again.
That's not happening anymore.
So one of the Discovery Institute Fellows,
I don't remember which it won,
as Steven Meyer, whoever it was,
but somebody posted on Twitter a few months ago,
that they had a debate scheduled for me,
and my Twitter response to that was that,
hey, somebody ought to tell me,
because this is the first I've heard of it.
I'm down, but this is honestly the first I've ever.
James Stewart announced a debate challenge
on some loser apologist channel.
I'm like, buddy, were you gonna email me?
Also in the rice thresher, he's like,
oh, I apologize for shouting over Dave Farina
in the student publication.
He's like, you want to send that this way?
You want to email me the apology?
What good is it going out there?
Like, the guys can't do it.
I've spent a quarter of a century now
arguing against creationism.
And I'm not saying I'm done, but it's done.
The reason they're not challenging me to debate anymore,
the reason they're not gonna challenge anybody
to debate anymore, you've got certain people
who got their degree from a mail order catalog,
and they're still trying to be relevant some way,
because it's the only way that they can keep slave labor
building their retirement home.
We all know who I'm talking about.
But apart from people like that,
there is no attempt, there's no facade
at a legitimate creationist organization
who's trying to promote any truth.
No, they've all been called out to the point
where they have no defense anymore.
Period, it's done.
Now we just gotta get the fucking senators and so forth
to realize that, oh yeah, we lost this argument
and everybody knows it.
I guess I should pull my head out of my ass
and maybe we should stop voting for people
who think that snakes can talk.
You know, who fanboys over Erica
from Guts at Gibbons channel?
I eat her stuff up, I love the way she handles it
and she kicks all of their asses, they're buried.
I don't even know where to find them now, they're buried.
I just had the honor, I just uploaded a video today
in a collaboration with her and she is amazing.
She knows, because she's a PhD student,
I mean, I just have a bachelor's, right?
But she knows so much more about my field than I do.
It's humbling and inspiring at the same time.
Yeah, she knows a ton about hominid species, yeah, of course.
And Erica, if you're watching this at some point,
just to let you know, thank you for trying
to be here today, it would have been amazing to have you here.
But we have to plan a recording soon
and hopefully I can get her to do a course at some point.
But hell V155, I'm just saying hell
because I think that's what they meant to have in their name.
Great debate, I enjoyed it, especially your choice of words.
I suppose the question about your choice of rhetoric
was about why you would directly curse at people.
That's not rhetoric, it's just they deserved it.
But whatever, whether I were to do that or not do that,
it would not have influenced their conclusions.
I was given an opportunity to address a young Earth
creationist church from inside their sanctuary
during their session.
So it was supposed to be a discussion,
but they lied about, I know, shock, right?
They lied about the setup for us.
So it wasn't going to be an equities,
it's not that we both have a discussion
and the audience gets to listen,
it's not that we both get to describe our position
so that the students will understand.
Everything about how they sold this to me was a lie.
So I was told that I would have 30 minutes
to explain evolution to a church full of church,
what do you call it, the homeschool type,
church school type, Christian school, high schoolers.
I'm going to explain evolution to that demographic, right?
In their own church, I got 30 minutes to do that.
I was all about that.
And then when they realized that they had misspoke
and that they wrote the email out poorly
and that I could fairly interpret it what they said
to mean this, they're like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no.
That's not what we meant at all.
What we meant was what we want to set you up on stage
and we've got somebody with a bunch of prepared questions
so that we can try to make you look like a fool
and you better be on your toes to not look like a fool.
Which I think I did adequately well,
but the whole thing was designed such
that none of those high schoolers would have a clue
what evolution is by the end.
That was the expressed intent
was to keep the students confused.
Thank you so much.
Sorry, thank you for that super chat.
Chris McCarthy, have you heard of the PAW world?
I don't know if I'm saying that PAH.
Model for abiogenesis, proto-DNA base pairs aligning
at the edge of a stack of polycyclic
or aromatic hydrocarbon sheets.
I have not heard anything like any of that.
That's pretty interesting.
I know that there's a lot of models
that I don't know that RNA world kind of dominates,
but there's also metabolism first
and different kinds of models.
Never heard of that.
I mean, I think that most people are roughly in agreement
that RNA was the first genetic material,
but yeah, I don't know.
Never heard of it.
Sounds cool.
Thank you, Chris.
Never heard of it myself.
I like that they said it's aromatic.
So I guess if you put a number of these around the tub,
I'm sure it would be very pleasant and beyonds.
Danish debater coming back with another one.
Thank you for the support.
Got here quick.
Thanks for the answer, Dave.
Aaron and Derek agree with Aaron
and Derek hit my thoughts on the head.
So I guess Danish kind of has a softer spot
on how to approach people.
And I can't say that Aaron completely has it.
Aaron's told me his wonderful wife has kind of helped him
like see the light a little like, hey, you know?
So he probably would be just like you, man,
if it weren't for his wife always telling him, hey,
that's one way to put it.
Yeah.
Every time I come off stage,
you said he was a stupid liar who lies because he's stupid.
You know that doesn't convince anybody, right?
But I also prove that he's a liar many times.
Yeah, you have.
I think that like what Aaron's saying,
I think if you have someone sitting on the fence though
and they are offended or this is offensive to them,
that might give their cognitive dissonance reason
to tuck back in instead of really just considering
what you might say, because your data is on point.
Like you're not, you're hitting the nail on the head.
It's just, are we winning people over?
And I think the sad part was that you're debating in a room
where you're having to hear the mumbling
and the constant groaning of people.
And that frustrated you even more on top of it.
I'll tell you what I got out of it.
What I loved about this was it's very technical, right?
So these are chemical names.
And it's obviously, if Tours arguing
that we don't know anything about this,
then we're clearly going to be pushing the envelope
of scientific understanding.
So it's not that extreme, but it sounds like it is.
When you've got these two guys who are throwing
five and six syllable words at each other
with such passion and it rapid fire.
It was the most chaotic, passionate,
maddening chemical discussion I've ever heard in my life.
It's like they're speaking another language at some point.
It becomes, yeah, it is a different language to say.
And it becomes an old married couple.
They were yelling at each other, past each other,
past the audience too.
And that, I'm sorry to say,
is what I think a lot of the audience took out of that.
Sure, how could it be inevitable when one party
is going to be in bad faith and lie the whole time?
They can, it's just nothing.
And that's by design.
You know that, we know that.
So it felt like a-
I gotta hop off in like two minutes, by the way, sorry.
Oh, do you?
Okay, it felt like a Jerry Springer episode.
That's in a way, you know?
Pretty chaotic, but you stood your ground.
Well, if he's gonna be like a Jerry Springer episode,
but then before you go.
He's got snakes behind him too.
Be careful.
Christie, thank you for becoming a new member.
And then Lyle says, Dave, in Tours opening statement,
he put on the board chemicals and all its transformation.
Can you explain in layman's term,
can you stillman what he was saying?
There's nothing to stillman.
He drew amino acids to go, look how smart I am.
I can draw amino acids.
And I know that there's no point for Dave to write anything,
but I'm gonna insist that he should anyway.
And then just keep going back to that,
no matter how much research he shows,
that proves me wrong.
That was the point of that whole facade.
Thank you, Lyle or Lyle.
Forgive me if I butchered that.
And then Dave, Dave, thank you for the super chat.
Watched Aaron and Erica this morning.
Wow, loved the use car salesman joke.
Before you go, I wanna plug you here, Dave.
Let me make sure I'm plugging you right
because I got the wrong thing here shared.
Getting your YouTube channel.
People who are watching, we got like 436 people
watching right now, do us a favor and go subscribe
to Professor Dave Explains YouTube channel.
You can watch the full debate here on his channel.
Actually, I'm gonna put it in the chat right now
for everybody watching.
And Dave, you have a Patreon as well.
Can you tell us final words from you, man?
You gotta go.
So I don't wanna leave you without something.
Come check out the channel.
Yeah, please support.
I will be continuing to expose and debunk
all of these figures.
I mean, I have a lot more to do with the Discovery Institute.
I've really enjoyed becoming the biggest nail
on their side.
The damage control over there is just astounding.
It's article after article after article
of Dave is a big mean poopy head.
But, and then other people too, anti-vaxxers
and I debunk a lot of things.
So not just creationists, but also a lot of creationists
because I can't stand them.
I understand that.
And you have a Patreon, go support him there.
Aaron, you've got a YouTube channel
and you do a lot of debunking as well.
I do, I've dedicated my career
to trying to defend the student's rights
not to be lied to.
And that is how I summarize what creationism is.
It's not as if these people think they're in good faith.
It's not as if they really believe
they're telling the truth.
When pressed, a lot of them, and I mean all of the apologists,
the professional apologists will have to be cornered
into admitting that they know, that they believe,
they make believe what they wanna believe
because they wanna believe it.
That there's not any actual truth that they can show
and they don't care what the truth is.
We're all on Patreon, help support us.
Gentlemen, thank you for your time.
I appreciate you staying around this long, Dave.
For sure.
And we should be expecting some really good stuff
coming from this debate on your show, correct?
Yeah, I got a couple more things to follow up.
And then it's back to, I mean,
obviously I'm continuing all my academic content,
but then probably some other material
on Discovery Institute frauds that I haven't hit yet.
Thank you, thank you so much.
Final words?
For me?
No, thanks a lot, guys.
Keep supporting.
Thank you, Aaron.
I've been doing this exclusively.
This is my only means of support.
So do check out patreon.com forward slash A-R-O-N-R-A.
I need all the help I can get.
And never forget, we are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
