Okay, we are live on MythVision podcast.
I have Professor Steve Mason, Dr. Steve Mason.
He's in the eternal city, Rome.
Welcome back to MythVision, my friend.
Ciao.
Buongiorno.
I haven't been yet and I can't wait to go myself
at some point.
Fair warning, compared to other live streams we've done.
He is on Wi-Fi, he is running a spot,
so if he's pixelated, look,
you only see through a glass dimly,
but only when that which is perfect has come
will you see eye to eye, right?
Or face to face.
Steve, thank you for giving us your time.
And while you're in Rome to join us and educate us,
we're gonna be dealing with the aftermath
of the Judean War with Rome
and some of the desert fortresses.
I know we're gonna learn something new.
There's not a single episode that you and me don't,
that we do that we don't learn something.
I wanna go ahead and do a quick little intro,
promo, so to speak, letting people know
what's the deal, what's happening here.
You can join the Patreon.
You can support us there and access anything early.
And if you're struggling, it's only $3 a month
to get in the door and be able to access everything.
Seriously, I wanna make that accessible to anybody
who wants to do this.
And so you get the inside scoop.
You can also private message me and stuff like that.
We're doing lots of stuff.
I have four more videos with Delcey Allison Jr.
I haven't even made public yet.
All of this stuff is early bird access.
And when I go to record with scholars
and I have plenty of time with them,
I even ask Patreon members like,
do you have a question for a scholar?
And I'll record it in 4K, edit it up for you,
I mean, for a simple $3 a month.
So I really appreciate the support.
We also have a poll right now in the chat
out of the three courses we've launched so far
on MVP courses, creating Jesus,
why Mark's gospel was forgotten.
It's been buried.
It's been buried under Matthew, Luke, and John.
If you read Mark for Mark
and you've never read it that way,
you will literally walk away going,
oh my goodness, what they've done with the narrative
is quite impressive.
It's radically changed.
The historical Jesus quest with Delcey Allison Jr.
And in that, he takes you practically
from the Protestant Reformation
and their criticism of the miracle claims
of the Roman Catholic Church,
all the way to modern critical scholarship.
I mean, a scientific method was developed
on how to analyze New Testament studies
and you see that development happen
through historical figures like Ryan Morris,
Switzer, you name it, David Friedrich Strauss,
all the way down to E.P. Sanders and John Dominic Crossen
and of course, Dr. Allison and others.
And there are other scholars,
but he goes through some major players in history
that will make you realize why we think the way we do
in New Testament studies.
Doesn't mean that we're right even today.
We may be mistaken on many things,
but you get the field.
You understand the history of the field.
That's what this one's about.
And then of course, with M. David Littwa,
ancient Greek mystery cults, their practices,
kind of their foundation myths.
And then we compare Christianity in the seventh lecture
to kind of give you Paul's language of mystery.
Is this some kind of mystery cult?
Is there something going on in the earliest movement
that might equate to it?
Sign up for these three courses.
I've got Robin Faith Walsh coming.
I've got Kip Davis coming.
I've got Dennis R. McDonald on his Greek Mimesis stuff.
You can't miss it.
And I've got another Egyptology course.
I mean, look, all sorts of stuff is coming.
So I'm hoping to put Dr. Mason on here at some point
so you can take his course and let us know
what you think there.
Dr. Mason, you wrote all these books.
And I have one in person right here on paperback.
The others I have on ebook.
What can we do?
Is there some way that people can support what you're doing
or is it just get the books and spread the insight
and let people know about them or?
Hey, yeah, thanks, Derek.
Yeah, not much to do really.
It's up to people if they want to read this stuff.
If they find it helpful, all the better.
I don't really need support it,
but I'm really glad to have, you know,
what you've provided here is a way to reach a lot of people
that wouldn't be in my classroom
or I wouldn't come across in life otherwise.
So for me, that's golden.
That's great.
Okay, well, I guess the best way to support Dr. Mason
and he told me this the first time we recorded
was more people watched that video
the first time we ever recorded.
He had more people click and with interest watched
and enjoyed and really wanted to hear what he had to say
than he's ever had students in the university.
Cause as you've painted the picture to me before
was some of these students are required to take your class
in order to get to what they want to get to.
Cause they're really like,
I just got to get through this thing.
I'm not really interested in this.
People are voluntarily clicking your material
saying, I want to know what this guy is teaching.
I want to learn this material.
They could click off at any point, but they want to watch.
And I know that a lot of people who watch MythVision
are a fan of what you do.
Hey, thanks very much, Derek.
Well, you know, I'm a big fan of what you do.
And I've told you before, I think you're a terrific host
and that's not blowing smoke.
That's just having worked with a bunch of, you know,
directors of documentaries and hosts and things like that.
I think you do a good job.
And part of that is that, you know,
you actually take what I'm talking about
allow it to come through.
You edit it down to, you know,
convenient sound bites or something like that.
So I really appreciate it.
And it's great to be with your audience here.
Thank you.
From Rome today.
How, I'll say that again.
From Rome today.
Yes.
Yeah, from the center.
Yes, the eternal city.
If I could, if it weren't dark out already,
I'd kind of show you out the window.
It's some nice scenes, but it's dark already here.
So I can't.
Well, I will try not to make you stay up all night
on this stream today.
Cause you know how you and me do.
James table pointed the same thing out to me.
And he's like, Derek, there's something about what you do
that I appreciate.
And he said he's had a lot of documentary people
that come to record.
And what they like to do is tell you
what they want you to say.
And they only want what they want to be heard.
And so they filter it out.
They edit it out.
They kind of cut it down.
Or they even will sometimes coerce the scholar
to say stuff a certain way.
Look, you want the raw Steve Mason,
the raw James table or version
or whoever the scholar might be
to kind of convey that to the audience.
And that's what we're doing here.
So seriously, thank you.
This is a little bit controversial today.
Actually, it might not seem like it.
I mean, desert fortresses who really cares.
Desert fortress, what's to talk about?
But actually, if you've heard of Masada,
then you've heard some stuff
and I'm going to be probing the foundations
of what we know and how we know it actually.
So yeah, I don't know what you defended.
I hope there are some good questions and responses,
but that's what I want to try to do.
Thank you, thank you.
Really appreciate that.
So stay tuned, everybody.
We're about to take a deep dive.
Thank you for everybody showing up in the chat.
Hit the like button.
And I'm ready when you are.
Do you want me to go ahead and share the screen?
Yeah, please.
Okay.
And I figured just for the sake of the episode,
I'll, if anyone wants to ask questions,
they could super chat them
and we'll get to them during Q and A at the end.
I don't want to interrupt you if possible.
Okay.
But please feel free to interrupt with a question.
I mean, a voice question,
I can, you know, it's really good in a way
to raise things along the way
and not, you know, get lost at the end.
So feel free to do that.
What I'll do is then I'll filter,
if a super chat is relevant to the topic
and they really want to have that question answered,
then I'll try to do it while that topic's up.
If it's something irrelevant to the presentation
or something that kind of takes off track,
I'll preserve it for Q and A.
Great.
Sounds good.
Awesome.
Okay.
Can you see my screen?
I can.
And can you see it in full screen mode?
Yes, we can.
We can.
Okay.
You mentioned before, there's a little bit of a delay.
So apologies for the, you know,
there's nothing I can do to improve the internet
in the place where I am right now,
but we'll hope that it holds up.
If there's a delay that, you know,
I get ahead of what's on the screen,
just let me know and say, slow down.
Okay.
Yes, sir.
So, yeah, there are, if I ask you,
you heard of Masada, right, Derek, obviously.
Most of your viewers probably have,
but before we were talking,
had you heard much about MacIrus?
No.
Right.
That doesn't surprise me.
Every time I've talked about this with an audience,
I'll ask, how many have heard of Masada?
Hands go up, everybody.
How many have heard of MacIrus?
Maybe one or two people.
Look, what's that?
What is that?
Well, what I wanna try to present today
is reasons for thinking that the way
this stuff is presented usually,
there's always like a common view, a simple view
that really needs to be untangled.
And MacIrus is a big part of that untangling
and you'll see what I mean.
So here's a common view,
the most common view of the Jewish war.
I, in fact, here's a quotation from a book just out.
Well, it was the end of 2021.
Came out very good book, fine book.
I won't mention the author's name
because my point is not to pick on the author
or start a row, a fight, a row is the English side,
but just to reflect what's a very common view of the war.
It clearly took a massive effort for the Romans
to defeat all of the Jewish rebels.
The fighting lasted for eight or nine years.
That is 66 to 74, 75.
And there were thousands of Jewish Roman
and other casualties.
So this common view I've colored it red
because the picture that you get is that from 66
all the way to 74, you had eight or nine years
of intensive fighting between Romans and Jews.
It took the Romans that long
to put down this ferocious Jewish revolt.
At the end of that comes the Desert Fortresses,
MacIrus and especially Masada in the spring of 74.
Well, the problem with this analysis
is that a lot of it is based on the consequences of the war.
The war had enormous consequences.
So the destruction of Jerusalem in the year 70
for Jews, for Romans, for Christians,
that was a monumental momentous event.
There's no doubt that this was one
of the most sequential events in Western history.
But that doesn't mean that it began
from a major conflict.
Now, we've talked a little bit about this
before in other presentations.
So I won't go over the entire war.
We don't have time anyway.
But what I wanna put forward for stimulation,
and this is a little bit controversial,
I suppose, but I think it's very clear.
I don't see how it's able to be contradicted.
But I think that the actual violent confrontations
between Jews and Romans were limited
to these red spots during the conflict.
Why is that the case?
Well, what we'll be looking at today
is some later orange spots, MacIrus and Masada.
But just to fill in the blanks here,
the reason is that in 66 there was an expedition
from a Roman governor, Gesteus Gallus,
who came to Jerusalem.
So that was a brief conflict,
but there's hardly any fighting
except that he was ambushed on the way out north.
So that was clearly a bloody incident.
And that's what kicked off the war.
When Vespasian arrives,
so Gesteus Gallus dies in office
and Vespasian arrives and takes over,
he has a conflict in Galilee,
but it's very brief.
That's the siege of Yotapodon.
And the little town called Yaffa.
But otherwise, Galilee capitulates to him.
The main city in Galilee called Cephorus
immediately welcomed Vespasian
and it requests a Roman garrison there.
So this is the Judean capital of Galilee.
Then he thinks he's all done.
In the summer of 67, he thinks it's all finished.
But King Agrippa, who was with him,
says, can you help me out?
With a couple of my towns, Tiberius and Tarithia,
and eventually Gamala, the natural fortress.
Can you help me out?
There's some rebels against me there, not against Rome.
And Vespasian has already sent his army
to which he says, yes, sure, I'll help you out.
And so he does.
And that's another little conflict,
especially the siege of Gamala, which takes a few weeks.
But that's it.
And then in 68, 69 in the spring of 70,
there's no real fighting.
Why is that?
Because in the summer of 68, Nero dies
and Vespasian has to halt his campaign
while they figure out who's gonna be the next emperor.
Because he was sent by Nero.
So his mandate comes from the emperor.
There's no emperor, so he has to wait.
And he just hangs out in Judea
to see what's gonna happen.
And that's the year of the four emperors famously, right?
Galba Otto Vitellius.
And then finally, Vespasian decides in 69,
he's going to bid for imperial power himself
and use his campaign in Judea as a kind of springboard
to show what a tough guy he is.
And he goes to Alexandria and he leaves Titus
to take over the siege of Jerusalem,
which is really the only main event in the Judean war.
And that lasts about six months.
When it's done, as far as the Flavians are concerned,
the war's over.
So this idea that the war took eight or nine years
of intense fighting is kind of problematic
because there was no fighting for most of the time.
The siege of Jerusalem was the main thing.
And in the next year, when the Flavians held their triumph
in Rome, they exhibited famously all the spoils
of Jerusalem and from the temple and so on.
The war was over in 70.
Now, back in Judea, Judea becomes now a province
of its own, right?
It hadn't been a province before.
It had been part of Syria with a kind of junior governor,
a procurator in the South,
but under the control of the legate in Syria.
Now, it becomes a province of its own
and it gets its own senatorial governor named Carolus first.
Then he's removed to Rome and he's replaced
by a guy named Basta.
Basta finally says, you know what?
It's time to take the fortresses back.
We had these, you know, as part of the province,
there were several fortress sites,
natural fortresses around the place,
especially on the frontiers.
And they haven't, the Rome hasn't taken them all back.
Obviously there were no big hurry to do that,
but they decide that they should take them back.
And Basta says, well, most important one is Mechiris.
And that's over in modern Jordan today.
And he says, so let's get that underway.
And then he's about to plan to take the last one,
Masada, when he dies in post
and his replacement is a guy named Flavius Silva.
And so Silva comes out and in the spring of 74
takes Masada.
Famous story, of course, in Josephus is that
while he's building the seed ramps
and planning to overrun the place,
well, he gets to the top and he burns through the gateway
to get in, but decides to let that burn out overnight.
And while he's waiting to attack the next day,
the leader up on Masada, Eleazar Benyeir,
gives a couple of big speeches,
which persuade everyone to kill themselves,
not exactly themselves, not in suicide,
technically speaking, but to kill each other
in a kind of pact so that they're all dead,
except for two women and five children
when Romans arrived the next day.
So that's the famous story,
but I wanted to put it in a little bit
of historical content here.
As far as the Romans are concerned,
the war won't over by the time all of this happens.
That raises the question,
when should we actually declare the war over?
Well, as far as the Flavians were concerned,
it was over in 70 for the very good reason
that they needed, in order to make a bid for power
in Rome, Phespasian needed to present himself as the man.
In the Roman thinking, martial glory,
glory from war, from fighting,
was the only kind of glory that really mattered
at the end of the day.
You could be a great accountant,
you could be a great thinker, you could be a philosopher,
but to be a real man and to stand up in war
to kill enemies, especially with your own bare hands,
that was really the ticket to toughness
and being respected among your peers
as somebody who could really rule.
Now, young Nero, he came to power at 16,
he didn't have that, and he was viewed as kind of a feat.
He's very artistic, he loved to sing, act, perform,
he went on a year and a half tour of Greece,
doing all these artistic things,
and he was really despised by the upper class in Rome.
He may have been loved by the populace
because he provided them with lots of stuff
and made Rome kind of attractive
and made lots of employees,
but he was hated by much of the aristocracy
and eventually had to commit suicide.
So now the thing is that in Rome,
there's no more room for the expansion of the empire really
for conquering new territories.
That in the case in the late Roman Republic,
generals could add new territory to Rome's empire,
and then all the way through to Augustus,
he was still doing that,
linking up the Eastern Mediterranean, conquering Egypt
and the Tiberius, settling issues
in the northeast of the empire.
And then Claudius with Britain,
holding a triumph after his little brief visit there,
while his generals sorted out a kind of stake in Britain.
Yeah, so it was all pretty much sewn up
by the time Vespasian came along
and his competitors for power to become emperor
couldn't really add anything to the empire.
So there was a lot of disgruntlement
about who should be the new leader
and that person needed some kind of legitimacy.
And the kind of legitimacy you get
from overthrowing your predecessor in a coup
isn't really the kind you need.
So Galba becomes emperor after Nero,
but murdered in the forum a few months later.
Otto kills himself
because he's engaged in a bitter civil war with Vitalius.
Vitalius finally comes to power,
but he's viewed as a drunken, dissipated glutton and so on.
These guys are not,
these guys are not really what Rome's looking for.
So Vespasian comes along and says, well, hey, look,
I've been out while these guys have been messing
with each other, bumping each other off,
having Rome and army fight each other,
which is disgraceful.
I've been out there banging heads for Rome,
dealing with Rome's enemies.
So what Vespasian really wanted to do
was turn a provincial conflict in Syria
because Judea had been part of the Roman Empire
for 130 years already, right?
It was conquered by Pompey the Great back in 63 BCE.
So it wasn't as if he was really able
to add anything to the Empire,
but what he wanted to do was present
his military achievements as proving
he was the kind of God who could really see
where Rome's future.
Now, he'd already been,
I mentioned that Claudius celebrated for Britain, right?
Claudius himself had only visited for a short time.
Among his two main generals was Vespasian.
Vespasian had the second Augustan legion out there,
really nailing down Britain for Claudius, right?
So he was a key person there.
And then now he's commanded this campaign in Judea.
He personally captured the so-called general,
that is Josephus, up in Galilee.
He was personally wounded in battle in the siege of Yotepa.
And he's the one who planned Titus's victory.
And-
Dr. Mason, what was it?
He got wounded where exactly again?
You broke out?
Yeah, he got wounded in the siege of Yotepa
or Yodepha in the north,
where Josephus was defending.
That's why we know about it,
because Josephus says,
one of my men shot an arrow and hit the Spasian in the foot.
And this caused great consternation
among the Roman soldiers,
who thought that he was maybe mortally wounded.
And Josephus has a little bit of fun
at the Romans' expense,
saying they all went into complete chaos,
the legions screaming and running around with their,
like chickens with their heads cut off,
saying, what are we gonna do now?
But it was actually not that big of a wound.
And Tuffle, the Spasian just got up and said,
look, everybody calm down.
It's not so bad.
But, so he's personally wounded.
He takes prisoners.
And then he finally sent his army.
He didn't fight.
He stayed in Alexandria,
but he sent his army under Mukianus and Antonius Primus
to go and fight Vitellius' troops
and take Rome for the Flavians.
So he's the only one who's able to cite
these so-called foreign victories
to earn credibility and the civil war, right?
Because he can say,
no, I've been busy fighting Rome's enemies
while you lot have been fighting each other.
And then he tries to erase,
because I'm in a position to erase the disgrace of Nero.
So Nero, some of your listeners will know,
that Nero, after the great fire of Rome in 64 C,
he began building this massive house complex
that took up a big chunk of Rome
with its own private lake and things like that,
called the Golden House.
And he made some significant progress
before he died in 68 on Saturday.
Two days from now,
I'm gonna go visit the excavations
of the Golden House underground, deep underground.
Some, a couple of rooms have been excavated and found.
So that's exciting.
Anyhow, he said, this disgrace of Nero's Golden House,
we're just gonna wipe it out.
And the Colosseum, the famous,
like the biggest tourist attraction in Rome,
actually the Flavian amphitheater,
the Vespasian and Titus,
to commemorate their victory over the Judeans.
Like there used to be a little inscription
on the exits saying,
this was built with the spoils of war.
What were the only war the Flavians were involved in
was the war in Judea.
So they were claiming, I think mischievously,
not truthfully, that they built this massive
50,000 seat complex from the spoils of war in Jerusalem
because they remembered that they had conquered
a foreign people for the first time,
which was, of course, not at all true.
They simply scammed everything.
Anyhow, he also, Vespasian could claim,
not only was he the man who had done all this great stuff
in a foreign land, but he had a son, an heir and a spare.
His son Titus was actually the guy
who brought down Jerusalem.
And young Domitian, who was only 18 at the time,
was still hanging around in Rome,
but at least he was a spare of the same high quality blood.
So he could take over.
So he was the guy to become emperor
because he personally had achieved all his stuff
and he had a son who was just like him
and had proven himself in battle,
helping his father out there.
So in short, he was turning what was really
a provincial unrest in Jerusalem
would be a Roman province to a foreign war
as if he conquered a foreign people.
So, Pallavians agreed with the Senate
to portray this suppression of disturbance
in a longstanding province as if it were a foreign victory.
So he claimed to be kind of like a new Augustus
who had really conquered the East,
the threat from the East,
which was really just a problem in Jerusalem.
And he was allowed to expand in ancient Rome
that had a kind of sacred barrier around,
not a barrier, but a marked line
around the city called the Pomerium.
And the idea was that when Rome added territory
to the empire, they also expanded this Pomerium.
It's just a line marked with stone, chippy.
And this was allowed by the Senate,
his enablers in the Senate to expand the Pomerium
as if he'd actually added territory to the empire.
Because that was like a goal of theirs, right?
They all wanted to try and say,
oh, we got the Gauls, oh, we got these, the Germans.
They're always trying to expand,
but really this is more propaganda is what you're saying.
Precisely, precisely.
Yeah, and nobody really knew.
I mean, what did the average person know?
They didn't have a lot of history books.
They didn't really care that much about Judea.
So there was actually in the surface maximus in Rome,
there was actually an inscription,
which I'll show you the text of in a moment,
that said they had, you know,
tides had done what no one else had ever done
in conquering these ferocious Judeans.
So, and then he built a temple of peace,
which is just down, it's like a couple hundred meters
from where I'm sitting right now.
Near the Forum of Augustus, he built his own forum,
the Spasian's Forum, called the Forum of Peace.
And that's where he displayed the goods
from the Jerusalem temple.
So the real concern in Rome was not with the Judeans,
nobody cared about the Judeans,
they're far away, you know, who's really hurt of them.
But their concern was with the destructive civil war.
But what they needed was somebody who had the credibility,
you know, the status, the goods to suppress that.
And that was the Spasian.
And so he began a series of endless celebrations in Rome,
new construction projects, built temples,
directed arches, issued endless series of coins,
not because Judea had been any kind of threat to Rome,
but because of his local needs.
So he spun it in terms of his legitimacy
and he overwhelmed everybody
with talking about how great a duty he was.
So, and he created this new province.
So that's how he spun it, right?
He added the province to the empire
by simply carving out what had been part of the province
of Syria into a new province, Judea,
with its own senatorial governor.
Dr. Mason, I think this is an important thing
that came to my mind
and I really, really think it's important to ask.
I hope you feel it's not cutting off
or even interrupting the flow what you're doing here.
But because so much unrest in Rome within themselves
was going on, I tend to read Mark
and the rest of the gospels as post-war documents.
Robin Faith Walsh has written that she thinks
these are educated, not necessarily elites,
but they are like wannabes.
They're wanting to try and like be the best,
even though they're not the best writers out there.
And she says there's something like you talk about exotic
to the Romans and those that aren't in this region
about Jewish people.
I wonder, it's a bit speculative,
but it's not out of the question to get your thoughts.
I wonder if there was so much hype being made
about this Judean war from propaganda
of the Roman Empire from the top down
that these documents that we now call gospels
are kind of like this exotic propaganda
in light of what's been going on with the unrest in Rome
that gives curiosity to people that are not in the region
to like really take an interest in this area
and these people that they never really gave too much care for.
So that helped if anything make it more popular
than it ever would have been.
What are your thoughts?
Interesting idea.
I think there might be something to that.
I think it's very little that there is to that.
And so I'm being very blunt with you here, Derek.
I know you just like honesty
and you like an open exchange of ideas.
So I haven't read Robin's studies,
I have to say that right away.
So I'm not interacting with what she's written.
I haven't read them and I don't know the basis.
I've read a couple of reviews and I thought kind of vague idea.
But what's going on in my head
is I think of what you're saying is
how would that explain the evidence, right?
How would it explain what's in Mark, for example?
How would it explain what's in Luke Acts?
I do think, especially with Luke Acts,
I do think there's something to that.
Definitely the idea of the exotic, it's not just Judea.
This guy wants to talk about the harbors of Malta and Crete
and travel things and what it's like to travel
and be shipwrecked and these naming governors
and exotic situations that his audience want to visit it, right?
So I do think in general, yes.
So let me give that right away.
I think that's right.
That most authors, including Josephus,
wanted an element of the exotic in their writings, yes.
But do I think that that's a,
and I'm not sure that Robin said this exactly,
so I'm not sure what I'm responding to,
but do I think that the Gospels in general
had this as a primary motive?
I just don't see how that would explain the detailed content
of say, especially Mark, for example.
But that's a very quick response off the cuff.
Yeah, because, yeah, not reading too much into it.
I just wonder if, yeah,
that's a whole different discussion, I think,
for a future, maybe a future endeavor as well, yeah.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I'm sorry I took you off track.
In my mind, I'm thinking what would make these,
I don't think Mark is just a nobody.
I'm with Dennis.
I think that these are educated writers
and they not only are trying to write about Jesus,
I'm a bit convinced that there's awareness
of other literature that they're reading
and that these aren't dummies.
And so I kind of wonder if what's going on,
kind of like with Luke Acts, you point this out,
and I don't want to take us off your recording,
but like in Luke Acts, it's exotic,
but it'll also tapping into things that,
I tend to think that this person is setting up Jesus
as the better than Julio Claudio line.
I mean, you just described the four emperors
and like how chaotic.
I can't imagine Jews weren't looking at this
or some educated authors.
I don't know if Luke would be a Jew.
It wouldn't matter.
They're Hellenistic.
And they're looking at what's going on in Rome
and going, this eternal kingdom that was promised
by Romulus and all these Caesars, it's not eternal.
We have the real eternal King who's the Son of God,
who's going to bring peace and all that.
As almost like the, it kind of makes me wonder
if this is like propaganda in some way
trying to co-opt the failures of what's taking place
within the Roman seat of government and such.
But anyway, that's, I think there's a whole show
we could get into some of this stuff
at some point in the future.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I do think that the author of Luke Acts
is one smart cookie and he drops all kinds
of very learned illusions in his writing.
He also writes very well.
I mean, he's at the top level of his Greek syntax
and interesting vocabulary.
He writes as a very sophisticated person.
The author of Mark, not so much.
I mean, the author, the authors of Luke and Matthew
both clearly didn't think Mark was all that,
all that because he just did some very odd things.
And he uses it in a very strange way.
Like he throws in immediately everywhere
when it's not really sensible.
And Matthew reworking Mark puts it in the better place.
And there's just a lot of odd stuff in Mark
like cursing the fig tree and then saying,
well, you know, it wasn't the season for figs,
but well, why did Jesus curse a fig tree
that was not bearing figs
when the author turns around and says,
and it wasn't anyway, it wasn't the season for figs.
Or like when the woman comes and touches his clothes
and he jumps, looks around, who touched me?
You know, like he feels power drain him,
but he doesn't know who stole power.
This is all very kind of, it seems kind of naive, right?
It seems kind of childish.
And the thing is that Matthew changes all this stuff.
When he reworks Mark, he cleans it up, so to speak.
You know, it's much more like the woman
with the hemorrhage scene, he changes it
so that Jesus doesn't appear to be lost with it.
I was saying, what do you mean?
Why are you asking us who touched you?
Can't you see all these people who touched you?
Like, it's very odd.
Yeah, I don't have such a high,
I think Mark's fascinated partly
because it's a very kind of, you know, simple text
in my view, but I couldn't,
and lots of people are smarter than I am,
but it worked out intentionally.
I wanted, yeah, so you know when I'm writing you
and we're talking about topics,
I promise you we can't run out of topics.
I mean, you could literally say,
we're going to do a live hangout.
And you and me would have,
I'm not exaggerating, so many questions,
we would have to put a deadline on like when we cut off
because there's so much to discuss,
even if we don't have the answers.
It's a fun mental exercise to kind of take someone like you
who knows certain things historically based on dark
documentation or archeological findings
or whatever it might be, numismatic evidence, you name it.
And then just kind of like to play around
and say, hey, don't take us too serious.
We're going to speculate some
and then we're going to also educate you
on the reality of what we know,
or at least what literature says, and we can do that.
Just keep that in mind.
Please continue though.
I apologize for throwing you a curve ball
and we'll have fun at Q&A.
Don't apologize.
Yeah, we both have, as a famous person once said,
particular set of skills.
Is this the one where he's on the phone?
I have a particular set of skills
where I'm going to find you and hunt you down.
Okay, back to the Desert Fortresses.
The point I simply want to make is that that war was over
and this vision was done and celebrating
and happy and drunk and all that
without caring about the Desert Fortresses.
So this idea that they were all part of the war
already has to go.
So you can define a war any way you want, right?
You could say the Korean War is still going
because this has never ended, right?
There's a demilitarized zone and kind of a status quo.
You could say the Korean War is still on,
but most people would say it ended a long time ago
in the 50s.
So you could say, I mean, the Judean War,
I think one of your contributors,
I think I caught this right at the beginning,
said the Jewish war is still going on.
Something like that.
Yeah, okay.
But as far as the Flavians were concerned,
it was really over, it was over in 70
and that's what they were celebrating.
And I just had a passenger from Josephus saying,
this Bayesian wasn't interested.
He left Herodium, Machyrus and Masada out of the picture.
He could finish up without them.
He wasn't worried about them.
But that's already an interesting and important
fact, right, of the evidence.
So here's the triumphal parade that takes place
in June of 71, according to Josephus who was present.
He says, the war furnished a vivid spectacle.
They were celebrating, they had images
of a prosperous countryside laid waste,
entire enemy battalions being killed,
some running away, others being taken captive,
walls of enormous magnitude being demolished
by Roman engines, fortresses being overrun,
cities full of defensive manpower being overwhelmed,
fire blazing in temples, plural,
and all sorts of stuff like that.
This was a complete fabrication.
Josephus has described the war in four volumes by that point.
And none of that's true, none of that happened.
So the Flavians are making stuff up.
They're making a big deal of what they achieved.
So the Spasian proceeds to rebuild Rome
by erecting a bunch of temples,
rebuilds the Temple of Jupiter,
which has been destroyed in Rome
at the same time as the Jerusalem Temple, strangely enough,
in the Civil War in Rome.
The Temple of Jupiter was destroyed.
He rebuilds it, he rebuilds other temples,
marches, all kinds of stuff.
There's where his form is, right next to the Forum of Augustus.
Well, then later, Narva tried to stick another one in there.
Domitian had tried to fit one in,
and then he was assassinated,
and Narva took over and stuck a little forum in there
to get in between the Spasian and Augustus.
Everybody wants to be close to Augustus.
And that's what remains of today,
just down the street from here.
The Forum of the Spasian, where the Temple of Peace was,
and the Colosseum I mentioned,
was really the Flavian amphitheater.
And here's that inscription I was talking about,
it was Gesel Fuldi, who figured out from the peg holes
that we're holding up.
So he found a lintel with all these lines, the peg holes,
and he simply experimented with different wording
and how those could have supported.
It's a little bit like Morse code,
dot dash, did, did, did, did, that kind of thing.
How do you figure out what the letters are?
And he figured it out, that it actually said,
the emperor Caesar, the title of a Spasian,
he ordered this new amphitheater,
built ex manubis out from the spoils of war.
So, also then later, the Arch of Titus,
that has survived, well, been rebuilt,
been renovated by Pope Pius VII,
that stands what we call the Arch of Titus today.
Then Arch of Titus in the Circus Maximus,
that I mentioned that bore this inscription,
and all kinds of other monuments.
Partly we know this from a funerary relief
of the Hatteri family, family tomb in Rome,
on one of the exit streets, highways of Rome.
And so it's honoring, well, a woman of the family died,
but the family is all kind of anchored by this guy,
Hatterius, and he was apparently involved somehow
in the building, because there are other bits of the tomb
that have like engineered equipment in it.
And he was apparently involved
in this Flavian building project.
But you notice, so in the tomb there are five
of these Flavian constructions there.
So, what's common in all of them is this victory theme,
Marshal victory.
So you have in one archway,
Mars, the God of War, victory on two sides,
and then virtue, the God of Virtue,
stepping on the helmet of an enemy, right?
So clearly this is celebrating victory.
And if you look at the left side image,
what at the top there are prisoners under palm trees
with their hands tied behind their back.
Well, these bound prisoners are clearly the Jews,
the Judeans.
Just to make sure we're on the same page.
The image that has, okay, hold on.
So I see Arch of Titus right now.
So, okay, we're at victory over whom, image-wise.
Yeah.
Is on this one, okay, so this is the thing.
And just recently, your images have delayed quite,
they're really, really delayed.
So the one I'm looking at right now is victory over whom,
that we're seeing arch at,
but there was two more that just flashed by us just moment.
It's almost like you were giving commentary,
but it wasn't.
I saw the panel that had five different arches,
or at least burial-looking arches it looked like,
but then it skipped to another one.
If you can go back one or two, just...
Yeah, I've done that.
It may take a moment to catch up.
Okay, so we're here.
I see the long kind of stretched out one,
Monuments, Temples, Arches.
We saw this one.
Yeah, yeah.
So, okay, my point is this is from this tomb, right?
So the builder from the Flavian period
built these five monuments,
or was involved in the building of the five monuments.
Now, one of them, the second one you can see
is the Colosseum, the Flavian amphitheater.
Right.
You can see from the archways
and the way it's structured.
One of them is a temple of Jupiter on the far right.
The other three are not so clearly identified today.
There's disputes about which monument it is,
but the one on the left,
you can see an arch, something at ISIS,
it's grammatical.
So it's at something of ISIS.
Whoever made this, didn't write it grammatically,
but it's an arch having to do with the temple of ISIS.
Got it.
And that's known from Josephus as well,
that the Flavians spent the night before the triumph
at the temple of ISIS, for some reason.
And it seems that, you know,
it's all to do with their Eastern conquest theme, right?
ISIS being an Egyptian goddess.
And so they're trying to say, you know,
they've really incorporated like Augustus did into Rome,
but, you know, it's all kind of a scam, a scam.
But yeah, that's what they did.
Okay.
So are you with me?
Yes, yes, sir.
So all of these are,
the point is saturated with motifs of victory in the East.
Right, that's what they all have.
So on the second one, like the Colosseum there,
you see a triumphal quadriga,
the horses leading a chariot over the entranceway.
Are you in a new image now?
No, I'm still at the monuments, temples, arches.
Okay, got it.
So there's a second image there.
I don't know if you can make it out,
but there are horses.
There are four horses sitting up over the entranceway.
That's a triumphal quadriga, a four horse chariot.
Right.
Can you see the horses there?
I think is it on the left side?
Cause I see six windows.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's hard to make out.
Yes.
On the left side, there are horses there.
And they're pulling a chariot.
And this is a sign of triumph as well, right?
So the simple point,
we don't need all the details here,
but the simple point is all of these images
celebrate victory, military victory.
Right.
So I was with the next image,
which should be up in a second.
Yes, I see it.
Yeah.
And so you see here,
this is an arch in the via sacra summa.
It says along the top of the sacra,
some people think it's the Arch of Titus,
the original Arch of Titus.
That's not clear at all.
But anyway, whatever it is,
it's an arch that's celebrating victory.
Right.
So the God of war, Mars on the left,
the goddess Victoria on the right,
the goddess of victory.
And then the goddess of masculine virtue,
with her foot raised on an enemy helmet in the center.
Right.
So then that image on the far left,
if you look up at the top,
you can see,
I think you can clearly see,
I can,
prisoners bound under palm trees.
Can you see that?
Up at the very top left.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's kind of hard to see.
Yeah, it's, but I-
Kneeling prisoners with a palm tree.
Can you see the palm tree in the-
Somewhat, it's hard to make out if I'm honest,
but it's like, I'm following your arrow
and I see what you're saying right there.
Yeah, it is.
And it's clear if you can see it in a good photograph.
It's very clear.
And you have on the right side,
what's called a trophy,
which in Roman terms is a set of armor.
Right.
That's a tropium.
It's a set of armor showing military victory.
And the prisoners are kneeling
with their hands bound.
Right.
And then you can see the frontward looking
you may not be able to see this very clearly.
Horses, again, four horses of a quadriga.
And on the left side of them,
more prisoners with hands bound
and a palm tree in between them.
So anyway, the point is,
whether you can see it all clearly or not,
that the Flavians were endlessly celebrating
their victory in the East.
And here's the famous Arch of Titus reconstructed
by the Pope in the early 19th century.
The old part is original in the center.
That is, sorry, the center part is original.
It's old in the center there.
You can see how old it is, right?
And the rest of it was reconstructed by this Pope.
But what it says, the inscription is clear
and it's ancient, it's original.
The Senate and the people of Rome
for the deified, that is, he's dead,
and become a god Titus Vespasianus,
son of Vespasianus Augustus,
that is Titus, the son of Vespasian.
They both had the same name.
So Titus Vespasianus was the name of both of them,
but one was known by his first name
and one was known by his last name.
So Titus is pictured as joining the gods,
but famously inside.
What is the Senate and Domitian later choose to emphasize?
This spoils from the temple in Jerusalem.
That's his lifelong claim to fame,
in other words, that he destroyed the temple.
And so he's not embarrassed about it at all.
He's very happy about it,
that he destroyed this center
of alleged rebellion against Rome.
On the other side is Titus with the goddess
holding a wreath over his head,
and maybe whispering in his ear,
but attending the triumphal celebration.
And if you look on this image of a piece of armor,
Puerras, found across the Mediterranean in modern Libya,
at a town called Sabrata,
you see there from a statue of Vespasian.
The imagery on the front is, again, of victory,
writing on a shield,
winged victory there on the left,
writing on a shield about Rome's victory.
You clearly see, I think, the palm tree,
with the bound prisoners,
Eastern prisoners dressed like Easterners,
sitting around in a state of dismay.
You see the image here?
Yeah, okay.
And that's, so this is all they talk about,
the Flavians is their victory in Judea, that's my point.
And then here's the business from that lost arch
in the Circus Maximus for Titus,
who, by his own precepts and the good counsel of his father,
subdued the nation of the Judeans
and destroyed the city of Jerusalem,
which all the leaders and kings of other races before him
had either attacked in futility,
either they attacked it and didn't get anywhere,
or they just didn't even try.
He was the first one to capture Jerusalem.
This is, of course, utter nonsense,
but it was inscribed.
And then they issued all these coins,
sorry, I'm going too fast probably.
No, no.
But all these coins featuring from gold coins,
very precious gold coins,
all the way down to little bronze coins,
celebrating their victories.
Peace, finally, victory.
There's victory riding on the shield.
Vitaleus had already tried to get in
on Vespasian's success in the East.
He's already, Vitaleus is trying,
because he's emperor,
he's trying to horn in on Vespasian's success in the East,
because he's his general in theory.
And there's the triumphal procession.
And you can see the prisoner at the front of the procession,
which is probably Simon Barguera,
pictured on the coin, Judea looking,
you know, weeping under a trophy,
a Roman set of armor, right?
And clearly marked as Judea.
So the Flavians just kept issuing these coins
and celebrations and arches.
They couldn't stop talking about how they'd beaten the Jews.
So the point is, the war was essentially
the siege of Jerusalem for them.
That's the main part of the war.
That's what they celebrated.
It was crucial for their credentials,
and they weren't embarrassed in the slightest
about having destroyed the temple.
It proved them to be tough, capable,
dealing with a foreign menace,
and they stabilized Roman governance
for a long time to come.
They actually did.
So there was no more year of the four emperors,
Vespasian ruled for a long time, nine, 10 years.
Titus died, unfortunately, young,
after just two and a half, three years.
And then Vespasian, I mean, Domitian, pardon me,
from 81 to 96.
But that set in train a much more stable period
of Roman governance through the second century,
which is often considered the kind of highlight
of Roman stability, the Antonine period.
And even Trajan, who took over from 98 to 117,
along the ruling, it was 20 years as emperor,
he was the son.
He'd been in Judea, because he was the son
of the very successful commander of the 10th legion,
for Tensis, which had fought in Judea.
Well, his father, Trajan dad,
had been the commander of the 10th legion in Judea.
And that legion became the provincial legion
of the new province of Judea after 70,
but daddy Trajan was no longer the commander of it.
So finally, we come to the desert fortresses,
as tends to happen, I've lingered too long
on the introduction, but I'll try to move along swiftly here,
because there are just a very few points in,
with some visual help, as long as the slides come through
in time, please tell me if they don't.
I can make the main points I wanna make here.
So here's a typical scholarly view,
now this scholar, brilliant scholar,
a Roman strategist, or he's an expert
in military strategy, not an expert in Roman Judea,
but I quoted because he reflected a very common view.
The war had essentially been won,
only Masada was still holding out,
but this spark of resistance might rekindle
at any time the fire of revolt,
that the Romans launched a three year operation
to take Masada, and the very insignificance
of the objective that is Masada by itself
didn't really matter that much,
but it must have impressed everybody he says,
because he's trying to make a point
about how the Romans demonstrated to everyone
that they would never let go,
they would push their enemies
right to the very end of destruction,
and he uses Masada as an example of that.
So this, but he's taking over a very common idea
that Jerusalem was destroyed,
and then the survivors of Jerusalem fled to Masada,
and that was their last holdout,
and you see this in another book
by Moshe Parliament, the zealots of Masada, as he calls them.
So Titus slaughtered thousands of Jewish prisoners
in the fall of Jerusalem,
and he took the rest of his captives to Rome,
but not all, if you managed to escape,
they were determined to continue the fight,
they were led by Lazar Ben Yere,
and they were called zealots,
they made their painful way eastward
from Jerusalem to the Judean desert,
and then all through the rest of the next few years,
they continued to occupy Masada and Harry,
that is, you know, harass the Roman authorities
whenever they could, as well as disrupting Roman rule,
the Romans paid a little attention to them at first,
but then as their raids continued,
they couldn't help but take notice,
what annoyed the Romans even more than their losses
was the harm to their prestige,
so they finally took out Masada.
Now, the problem with this common view is,
that is not true, or at least it,
by which I mean, it doesn't have any foundation
in the evidence, it doesn't fit with anything
that is known about what happened,
if you pay attention to the sources,
and at the end of the day,
that's what historians have to do, right,
is explain the evidence.
So some of these, most of the popular views
and some common academic views
have really doubtful foundations.
History is an open investigation,
and there are very basic questions
that are ignored in this kind of approach.
So, for example, what kind of places were
the desert fortresses?
What were they built for?
What were they useful for?
What could you do in one of these places if you got there?
Could you fight Romans from Masada?
Well, it's pretty difficult
because you're out in the middle of nowhere.
So why would you go to Masada?
Why did the Judeans occupy the Cyrus in Masada?
What were they hoping for?
And when the Romans did come finally and take them, why?
Why did they wait so long after the fall of Jerusalem?
There was not a continuous war.
And what happened in their final capture in each case?
So the main evidence that we have
that needs explaining is Josephus's account,
which is in the seventh volume of his war,
and the archeology, which is very considerable now.
The main excavations of Masada were done in the early 60s,
63 to 65 in a very big famous excavation led by Yigel Yadin.
But there have been many smaller subsequent excavations
of various relevant parts to camps,
the ramp, the palaces on the top, and so on.
As for Meccanerus, it's much more recent
and doesn't get anywhere near the same press,
I think, because it's in Jordan
and not part of the national story in Israel.
But it's being excavated still by a Hungarian scholar
named Gyozo Gwurus.
And I'm not sure I'm saying his name correctly.
Pardon me if you happen to know Hungarian.
That's probably not the right pronunciation,
but it's V-O-R-O-S and two O's have umlauts,
two dots over them.
So I would guess Gwurus.
I've corresponded with Gyozo quite a bit,
but I have never met him in person.
So anyway, he's excavating with the authority
of the Jordanian antiquities authorities.
Part of the reason, by the way,
is they want to have that open
because that's the place where,
according to Josephus, John the Baptist
was executed at Meccanerus.
You wouldn't know that from the Gospels
which don't mention Meccanerus,
but Josephus claims that John the Baptist
was executed there.
And taking that as a fact,
the Jordanian authorities want to open it
as a site of pilgrimage for what they perceived
to be the 2000th anniversary
of John the Baptist's execution in 2030.
So that's part of what the excavation is being done for
to get it ready for-
And just a brief comment from you, Steve.
And you could just say yes or no
if you want to save time.
Are you persuaded by any of the arguments
that Josephus made up the John the Baptist statement?
No.
Okay, just simple as that, cool.
I have a book coming out now.
It's just, it's in press
and there's a chapter on John the Baptist
if anybody's interested in that.
And I deal with various arguments
about the historicity of John and so on.
Or interpolation or anything like that.
Yeah, yeah.
Cool, thank you.
Okay.
So when we talk about the desert fortresses,
here's what we're talking about.
So about seven or eight of these.
And you notice where they are.
So they're all around the frontiers of areas.
So from the hill country,
where it meets the plain in two or three cases.
And then the cursor doesn't work in this mode.
So I can't point as I've inclined to do.
But the ones that we're most interested in here
are the bottom three, right?
Herodium, south of Jerusalem, near Bethlehem.
Makairus is over in Jordan and Masoda.
And we'll look a little more closely at each of these.
So we'll focus on these last three
because these are the three
that we saw the Spasian left, right?
And touch the others.
The other four were mostly wrapped up
after the Asmonean period.
They were no longer very significant.
But the last three were left in Judea.
Now, what's the purpose of them?
We can get right to the point here.
They're not for fighting.
They're not for perimeter defense.
They're not for controlling the roads.
What do I mean by that?
Well, just as I said before,
when you see a picture of where Makairus is,
you realize you're not fighting anybody from there.
Someone would have to really go out of his way
to wanna fight with you in Makairus.
And it's not for perimeter defense
because it's just one little bump, like one little site.
And there are no roads to control
that you can control from these places.
They're not military bases.
They're not barracks.
They're not filled with military stuff.
They are rather given to royal comforts.
There's palaces, baths, cold, hot, medium baths.
Very fancy facilities, especially at Masada.
And storehouses, massive storehouses,
as much storage as you can create on the site is there.
They are easy to reach in this sense.
They're as far away as you can get from Jerusalem.
These ones that we're talking about, Makairus and Masada,
on the frontiers of the Nabataean kingdom.
So they're as far away as you can get from Jerusalem,
but they're easy to reach in the sense
that it's not difficult.
It just takes a little time to get to them.
But once you're there, it's also easy to defend them
because they only have one access route.
So if you can take that access route,
which is pretty easy to get up on the top,
then you can close off the rest
because there are steep drops on the other sides, right?
So as long as you control that one access route
to get up on the hill, you're golden.
Now, what they're for clearly is to get away,
not to fight, but the opposite, to go and hide.
They're places of refuge.
They are to escape from assassins, urban mob violence,
or in the case of King Herod, Cleopatra's,
Anthony and Cleopatra, she at one point
got very angry with Herod
and tried to send agents to kill him.
And one of the things he liked about these fortresses
was he could go hide there if necessary.
So they are at the farthest possible distance
from the major cities in extremely remote places.
And therefore, this safekeeping of royal personages,
their valuables, their families,
and especially their women and children.
Herod was the main builder of these three
because he had the biggest need, he had a lot of enemies.
Josephus remarks in an offhand remark in book four of the war,
when he's introducing Masada or reintroducing,
he says a very strong fortress was not far from Jerusalem,
fitted out by our ancient kings
as a repository for their stuff
and for the security of their persons in the turmoil of war.
It's a place they could get away to.
And his narrative offers several examples
of how these fortresses were used.
So back in 75 BC, Queen Alexandra Solomon
allowed the friends of her late husband,
Alexandria Nias, who were enemies of the Pharisees
and the Pharisees were trying to purge.
So Alexandria Nias had killed a bunch of Pharisees
and when he died and the Pharisees received some power
under his widow, they in turn purged
the people who had been killing them.
And according to Josephus, she, the widow, allowed them
because she was still friends with some of them,
they were respected people
to go and use these fortresses to hide in.
But she didn't allow them to go to MacIrus,
Eurkania, Alexandria, Alexandria
because that's where the royal treasures were located
and she didn't want them messing around
with the royal treasures.
So this tells us that these were safe deposit places, right?
She said, you can go to Massada, that's okay,
we don't have any royal treasures there.
But that's already interesting
that these places were considered the most secure.
So Eurkania and Alexandria further up the Jordan Valley
and MacIrus was the strongest of the fortress sites
in her view.
Then when Pompey came along and conquered Judea,
he ordered the fortresses destroyed
while he was shrinking the Hasmonean territory.
He basically said, well, we either have to garrison these
with our own soldiers because they are natural fortresses
and keep them as our protection places
or we put them beyond use for others to go and take refuge in
and we don't have the soldiers yet to garrison them.
So I want them destroyed.
Well, he didn't destroy them.
And a few years later, Alexander,
the son of Aristotle II who's a Hasmonean
who doesn't like the Roman arrival,
he uses these fortresses as a refuge,
not as fighting pause,
but a place for him to hide securely
while he is going out and resisting Rome.
And so Gabinius, the Roman governor orders them destroyed.
Then in 39, 38 BC, when King Herod needs to go
and fight the Parthians to take control of Jerusalem
because he's been made king by the Romans,
but the Parthians are still there.
He has to go and fight them.
He deposits his women folk,
that is his mother, mother-in-law, wives at Masada
as he goes to fight the Parthians.
So these are not fighting fortresses
or forward operating bases or something like that.
They are places of secure refuge,
relative comfort, spacious, palatial buildings,
and they're far from the turmoil of Jerusalem.
So Machiavelli said that the reason
that monarchs need fortresses
is when they have assassins coming for them.
That's the main reason to use them.
And that's exactly the function of these fortresses.
It's to get away from the turmoil in Jerusalem.
So if you're in Jerusalem with all the urban crowds,
it's relatively easy for an assassin to take you out, right?
But if you're sitting on this very remote hilltop,
it's not so easy.
Now, how did these come to play a role in the war?
Well, this is the crucial part.
Josephus narrates that it was already in 66 CE, right?
This at the very beginning of disturbances in Jerusalem,
where you have different Jewish groups
fighting each other, killing each other
before Vespasian has arrived.
And Kestius Gallus is mostly nowhere to be seen.
He just made that expedition in October.
But aside from that, it's Jewish groups fighting with each other.
So the group under Eleazar Ben Ananias, Ananya,
and the group under Menachem are fighting with each other.
And they both armed themselves for saying
who should be in control of our situation here.
So Josephus says that some of those who were most motivated
for war got together and charged against the fortress
that is called Masada.
After seizing it by stealth,
they killed the Roman probably auxiliary sentries
that were stationed there and installed guards of their own.
And a little bit later on in the same volume of war,
he says, the massive Judeans at Machyrus.
So there were Judeans living at Machyrus,
who he says persuaded the Roman garrison
or auxiliary garrison who guarded the place
to abandon it and hand it over to themselves.
The soldiers being worried that they would be killed
said, OK, we'll go if you make a pledge of security for us.
And when they'd received the necessary pledges,
they handed over the fortress.
And so now the Judean people of Machyrus
held the fortress with their own guard.
Then he says that because King Herod had stored arms
for his bodyguard and plenty of food their way back
under 80 years earlier,
he says that one of the rebel groups in Jerusalem,
Manachem's group, took his acquaintances
and withdrew to Masada.
There, after he broke open the armory of King Herod
and fully armed the bandits, as Josephus calls them,
of his group, as well as the commoners,
taking all these spear bearers,
he returned to Jerusalem quite like a king.
So this is Josephus and Machyrus.
But the point is, he's saying he liberated all his weaponry
from what Herod had stored there for the use of his bodyguard
of 800 guys to use at Masada.
So this is professional grade equipment,
sword, spears, shields, things like that.
And they bring them back to Jerusalem
and use them in the civil strife against each other.
And he, this guy, Manachem, took over the siege
of the Roman auxiliary garrison from Eleazar, son of Ananias.
Then Eleazar, son of Ananias group,
took on Manachem's group, and they all picked up stones
and threw them in.
Manachem's group held out for a while,
but then they saw the whole populace had joined Eleazar
and rushed against them.
They all took off.
A few came through safely to Masada.
They were led by Eleazar, son of Yair.
And he was related to Manachem by ancestry
who later became, in Josephus language, the tyrant of Masada.
Now, the point is, this was all in 66.
So this idea that we read at the beginning from Moshe Perlman
that there was the war until the destruction of Jerusalem in 70.
And then the few survivors of the destruction of Jerusalem
fled to Masada.
That's just nowhere in the evidence at all.
Josephus claims that the people who went to Masada
were fleeing the civil strife in Jerusalem
among different Jewish groups.
Manachem's group got creamed by Eleazar's group.
And a few survivors, not Manachem, he was killed.
But one of his relatives named Eleazar,
and Yair led a group off to Masada.
And archeology now confirms that at this point,
from 66 onward, the royal buildings,
the large palatial buildings on Masada built for Herod,
were now subdivided and supplemented
by external structures built around them.
It's much smaller to house a bunch of refugees from Jerusalem.
And I'll show you why we know the dates in a second.
But this is from 66.
Now, I'm going to skip over this.
That's about Herodium.
I think we're going to run out of time otherwise.
But I just want to quickly mention who are the Sakharis.
And I don't know if I can do this quickly,
but I'm going to try very quickly.
There's a common idea in scholarship,
and many of your viewers won't see this,
that the Sakharis were some kind of political faction,
anti-Roman, that kind of thing.
Again, it doesn't fit the evidence.
Josephus says this.
When he introduces this term, Sakharis,
this is what he says, back in the 50s,
when Felix is the governor, the procurator,
sub-governor of Judea, he says, after he'd
cleaned up the countryside of bandits and things like that,
a different species of bandits was creeping up in Jerusalem
called Sakhari.
Who were these people?
Well, they would murder people in the broad daylight,
in the middle of the city.
How did they do that?
Well, because they mingled with the mob,
carrying small daggers under their clothes, the Sika,
Roman Sika.
And with these, they would stab their enemies.
And then those who had committed the murders
would stand there and look and say, oh, look,
I just fell down.
What happened to him?
They joined the others in showing indignation,
so they were completely undiscovered.
And he says the Jonathan the High Priest was killed by them.
He had enemies who just walked up to him in a crowd,
stabbed him, put their knife under their cloak,
and said, oh, gosh, what's happened to Jonathan?
And then after him, many others were done away with.
More difficult than the calamities was the fear of them.
This generated, as always does, we know,
in modern times, there's an incident with guns or whatever,
and then everybody's terrified.
Or a serial killer murders like four people.
Next thing you know, the whole nation thinks
their neighbor's a serial killer.
Yeah.
Exactly, exactly.
And that's what he's saying here
with great, I think, psychological insight.
So each person was expecting death every hour,
just as in war.
And the crucial thing here is they would scrutinize
their foes from a distance.
Like they kept social distancing of like 30 meters.
And there was no trust, even among approaching friends.
Because they think, is this person really like me?
I don't know, don't get too close.
Even with all their suspicions, they would be done away with.
So even though people were protecting themselves,
everyone's carrying at this point in the 50s,
a blade under their cloak.
So that's what he means by Sakari.
It's not a political faction.
What he's saying is there was an outbreak of
where people set the idea, you know, copycat stuff.
They all started packing, you know,
knives under their cloaks so they could very easily
kid rid of the people they didn't like.
And this was a real plague on the city.
That's who the Sakari were.
We only know about Sakari from Josephus.
That's it.
And this Elatin term, transliterated in degrees,
not a Greek word, it's a Latin word.
There are rabbinic references that have sometimes been linked
to the Sakari in Hebrew and Aramaic,
but they're not very clear.
It's not clear at all that they're talking about Sakari.
For example, there's a guy named Baba Sikra.
Well, is that just a coincidence
that it sounds kind of a little bit like?
There's nothing clear about this.
And anyway, that's sixth century,
500 years later in a rabbinic text.
So the only clear evidence we have of Sakari
comes from Josephus and the Book of Acts
in one place where, you know, the tribune says,
to Paul, are you the Egyptian who led the Sakari?
It's a very confused reference as well.
And I've argued, as you know, Derek,
that this comes actually from Josephus from Acts.
Misremembered Josephus, anyway.
Anyhow, Josephus is the one who talks about Sakari.
He's writing in Rome.
And I think it's very clear, I think it's clear
that the reason he uses Sakari so often
is it's a scare word in Rome.
There was a law of Sulla from 81 BCE
to prosecute people who were Sakari
or poisoners, beneficii.
Because these are the two crimes that are insidious, right?
They're the two crimes that you can use
to get rid of political opponents and walk away.
You can poison them, which is very common in Rome.
Or you can either you or you can bribe a chambermaid
or chamber attendant to go and stab them
and then just walk away.
Or you can do it in a crowded place.
That's the ideal situation for Sakarios.
Though the Sakari are not a political party in Judea
and they play no role in the war against Rome.
Once these people take off to Masada,
there are no more Sakari mentioned in the war.
So this idea of the Sakari as anti-Roman fighters
just has no evidence to it.
It has to do with a rash of concealed knife crime
against fellow Judeans, Josephus emphasizes, right?
In the 50s and early 60s.
Sakari do not appear in the heart of the war,
in war three to six in all the narrative of the war.
They don't engage in conflict with Rome.
And then antiquities slightly different,
but still doesn't put them in conflict with Rome.
So we can skip over with that.
Now at Masada, Josephus says that
what's going on at Masada in 67, 68, 69, all these years
while Vespasian is encroaching into Judea
and puts his campaign on hold for two years.
What's going on over at Masada?
Well, he says those called Sakari,
those he calls Sakari were based at Masada,
were overrunning the neighboring territories,
not fighting Romans.
They were raiding Jewish villages,
procuring for themselves,
nothing more than was necessary.
Remember Masada is just the desert outpost.
So they've got families, children there.
So they need food, right?
They need fresh food.
So they go and raid the villages around
to grab fresh food for them.
But that's all they did at first.
Anxiety prevented them from any greater plunder.
They just raided the most local villages.
When they learned, however,
that the Roman army was vital once Nero had died
and Vespasian put his campaign on hold.
And their Judean enemies in Jerusalem
were driven by civil strife
and tyranny of different guys being tyrants.
They just decided they could be a little bit bolder.
And so they raided the town of Ngedi.
Now Ngedi is a famous, world-famous oasis town,
Jewish town that had,
it was famous for its date palms.
So dates from Ngedi were like super valued.
And because it was an oasis,
even though it's got desert all around it,
it could produce nice vegetables and things like that.
And Ngedi was really well watered.
So the people of Masada decided
they could extend their raids a little bit further
and go for the real good stuff from Ngedi.
And they went to Ngedi, according to Josephus.
They killed more than 700 people there, women and children.
Now that's according to Josephus.
He always inflates numbers.
Maybe it was 70, maybe seven, who knows?
But anyway, it was nasty that they raided the town,
grabbed the very best of the produce
and brought it back up to Masada.
Indeed, they plundered all the villages around the fortress,
devastated the entire countryside.
And other men came to join them
because of all the good stuff that they were able to grab.
So they were kind of from a Roman point of view,
they were a pirate community or a bandit community,
a bandit nest in Roman terms,
of latronez in Latin,
that is living outside the law, right?
A law until themselves raiding nearby towns.
In a way, you can understand why,
because again, they had no fresh food
and they had families there.
And just for our audience to see a picture,
this is a date palm and those are little fruits
and what they almost come out like raisin type fruits.
And you're like, I was out here,
we'll get into some of this when you're done
with the presentation, Steve,
to show a few videos of me on Masada
that I thought were really cool
to kind of add to your point of how interesting this is.
But these are like,
if you're in the middle of nowhere in the desert,
this is like gold.
I mean, this is just heaven in the middle of nowhere fruit.
Anyway, just to give people an idea.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Thank you, thank you.
Now, we know a little bit about comings and goings
at Masada, not only from Joseph's narrative,
but also from the coins that have been discovered at Masada.
So, these coins that were minted in Jerusalem during the war,
they're often called revolt coins.
I'm not sure that they were revolting
in any particular way.
They're just, they needed coins
and they're beautiful silver coins
that were minted in Jerusalem,
numbered years one, two, three, four, five.
So they were produced from 66, 67, 68, 69, 70.
And then they stopped.
Now, what's interesting is of the coins
that have been found at Masada, minted in Jerusalem,
of the year one coins, that is 66 to 67,
only 10 silver shekels and half shekels.
That is, this is from the original scattered group
that went there in 66.
The big year for coins is the year two coins.
All of a sudden you have 38 silver and, you know,
well over 1,000 getting on for 2,000 bronze small coins
from this period during the conflict with Rome.
So this is the largest influx from Jerusalem,
presumably, because obviously he,
they couldn't have coins from a later period.
So if they have coins from year two,
we can estimate that's when they, or many of them arrive.
They may have come also in year three
with coins from year two, that's possible.
But then in year three, the coins drop off significantly,
15 silver and under 500, still some people coming.
So this is in the period 67 to 69.
We have clear evidence of new arrivals.
Obviously these could not be people who arrived in 66
if they're carrying coins from 67, 68, 69, right?
So there were comings and goings to Masada.
Once people realized it was a safe place of refuge
and things in Jerusalem are really hotting up,
as the English say, heating up Americans
during this period.
So people could still get away from Jerusalem
and off into the desert with their families, right?
And then the coins really drop off
because from 69 onward,
it was no longer really easy to leave Jerusalem.
According to Josephus, the two main rebel leaders now,
John of Giscola and Simon,
had really kept people boxed in the city
for various reasons we can't get into now.
And then in year five,
there's really only three silver coins.
So there's very little movement toward Masada now.
So this confirms that it's been a place of refuge
since 66 in Manachem's group in the person of Eleazar,
established a little community there.
As it happens, we have a bill of divorce,
a document dated to year six in Masada
or of Masada, that will be 71, 72.
So you have a husband and wife who were at Masada
and decided they had enough of each other,
living so closely together in the desert,
maybe not so surprising perhaps.
So a bill of divorce from the community there,
but there are families living there, that's very clear.
And this Miriam later went to Wadi Mora Baad,
which is where the bill of divorce was found, not on Masada.
What about those who didn't leave?
Well, stands to reason that they would be
the least mobile people, right?
Those with families, especially they couldn't just up
and leave.
And in Josephus, for those of you who know Josephus,
account of the end of Masada,
you will know that the story depends on the idea
that every man or virtually every man
had many dependents, women and children, right?
It is a place of families
and archeology more than confirms that.
So for example, you have 230 cooking and baking installations
that have been found all around the summit.
And those range from these kind of squared off stoves
where you're cooking over open fires
to this tanur style oven where you bake bread
by putting the dough on the side and heated up that way.
So these kinds of ovens.
And this is why I might mention that
that's usually considered women's work.
And you've got a bunch of bronze cooking pots and vessels.
All these ceramic balls, 265 have been found.
Personal dishes, family dining.
And then especially indicative of women's presence
is all of these spindle whorls.
That is these little expert in spinning and weaving.
But these are used in manufacturing garments
and things like that.
And all of these things,
these stone, bone and ceramic and glass spindle whorls
used in making clothing have been found there.
Also loom weights and other spinning devices
for manufacturing.
And some examples like weaving,
these are from local, these have been identified
as omphrons from the area nearby.
And in case that weren't evidence enough,
you actually have cosmetic kits and combs and brooches
and things like that, parts of cosmetic stuff
and actual examples of plaited women's hair.
Also textile fragments, tons of them,
2,000 have been found or so,
about only 120 odd have been published.
That is, we've got images of them,
but these are made of possibly local stuff
and may therefore have been produced at Masada.
Mostly wool, some linen, that is from a flax plant
and some goat hair, possibly local stuff.
So it's clear that families are there,
taking refuge there.
And even with Simon Bargioro,
this guy who became a tyrant in Jerusalem,
Josephus has a story that when he was at odds
with the Jerusalem leadership,
he fled to Masada with his family,
took his women folk as a place of refuge there.
He came to join those bandits
who'd taken over Masada, that's Josephus' language again.
They regarded him with suspicion at first
and kept him together with the women
he had brought along with him in the lower fortress only.
What does that mean?
Either way down below at the ground,
or as you'll see in the coming picture,
there are really two levels.
There's a lower part of the upper summit
and in the upper part, you will have seen this, Derek,
when you were there, that in the Northwest,
it rises up significantly.
Right, over there on the side
where Herod's palace would have been.
Yeah, that's the upper, that's the higher part.
So it looks like maybe when I said,
okay, you can stay down far away in the lower part.
Let me give this, does this help any?
I don't know if you can see this,
but the side on the furthest point in front of you
is the northern spot, I believe.
That's higher.
I can't see it, but I'm betting you're right.
Yeah, the northern part is higher, that's right, clearly.
Yeah, and so he's saying here
that Simon joined them for a long time
and started to participate in their raids
around the place, but then he got kind of disgusted
with them saying they lacked spirit
and he eventually left them.
So here is a quick, now this will be really quick,
visual immersion of the sites.
Here's Herodium, this is Herod's named after himself.
He built it from a natural hill.
There was a little rise and then he built it up
into this kind of man-made volcano looking thing
and then built this cylindrical tower within it, right?
Actually, an amazing, amazing architectural achievement.
This is a reconstruction of it.
So that's what it would have looked like finished.
And then he built a little theater for himself
on the side of the hill and eventually his mausoleum,
which has been generally thought to have been discovered
by Eudnetze shortly before he unfortunately passed away
a little more than I think a decade ago,
something like that.
Anyhow, this was Herod's reconstruction
or reconstruction of it.
And there was a city down below with swimming pools
and all that or town down below,
but the fortress was on the top.
There's an aerial view of the inside of what remains,
there are tunnels and also rooms inside,
cisterns and things like that,
shot of the inside where the towers are
and there's from the ground looking up.
And that's a mock-up of what it would have looked like
when it was in operation.
So this was the one, this was the desert fortress
nearest to Jerusalem, not that far away.
Makyrus, completely different story.
So here's the Dead Sea.
On the west side, you have kind of flatter shoreline
and the east side over in Jordan,
you have steep cliffs, right?
Immediately almost on the east side
and they rise up like this.
So if you're looking north,
if well, if you're looking east then across the Dead Sea,
that's where Makyrus is,
but you can see from the location, right?
This is what I meant.
But if you flee there,
you're not going there to fight anybody.
You're going there to get away.
So here's the terrain all around it.
It's seven kilometers inland from the Dead Sea.
That's where it is sitting up on this hill.
You can see why Herod chose it
or the Hasmoneans chose it and he embellished the place.
It was a good place to be really, really, really remote
and to have a commanding view all around you.
So it's about 700 meters above sea level,
but because the Dead Sea is way below sea level,
400 meters below sea level,
it's way, way, way above the Dead Sea
and way above the surrounding valleys.
Now the main town was built on the side of the hill.
This is what Josephus was talking about
when he said the residents of Makyrus
persuaded the garrison that had been stationed on top
after the time of Herod to leave it,
basically forced them out.
And they said, okay, if you'll guarantee our safety.
So a walled town was on the side,
sort of like at Gamla on a steep hill.
And then the fortress was up at the top.
And you can compare Gamla, right?
That's where we know there was a town built
on the steep side of the hill.
Now the remains today are where there used to be
an aqueduct coming in to support the town
from a higher hill to the Southeast.
It was crushed and the Romans built a two ramps
when they came to take the place.
So this is how it looks up on the top,
but you can see that it's a palatial place.
Like it's got all this bath complex.
It's got this palace area, right?
It's about the size of the football field,
a little bit smaller.
And it's largely devoted to storehouses, baths,
palatial stuff and protection, towers and gates.
That's what it's all about,
to protect the people living there, right?
It's not a place to fight from.
It's not a military barracks, right?
And here's one year up on the summit
looking out to the dead sea, okay?
And that's a reconstruction by Vorus.
The guy was talking about what it would have looked like,
but it's basically a very comfortable place
in the middle of nowhere.
Now Masada, you can see in this shot from Todd Boland,
it's actually part of a long escarpment,
but the flow of the winter torrents, right?
From the west, over time chiseled away a gap
and created this kind of lozenge-shaped thing, this rock.
And it's left, it's created this kind of Misa.
The torrents go around the two sides
and this ridge was created by the flowing of the torrents.
That's what it looks like from the ground
and then from the air.
So it's inaccessible, really,
except by this western ridge,
which doesn't take you right to the summit,
but it gets you most of the way there.
And so that's how people generally got up.
On the other side, on the east side,
there are sheer drops, right?
All the way around,
but there is the famous snake path up the east side.
It's tricky, and especially if somebody's on the summit
who doesn't like you and is watching you come up,
you are sitting duck, right?
If you're on the snake path, you're really exposed.
So you can see around in all directions.
It's not as high, it's not as tricky place as Misa.
It rises up more than Makhiris.
Misa rises up more than Makhiris does
above the plane around it,
because you could see at Makhiris,
it's much hillier, right?
All around, it's much more uneven surface.
So Makhiris is actually the more difficult site,
and that's why the Asmoneans thought it the most secure,
right?
To get way out there in the middle of nowhere
is really more difficult.
Here, you could come down the coastal road,
down the Dead Sea, and be at Masada.
Now, you have your hard time getting up there,
up to the top, but if you could get around to the west
and go up the ramp, up the natural ramp,
you could get most of the way there.
And the plateau is about 10 times the surface of Makhiris.
So there's lots more room to do stuff up there.
As you can see, much of it, again,
given over to abundant storerooms,
there are a dozen hewn cisterns that Herod had cut out
to make sure there was an adequate water supply,
fed by two aqueducts from the winter torrents.
So when the winter torrents came,
you could stock up on the water,
and he placed the cisterns in the place
that was least susceptible to evaporation, right?
So in the side of the hill,
where the water could be conveyed up to the top
to cisterns as needed,
from the more secure cisterns on the side of the hill.
And then, up on the top,
this is what I meant about there being lower
and upper zones, right?
When you're up on the top,
there's actually quite a noticeable rise up to the top.
So all the way around,
you have, as you will have seen, Derek,
all these case-made apartments that Herod had built,
these are double walled apartments
all the way around the perimeter,
which originally would have been for his bodyguard, right?
There's, I think about 1300 meters or something like that.
And then the big palace complex.
Now, scholars usually call these
the Northern and Western palaces.
And I'll come back to that in a second.
Here's the case-made apartments, what they look like.
So basically, what remains is about 70 apartments.
They're four meters wide,
and range from 10 meters to 35 meters in length.
So 35 meters, that's very, very long.
And that could have been barracks kind of accommodation.
So this surface, the built structures
are mainly palace complexes.
Scholars typically call these the Northern Palace,
the fancy one hanging over the North End,
and the big, boring Western Palace,
which has just fancy rooms inside it.
Josephus, however, only mentions one palace.
And I don't really think that the Northern Palace
deserves to be called a separate palace.
It's just, there was a palace.
And the Northern part was the fancy part
where you have this brilliant view.
And you can see this very fine finishing of the,
like the benches and plastering and so on.
And there's, so that's how close they are,
what scholars call the Western and Northern Palace.
And one of the curious things in scholarship
is that people criticize Josephus
because he only speaks about the palace.
And they say, well, there are two palaces there.
But there's only two palaces there
because scholars call them two palaces.
If you see what I mean,
all that big square stuff, right in the center of the picture,
just above the center, that's all storage rooms.
So what they call the Northern Palace
are these three hanging rooms off the front.
But I would suggest there's no reason to call that palace.
Those are just like party rooms
and viewing spaces, right?
If the big complex is the palace.
So you can see there, the palace is behind
all the store rooms up there.
And then I would argue these are just party rooms
and really spectacular rooms for visitors,
but there's no accommodation in them.
They're just places to eat
and to look out at the great view there.
So as I say here in the caption that is strictly for pleasure,
there's no accommodation here
and there's no practical benefit.
So what I call it a palace.
These are basically party rooms for friends to gather
and have cocktails and look out at the great views.
So, and you've got these brilliant bath complexes as well here
and commanding views all around,
especially to where the trouble is most likely to come from,
Jerusalem direction down the road.
You can see for many, many miles.
And you can see if anybody's trying to walk up
the snake path towards you.
So to come back to our question,
why did the Romans want these in from 72 onward
long after the Jewish wars finished?
Well, Josephus says that when Bassus had been sent his legged
71 or 72, he's the second legged after the wars finished.
He brought over the fortress at Herodium
along with those who occupied it.
And Josephus just says that, that's all he says,
like in not even one sentence.
So apparently it was very easy for him.
It was near Jerusalem.
He just showed up probably outside and said,
okay, we're here, we want the fortress back.
And they said, okay, whoever was inside said,
we agree with that and they left.
After he'd assembled the whole military,
which was large but dispersed in units
along with the 10th Legion,
which is now the legionary garrison
of the new province of Judea,
he resolved to bring the fight to MacIrus.
It was absolutely necessary
that this fortress be taken out
so that it would not entice many to rebellion
because of its strength.
This is MacIrus, right?
Not Masada.
He's worried that if the Romans did not garrison MacIrus
with their own forces,
that people might be tempted to go and hang out there
and feel they were resisting Rome,
not really part of the program.
So he goes and besieges MacIrus.
So here's what he did.
He built a primary ramp.
Well, he did what the Romans always do.
He built a wall around the place,
a circumvalation with little camps around
and towers to watch.
Here's a diagram of it.
So the primary ramp he built from the Southeast,
then he built,
these are the remains today
of the circumvalation wall that had been found.
He built a secondary camp to the Northwest
on the opposite side
and began building a secondary ramp toward it.
We know this because the remains of it are still there.
And then along the wall,
there were towers and bases at each point,
15 of these camps.
You can see the remains of one of them there
all around the place.
There's remains of another one.
So there's the primary ramp, the secondary ramp.
And clearly he was going to follow the primary ramp up
and introduce his legions into the breach point there
into the town.
It looks like the ramp was built on the rubble
of the aqueduct.
So he destroyed the aqueduct,
feeding water to support the people in the town
and built a ramp over top of it.
And there is his second command camp on the Northwest side
and the secondary ramp.
So he was going to attack from two sides.
You can get a better view of the secondary ramp there,
but it was never finished.
So archeology confirms that it was never finished.
Why not?
Well, because according to Josephus,
the Judeans who had been received,
the Macchires, distinguished themselves
from whoever the others were there.
So the people who took it over,
the militants who took it over,
treated the long-term residents,
there is a mere mug, as a known nothings,
to remain in the lower city and to risk the dangers.
They themselves took over the fortress on the top
and thought that because of the strength
of its fortifications, they would be safe.
They calculated that they could get a pardon
from the Romans if they offered to yield up the site,
whether he's talking about below
or the fortress sites not clear.
Anyway, his point is that these guys were really calculating.
They knew the Romans were going to come,
eventually for their fortress.
They want their fortress back.
And they made a calculation that they could get away safely
if they said, okay, you can have it, we'll leave in peace.
So, but these people have been there since 66.
So he says that when the Romans showed up actually
for the siege, they decided, they changed their mind
and said, well, okay, that's a last resort,
we can surrender, but we're men, we're tough, we're Judeans.
So let's see, first of all, if we can just drive them away,
if we can convince the Romans to go away
and not stay out here besieging us,
this is what Josephus claims, right?
We don't know whether it's true, it's just his story.
But what he says is that they,
because remember he's really into Judean masculinity,
toughness and all that.
So he says they made spirited forays each day.
And when they did this, they actually killed many Romans.
So they would run out of their fortress
and attack the besieging Romans
who were trying to build their ramps.
And they actually did away with many Romans.
Inevitably, he says it was just a matter of circumstance
in who was the winning side.
The Judeans, if they could fall on the Romans
while they were unguarded, they would win.
The Romans, if they could anticipate the attack
and protect themselves, they would win.
But then he says, among them was a certain young man
who he clearly admires by the name of Eleazar,
same name as the guy at Masada,
who was bold and daring and vigorous in strength.
And he really distinguished himself.
He would protect his comrades out there
when they were fighting
and he would be the last one to go back himself.
Well, here's the view of the Roman from the Roman camp
looking up at the hill and looking down from the summit
to give you an idea of the topography.
And now he says, what happened was that one day,
Eleazar stayed too confidently, too long outside the walls
and protecting his men as they went back
and he was actually captured.
So the Romans said, we're gonna crucify this guy
to punish you all.
And the Judeans said, please don't.
We will give you the fortress
if you will let us have Eleazar.
According to Josephus, they bought this.
The Romans said, okay, here you can have Eleazar back.
Now give us the fortress.
And then, however, the people living in the lower town
were not very lucky.
They tried to get away at night
and they were captured and killed by the Romans.
All of this is a little bit confusing, a little bit puzzling,
but archeology does confirm
that the secondary ramp was never finished.
And it looks like the place was never actually attacked.
So some kind of a deal is not out of the question
that they actually gave up the site and left.
We're coming now to Masada.
Interesting.
Okay.
But yeah, and this is really important, right?
To realize that the Romans were not preoccupied
with Masada.
They actually put a higher priority on MacIrus
because of its, even though it's a smaller summit,
its location is one that they didn't want Judeans
hanging out in
because it was a difficult location for them to get to.
So they wanted to take it over
and it was a higher priority than Masada.
Now, Josephus continues and says,
well, when Bassus died in office out there in Judea,
Flavius Silva was sent to succeed him apparently in 73.
He observed, well, every other place has been taken.
There's only one fortress that remains still
that's not under our control.
So he gathered his force from various places
and that fortress is called Masada
and he decided to march against it.
But notice, unlike MacIrus, there's no urgency here.
It's like Silva just, according to Josephus,
arrives and looks around says,
well, what can I do now to, you know,
make myself useful with my army?
There's one fortress left, let's take that.
It's the only one remaining.
It's not the most important one.
So what's the date of the siege?
I'm saying the year 74, why is that?
Josephus claims that Masada fell on 15th Nissan,
which is actually first day of Passover in the spring.
He does not make the connection with Passover,
which is really odd.
And it appears that the reason for that is
he doesn't wanna glorify what happened there.
He doesn't really like what happened at Masada.
Whereas at MacIrus, he really kind of gives
these guys credit.
First of all, for having a plan and being smart.
And second, for the courage with which they fought,
you know, fought the Romans in impossible circumstances.
He really gives them credit.
He doesn't do any of those things with the crew at Masada.
Why not?
Well, the standard date for the fall,
the traditional date used to be in scholarship 72.
So they said that the Romans arrived in 72
and besieged the place until 73.
So it was a six month or more siege.
And this was guessed at because of what comes before
and after in Josephus' narrative.
But actually what comes before and after
in Josephus' narrative doesn't have a clear date.
So that's not a very strong argument.
The main argument now that has come into play
is that a scholar named Bernard Neck found,
well, he didn't find the two inscriptions.
They'd been known for some time,
but he studied them carefully.
There are two inscriptions recounting the career
of Flavius Silva, the guy who took Masada.
And they were found here in Italy in his hometown,
Erpsalvia, which has a different Italian name today,
but it was in the ancient world, Erpsalvia.
That's where he was from.
And these two inscriptions were honoring the hometown hero,
Flavius Silva, for all his achievements.
And in that list of his achievements,
it says that he was appointed praetor.
And you have to be a praetor before you can be
the governor of a province in 73
when Vespasian was censored.
Or that's what it appears to say.
Anyway, I shouldn't dwell too long on this.
It's a technical matter.
But the point is that if he was praetor only in 73,
he could only have gone to Masada later that summer.
Therefore, the spring, April, when Masada fell
must be the spring of 74, not 73.
So a little bit of technical background.
So how long did it last?
We saw that Lupvec thought it lasted like three years.
He said, you know, the Romans were out there
trying to suppress the Jews at Masada for three years.
More conservative estimates, six months.
But this all assumes that the ramp that we see today
was largely built by the Romans, right?
That's been the common view.
People say, look, still today,
I know how it was, Derek, when you visited Masada
if they said anything about that ramp.
But it's often called the Roman ramp, right?
So that's just-
I've got a video of it, I'll show whenever we get, you know.
Okay, am I gonna wrap up as soon as I can?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no worries.
I'm just saying, I have one that,
like some of this stuff is really cool.
I've got visuals for us.
Okay, but this idea seems to overestimate
the amount of work needed on the ramp
and underestimate the legions efficiency in doing.
So it's called the name Jonathan Roth.
It's actually done this detailed calculation
of how many man hours legions needed to produce
siege walls and ramps and things like that.
And it's a fascinating study actually
because he uses all kinds of comparative material.
And then, you know, how many cubic meters
of construction material was needed at Masada
in order to do what was necessary
and then how many were available for forced labor.
He estimates that actually in the best case,
everything clicked along, the legions only needed four weeks.
In the worst case, nine weeks.
So he says, let's split the difference and say,
they only needed about seven weeks to do what they did.
And therefore that would put the siege
just from the end of February to April of 74.
And that will make sense because the really nasty part
of the year, if you're at Masada is not,
well, the summer is terrible
because it's extremely hot,
but the winter tarns really are dangerous.
They come flooding by in late January, February.
So it would actually make sense
if they showed up after that in the end of February
and then we're done by April.
So their approach to Masada was much like that,
that what Bassis had done, that Makairis,
that is to say, you establish two main camps
on opposite ends, right?
One here to the north and one to the southeast, right?
Those are the two command camps.
And then you have the natural ramp.
But there are only eight camps here as opposed to 15
around Makairis, that's because the terrain
is much more manageable and open over at Makairis.
So it was all hilly, right, everywhere.
And that's not the case here.
And then they built a circumvalation to prevent escape.
That's typical Roman behavior in a siege.
You not only don't want reinforcements coming in,
you also don't want the people besieged
to just be able to leave at will.
So you put up a wall to keep them in.
And here are the famous remains of the visible camps
around Masada.
So here you can see actually quite clearly
the commander's central part, the officer's mess.
And about half of the 10th Legion could be accommodated here.
And you've got these little barracks rooms,
only eight by 10 feet or so for squads,
we would call a squad or a fire team
in the modern military of eight to 10 people.
And there's a silver headquarters camp over it,
camp F, so-called, and those are the other ones.
Now, it looks like in contradistinction from Makairis
that there's absolutely no evidence of fighting.
And this fits with Josephus' narrative, right?
You've got a bunch of families up there on the top.
There's no material evidence of artillery,
no stones or arrows found outside the summit.
They were found on the summit, so there was incoming,
but there was nothing found outside, outgoing.
Contrast, you'll tap out of Gamala,
where the people being besieged fought
and all kinds of arrows and stones and things were found.
Josephus mentions no defensive effort,
except that they reinforced the wall
to help protect themselves against the final assault.
Anyway, there's very little that they could have done, right?
Once the Romans arrived, these rolling stones,
these rather large rolling stones,
that's why we call them rolling stones
because they're big, have been found,
but it's not clear what they could have been used for.
In theory, you could roll them down the hill, right?
To knock out somebody trying to come up the hill,
but the problem is you lose control of them
once you drop them down the hill.
And then hundreds of these grapefruit-sized blister balls
have been found as incoming fire from Roman catapults,
and hundreds of iron arrowheads have been found in piles,
may be used by the defenders,
but also may be used in their raids
to kill animals for food, it's not clear.
And then more than a thousand pieces
of this kind of Roman scale armor have been found,
but it's not clear what date they're from,
it could be from the garrison that was there later, right?
After the capture of Masano.
Josephus' parallels between the two sites
are really interesting
because they're kind of structured the same way.
He says, remember, he said that Bassus focused on
this fortress where Silva focuses on Masano.
The reason for Bassus was its strength.
The reason for Silva is just it's the last one available.
But both of them have steep drops on three sides
and one access route.
In both cases, he pauses to give the history of the site
from King Herod's time.
In both cases, he says the Romans filled up a ravine
to get to the site.
In the Makairis case, the Eastern ravine
where the aqueduct was.
In Masada's case, the natural ramp was built over.
And in both cases, the leading man was named Elezar.
But he says that Masada's residents,
they neither have a plan nor do they fight.
The Judeans at Herodium and Makairis surrendered and lived.
But for some reason, the people on Masada don't do that.
Or in his story, they don't do it.
They think the only option is killing themselves,
which is curious, right?
Why?
And the big difference is that up at Masada,
he focuses on talk, talk, talk, talk, talk.
There's a lot of speeches.
And there are two big speeches from Elezar, Benyatir.
And you have to remember here
that Josephus has a very dodgy view of rhetoric and fancy talk.
He makes this clear elsewhere in his right.
He's well aware as all ancient writers
were of the power of rhetoric.
But like Polybius, he's very wary of that power.
And he attributes it to the most unscrupulous enemies, right?
That he has.
He says they could talk their way out of anything.
They could make the worst case appear the better one,
which was a standard accusation against Sophists, right?
They could make any case plausible.
So in his first speech, Elezar,
when the Romans breached the wall and they're about,
so they've set, as I mentioned,
they've set the gate on fire
and they plan to enter in the morning.
He says that overnight Elezar,
who was maybe fevered and a bit crazy,
decided everybody's got to kill themselves.
So he summons the manliest or most courageous of his men
and tries to persuade them,
look guys, we all have to kill ourselves now.
And he gives them a short pithy talk.
He says, we vowed we would die
before becoming slaves to Rome.
Well, here we are.
Our slavery is imminent if we surrender.
And who knows what will happen to our wives and children
in the hands of these Roman soldiers.
So we all better just kill our families and kill ourselves.
We misread God's purpose.
We committed crimes.
Josephus, as he said, in a big confession.
So it's just time to be courageous
and accept our penalty.
It's time to die.
And this is what Josephus says about the response
to that little sermon.
Pitting for their wives and families
got into the softer mend.
Seeing in each other also
the certain and vivid reality of their own ends.
They signaled by their tears,
their lack of agreement with the proposition.
So basically, we're not so keen on this idea.
When he saw these people acting like cowards
and their souls collapsing at the scale of the plan,
Eleazar became afraid that this lot
would, with all their howling and crying,
cause even those who heard his words
would resolve to behave like women.
So you can detect here Josephus's themes, right?
About men behave like men, tough, strong,
women behave like women, emotional crying.
This is standard ancient stuff.
So he did not relax his appeal.
Instead of saying, okay, okay, okay.
He said, no, I've got to give a better speech.
So he raised himself up and full of great purpose
made an effort with more brilliant words
on the immortality of the soul.
And now he gives a big long speech
in which he talks about Indian self-immolation
and that really life in the body is the curse.
And really we need to be liberated for,
is it like this big platonic,
is a stoic philosophical speech?
And then says, who could be so unmanly
and life-loving that he's not repented
of remaining alive before now.
And who's not disgusted with living.
And then he says, he wanted to continue with this exultation.
He was really getting into the spirit of it,
but they cut him short,
filled with some uncontrollable urge possessed by spirits.
They went off each one struggling
to get ahead of the other,
supposing this to be a demonstration of his courage
and prudence that he didn't want to be the last one to act.
So great was their arrows,
their lust for slaughter of their wives and children
and of themselves that overcame them.
So Josephus, I think it's clear,
does not appreciate this kind of outlook.
He's really making fun of these people
in quite forceful terms
that they actually were now in love with.
They had arrows for arrows,
for slaughter of their own wives and children.
Instead of loving their wives,
they were now in love with the idea of killing them
because of the power of Eleazar's oratory.
And when it came to the deed itself,
they were not cowed as one might have imagined.
They were not hesitant.
But they pursued intently the result
they had found while listening to Eleazar's words.
So they hugged and greeted their wives,
took their children in their arms,
planting final kisses on them,
welling up with tears.
Same time as though this were being done
by the hands of complete strangers,
they carried out the plan on which they resolved,
having the atrocities they would suffer
from their enemies as consolation.
In other words, saying,
well, we would have had a lot worse,
you would have had a lot worse if we'd been captured.
So in the end, none was found unequal to such boldness,
but they all ran through their closest relatives
with their swords.
Miserable victims of necessity
for whom the killing of their wives and children
with their own hands seemed the least of evils.
I would suggest to you,
there's absolutely no admiration here in Josephus.
He's really presenting this in tragic terms,
and not in a good way.
I'm not sympathetically saying
this was really a bad, bad, bad idea.
And I say that because many scholars
have tried to find, have found in this speech,
somehow Josephus' admiration for these people.
And I kid you not,
I mean, that's in a number of scholarly studies,
but Josephus really found,
he sort of at the end couldn't help but admire these people.
I just don't think that explains the evidence that's there.
I think he's really quite,
quite, well, appalled by the whole situation.
And that's how he presents it in his narrative, I think,
as this is the end run of what happens
if you have a cockeyed view of freedom
that says you must have absolute political freedom.
You won't be anybody's slave.
This is what it leads to, right?
In the end, you have to just bail out in your life.
Okay, I'm coming to the end now,
because this is the question is what happened at the end,
really?
So here's the site again.
Josephus' account is very vague and also simplistic.
He basically says this,
the hill was 300 qubits high.
The silver built a ramp, 200 qubits high,
put a big stone platform of 50 qubits on top of that.
A qubit is about half a meter,
a little over half a yard.
And he put a siege tower, 60 qubits high on top of that.
So you can see the math works out
that the siege tower would be 10 qubits above the summit,
which would give them a little bit of room
to see over the summit.
That's how he presents it.
The problem is that in reality,
the terrain is not like that.
The actual natural ridge is much higher
because as we saw in the pictures,
almost all the way up.
And there's absolutely no evidence
of a stone platform of 50 qubits high.
So like 25 meters, that's a big old stone cube
on which to rest the siege tower.
And it's difficult to understand
how on earth you would have gotten the siege tower
up on top of that block anyway.
Or Joseph has never explained,
he said the battering ram was used to batter in the gate
before they set it on fire.
But it doesn't explain where that battering ram was.
So here is again the situation there.
And what archaeologists have found
is that you've got some building yards
where the Romans did their construction
down at the bottom there.
You can see the remains of the circumvalation wall.
And there's a cut out hill called the luke,
the quarry hill that luke means white.
So white stone was quarried out for the ramp from there.
And you've got that conical hill
which is cut by the circumvalation wall behind that.
And here's what the ramp looks like.
You can see it's very narrow along the ridge.
That's what it looks like today
and from the sides like this.
Now the present ridge is far too narrow and small
for any kind of legionary operations, right?
It's only like two meters wide in most places
up there like that.
So that's not happening, right?
The ridge that's there now couldn't have done the job.
So what's going on?
Well, it's just too narrow
and it's still a little way from the summit.
So how do you get the siege engines
and the battering ram up over the summit?
Well, we've got basically three scholarly views.
The most traditional view,
which we've already alluded to
is that a great deal of work was required
so that the natural spur was very low
and at least six months of work was required
for the camps and the circumvalation.
And we call Ludwak said a three year operation.
These two German scholars went there.
They were the first to really spend time there back
in 34 before the Nazi rise
and everybody was their enemy.
That this was the end of,
well, Hitler was already empowered,
but in 1933, they went and stayed there
and then wrote up their results in 1934, fascinating book.
And they already realized the legions
would have needed probably a 10 meter wide surface,
not what's presently there.
They posited massive erosion of the site, right?
They said, that's why there's so little there now.
Now, a guy named Gil and the Roth that I mentioned,
Jonathan Roth, they in 1993 and 95 argued to the contrary
that not a great deal of work was required
above the natural spur.
And this required some geological study of the ramp
to see what was sort of native rock
and what was added as fill.
And as I mentioned, Roth ended up saying four to seven weeks.
Now, the most interesting and controversial bit
of all this is Benny Orubas and Chaim Goldfuss
most recently argued that actually the ramp
was never completed.
And that, of course, makes a parallel
with the MacIrus situation.
And the reason they say that it was never completed is
that the idea of massive erosion
which would require that two thirds
of the original Roman ramp eroded isn't plausible
because not found anywhere else in the region.
Like there just isn't that kind of erosion.
And zero remains of any weapons or conflict
and no trace of the stone platform.
And you can't figure out how the siege was done.
So Shulton and Lamer, these guys in their 1933 stay there,
they said, okay, it's like this,
that what's visible there today is that blue line
in the middle, the natural spur is the bottom part
and the Romans added everything in between
but some of a little bit of that has gone away in depth
but in width, a ton of it has gone away, right?
So a great deal.
But they did away with the stone platform idea
and Josephus, they said, that's not plausible
because there's no evidence of it
and it doesn't make any sense.
How can you put a big 50 cube stone platform up there?
That doesn't make any sense.
But they came up with the idea that the siege ramp
had an angled base like matching the angle of the ramp
to get up to the top, right?
And then they put the battering ramp
way up at the top of the siege tower.
Now, this has been criticized as being kind of ridiculous
because you can't really match the bottom of the siege tower
to a ramp like that and expect any kind of stability, right?
It's just not gonna happen.
You want a flat basis.
The Romans knew what they were doing
and they wanted stability in these things.
Now, here's Gil's analysis from the geology.
So he points out that all these colored bits here
are the natural rock.
That's what was already there.
So virtually everything was already there.
And then the Romans built it up, as Shulton and Lamro said
and a little bit of it has eroded,
but they didn't need much.
If you visit Masada today at the bottom near the ramp
on the east side, on the, sorry, on the Wissa,
for tourists, they have this reconstruction
and they use the angled base idea of,
but you see here how precarious this looks.
I don't know if you can see in this picture,
but these soldiers, I wouldn't want to be them
standing below this angled siege tower
with a battering ramp, you know,
right up near the top of it.
It's very, very difficult to get it.
Now, when they made the TV series,
they said, that's not gonna work.
So they actually just made a plain old battering ramp,
but nobody could figure out where it would go on the ramp
because Romans normally separated their siege towers
from their battering ramp.
Siege towers were for firing weapons from, right,
to get an angle over the walls,
whereas a battering ramp,
what had to have this very secure flat base, right?
It couldn't be perched up in the top of the siege tower.
So Arubis and Goldfuss questioned the whole idea.
This is why they think the ramp was never finished
because here's their reconstruction
of what the ramp would have had to look like.
It'd been much wider across the top,
like 10 meters wide and therefore falling away
at a much wider angle to the sides.
And they don't believe that two thirds of it
could have disappeared, right?
So virtually all that gone away.
Wow.
So what really happened at the end?
Well, the way this question has usually been framed,
nearly always been framed is,
is Josephus account reliable?
And he tells the whole story of, you know,
the speeches and the mass suicide and everything.
So it's all treated as a package.
And the question is, is this account trustworthy?
Well, already after Yedin's book,
immediately after Yedin's book came out,
lots of people said no, this is not plausible.
Even though Yedin tended to support Josephus' account,
at least in his public, you know,
popular book that he published.
So especially true to the vice-rosman argued
in several articles in the 1960s against Yedin,
she said, look, suicide, un-Jewish.
Actually, Josephus must have been whitewashing
a Roman massacre.
That's what it is.
Because at that time, Josephus was viewed
as a mouthpiece of the Flavian regime, right?
So that's what everybody thought he was.
And so she said, well, look,
he's just doing the bidding of his patrons.
He doesn't wanna say that they came
and massacred everybody.
So he made up the story of a massacre,
of a, pardon me, a mass suicide instead.
So she figured that Silva's army must have,
this is what Romans would have done.
They must have stormed the summit and killed everybody,
right?
And then Josephus just fashioned this
less damaging story to them.
Louis Feldman responded to her and many others saying,
well, the problem is Josephus could not have denied
a Roman general, a high ranking Roman,
who would be a consul soon in Rome.
If he had had a big military victory like that
and defeated, killed, slaughtered the enemy,
he couldn't, living in Rome, writing in Rome,
he couldn't have just made up
the story of a mass suicide
because that would have denied Silva,
a major source of credibility, right?
And status, if he'd won a military victory
and it was reduced, if he said,
ah, he didn't win a military victory
because when he got there, everybody's already dead.
He couldn't do that in Rome if he were fabricating it.
So Feldman said, no, there must have been something
to the story, there must have been a mass suicide.
And then a middle view from Shai Cohen in a 1982 article,
he agreed with Feldman that Silva must have approved
the story, but that didn't mean it had to be true.
So he kind of struck a middle ground.
He said, yes, it is right that Silva must have liked
the story for it to have been made public,
but that doesn't mean that it was the truth.
So any story that presented Silva as a decent fellow
and virtuous would have done the job, would have worked.
So Shai Cohen argued that
Josephus' story about the speeches,
the overnight thing, the mass suicide,
that's all pretty implausible.
But he said it is possible that a few people
committed suicide and that Josephus embellished the story
in such a way that Silva came up smelling like roses
and that was enough for him.
But this all assumes that we're asking,
that the question that we should be asking is,
is Josephus' account reliable?
If you've heard me before on historical method,
you'll know that I don't think that's the right question.
We're not, historians are not supposed to be deciding
which sources are reliable and which ones aren't.
That's not what detectives do, right?
When they're investigating crime,
they don't try to find out you're the reliable witness.
No, they treat all witnesses the same way.
They doubt all of them and then they come up
with their own questions and their own effort
to find the truth and that's what historians should do.
So if we ask our own questions, for example,
what are the possible scenarios
that would explain all the evidence?
And we're not asking, is Josephus right?
Let's just put that list, park his narrative for a moment
and say, what's going on?
What are the possibilities of the ending?
Well, then we come up with different hypotheses
that we can test in white.
So for example, I think it's very likely
that Silva offered terms of surrender.
In fact, Josephus refers to these.
He has an Eleazar refer at,
we don't have time to look at it, but it's 7383.
Eleazar refers to a Roman offer of surrender that he rejects.
And I think it's just most likely,
given Jerusalem, given Sephiroth, given Neotapata,
given Tiberius, all the other places
the Romans were in the fires that he offered.
Why would he want to risk Roman soldiers
if he didn't need to?
If he wanted the fortress back,
he simply had to show up and intimidate them
and they surrender.
So I think it's likely that he offered
terms of surrender.
If he did, then various scenarios are possible
about what really happened.
For example, his soldiers might have climbed the snake path.
If anybody else could do it,
remember that Judean irregulars,
not professional fighters,
had seized the site in the first place.
Josephus had from professional soldiers.
So it was possible, surely for a massive professional army
to sneak some people up there during the night
with all these families up there.
Why couldn't such a massive legionary force
overrun the families based up there
just by sneaking up at night over the snake path
or one of the other routes?
Then you have a problem.
Why would the inhabitants live in terror
while they watched these Romans around them
for weeks and months on end,
building siege ramps and the circumvaluation wall?
And then just decide at that moment
to all kill themselves.
And how could they have predicted
that the Romans would give them a night's reprieve
while the gate was burning?
That doesn't make any sense.
If they had resolved on self-destruction,
why wouldn't they have done it sooner?
They couldn't have known that they would have
that final night to pull it off.
So here they're all kinds of,
the point I wanna make is there are all kinds of possibilities.
I don't know what happened and neither do you.
Nobody knows what happened because we weren't there.
But there are lots of possibilities we can imagine.
So, silver raided the place by stealth,
maybe murdered some as the Judeans had in 66,
maybe via the snake path.
Maybe he stopped construction of the ramp
as Arubus and Goldfuss think
because of an earlier suicide,
or maybe the residents up there attempted a break out.
Like, well, like those people from MacIerse,
I didn't finish that story,
but they went off to a grove by the Jordan River
and Josephus claims they were later surrounded
by Roman soldiers and then they attempted a break out
and they were killed.
But we know, for example, from the death camps,
Treblinka and Sobibor in the Second World War,
that when the prisoners knew that they had no choice,
they knew they were gonna be killed,
they actually just said, we're gonna go for broke
and break out and some survive, some survive.
So maybe they tried it.
Maybe many were captured, killed or released,
or maybe they surrendered.
Maybe they were invited to surrender
and they did surrender, but something went wrong.
Maybe some soldiers got out of hand,
maybe Silva got angry,
maybe some of the soldiers got angry, killed some people.
Here's what I'm coming back to Shai Cohen's logic,
which I think is right.
The story just needs to have been one
that Silva could live with.
So if Silva and his soldiers had, for example,
violated the Pledge of Safety,
or a raiding party had killed women and children sleeping,
something very inglorious, or something else went wrong,
he might have preferred Josephus' version
to what had really happened.
It doesn't need to have been the truth,
it just needs to have been a story he could live with.
So now I'm finishing.
I love this, by the way, so thank you.
What we're doing as historians
is we're just trying to explain evidence, right?
That's it.
And the point is we don't know what happened.
There's no payoff in attaching ourselves to conclusions
as matters of faith, right?
That's not the role of history, it's not church.
Historical understanding requires
trying to figure out a bunch of things.
So first of all, we need to consider
all the fortresses together, not Masada alone.
Masada was not an isolated case,
it was one of the three remaining fortresses
that Romans wanted back.
The Judeans had taken all of them,
but they took them in 66 from hated auxiliary garrisons,
probably not Roman legionaries,
but from the Samaritan auxiliary that held them.
And they went to them to flee the fighting,
to get away from conflict, not to fight.
And Masada, at least, was mainly,
it's clear from archeological and later evidence,
for families.
It was a place of safety for families, people raised,
they had babies, they raised children there,
they got divorced there, they led family lives.
They hoped to live there as long as they could,
and they succeeded for eight years, eight years.
They managed to live there free of any conflict
in Jerusalem or from Romans.
So they may well have felt that we've got this far,
the war has been over for four years, right?
So we're home free, we're safe now.
It was not a useful place for fighting for Romans anyhow.
Why would you go there to do that?
If you wanna fight Romans, you stay in central Judea
and you hide in the hills and fight them from there.
But there's no evidence, actually,
of guerrilla warfare in the Judean War,
which is quite interesting.
The Romans, from their point of view,
simply viewed all the fortresses in their province
as assets they had to control sooner or later.
And so they methodically planned to take them back
after the war and expel whoever was living there.
Bassus planned Maclaurus
because it was the most important of the sites.
And then later, he didn't get around to Masada, he died.
When Silva showed up, he said, okay, so I'll take Masada.
But the Romans were in no hurry.
Maclaurus was the more important.
And they only did this at a late point.
So one possibility, which has been raised
by a couple of scholars,
and I think this is quite plausible,
is that these were also largely training exercises
for the 10th legion.
You have to remember that there was no basic training,
basic combat training, or maybe boot camp,
marine boot camp, anything like that.
Legionaries trained on the job.
They were hired, recruited,
and then they went to their legion
and that's where they trained.
So they had to be trained in siege engines,
building ramps, walls, camps.
How do you get that training?
Well, something like this would be a relatively easy job.
You're not actually fighting an enemy, an enemy army.
You're simply liberating these fortresses
from their residents who are non-professional,
they're not professional soldiers.
Bunch of families up on the top of Masada
is not a military conflict.
So that seems like a plausible explanation.
They just wanted their fortresses back
and they came eventually to Masada, families there,
and then something went wrong.
Maybe the family surrendered.
Maybe some people were killed, whatever it is.
Silva came out maybe not looking so well
and Josephus had a story that suited his aims
to say that collective self-destruction
is the end of this radical freedom program
and it suited the Romans' aims to say that.
So the notion of Masada as a place for the last holdouts
and especially called zealots,
fighting a rearguard action against Rome
is highly implausible.
And it doesn't explain any of the evidence, I think.
Okay, that's what I had for you.
You're still there, Derek?
Wow, yes.
Yes, I am gonna come to you and me now.
Can you see me?
We gotta tilt your screen whenever you, whenever you.
No, I can't see you.
So I'm going to-
Okay, you're still sharing your screen.
I think that's all right.
All right, so okay, let me go to Chrome here
and stop screen sharing.
Okay, okay, I am going to show a few things real quick
that we'll do a Q and A
because I know that it's getting late there in Rome
and I don't want you to be up too, too late.
Just for the, you know, you know how it is.
Entire screen, I'm sharing my entire screen just in case.
This gets a little, here, can you see that?
Yeah.
Okay, so this is Dr. James Tabor.
Of course, I took a trip with him.
We were up here.
Forget the audio.
In fact, I'm gonna turn the audio off
and I'm just holding my camera.
Is that coming through smoothly?
Yep.
Okay, so I, like, a few things you said during this, right?
I got Neil Gnostic and Formant
right down the other side of James right there.
We're looking off the west wall here
near where they claimed the second palace
or whatever one of the palaces is.
But I'm looking at the forts.
You can still see the Roman, like,
where their forts were, where their camps and campments were.
And it's a little bit surreal.
I mean, even me, I tried to put myself in their shoes
and I freaked out my head, not only the height,
but these people are like ants
that will inevitably come and eat me alive,
is how I imagined it.
It was freaky.
So here I am, I'm gonna fast forward a little bit
because everybody's coming over here
to give you an angle to show people this is that path.
And I'm like, how is this what they actually came and conquered?
Because it seemed like so much was missing.
I was like, how did they get up here
and like, were they not gonna find resistance
on this narrow path?
Would the warriors at the top not have kept them
from like making it up there?
Like, hey, safely move sand all the way up here or dirt.
I just couldn't imagine
how they would have been able to do that logistically.
Standing up there.
I would have fought with all I had.
And so there's that image.
I wanted to show you, of course, you know all about it
because you've been there.
And I wanted to show our audience
to just get an idea of what we were looking at.
Here's another one.
This one was cool because it shows you
how much water they could have kept.
Like, let me turn my audio off.
I'm going down into the largest cistern here
to give people an idea.
Here we go.
Now this is just to clarify, to link up with what I said.
This is an above ground.
This is a summit cistern as distinct from the 12 cisterns
that are cut into the side of the hill
where there's little evaporation.
So the water would be apparently brought up
from those other cisterns as needed to the top.
Right.
Just to show everybody down in here.
It's huge.
I've got Neil over here, you know, Nostica Formant.
We're in that.
That's all, all of this is to store water.
This massive, massive thing.
There's my beautiful queen.
And she's over here.
She's all into it.
We're having a hoot enjoying ourselves here.
And I just thought this was amazing
how they would have done this.
The engineering involved was just almost like how.
Here was the, I think it was the synagogue at the top
or at least one of the houses here,
Dr. Tabor.
Here's some of those.
Let's see here.
Scrolling up here.
We're going into, and you can see the blue line.
I think that was where dirt was before they excavated.
Yeah.
So we have an idea of how much they actually cut
the blue line on the left for anybody
who's not noticing that.
Now we're about to go into the synagogue
that was on top right here.
We had to wait for these groups
because they were literally like,
a lot of them were doing like sermons and singing songs
and reading from the gospels and stuff.
It was like tour groups are like,
really, really like all over this place.
So it's a little frustrating.
I'm not going to lie.
What time of year were you there?
That's a good question.
I think this is four or five, maybe six months ago.
Here's one of those houses that I think you were describing.
The soldiers would have lived in
and one of the window cutouts here that I'm a look.
Look, I didn't know I was afraid of heights to some degree
till I was up here and I was thinking,
holy smokes, this is high.
It was just a whole nother level of me thinking,
what if the side of this thing just breaks
and I'm free falling.
I'm done.
I'm just, I'm done.
So there was the little house.
There's a lot of other videos.
I just wanted to tease some people here.
Here's another one.
This is just the site.
It freaks me out getting too close to that edge.
I just wanted to give people something there.
There's so many shots too that you could look at.
But anyway, I've got a lot of footage here
to go through and edit and it was really a game changer
for me to understand like being there looking off
and going, these guys are trying to go up.
And I like your snake path idea at least
or speculating on how they probably got in there.
They would have done it in a more covert way
because that path,
while they may have actually been building that obviously
to get up there, I was thinking about how much
would have had to go into this more than what we see
to get up there.
I think you're probably right about it being incomplete.
I just don't see.
I thought it would take twice, three times
as much as what we're seeing here.
I see it happening.
I see the making of it,
but I don't see how this would have been enough
unless it was just a few soldiers
trying to get over the wall somehow
and then open the gates or something.
I don't know.
I just couldn't see how they would especially not
get up there with the tilted piece of equipment
Are you kidding me?
That was nuts.
I don't know why that's even on the table.
Yeah, it's amazing what we can believe.
Yeah, yeah.
I get it for the temple in Jerusalem.
I mean, you're dealing with a fixed structure.
Yes, there is that valley right there where the graves are.
I get that, but there's plenty of sides where they,
it's not this, that is insane of a slope.
Anyone who's ever been there,
you'll be like, what the heck?
It's beautiful though.
I really enjoyed it.
And James Tabor is awesome.
So if anybody ever in the future is like,
I want to go on a tour.
James is, I'm also planning, Dr. Mason,
to potentially put together a myth vision tour
to the Holy land.
Anyone and everybody, I don't care what you believe,
what you think, it'll be interesting
to maybe have an academic or two join us on the trip.
And the sites we see, hopefully they have some expertise on
so that you're getting commentary
from like the leading historian scholars on the topics.
And then you're not getting the,
oh, this is really where Jesus was actually crucified.
And like, you know how much they play you
when you go over there, there's 20 different areas
where Jesus literally was and what happened.
And I like the critical skeptical scholarship
that goes with it.
Yeah, great.
Okay, let me blast through these
because I know you have some answers for them
and I don't want you to have to spend too much time on them,
but I want everybody to get their question.
Scott Duke, thank you so much,
has bring on courses by Steve Mason,
already been talking to him about it
and I'd love to make it happen.
We'll have to figure out the logistics of where, when and how,
but if Dr. Mason's on board,
I would love nothing more than that.
He made Josephus come alive for me.
Thank you, Scott.
I've enjoyed all his appearances in MythVision.
Thank you, much appreciated.
Yeah, thank you, Scott.
Yeah, and he appreciates it too.
Trust me, I hear about it.
Teresa Wasinger,
Wasinger, forgive me if I butcher your name.
Thank you so much for the love and support.
And you said, love Dr. Mason, my favorite scholar.
Thank you, you're very kind, thank you.
Starting off on a good, we're starting off good here.
Doc Pluromina, thank you for the super chat.
Do found fragments of sectarian scrolls at Masada
suggest the scenes were in fact a militant movement
despite Josephus' whitewashing depictions
to Quell, Roman uneasiness?
Yeah, the sectarian fragments,
that's a really, that's a really informed question.
The problem is whether you identify,
so there have been some scrolls founded,
kumran that have connections with Masada and vice versa.
Scrolls found at Masada that look like scrolls from kumran.
What to do about those?
Well, it depends on how you understand kumran
in the first place, what kind of place it was.
And this today is ever more increasing conflict,
you know, in scholarship.
It used to be a very simple view.
Everybody pretty much with a couple of outliers
thought kumran scrolls were by an Essin community
and everything was kind of sewn up.
Now it's all over the place.
I'm among those who doubt, not deny,
but doubt just because I'm skeptical
about everything I suppose.
But in terms of explaining the evidence,
I'm not so clear about the connection between Essins
and the kumran site or the kumran scrolls.
But then even those many of my colleagues
who do favor some version of that connection,
they're still quite open, increasingly open
to the idea that the kumran caves have a library
of scrolls, many of which are not from the site,
many of which are not from a single community,
but it's a library of collected scrolls.
So how you put that together with the observation
that some of the scrolls found at Masada
have traits similar to those of the kumran scrolls,
then we're getting an increasing number of variables
to try to control in each case.
So I don't have a good answer,
but I don't think it says anything about the Essins
because I'm not sure there's even an Essin connection
with kumran.
And by the way, you've probably been there countless times.
I've only been once, but knowing the geography
and the distance between where kumran is,
where the caves are to the Dead Sea,
having that in mind, following the road
all the way down to Masada, 20, 25 minute,
30 minute drive from kumran to get to the Masada.
We never went to the other side, of course, the Dead Sea.
I didn't get to float in it,
but I didn't get to go over there
onto the Jordanian side.
But it's really interesting when you know the place
and you've been there and you've seen it
to talk about what we're talking about here.
It brings life to it.
So Doc, interesting question.
Maybe it's still up for grabs.
Jaynick, could the Judean Roman War be viewed
as an apocalyptic event by the Jews and or early Christians?
Yeah, for sure.
Certainly the Mark 13, the apocalyptic discourse
seems to refer to,
well, if you date it before the fall of Jerusalem
to an impending event that's a conflict with Rome,
certainly talking about people fleeing the city
and that's when the end comes and things like that.
So yeah, yeah, definitely.
Then it depends what you mean by apocalyptic.
Christians didn't view it as the end of the world.
Obviously they viewed it as the end of Judaism,
the end of Moses' law, or many Christians did.
They took what's called a supersessionist view
and said that Christianity superseded what the Jews had
because their thing ended with the fall of Jerusalem.
So it was apocalyptic in that sense.
Many Jewish texts, not many, a few Jewish texts,
like 4th Ezra and 2nd Baruch are written
just after the fall of Jerusalem
are usually considered apocalyptic texts.
And somehow the fall of Jerusalem was a watershed event.
So yeah, it's really ripe for apocalyptic interpretation
because it's a catastrophic event.
Sorry, I'm losing my tongue control now
after talking for so long.
Yeah, so definitely it could be seen that way, yes, absolutely.
But that was not the final view of either Jews or Christians
before Jews, the rabbinic movement developed out of that
and the rabbis rejected apocalyptic visions of the future.
And Christians built on the platform
for the expansion of Christianity.
So neither ended up viewing it
as a kind of decisive end-term event.
And before I forget, is there any way we can do
if you've extensively done the research on it,
the Bar Kokba revolt and that whole bloodbath and war
and what led up to it and all the effects
of what happened maybe one day?
Yeah, that's entirely possible, yeah.
I'd be interested in doing that.
That would be, because we never really dug into that.
Doc Flormona, again, did origin and Eusebius
have a copy of Slavonic Josephus?
Seems they were upset he was suggesting
the fall of Jerusalem was due to the death of James
or an Oblius and not Jesus.
Yeah, I think the Slavonic Josephus
is now dated pretty confidently to the 13th century.
And there was for a long time in the 1920s and early 30s,
there was speculation that even if it's a very late text,
it draw, because the Slavonic Josephus,
for those of you who are not familiar with it,
it has a bunch of material in it
that is not in Josephus' Greek text.
And some of that is really fascinating
from a Christian point of view.
And the question was whether some of it connects
with say the lost Aramaic version of the war
that Josephus refers to that preceded the Greek version.
So there were various lines of speculation, Robert Eisler
and then more recently, in the day in Jerusalem,
have argued for some connection there.
The vast majority of scholars,
and I would locate myself here,
think that the Slavonic Josephus as a 13th century version
incorporates embellishments of Josephus' war
rather than early material that's been lost.
So short answer to your question, Doc,
is I think not that what's going on with origin
when he says that Josephus blamed the fall of Jerusalem
on the death of James
and says he should have blamed it on the death of Jesus.
I think he's just, we're quite familiar with this,
he's manipulating the text.
So Josephus brings up the death of James,
of course, in antiquities 2197 to 203,
and he says, you know, this was a terrible,
Josephus says this was a terrible miscarriage of justice
by this guy, this edgysian, my priest.
And then later, a few paragraphs later,
he says that all these things,
you know, were causes of the destruction of Jerusalem.
I think what origin is doing is a little bit mischievous.
He's simply, he's simply eliding all that stuff
and linking up James with the fall of Jerusalem.
So he's spinning, yeah, he's spinning,
but Eusebius does the same thing, not with that case,
but with many other cases.
And then of course, Pseudohegisipus in the 370s,
you know, reworks Josephus' narrative entirely
to make it talk Christian, which is quite bold.
So anyway, I think that's more likely what's happening.
It's not that Slavonic material has been lost,
it's rather that these guys are spinning.
Yeah, and then that happens all the time.
It's all about us and it's our group and it's our center,
you know, whatever group it may be, you know,
if it's Islam, Jesus was a Muslim, you know,
if it's whatever the group may be,
everything becomes about that particular central focus.
So Moseon, forgive me if I'm butchering your name,
Mousseon, Mousseon.
No, I think it's not a real name.
I think it's Moseon Lyceum or Lyceum.
It's so the museum of Alexandria
and the Lyceum of Aristotle.
Look at that, see, I'm glad I have you here.
Do you think materials are true?
Yeah, that we are missing sections.
Yeah, I mean, it's possible, anything's possible.
The question is, how do you explain the evidence?
What's the evidence for it?
So it's not really a matter of what I believe or don't believe.
I think that it's most likely that one word was dropped
from the passage on Jesus,
where the current text says he was the Christos.
I think it's most likely as Alice Whaley
has argued quite effectively.
I think that that Josephus originally wrote,
he was believed to be or he was called
something like that, the Christos,
and that has dropped out.
But large-scale omissions,
I don't know of any evidence for them.
It's entirely possible, anything's possible,
but I don't know of any evidence for large-scale omissions
from Josephus.
The problem with these texts is that they're so important
to understanding the origins of Christianity
and ancient Judaism.
You have just massive views all over the playground
from scholars arguing, this has been added,
that's been removed, I think this happened,
oh, clearly that happened,
the Flavians invented Christianity,
you just got views coming out of every conceivable corner.
And the question is, okay, fine,
but how does that hypothesis explain all of the evidence?
Let's sit down.
And the only way you can get to it is by sitting down
next to each other and studying the text,
saying, all right, what does your hypothesis explain here?
So anyway, that's why I don't think there's anything
that needs that explanation,
but there's nothing in principle
to prevent it, it's entirely possible.
Thank you so much.
Kathy, thank you for the super chat.
Watched Luke Ack's Josephus video,
does Marcian's Luke display the same dependence
on Josephus?
Dr. Mason is fantastic, I rewatch his videos.
Well, thank you, Kathy,
that's genuinely really encouraging,
as you can imagine, very gratifying to know
that these are helpful.
So thank you.
Marcian's Luke, well, that's a good question.
I haven't thought of it.
I haven't really tried to work it through.
So I just have to tell you, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's a short and sweet answer to your question.
I'm sorry, I can't be more helpful.
But Marcian's Luke, of course,
I think it's generally agrees,
not it's not.
So with Luke, you have an interesting
transmission history, right?
If you accept the Q hypothesis,
there's Q and then some people,
including myself, think that proto-Luke is a nice idea,
would explain a number of odd features of Luke.
If there was a proto-Luke, that is,
as the author wrote it with Q,
but before he encountered Mark,
because Mark is sort of added in chunks in Luke,
unlike Matthew, which uses Mark as a base,
and then it elaborates Mark and changes Mark.
Luke uses it in a very different way.
So then there's proto-Luke.
So I would distinguish between something like proto-Luke,
if it existed, it's hypothesis,
and Marcian's Luke, which is,
I think most people would agree after the fact.
So he's trying to edit Luke
to make it less Jewish and more Pauline.
So I honestly don't know
how his version of Luke would line up
with the hypothesis of influence from Josephus.
Sorry.
Thank you, Kathy, I appreciate it.
Again, with the museum,
Dr. Mason, can we get you to consult on a real good show
or movie trilogy that covers this Roman Judean drama
from 63 BC to 135 CE?
Would be amazing.
First, I thought you were asking my advice
about a good show or trilogy that covers this period,
but I think you're asking,
would I be willing to consult in the creation of such a thing?
How do you read that, Derek?
I read that, yeah, would you consult,
would be a good show?
Yeah, sure, in principle.
Yeah, and I agree with you that this would be great.
The part of the problem is, again,
would be the controversy,
well, it could be an asset,
things that are controversial,
could be attractive, I suppose.
Mystery.
Yeah, almost anything is likely
to attract a lot of controversy.
I mean, just look out any film that comes out now
pretty much is attracting controversy
for one thing or another.
Somebody's gonna feel their oxes being gored.
So, yeah, but in principle, sure.
I think it's absolutely fascinating stuff.
And of course, then the problem is,
you have to come up with a narrative,
and this is what many historians like me are reluctant to do,
is to come up with a clear,
kind of authoritative-seeming narrative
because there's so much we don't know.
So you end up having to take a lot of liberties
to fill in the gaps, right, from research.
But yeah, I mean, in principle, consulting,
yeah, it had nothing to do with trying to write or direct,
but responding to questions or something like that,
yes, sure, sounds interesting.
Thank you so much.
Core Hill, truth seeker,
how do you think the Romans, thank you for the super chat,
how do you think the Romans generally saw Yahweh?
When Hadrian built the temple to Jupiter in Jerusalem,
was it to humiliate Yahweh,
or was it supposed to be like Baalbek,
meaning a temple to honor both Jupiter and Yahweh?
Ah, well, good question.
Somehow, I think this name also is not probably
the one the parents bestowed truth seeker,
the family name.
Good question, though.
This raises your question about a session
on the Bar-Pas-Pla revolt and the Eilea capitalina.
The short answer, I don't think,
there's a lot of stuff around about how Hadrian,
you know, hated the Jews and wanted to wipe out their memory,
memory of Yahweh with the temple to Jupiter,
capitalinas, I don't think there's a lot of evidence for that.
And if you try to situate the Eilea capitalina
in Hadrian's building program and his travels in 130 CE,
I think there's other pictures are more plausible.
I mean, Jerusalem was in ruins, right?
It had been in ruins for 60 years, but that's a long time.
That's two generations, right?
It's already just lying in ruins
and occupied by the Tentuligen.
So if Hadrian's around cruising through the area
and building stuff all over the place,
also in Samaria, in Galilee,
why wouldn't he want to build a new temple in Jerusalem?
And it's been speculated with some reason,
I mean, some little bits of evidence
that he actually first thought
of rebuilding the Jerusalem temple there.
This is evidence from the Epistle of Barnabas, for example.
It's binomians clear, binomians agreed by scholars.
But anyway, it's possible, so we really don't know,
but I don't think it's plausible
or immediately plausible or compelling
that he really had a strong animus
against the cult of Yahweh.
I think he did have,
he wasn't so thrilled about the Flavians
dominating the scene and their big kind of scam
that they pulled in making such a big deal
of destroying Jerusalem.
I think he wanted to, I mean,
that's why he named it after his own family, right?
He was getting rid of, and he renamed the province now,
that's now Syria, Palestine, right?
Getting rid of the whole Flavian thing.
So I think, and it's a two-legion province now
under a consul, an ex-consul rather than a praetor.
So I think that he had,
his motives are all in the direction of himself
and wanting to get rid of the,
on the Roman political scene,
wanting to expunge the Flavian domination of the whole thing.
That's what seems more plausible to me, yeah.
I don't think he lost any sleep at night
worrying about Yahweh or the Judeans.
I think he was much more concerned about Roman politics.
Yeah.
Thank you.
JH, thank you for the super chat.
Jose and I, when I saw your fathers,
it was like early fruit on the fig tree.
Because of their sinful deeds,
I will drive them out of my house.
Ephraim is blighted, root withered, they yield no fruit.
That's your fig tree source.
So I have read this in Mark when we were talking about this.
If you take it literal and you think that Jesus did it
and they didn't know what the heck he was doing,
oh, hold on, it's out of season and I just cursed it.
Obviously, that seems not to be the point.
I imagine this is a jab at the Jews in Jerusalem
in some way or another.
I'm not so sure because I mean, of course,
everybody wants to find a nicer explanation
for this apparent nonsense.
But the thing is that Matthew in reading it,
apparently thought it was nonsense
and therefore changed it.
He didn't just take it over.
He changed it to make Jesus not look quite so arbitrary.
It's the curse of fig tree
for not bearing fruit out of season.
And as I said, that's not alone by any means.
And this author doesn't have a very solid grasp of scripture.
I mean, he misattributes passages in scripture
which again, Matthew fixes up, right?
So I'm not so inclined to think that he had
this kind of profound grasp of what was in Hosea 9
and was applying it.
I think he operates at a little bit more superficial level.
And like with the woman who touches his cloak
and Jesus is all confused,
who touched me, who took power from me.
Yeah, I just don't think, yeah, I should stop there.
I don't need to listen, I want to offend people.
No, you're not in a place,
I don't think you're gonna offend anybody.
We're very critical of gospels.
I even had Allison, Del Allison just the other day
when he was making a comment about this.
He said, the prophets did silly,
what looked like dumb, mundane things
sometimes to get a point across.
And so like, on the inside and his head,
he may have been, if you take this historical,
which I'm very, like I'm so question mark
on anything here being really what is going on.
But he might think there's a memory here
where Jesus is yelling at a fig tree.
And prophets did silly dumb stuff,
screamed at a river or like whatever it might be.
And you're like, well, what the heck is this all about?
The saith the Lord and like, you know, I don't know.
I was even thinking about the Masada scene
is some Jim Jones narrative.
I mean, they're over here talking about mass suicide
on the top of the hill.
But anyway, you never know, right?
So I'm not trying to offend anyone either,
but I'm looking at it.
Well, to come back, to come back to Mark,
I should clarify what I mean.
I'm not saying that Mark did not have a higher reason
for telling the story.
I do think that he wanted to make,
I think a fairly crude criticism of Israel,
of Jews for not bearing fruit.
I do think that's right.
I do think that was the symbolic meaning.
I simply mean the way he told the story is kind of crude
and that Matthew just drops out,
if I recall correctly,
that it was not the season for things
because it just sounds weird to say that.
Yeah, he's screaming at a withered tree
that doesn't have fruit on it
for the reason that it's not the season like duh.
Right, it kind of sounds silly.
I get it.
Museums, back again.
Do you see any comparison between the infighting
of factional groups in the recent Syrian civil war
and the Roman Judean conflict in 66 to 74?
For example, being trapped between brutal regime and zealots.
Yeah, I'm not sure about the brutal regime part.
That is if the Roman regime is meant,
the Roman Empire's meant.
Again, this is a kind of standard idea
that the Romans were just awful, brutal people,
but I actually think that Jerusalem prospered
under Roman rule in a way that no other city
in the region did.
So I wouldn't call their regime brutal.
They could be brutal at times,
but spoken with all due respect to the Americans
or other people with power,
you can be quite brutal to those who are your enemies
when they become your enemies.
But if they're your friends, as Jerusalem was,
friend of Rome and ally of Rome for a long time,
I don't think the Romans were particularly brutal towards it.
Anyhow, yes, I think I don't,
I think we should always be cautious of them,
parallels from one time and place to another one
in any full sense,
because the situation's always very different.
But these recurring human situations,
so for example, I think when you read Josephus,
I'm always amazed at his kind of psychological insight
and the way, whether he's actually talking about realities
that everyone would recognize
or it's just his view of things.
Still, this idea that people who proclaim freedom
and liberation to their people
and then tyrannize those people in the name of liberation,
so I'm liberating you from that awful power outside.
And to do that, I need to tyrannize you.
I need to control you.
That happens to be a recurring fact of life.
I think of many regimes, for example,
pushing against the British Empire
as the awful foreign power,
but the people doing the pushing against the British Empire
weren't always necessarily agents of liberation
for their people.
And this is true, I think of,
there's just a common situation, right?
Everybody wants to rule the world as a song.
Good song.
Fast said.
And I think there's a lot of truth to that.
You know, when people get, when we all,
when we all get in positions of power,
you need to look no further
than university administrations.
When people get power, they do strange things with it
and they are willing to subject those to that power
to show who's boss.
Even though if you ask them,
their motives are all about sweetness and light, you know?
Yeah.
Thank you for that, Super Chat.
The next one, brother unaligned, sorry about off topic,
but could Dr. Mason ever think of doing a podcast,
analyzing the religious themes of El Cohen music,
especially the album You Want It Darker?
Would love to hear that.
I remember Dr. Mason being a fan.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, not only because I'm Canadian,
but Leonard Cohen is, he was the man
and he was, you know, a play saxophone
and I just really love to play some of Cohen's tunes,
Dance Me to the End of Love, you know, Hallelujah.
These are just brilliant pieces
and you get lost in them, you know,
and just get lost on those, it's fantastic stuff.
Well, but no, that's the answer to the question.
Probably I should not taint the great man's legacy
by trying to analyze the religious themes.
I've heard Cohen interviewed a few times, you know,
and if I understood him correctly,
he himself didn't know what the words meant half the time,
you know, that is in terms of substantive meaning, right?
They're clearly carefully chosen.
They're evocative there, but, you know,
like closing time or many of these songs,
if you try to put together, you know,
Suzanne takes me down, she feeds me tea and oranges
that come all the way from China.
What are these words about?
Well, who knows?
I mean, I'm sure he had all kinds of ideas going on.
But yeah, thank you, thank you, brother, for the suggestion.
And it's a really lovely suggestion, but gosh, no,
I think that wouldn't be wise on my part.
Thank you, thank you, Steve, appreciate that, brother.
JC, and this was a question I wrote down
and you kind of answered it,
but if Masana was sight of murder, suicide,
with perhaps a few women survivors,
and Josephus not an eyewitness,
where could he have gotten the story details?
Yeah, well, I think that's a good question.
I think that he included the women and praised them
in a way he did not usually praise women.
Women are usually like the downfall, you know,
emotional, unreliable types,
but he said that the one woman
was not like all other women,
she was much wiser and had much more insight.
And I think the reason he's got them there
is to explain how he got the information.
Because obviously, if everybody died,
you don't get any information
about what was said, the speeches and so on.
So I think he's giving himself one out.
He does the same thing, by the way,
with the Gamala episode of The Siege.
Everybody jumps off the cliff at Gamala,
they hurl to their, they drop to their deaths,
except two women survive to tell the story.
So you always got to have,
and why are they women?
Probably because they could escape notice.
Actually, it creates a funny situation, funny.
It's not the place to laugh because it's a terrible story,
but it's a kind of a funny scenario at Masada Lake.
The women are supposed to be relatives of Eleazar.
Now, the whole plan is that the men folk
find their families, hug them, kiss them and kill them.
And then they lie down next to them,
and then you've got 10 guys who are charged
with going around killing all the men,
and then they kill themselves in the end.
So you've got this very strange scenario,
if you think about it, of Eleazar saying,
right, where my women can't find them,
they've gone off hiding somewhere.
Oh, well, just get on with it.
It's a strange scenario because the whole point
of doing this exercise was to spare the women
from being captured by the Romans.
So of course, those women are captured,
and the children, and nothing happens to them,
the Romans don't abuse them.
So the whole thing turns out to be silly,
a mistaken process, but it is a little bit funny
that Eleazar just goes ahead when he can't find his women,
when he's just told everybody else
that they've got to do this to spare their women,
but he doesn't look that hard for these women.
It's kind of a jab at him, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't want to get thrown sidetracked,
but I think of Jesus been in a nice,
how does he have all of this detail,
and even to the point of when the stone falls,
how does he know this?
It sounds more literary.
Not saying there couldn't be something to it, it's just...
And some of it, I think, is, yeah,
for literary and for humor, even.
I mean, that whole thing about the guy
with the stone falling on him at the siege, yeah.
Yeah, thank you for that.
Tech Shot says, love when you get Dr. Mason on the show.
I really appreciate that, Tech.
Thank you so much.
I think he enjoys it.
I hope you enjoy these.
I enjoyed very much.
I'm gonna have to go,
because I've got another conversation
coming up in six minutes.
Oh my gosh, Motorhead.
Thank you for the super chat.
I just wanted to say thank you for being a member, Billy.
Let me blast through these.
Was Masada reoccupied after 74 by Roman elites?
By Roman soldiers, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
So there's a Roman garrison there, yeah.
Let me blast through so I can let you go here.
Is Dr. Mason familiar with Dr. Eisenman's work?
And what is his view on Judah,
Judah, the Galilean, fourth philosophy
in revolutionaries like Menegam,
Eleazar's...
Yeah, Menachem and Eleazar's relationship
to Judas the Galilean.
Josephus claims a relationship,
a genetic relationship of some kind.
He says Menachem was a descendant of,
or son of Judas the Galilean.
It's a little bit of a problem with the chronology there.
There's a 60 year gap in their periods of flourishing.
But anyway, I think my basic view is
Dr. Eisenman's work, a little bit familiar with it.
I come from a totally different angle.
My historical method is very different.
So I have no reason to criticize his work.
We just come from different places
and therefore end up with different conclusions.
I have a suspicion that Josephus links Menachem
and Eleazar with Judas.
Mainly, Judas's two sons are actually killed in the 40s.
So this gives you an idea.
Josephus reports this in antiquities
under Tabeerus Julius Alexander in the mid 40s.
So this gives you an idea of the natural generations.
So for him to have a son, Menachem in the 60s,
it's not impossible,
but it's a little bit sort of Abrahamic,
having a son in very old age.
Or a very, anyway, a son who's very active in old age,
one of the two.
I rather think it's more likely that he's throwing this in
to create a lineage of wrongans, bad guys, I don't know.
Last two comments, I got to let you go.
I just didn't want to leave him hanging.
You don't have to give a long answer.
Just saw Dr. Mason interview this morning,
a couple of hours ago on Naked Archaeologists.
I also would buy a course.
He's on here.
It feels like a course in itself always learned from him.
That's a fact.
So we got to do a course sometime.
And then the last one is this.
I really appreciate it.
Bradford Baldwin, thoughts on the void left
in Jewish authority after the destruction of Jerusalem
in 780, creating fertile ground for rise of Christianity.
Maybe it doesn't catch on if that doesn't happen.
Yeah.
Well, the classic story is of course that
already during the siege,
Titus allowed the Judean elites who had escaped
to assemble in the coastal plain.
And that eventually soon after the war,
Yavne, Yamnia in Greek became the center.
So Yavne became the center of reconstituting,
Jewish political life after the fall of Jerusalem.
So that's what happens to the void in classical story.
And it seems that that's basically,
there's something to that,
but scholars nowadays diminish the role of Yavne
in all of Jewish political life a little bit.
Sorry, I can't answer Bradford in more detail.
Time has just run out.
You're fine.
Dr. Mason, go ahead and bounce.
I'm glad you hit those.
I hate leaving people hanging.
We will see you again.
And I'm just gonna do my little outro plug
and take care of my friend.
Let's connect again on more.
Thank you.
My pleasure.
Thanks very much, Dary.
Yes, sir.
All right, Dr. Mason, everybody.
I mean, that, he's very detailed.
You don't find that,
you don't find that often with academics,
but he's very methodical.
And I appreciate his skepticism and of course his insights.
I know that you do as well.
And I hope that everybody who's watching
takes the time to go get some of his books.
Go follow the academics.
Especially if you're interested in the connections
between Luke, Axe, Josephus.
I'm a big fan of it.
I've got some of his books in paperback and some on ebook.
And I'm also trying to do more.
We gotta cover some of these other subjects that he's done.
So please go check him out.
Check out our website as well for the course.
I'm about to see what the poll says.
For those of you who have purchased
one of the three courses we've done to see where we're at
and you can support us on Patreon as well.
I won't keep you long.
Let's see what this poll says.
And then go from there.
I'm gonna end the poll.
And it should generate on the YouTube side, I think.
Okay, it says James Tabor, 55% of you have watched it
and maybe you who voted didn't watch the others, don't know.
I'm David Litwell with the Mystery Colts, 26%.
And then Dale Allison, Jesus Quest, 17%.
There was 104 votes total.
I like to do that.
Please sign up for our courses.
I love you.
I hope you have a wonderful day.
I hope that this message and what you heard today
helped you put some pieces together
or even created more questions
that you're wanting to find out the answers to.
And keep doing what you're doing.
Let's get this outro going.
Enjoy your day, everybody.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
I love you.
Good night!
Good night, Frage!
Good night.
Good night.
Good night, stay safe.
Good night.

Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
