Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, your host Derek Lambert, and we're talking to
Alyssa XJW, the conversation I know for a fact coming from the Jehovah's Witness church,
if you will, organization cult, as I like to call it. It's really harming a lot of people's
lives and a lot of people who've escaped or have made it away from the Jehovah's Witness
church have found a lot of freedom in life, apart from having that high control cult can
completely control their mind, their actions, who they're allowed to talk to, who they're
allowed to hang out with, and some of the crazy stuff that happens sometimes you get to hear
from the people I interviewed. So with that being said, Alyssa, Alyssa, welcome to the show.
Thank you. I'm happy to be here. I am too. I wanted to ask up front, because most of people
who come on are born into the Jehovah's Witness church. Were you born into it? Were your family?
Can you give us a little background about, you know, where you come from?
Yeah, for sure. I was born in and my parents were also born in. And before them, my grandparents,
my grandma was born in, and my grandpa was not. So yeah, my heritage goes pretty deep.
My entire family is Jehovah's Witnesses on both of my parents' side, aside from just a few.
As far as I know, I'm the only one who's taken a step back to be like, is any of this actually real?
And so there's a few who have been disfellowshipped or disassociated, who have left willingly or
left because they had to. And so yeah, I've got a huge family, and all of them are in the religion.
And being raised this way is, you don't really realize how much it's going to affect you until
you're on the outside kind of looking back. And I find I still have moments where something
will happen in my life. And I'm like, do I think this way because of what I was told? Like,
do I have a good reason to think this? Or is this just residual indoctrination from childhood? It's
a lot. It sounds almost like, and you know, I want us to be freely open talking, of course. You
know, it's the most comfortable conversation. You know, nobody's watching us right now. It's just
you and me. And I say that to say, I know it sounds to me that, you know, you're kind of like
wrestling with that idea. Like, I know my family is in, and you haven't obviously become apostate
in their eyes yet. So there's that fear of like, am I wrong? Am I right? And you see the truth in
this, the truth about the truth. But it's scary, especially when your whole family is there. Is
it worth sacrificing that for the pleasure of freedom of what you want to believe? You know?
Yeah, no, that's a great question. Because honestly, that's really what I wrestled with the most. I
tell people all the time, because I find one of the biggest frustrations I'll get from people is
being told, oh, you left because you just want to sin. Or you just didn't study hard enough. You
didn't make it. You just didn't try. And I'm like, I left my faith kicking and screaming. I did not
want it to be false. Like, I, it didn't matter what was coming my way. I was still like, no,
this is still different. Like, Jehovah exists. This is a thing. My relatives who have passed,
I'm going to see them again. Like, I could not let go. It was really, really hard. And I knew,
I knew the consequence. I knew that if I was labeled an apostate, I knew what I had to lose.
And that's one of the things that I've tried to communicate to my family is that I know the price
of being an apostate. I know this price. I calculated the cost. And I decided that
this is not true. This is just not worth staying for and being miserable and feeling like
everything I do is being policed. And like, I can't fully be myself. I was like, I just,
I can't live like that. If this is the only life I have that I know for sure, I can't live in a box.
I just can't. Are you a Pomi, Pimo, Pomo? What are you? Pomo, I'm out. Yeah. Okay. So how does
your family know? Yes. So they know, I've been pretty honest. And sometimes I wish I wasn't,
but I just, I'm that way. I did tell my parents while I was having doubts, the things that were
really bothering me. And those conversations obviously didn't go great, especially with my mom.
My mom is very much like me. And so she has a hard time when she gets really emotional to hear
what I have to say. So it's hard. And you know, it's, it's hard to hear your parents
with that voice of disappointment and the tears in their eyes when you say like, hey, you know,
at this point, I tried to put it as nicely as possible. I just simply said, I just, I'm not
sure if I believe in God anymore, even though I knew I didn't. And, but I wasn't quite ready to,
to push it that far with them. I just wanted to say, there's just, there just doesn't seem to be
good evidence for me to be basing my entire life on something that I can't even prove the most
basic piece of, which is, does God even exist? And if I can't do that, why am I trying to fit
myself into this box, try to be a part of this organization that even all other things aside
has, has many, many flaws in it. Why am I trying to do this? If I, if I can't even prove the most
basic piece of this to myself. And I tried to communicate that, but it's, you know,
it's really hard when they're in, don't you want to be in paradise, Alisa? I mean,
you know, don't you want to be with your family forever on earth? And I mean, that's what they
say. That's the things they do. And I get that from, from Christians all the time to me. You
know, don't you want to go to heaven? Don't you want to be, you know, you could see where I'm
going with that like family, which want to be there. And what's the alternative? Well, for me,
the alternative is different than it is for you coming from my family that are Christians.
Yours is you get completely eliminated and are no more. Yeah, that's better than mine. I'm getting
cooked. God's, you know, God's got a barbecue going and I must taste pretty, pretty delicious. So
like a great guy. I'm just being silly. So what, what was the process? We need to go through
this process because someone might be watching sitting on the fence. They've got their doubts.
You might say something they haven't thought of, or they might look at it new in an angle that you
are approaching this. So when you were active member, did you do pioneering? Tell me about your,
like, what level of commitment did you have to the JWs in your local area?
Yeah, I was, I was your regular rank and file. I auxiliary pioneered from time to time. So I didn't
have like a yearly requirement of hours. It was just whenever I could. I did some, some need
greater activity where you get to travel to another country and do the preaching work there.
I went to Costa Rica twice, which was fantastic, beautiful place. Probably the best memory I have,
honestly. But I was really active in my own congregation. I really enjoyed being on the
the theocratic ministry school. So getting to like be on stage and give talks. I just naturally
enjoy talking and public speaking. It's just, I love talking. But I tried really hard to be active.
I was always the person who would have their hand up at all the meetings of comments. And I was
constantly being told that I was really good at applying the information to real life. And I,
I really felt like I was a useful tool and that I could really help people. And it made me feel
great. And so once I lost that, I kind of have circled back around him and like, I was really
useful to this organization. Now, now that I realize that that wasn't really a good thing,
can I still be useful on the other side, which is, you know, why I'm here right now.
But yeah, I just, you know, I was just a regular rank and file person, but I was fully dedicated.
I never, never in a million years thought that I would ever question anything, never.
We're going to get into that because I got to know what happened. But I must say, for me,
being a recovering drug addict, someone who's come through the addiction and survived,
my weakest thing, it's kind of a weird parable, or if you will, a proverb of my life, is that my
biggest weakness has become my biggest strength. So whatever that thing is in your life that you
thought was your strength, or maybe it was going to work out and it didn't, somewhere in the vein
of it, it still becomes your, your larger strength, if you will. So for me, I have a YouTube channel
where I talk and help drug addicts and, and I made it out. We're talking like heroin drugs,
like shooting up drugs and people are like, what the, you don't look like you ever did that. Well,
yes, I did. And, and so it became my strength. And a lot of Jehovah's Witnesses, what I really love
about XJWs is the passion that you guys carry in trying to help those you know are in this bubble.
And there's, it's almost impenetrable. The only people who can really penetrate it are those who
were where they are, because they're not going to listen out. They're supposed to not listen to you
guys, but they're not going to listen to me. There's never been a JW who doesn't speak the lingo,
doesn't know the language, doesn't know the world necessarily that you guys live in. They're going
to listen to you. So at least let me, let me probe deeper. I suspect somewhere along the line, you,
something came up, either a person, look, I sound like a, like a, I shouldn't do tarot cards. I
sound like I'm a predictor. Like, let me, let me see, let me predict.
Watching, they're going to love that.
Yeah, goodness gracious. Watch out for the Smurf too. I'm just kidding.
But no, but like, it usually comes down to this. That's why I say I predicted this is something
that either it's people that you saw that you were like, hold on, this doesn't add up. How can
this be true in God's church or a doctrine or something like that, you know, got you like,
what the heck? What am I believing? So tell me what, what it was for you. And it might not be
one thing. It might be many. It was definitely multiple things. I think like now that I really
reflect and think about the things that were bothering me that I kind of put away, the first
thing I would say would be, I have a sister and my sister has never really taken anything
seriously. Like she believes it, but she's just not a part of it. And it's been that way for most of
our lives. And I remember coming home from a meeting one night and just sitting and crying
because I was like, I can't lose my sister at Armageddon. And it does not make me feel any
better when someone tells me that, that Jehovah will make me forget like the hill that I'll forget
that my, my sister, my flesh and blood sister ever existed. And I was like, that's just like,
I don't want to forget her. I don't want that. And that was something that really bothered me,
but I kind of just had to put it away and not think about it and just keep on hoping the way
my parents are hoping for me now that maybe she would come around someday. And but that was something
that really, really bothered me because my sister is awesome. And she and I are, are close in age.
And, you know, we, our whole lives together. And I was just like, telling me that I'll forget
about her in paradise someday, just wasn't enough for me. And then besides that, I really was
disappointed in, in people. And I know a lot of people will hear that and be like, Oh, but it's
not about people. It is for me because I'm a people person. And I'm very, very affected by the people
around me. And when people hurt me, that is one of the things that cuts the deepest. And I was really
hurt by the people that I thought were like my closest friends. I had a, a best friend who I
thought would always be there for me, who just kind of fell off the earth when I was having my own
personal struggles with my mental health. She just kind of disappeared. And then eventually
resurfaced one day, I just, I opened Instagram and saw that she got married. And I was like,
would have been nice to have known that my best friend was getting married. I thought
we had talked about being in each other's wedding someday, like, guess not. And just
things like that, the people who I thought were just always going to be there for me, they fell
off the earth. And I was just like, I didn't get treated like this by the people I was friends with
when I was in high school. And they're supposed to be the wicked ones, right? So now here I am,
like a grown woman. And I'm feeling like the people around me are behaving like children,
like this isn't what I signed up for. I thought I could expect better. But I think the worst
for me was just, I went through a period of really tough depression, I was genuinely in my bed
for months. And I couldn't get up. And at that point, I was really, really suffering. And I would
call into the meetings. So instead of attending the kingdom halls, you can call in and listen,
which was always frowned upon. But now everybody's on zoom. So I guess it's not so bad. But I would
call in and I would pray every day because I'm in my bed, there's nothing else going on. And I
was just anything at all, if I could just hear something encouraging in the meeting or in a
comment, or in someone's prayer, if I read my daily text, which is a book that gives you a
scripture every day and a little bit of information to meditate through your day,
anywhere, if I could just find something that would speak to me in some way to make me feel
like God cared about me and that he wanted me to get back up, then I could push myself to do that.
And it just, it wasn't happening. And eventually I reached this point where I was like, I've
wasted months off my life in my bed. And I'm begging for any kind of answer. And I'm actually
refining my prayers to be more and more vague, just to make more wiggle room for God to give me
some kind of reply. And eventually I was like, you know what, I don't feel like anyone's listening.
And it was the first time I actually took a step back and was like, is anyone listening?
Because my understanding was that God would never allow you to be tempted beyond what you
can bear. And I felt like I was being pushed beyond my limits, and I wasn't going to make it.
And I was like, continuously being told that because I'm an imperfect human, I can't really
make that call. But I was like, I literally feel like I'm wasting away. I'm going to die in my bed
if I don't get up. And God doesn't think that this is beyond what I can bear. And it just,
that was really the breaking point for me was just on answered prayers.
That's interesting. That whole thing is, I want to say up front that you are an amazing person.
I can already tell that, you know, I suspect whoever you hang out with is probably like,
you carry a very positive vibe, you know, very optimistic energy with you. And so anyone who's
hanging out with you knows this is going to be a good conversation. We're going to be happy,
go lucky, that kind of thing. My wife always tells me, she's like, you're too optimistic. I wish
I had some of that energy. But how did you go through this depression being such a happy person,
right? Like, so don't get me wrong, things happen, mental health issues happen, things happen.
But I can definitely relate and get where you're coming from on that. And friends, you know, friends,
I found more atheist friends, and I'm just saying this is a plug, kind of, that it doesn't
require you to believe. And I'm not saying you have to not be a believer, but it doesn't require
you to be a religious believer or believer in something afterlife, or you're going to get a
reward from God, you know, if you act a certain way or be nice. That oftentimes is fickle.
And it's, and it's, you're literally doing it for that personal reward from your God, divine,
whatever, later on, it's almost like, what about just making that person themselves happy?
What if you wanted to make yourself happy in a selfish way? Not saying it's bad. So,
you know, that I've heard a lot of people who have something from the church that they just
aren't given or they ignore and neglect, and you're like, they're supposed to feel this part,
they're supposed to come in and help me in this situation, make me feel better. But the prayer
didn't work for you. So obviously, you had to consider things. So you start doubting, obviously,
you're like, I don't think there's anything there. I suspect you watched some videos, though. I just
have a hard time thinking that you were like, you must have ran across something. I don't know.
Honestly, I didn't for a long time. Like my first initial doubting period
really hit in like 2018. And I genuinely would not look at anything until maybe like the end
of 2019. I really started to dig into it. But it's kind of funny how it happened, because
I sort of went down a rabbit hole that led me to watching apostate material. And I always kind of
laugh about it, because it's just it's silly. But what happened was, I started watching videos of
people debating flatter first, because I thought it was funny. And I enjoyed just seeing facts and
science and proven things, disproving something that's pretty silly. And that took me down a rabbit
hole of watching creationist versus versus evolution debates. And I was really like,
disappointed in the arguments coming from the creation side. Because at that point, I was
still thinking, God exists, evolution, I know everything there is to know. I didn't. I didn't
know anything. And I was like, just surprised by how bad the arguments were. And I just I kept
saying to my partner at the time, I was like, you know, if Jehovah's Witnesses got up there and
debated, though, they'd have good answers. They they would roast these guys. And he was like,
yeah, sure, okay. And I ended up looking at some of, like Jehovah's Witnesses literature to try
and see what their answers were to certain topics that would come up. And the big one was always
Noah and the flood. Because a lot of people, like I always accepted that the flood happened. And I
honestly was under the impression that we had like discovered the arc and that we had concrete
evidence that it happened. Because obviously, a global flood, like, you're going to have something
leftover from that, right? And then I was surprised to find that we don't, we don't have
really anything. And the best information I could find was really just musings about what some
information might mean. It's like, I remember reading out of an article published by the
Watchtower that basically just said that maybe we are misinterpreting some of the evidence that
things we think are ice ages were actually the flood. And I was like, I just, I don't really
think that we would mess something like that up. Like, I just feel like that is such a,
like, don't we need something more concrete than just like a question of what and that was really
disturbing to me when I was like, Oh my goodness, I thought that young Earth creationists were silly
for believing the Earth is only 6000 years old. And here I am. And I'm seeing equally as silly
arguments coming from Jehovah's Witnesses. And I was like, that just, that was a really big game
changer for me. I was like, Okay, I, I definitely have more to look into here. I am not finding
what I thought it was going to find when I go back to the literature.
That's interesting. Because for you, it was almost like, I'm not going to apostate material,
because that's the last place I want to go. I'll go somewhere safe. I'll go somewhere that is an
apostate. And you find yourself in apostasy altogether, not realizing that by, well, they're
not xjw. So, or they're not apostates of this, that I'm listening to an actual Christian who
believes in the same Bible I do, maybe a little things differently, but debate this guy over here
who's saying something else. That's interesting that you took kind of a different route.
Yeah, it was a very strange route to take, I guess, but it kind of makes me laugh when I think of
it. So I guess I'm okay with it. Yeah. Okay. So you really got into that realizing, Okay,
there's some problems here for sure. What, how did that affect you as an active member? Like,
what took place? Did you tell your parents? And then you said, look, I just don't want to go anymore?
Well, what happened was, so I had stopped attending meetings in 2018. I did try to go back.
And I really needed it to go well, and it didn't. So I had not been attending meetings for quite a
while. And then I believe it was like September 2018. I was like, Okay, mom, I'll go to a meeting
with you. And I just, I need it to go well. I'm praying. I'm like, if it goes well, like,
I'm going to push myself, I'm going to get back and do this. And when I went there, the best friend
that had gotten married and not told me was visiting my congregation that day. And she came up to me
and hugged me and was like, I miss you so much. Like, I hope you're doing okay. And I thought,
move my number. You also know where I live. And you have not contacted me at all. And her
husband did not even come over to meet me. And I thought, Okay, and it just really, really hurt to
be treated like, like something was wrong with me. Like, obviously, I was experiencing something
that wasn't great. But I was like, I'm, I'm still me, even though I've gone through a dark period
and people haven't seen me at the congregations, I've still been calling in all this time. And
to be treated that way was just not great. So after that, I stopped attending meetings. And I,
if my parents stopped bothering me about it, I actually took a trip, I went to BC for a month,
and then I ended up going to Costa Rica for a month, because I was not ready to go home,
because I just needed to be away and think and I put myself into a little bit of debt doing that.
But it gave me the space that I kind of needed to be like, Okay, what's the next thing I want to do?
So when I came back, I was like, Okay, I need to move out because this isn't going to fly living
under my, my mom's roof and not attending meetings. This isn't going to work. So I ended up
moving out at the very end of the year and just moving in with a bunch of random people.
Because I had no money after traveling. And I ended up moving into a place with four other girls,
and ended up being a nice place. Rent was cheap, public transportation was there until I was able
to get a car. And I made that work for a bit. And I was dating somebody. And then I was doing
just a lease at the time that was short term. So once that lease was up, I moved in with him.
And that made it easier. But so my parents weren't really in my face about it. But what ended up
happening in that time was, I wasn't ready to tell my family about seeing somebody who was not a
witness and moving in with them. Because it just felt like a lot. And then at the same time, my
grandpa suddenly passed away. So that was, thanks, I know it's a, it's still hard. But it was really
hard on my mom. And I just didn't want to add to that by being like, Hey, also, me and all my crap
going on here, I just was like, maybe I should wait a month or two and just kind of let her deal
with that. And of course, that didn't work. Because my mom is a bit snoopy, like me, we're
both kind of like that. So she ended up finding out and accused me of lying to her. And I was like,
I swear to God, mom, I just was waiting, I wasn't trying to hide it from you. But so in that time,
they knew that I wasn't really living the life. And I started to really experience that preemptive
shunning, because they were like, you're living with somebody, we can't talk to you. And that made
that really hard. But I didn't tell them about my doubts until quite a bit later, I don't actually
think I brought up any of them until 2020, sometime in 2020, I would have first told them.
You waited till you were, till you had to be separated. Mom and dad, hey, listen, so you don't
get to whoop my ass. It's always the threat of being kicked out. And I was like, I can't live with
the threat of being kicked out of my own house anymore. I need to be in a safe place. I can't,
I can't do this. So, but I did express to my mom some of my issues back in 2018, when I was having
a really dark time, I just one day through tears was like, mom, I don't think anyone's listening
to my prayers. And then she was just like, you just, you're not praying for the right things,
you're not giving him anything to bless, because you're not going to the meetings. And I remember,
it really upset me, especially now, because in COVID times, no one's attending meetings,
they're all attending via zoom. And most of them don't even have their cameras on,
they might as well just be calling in. And I'm like, I was being bashed for calling in,
because I was not well. And I just couldn't put on a dress and attend a meeting of 100 people.
I just didn't have that in me. And I would be frowned at for that. And now I'm like,
that's all people are doing. And it seems to be fine. So it just, it really bothered me
that that was the response because I was like, mom, like you've watched this first hand,
and you're telling me that I'm the problem. And it was just hard. So I knew that it wasn't a good
conversation to have. So I waited quite a long time. I was gonna say, this isn't long ago. This is,
you know, half a year to a year. Yeah. So do they talk to you still, but like from a distance?
Sometimes periodically. I was actually surprised because I thought that of my parents that my
mom would take it worse than my dad. But it's really been the other way around. My dad just is
not really interested in talking to me at all. I still try and I'll, I'll reach out from time to
time. But he, the last real conversation we had on the phone, it was just, it's just a sadness
in his voice. And it was really, really hard to hear because my dad is kind of like me in the
sense that he just kind of talks with this happier tone, I guess. And then to hear his tone just
kind of changed to disappointment. Like, you know, sweetie, I can't, I can't condone what you're doing.
I can't, I can't be supportive of that. And I'm like, why dad, like you and you and mom had no
problems supporting me when I was dating guys who treat me like garbage, just because they
held titles in the congregation. And now here I am with someone who treats me properly and
really cares and would like to know you guys and you don't, you don't even care to know where I am
or who I'm with to make sure I'm safe. Like, it's just, it's really difficult. But my mom has been
a little bit more inclined to talk if I reach out. She's called me a few times and we've had
conversations and, but they don't really go well. And, you know, my parents, I know that
they think that they're doing what's right. Like, I have no animosity towards them at all because
I, I understand I've been them with other people. But it's just, it's really hard because I think
the worst thing that happened was that my mom and some of my aunts and uncles got together and
they, they buried my grandpa's ashes back in the summer and they didn't tell me. And that was probably
the worst thing that happened for me because that was really important for my closure because he was
being buried with my grandma. And I just really needed to see them put back together again. And
to not be told was quite upsetting. That's probably the worst thing that's happened. And,
you know, I feel like they could have handled it a little bit better. But
again, I'm not mad at them. I know that they're trying to do what they think is right. But the
conversations are, they're pretty bland at this point. They don't really go too far.
That's sad. Yeah, that's sad. So the church, do they know that you're pomo, that you're physically
out, mentally out? Oh, I actually don't know because I haven't taken the time to like write a
letter or anything. I think I will eventually, I've talked about it a bit, and I'm waiting for
like a specific moment that just hasn't happened yet, because I do want to make that clean break
for myself. But I just, I'm trying to wait and kind of leave the door open for my family
as much as I can. But they're cut off eventually where I'll be like, I just, I don't want to be
a statistic for them anymore. But I did have someone from my congregation stumble across my
YouTube channel in its very early days. So I'm not really sure what people are aware of and what
they're not. But I, you know, I knew the consequences when I set it up. I thought anybody can find this
and, and I was okay with it. But it happened way sooner than I thought it would. I was like, oh man.
Yeah, I was going to say, I want to make a comment. The numbers that they put on their website and
they tell everybody, she's playing a part of those numbers. She's not the only one. Some of the other
people that I interview, they're not apostasized yet. They're still counted as numbers according to
the JWs. And really, there's a lot of people who aren't there now that they're using as numbers for
their statistics. So yeah, I don't blame you. But at the same time, I also don't blame you for trying
to keep the door open, not necessarily saying you want to walk back in the church, but keeping the
communication between you and your family open, because elders can go right to your parents and
try to, hey, this is what you have to do now. You have to cut her off. And then you can't talk to
them at all. That's just horrible. I can't wait till we can make that change, like to force this
organization to evolve in a place where they don't do that to family members. But you have
a YouTube channel. Tell us what the YouTube channel is about.
Well, it's really, I have ideas for what I want it to be, but I still haven't fully picked the
direction I want it to go. For me, it's a lot about myself sorting through my thoughts and
emotions about things I've been taught and the problems that I'm seeing now. And I also was like,
you know what, I felt like I had a voice when I was in the congregation. And there's no reason
for me to not have a voice now that I'm on the outside. And I feel like, I mean, correct me if
I'm wrong. If anyone's ever spent time with me and doesn't feel like they're comfortable with me,
I feel like I can make people feel comfortable to talk to me and that I can make people feel less
alone. And I really like doing that. So I thought, let's just try and see if I can get comfortable
in front of a camera and see if I can help people who are going through similar things to feel like
there's someone else out there who gets it, and maybe even get a little bit more into, I guess,
debunking some of the doctrine and pointing out the problems with it. I find I have more fun,
though, when I'm talking about things I can really relate to more than trying to be like an academic
about it all. Right. Just feel like this was my experience. And these are some of the questions
that kind of came up when I was faced with these different situations and choices. And what do you
guys think? So it's really more of a conversation at this point. But I'm hoping eventually it might
become a tool to maybe help people have better conversations if they are being shunned by people
or if they have witnesses knock on their door someday. Maybe if we can find a constructive way
to even just like plant a seed for a potential question in the future to come up. I think that
would be cool to kind of get thoughts and ideas out there and see what we can come up with. See
if we can find a way to get through to people. I think that, first of all, I want to say,
I definitely appreciate you saying that and not trying to necessarily and not saying you won't
tap into academic approaches to try and dispel some doctrine over time. But I personally think
it isn't the doctrines 99% of the time that actually get people out. I think it's an experience,
some type of experience that gets them out. That's just typical. And in fact, most of the time,
the people that I've talked to that are XJW that left because of doctrine were men. I don't know
why. I think it's something like, like, all right, you know, JT and Lady C, I interviewed them on our
channel, that he was a Bethelite. Anyway, he said in 1975, you know, the whole false prediction
thing happened. He said, my hat goes off to everybody in 1976. It was the doctrine that
red flagged him. So he was like, oh, my gosh, he started researching. Now, I bet you, though,
we men recall doctrine. The thing is, it's my guess that there might have been something we
don't really register in our minds prior to checking and seeing if doctrines are false.
Women are much more open to the whole she was rude to me, or the church just didn't treat me
right, or my mom and dad didn't act like they were living according to the life of a JW, you know,
like, and women are tapping into that stuff while we guys are like, yeah, it was 72 times 35, and
they got the calculation. Come on, man, you know, we think it's all just doctrine, even though it
does play a role. So I don't know. It's interesting. I think coming at it from that emotional side and
giving someone something to connect to on the outside sounds very good, that what you're trying
to do there. And there's that going from you had your whole life packaged for you in the JW, you
had a life that they told you how to live and everything you knew what you were doing. When
you came out, how did that work? You know what I mean? Did you were a little confused on like,
what am I allowed to do? What am I supposed to do? Should I go back? I suspect a lot of people
look back as they're leaving the kind of like, am I doing the right thing? Should I go back?
Like, did that cross your mind? Oh, definitely. Yeah, I will. The biggest thing for me, of course,
has always been the resurrection, the idea of seeing people that you've lost coming back again,
and especially having my grandpa pass away, you know, right in the middle of it all.
I was like, I really don't know if I can accept not seeing him again and not seeing my grandma
again and seeing ones I lost when I was in high school again. Like, I really felt like I just
didn't know if I was going to be able to handle that because I didn't feel like I'd ever properly
grieved it. I've spent my entire life pretty much thinking that my grandma was going to come back
and I would be so excited to be like, Hey, grandma, I'm growing up now. I'm not six anymore.
Look at me. Look what I've done. And to see her and my grandpa together again was
a big driving force and it is a big driving force for my whole family. It's probably the one thing
that I get like stone walled with when I try to talk to my mom is just, Oh, so you're telling me
I'm not going to see my parents again. And I'm like, I guess, you know, it's like, how do you
get around that? Because you know that that's something that people are holding onto and is
getting them through their days. But when you realize that it's false, it's like, how do you
disconnect someone from that belief without literally shattering your entire world? Like,
it makes me really conscious of what I'm saying, especially if I'm talking to my family, because
I don't want them thinking that I don't care about my grandparents. I do. I just drove up to
their grave back in the fall because I felt like I just wanted to go and be where they were. And I
just it's a 10 hour drive from here. And I went and, you know, I care. But I just know that I can't
live my life thinking they're going to come back if there's no good reason to think that. And then
if they do, that's great. But I can't not learn how to grieve things. Otherwise, I'm not going to be
able to get by and I'm carrying this weight. And not even being able to grieve death has really just
altered my entire way of dealing with traumatic issues. I'm really finding that one of the things
that's coming up now is there's a lot of trauma in me that I didn't really realize was trauma until
now and that there's these moments where something will happen and I'll get this like really severe
feeling that feels like rage, except you're not really mad. And I've learned that that's a trauma
response. It's it's in your body and it's hurting you. And so that's the kind of thing I'm starting
to work through now, because there's a lot of things that that I didn't realize had harmed me.
I didn't realize that my entire image of myself and what I'm worth and what I deserve and could have
was just completely shattered. And now I'm really trying to build that back up build up
self esteem and have confidence in the things that I am good at, and be like, I do deserve
good things. And I shouldn't just tolerate people who want to treat you like garbage,
just because you believe the same thing. Like, you should stand up for yourself and have the
fight when the fight needs to be had. But it's yeah, it's really, it's really changed a lot.
And that's for sure. It's been a bit of a process working through it all. That's for sure.
You have said so many really good things there. And I don't mean everything is actually good.
Some of the things you mentioned are like hitting home and that are deep, you know,
the whole idea of resurrection that you bring up. That's a that's a great tool to really grab people.
If you ever want to make a cult, ladies and gentlemen, make sure you have some teaching in
there that you'll you'll move on past death. Somehow something in some way, shape or form,
you're going to come back or you're going to see them again, like all that kind of stuff.
Make sure that's incorporated. That's just all you have to do right there because we humans
naturally want to be with those we love and want to see those we love. So all it takes is a little
bit of that add that into your seasoning and your little concoction and you have yourself
a potion that's going to really keep people latched on. It's really sad that that is what
they pull off of because right there I can see the trauma and the idea of wanting to go back
because the promise of seeing your loved ones after life, like forever, you're never going to
see them again. Like all that scares the living daylights out of you that they teach you that
kind of stuff. When in all honesty, it's likely if there isn't any afterlife, of course.
And I say that just because I'd try not to offend fans who might have these concepts.
What if we just rest in peace forever? What if once you're dead, the memories and the life we
have now is how we live on? So I say that to say like, is it really worth? Do some investigation.
That's what I'm trying to ask because I understand why you think that way. The church teaches that.
So there's many other churches in different types of religions. Why not do a little critical thinking
and consider testing those ideas and looking at why we believe those type of ideas? Most people
don't care about the facts, though. Like I said, it just boils down to does this make my life better?
Do I feel like it helps me? Does it feel good? And what you're experiencing here are the repercussions
of coming to believe those things or being taught from a young age, those things, and now having to
find life outside of those things. When they tell you if you're not in here, if you're not in this,
you won't have those things. But I didn't choose to be part of this. I was born into this.
It doesn't matter. That's how messed up this is. And the sad part is the people who talk to you
don't mean anything bad. They think that they were passed the same BS and gave the same package BS
to the next person. So that's how sad this thing is in terms of this continuous vicious cycle.
Everyone who's going to leave the JWs that was born into it has to go through this experience
and this what you're going through right now. What would you say would be the best thing you did
during this transitional phase? Because I know it's depressing. It's got to suck. It hurts.
What helped you? Were there people you talked to? Was there an activity in particular that you did?
Something you researched that made certain type of music? What has helped you mourn
the potential loss of not ever seeing them again based on the doctrines, which you didn't know
whether they were right or wrong yet in your mind? You weren't convinced that they weren't true. You
were partially battling this thing in your mind as you continued to de-convert from
Jehovah's Witnesses. So what did you do? Well, definitely letting go of the resurrection
hope was probably the final thing. It was the very last thing I held on to, obviously,
even when everything else fell apart. I was like, I don't know if I can let go of this, but
what I did that really helped me to just get to a place of being confident and what I was
believing at that point was just filling my mind with information. I really enjoyed learning about
evolution and I am by no means any kind of expert on the subject at this point, but I definitely know
a lot more than I did when I was a Jehovah's Witness. You're under the impression as a Jehovah's
Witness that you know everything there is to know when really it's just a horrible misrepresentation
of the facts. Now I feel like I have a really good knowledge and I honestly was just filling my head
with that for maybe a couple of months. As I saw how undeniably factually correct evolution is,
I was like, this makes everything else fall apart because my belief system is based on the fact that
the Genesis story to the book of Revelation is all true. Genesis is not just a myth. It's supposed
to be a real thing that happened and I was like, it simply can't be if this is how things work and
it made the Noah story fall apart too because things don't evolve this quickly even if you
try to say to yourself that the animals on the ark have evolved to what we have today.
It's just mathematically, and I'm not a math wizard by any means, just mathematically not
possible based on the speed of evolution and just filling my head with that knowledge and
feeling like I really had something solid to start with was really helping me to be like,
okay, this might not be true, but this is all really interesting and there's an entire view
of the world that I've been missing out on my entire life and it's a good view. The world is
really interesting and there's a lot going on. It's not that bad. It's really not that bad.
I have to say I saw this debate. You'll probably get a little chuckle out of this, I suspect, or at
least think, damn, that makes a lot of sense. It was a Muslim debating an apostate Muslim.
I love all of that. You're in the JW vein and what I like about what you said is you didn't
just stick to the JW routine, which is why I predicted things that didn't actually come true.
I promise you I was testing you though. I knew the future.
No, but seriously, you went in a different path and how you did this is genesis. I keep
hearing genesis in your future too. No, but I can tell that the Noah's flood genesis narrative,
if it flaps or becomes allegory or becomes mythology or something, JW, wash your hands
because their entire premise is it's factual, it's true. If they change that idea, then they're
changing things and we know it's BS just like they do with the predictions. But anyway, I was
going to say this, the apostate Muslims debating this Muslim, the apostate Muslims not even saying
anything. I think a question was posed to the Muslim, look, is it a religion, a peace? Now,
I know some peaceful Muslims, don't get me wrong, but that's not my point. The point I'm trying to
get at is the religion itself, the book in which it's based off of says to fight these infidels
and whatnot. And the question was posed to the Muslim and he says, what do you do with this?
How do you answer this? They're supposed to fight the infidel and he says, listen,
okay, he's trying to justify it using his book, the same thing with the JW, same thing with every
other religion, they do the same thing, they go to the book, they say, here you go. And he says
out of the book, he says, yes, you're supposed to attack the infidel because the infidel, the person
who's not a follower of Allah is inherently bad and the world is bad and they will attack you,
they're going to come after you, so get to them first. So how is it in the apostates going like
this on video, don't you see it? And the guy's not even seeing it, he's like, no, and Allah is using
the book and he's like, you can't even see that. What you're saying is the world's bad out there
and they're out to get me, so I need to attack them first and to try and conquer them first.
It's like, how is that a religion, a peace? You view the world, that's a good question because
technically, the JW religion isn't a religion, a peace too. Yes, they might be pacifists and
not before war, yes, they might be this, but my point about it isn't necessarily war type peace.
Yeah, the whole world is wicked and bad and evil and ruled by Satan and his demons
and you, as long as you're not in this church, in this organization, are being ruled by him,
so your relationships, how you view the world and everything is not peaceful in your mind.
Whether you're going to attack it or not, you may not be, you might be a pacifist,
that's what most JWs are, they're like, we don't want to hurt others, we just,
they're more like martyr-ish, if you will, like hurt me, if anything, but they still view the
world that way. It just, it blows me away, like how the world is this horrible, horrible place.
What's your experience on that? Has the world been a horrible, horrible place to you or?
Oh, no, I really don't think the world is a horrible place. Like my, one of my things, and
a lot of people disagree on me with this, but fair enough, my viewpoint is this, back in the early
days of JWs, you were told that the world was going to get worse and worse, critical times hard
to deal with, you know, about 100, 140 years ago, and at that point, the population of the world was
like a billion, and now we're pushing eight billion, and you would imagine that in that period of time,
if everyone being born is further and further from perfection, and the world's supposed to get
worse and worse, I would imagine that at this point, with eight billion, very, very imperfect
people of the final days on this planet, I would not be able to walk out my front door without
being like, without fear of somebody dropping a bomb on me. And I know that there's places where
that is a fact, but I would just expect that that, that you'd be in fear everywhere in the world,
not just in certain places. It just doesn't seem reasonable that the world is supposed to be so
terrible and that people are so awful. And I'm like, my experience is yes, people can be misguided
at times, but I genuinely like to feel that people are good. That if they, if we start with the
assumption that people are good, and then they do things later that aren't so good, then you've
got reason to be like, okay, maybe I don't want to associate with this person or write them off,
I guess. But it's better, better to assume that people are good than just to assume everyone's
bad, and they're just bad for no reason, and cast them all aside, because when you go out and you
meet people and they're kind and they do things, it makes your life full to experience the goodness
in other people. And one of my, my big things that I say all the time is, you know, I may not be
an active Jehovah's Witness, but I recycle. I care about the planet. I'm nice to my cats.
And I do what I can to be environmentally conscious. I try to donate to charities that I see are,
are reputable and are going to, to good, worthy causes. I don't think I'm a horrible rotten person.
The Bible didn't need to tell me to do those things. I just wanted to do those things. So
I don't know why I'm worse when there's people who are Jehovah's Witnesses who are like,
well, Jehovah will never let the world be destroyed. So maybe it's not a big deal if we recycle all
the time, because he'll, he'll reverse the damage into the world. He won't let humans ruin it beyond
repair. Like I feel like it's a big cop out when you just always revert back to, well, God's going
to fix everything. So it doesn't really matter what we do now. It doesn't matter if we vote to try to
improve the conditions of the areas we live in. It doesn't matter if we participate in a volunteer
work in the area to pick up garbage or to, to feed the hungry. It doesn't really matter if God's
going to take care of that in his time. Whereas it's like, I want to do things now to try to make
the world a little bit better than, than I found it. And then here's everyone else being like,
well, we're better than you, but we'll just leave everything in God's hands for his time. I'm like,
how, how is that better? Yeah, I can totally relate. I used to be that way. So that's, I know
exactly like you're describing the way I was as a Christian to, of course, where I am now,
I'm more in your shoes now. Like I 100% agree with everything you just got done saying that's
really, really powerful. It's just amazing. It's amazing what happens. And, and the people who
are usually doing the least to try and better are the ones who are saying everyone else is
making things worse or they're worse. It's, yeah, it's just unbelievable how you, how you, how we
see it now, like almost like our perception completely changed. And we, we almost look at
ourselves and go, I understand why I was doing that, but I was completely blinded and I didn't
realize. And everyone that's, I mean, serious about JWs, the Jehovah's Witness, in my opinion,
and this is a bold statement. It's going to sound really rude and I don't mean this bad, are blinded.
You know, they just cannot see what we're seeing and why because they have so many things that
prevent them from being allowed to even do that. You know, yeah, you're not allowed to doubt that,
don't doubt that. Now, if you start doubting, you need to tell an elder and you're not supposed
to look at this, don't talk to a postage, don't look at postage material. What the hell? You know
what I'm asking people to do? Check it all out. Go research the JWs, go check out the Mormons,
go check out, look at all the religious, check out Buddha, give it a shot, you know, look at this
stuff. And then investigate it critically. You, using a scientific method, tell me if it stands
or falls apart and, you know, you'll come to conclusions. So someone right now, playing a
hypothetical here, someone right now is, what is it? Physically in, mentally in and out. They're
kind of sitting on the fence. They're wanting to possibly, they don't know where to go. They don't
know what to look at. What would you recommend them in your own personal subjective approach to
this? What would you say that they probably need to do if they're going to consider, like,
how are they going to come about leaving? Well, I guess if it comes to, if you're feeling like
you're having struggles with your actual belief system, then my best piece of advice is do the
research. And I don't mean just look for random data points that support your belief system. I mean,
look for what is true, not just what you want to be true. And that was something that I thought
I always did. And it wasn't until I started seeing things that I didn't necessarily agree with,
that I was like, I am trying to prove my bias. I'm not actually looking for what's true. I'm
looking for what I want to be true. I want it to be true. I'm going to say that again, right?
So I was like, I need to start thinking about these things that I don't necessarily like. I
didn't like that, that evolution was coming together so easily for me. I didn't like it,
but I just kept going into it anyways and watching some videos that were easy for me to
understand because I did not have the knowledge at the time. But I would just say if there's
anything that you feel really certain of, but you can't really express why,
do research and to try to figure out if you can justify your beliefs and justify it with more
than just a personal experience or a feeling. Actual evidence that other people can see and
understand would be probably my best route to go if you're questioning your beliefs. Pick the
things that you're not sure about, see if you can find a way to justify it. Through natural means
is probably the best way. If you can't find an explanation in the natural world, then maybe you
have something, maybe you have a reason to be wondering about other things that doesn't necessarily
mean we can't explain it there for God. It just means that there's more to it than you originally
thought. Or at least try to see why we may not, if you're going that far, which is pretty far to go
when you're just in the JW church because you're way over here. They're not even close to probably
having enough information yet to even know if we don't have answers for certain things. Yeah,
and that doesn't mean there isn't a natural explanation. So that's the interesting thing,
is it's like, we just may not have that answer yet. We didn't have answers for a long time. Darwin,
the little black box, I think it was called, which was the DNA. They didn't have the scientific
evidence of seeing within the DNA and checking that far into us. And now we do. It's like,
we may not understand certain things like prior to the Big Bang. Like what happened prior to the
Big Bang? Yeah, I mean, people are like, well, that's God did that. And this is everything that
starts has a cause. And it's like, okay, here we go with the column cosmological argument.
That's way outside of what I think a JW would care about. But it's worth looking into, like you
said, and considering other avenues of critical thinking and test your religion. I would say,
ask yourself, why is yours true and theirs wrong? Because they say the same thing. Keep that in mind
when you're, that doesn't prove anything. But what that does for me, and this is part of my journey,
was how do I know that mine's true and theirs is wrong? They say they had the same experience.
They felt something. They felt justified and right. They knew in their heart of hearts,
the same old phrase, you know, they had the truth and the Mormon say it and the JW say it and the
Muslims say it and the Buddhists say it and you name it. Hindus especially have been watching them
debate. They sound very much like Christians with just polytheistic tendencies. It's just
very similar. Why is yours right and yours wrong and give a good reason. You can't just,
you know, you can't just say, well, I felt it. They felt it. How do you think they're wrong?
You know, so I thought I felt God's hand in my life too. I get it. I guess to simplify it maybe
just to refine my answer a bit would be even just taking the time to make sure you're not
conflating to things because I find a lot of times, especially when I think about evolution,
the first thing people say is, oh, so you're telling me that we all came from a big bang and
monkeys and I'm like, okay, wait, there are two different things and no. But even just making
sure you have an understanding of what the other side's argument might be and not just getting that
information from Watchtower publications because you need like, I'm sorry, that it's going to be
like a perfect explanation of the other side's argument when everybody who's making that literature
is being told not to research such things. It doesn't really make sense to be going to that
literature and saying, yes, this is the end all be all this is where the real information is.
Just kind of stepping outside that box. Maybe you don't want to go to an apostate website, but
reading a book, if you have time to read, I know not everybody does, listening to an interesting
podcast. I really like listening to Bill Nye's podcast because he's just so easy to listen to
and he can talk about subjects that when I read the title, I'm like, that sounds kind of boring
and I listen to it. I'm like, this is fascinating and you'll get book recommendations.
Just doing things that kind of expand your knowledge on the things that you think you know,
but you might not know. When you said the public, the Watchtower publication, I remember years ago,
a Jehovah's Witness came to my house and handed me one and I walked inside and there's this cartoon.
They always have a cartoon. I'm sorry. I love cartoons, by the way. I'm an adult. I like anime,
Dragon Ball Z. You name it. I like stuff like that, but I know that's not reality. I know it's a
cartoon. I love pretending like, I can do all that. I know it's just fiction. When I see the
cartoons on the front of these magazines or inside, as soon as you open the page, there's this little
boy and little girl walking with a lion and a tiger and an elephant and I'm thinking in my head,
it's almost a fiction, like a cartoon. The way that it's there, it's like, how is this any
different than Elron Hubbard writing the fact that Xenu and aliens abducted from 27 different
planets were frozen with dry ice and brought to planet Earth and planted like seeds inside
volcanoes and then we evolved from the volcanoes or I can't remember, like the spirits of them or
something. I can't even remember, but like he was a fictional writer, you know, and then the
Scientologist Church comes up. How is this any different?
Laugh at these things and Jehovah's Witnesses will laugh at these things and it's like you're
laughing and meanwhile on the other side, they believe it's true and they're laughing at you.
It's so crazy how that comes around, how you can be a Jehovah's Witness and you can laugh at the
beliefs of the Mormon and you can bash the beliefs of the Catholics. You can bash it and
say that it doesn't give you any hope to believe that when your child dies that they're in heaven
with God. Like they can look at that and say that's such a stupid thing to believe. Why would you
believe that? That doesn't give you hope and it's like, but what you believe isn't even really
based on anything. When you actually look at the Bible, the resurrection hope to a life on a
paradise Earth, that's not scripturally based. It's really not. It makes people to believe in
heaven than lies. Yeah, there's different. The reason why I think it's complicated and this
just gets into some of the source stuff is that there's more than one teaching I think going on
in the Bible of these ideas and some of the stuff potentially is taken out of context.
Like Bart Ehrman, he's a PhD scholar in New Testament. He wrote a book pretty much talking
about annihilationalism, which is what you guys teach at the JWs. I don't mean you as in like
you're currently that, but yeah, I'm sorry. No, no, no. It's called annihilation, Elisa.
But yeah, there was that teaching, but there was also an eternal conscious torment type of idea
that may not have been called that, of course, but it was the idea that forever you will face a
suffering. But then you got the Catholic Church that has a purgatory type concept that you go
through a phase and then gradually work out of. Some people are in hell. Some people are in this
phase that gradually work out of into heaven. And then you have these strange mythologies
that I see from the allegories, like Lazarus and the rich man, that story of the variable.
Touch it on water and just touch my tongue with the water comes from a Greek tragedy of a man
named Tantalus. And Tantalus, his punishment was he was in a lake and the water came up to his
lip right here, but it never, he was thirsty too, but he was right here and it never went into his
mouth. He could never get it. So the whole time he always had water here and he was always thirsty.
It's like the worst. It's like, it's like there's a fireplace in sight, but you're freezing forever.
I mean, it's like, but it's a mythology. So it's, it's like anyone who takes this stuff literally
do some critical thinking. Yeah, pretty much.
Alissa, plug your, plug your material. How can people, do you, do you, you know, put yourself
out there for people to be able to contact you and talk to you or? Yeah, I mean, I try to. Right
now I just have a Twitter because I mean, I don't love social media. I used to have social media
and I, I deleted it as I left the organization because it was hard to watch everybody blocking
and deleting me. So for now I have a Twitter and I have an email that you can reach me at.
It's aliciawhatsgood at gmail.com and it's on my YouTube channel as well. You can find it there.
I have people email me from time to time and I do try my best to respond, but I actually get
quite a bit. So I don't, I try not to do it every single day so that I don't drain myself,
but I do try to get back in a timely manner. And then you can always find me on my YouTube
channel. I try to put stuff out as often as the name of that channel. EVE 2.0. EVE 2.0. That's
our name right here on here. Alissa, thank you so much. Everybody go down into the description of
this video right now. You will see her links. You can go check her out, follow her on Twitter,
give her positive words, tell her how amazing she is, how awesome she is, and really intelligent.
This was a really wonderful interview. I greatly appreciate you bringing up some of these topics.
Unlike some of the XJWs that I brought up, you brought up some stuff that is more at my heart,
if you will, of things that helped me start to leave the box and look outside. So thank you.
I have to thank you for that. This has been a wonderful interview. So thank you.
Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Yeah. Let's do this again sometime. I'm going to try and get a
collaborative method amongst the XJWs, and we could do like a hangout XJW party on YouTube or
something. And I'll probably make it like a fun little game where we'll have Q&A and ask questions
amongst you guys and just have a good old time. Absolutely. I will be in. That's for sure.
Awesome. Well, ladies and gentlemen, like I said, go check it out down there. I do have merch now.
You guys can join the Patreon if you want to help us grow and continue doing what we're doing here.
That helps me in my efforts and doing that. Like this video, hit that bell when you subscribe,
and never forget, we are MidVisual.
