Dr. Delcy Allison, thank you again, as always.
I have read the article in 2011 from Dr. Jason Staples, who was a student of Dr. Bart D.
Ehrman, and he wrote a thesis on a new way of understanding Romans 11, 25, with the fullness
of the Gentiles, then all Israel will be saved.
Have you read that?
You know what?
I have read that, but you'll have to refresh my memory as to the main thesis.
But yes, I do remember reading that and saying that's interesting and putting it aside and
not forming a judgment on it.
But remind me of the thesis there.
So in Paul, Paul's quoting, and in Romans 9-11, he's constantly referencing Old Testament
passages that are Hebrew Bible, if that's better for our viewers.
This is just about the restoration of Israel, Israel's restoration, re-gathering of Israel.
He quotes Hosea too, you are not my people, these clear passages.
But in the Romans 11, 25 thing, his whole thesis is simply trying to suggest that Paul
is trying to fulfill two things.
He's trying to fulfill the fullness of the nations, like the actual nations coming in,
as well as in some way that's fulfilling the re-gathering of Israel.
Because they're no longer my people, because he references Hosea too and stuff.
Well, he just came out with a book on a new idea of Israel in Second Temple Judaism.
It's all about going through all the literature, Hebrew Bible, Second Temple Judaism, Josephus
is mentioning this, and I'll give you the T's up front and then I'd love to get your
take on this.
In Josephus when he's talking antiquities, he talks about Israel and Judah, and then
sometimes uses Hebrews, talking about the patriarchs.
And he goes through and then when it gets to the time where they talk about the Assyrian
conquest, Israel doesn't come up on the scene anymore.
He's always talking about the Jews, why, because they're out of the picture, historically.
But when they do, when he does mention Israel, it's always eschatologically, one day God's
going to bring it back.
As you know, Josephus talks about them beyond the Euphrates, there's only two in Rome, Judah
Benjamin.
So the 10 northern tribes were out there innumerable in his imagination, I think.
But it's his belief.
And he says that that's what's all going throughout the Second Temple Judaism.
Most scholars want to say Israel became Judah, or Judah replaced that idea.
And he's saying, no, there's still a restoration idea of the lost Israelites.
So he thinks Paul is somehow using the lost tribes of Israel since he's a last day's prophet,
living in the last days, saying, this is it.
So all Israel will be saved means that Israel will be gathered, the Israel that is out there?
Simultaneously, the Taethne, the actual non-Israelites, are coming in.
And it's a twofold prophecy that at the end times, the non-Israelite nations will recognize,
they'll grab a Jew by his coat tail, as the prophecies say.
And then the other side is that the gathering of actual Israel was supposed to come.
So he thinks Paul has both in mind.
And it's not just one, but he really focuses on making sure people who are reading it try
to see lost Israelites in this, because it's like Dennis, everyone goes, he's focusing
way too much on the Homeric stuff.
That's because no one's focusing on it.
So like he wants to really get you to think lost tribes of Israel.
OK, so it seems to me that this notion of restoration of the lost tribes is all over the sources.
So I think this is, if you want to talk about common Judaism, this has got to be one of the
things that that is common.
In fact, I think I remember somewhere in one of Ed Sanders' books where he says that this
is the eschatological belief with the most proof texts, that is Israel coming back.
And I also think that this is probably part of early Christianity, that is, and this would
make it more plausible.
Now, I should add in the middle of all this, I have not read this book, so I shouldn't
be saying anything.
But since you ask me, it would fit with what I see otherwise in the earliest Christianity.
When Jesus tells the 12 disciples that they'll be sitting on thrones, I don't see any way
to think about that other than, yeah, the tribes will come back, right?
And it's meant literally, it's not meant figuratively.
So by the time you get to the second century, the regathering from around the world has
to be Gentiles, and you forget what Israel is.
But it's in Josephus, it's in Philo, it's all over the pseudepigrapha.
I think it's in Jesus, myself.
I think that when Jesus talks about the many coming from East and West, I've been associated
with this argument, lots of people don't like it, but I think it's obvious.
From East and West, or Luke has North, South, East and West, if you look at the Hebrew Bible,
every time people come from East or West or North, South, East or West, it is the Jews.
It is not the Gentiles.
When I worked on this, I found no text about Gentiles coming from East and West or North,
South, East, West.
It's always the tribes, it's always the tribes.
So I think this is part of what Jesus is hoping for when he's looking towards the end, and
that it mattered a lot for him, is established by the fact, if it's a fact, that he has twelve
disciples, because that's the symbolic meaning, right?
All of which is to say that if Paul is thinking in terms of the lost tribes, it does fit what
I otherwise see all over Judaism, and all over, maybe not all over, but in the Gospels
also.
Especially Matthew.
Yeah, especially Matthew.
The other thing is that when you look at the Jewish literature on the Restoration in, I
don't know, the Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs, or you see it in Philo, Sege Baruch, Jubilees
I.
In a lot of these texts, the regathering is caused by the repentance of Israel.
That is, there's some sort of conversion experience, and that means there is the expectation that
at the end of the day, Israel will turn away from idols and sin, and they will all turn
back to God.
I've always thought, apart from Staple's work, which you just mentioned, I've always
thought that that somehow has to be there somehow in Romans 11, right?
The idea that Israel repents, and then the end comes, except in Romans it's kind of like
the Gentiles repent, and then the end comes.
Anyway, it's some sort of reworking of this idea that repentance is what brings the end
or hails the end.
So again, I haven't read the book.
I do remember reading the article and thinking, I just need to think about this more.
Well, I've actually engaged with him, and not only did he write on Bart's blog a couple
times and took questions, which I would ask.
I engaged with other groups I've mentioned in the past, which got very confusing about
the whole Gentiles thing.
I didn't mean to cause confusion for you.
It's just one of those matters that if I'm waiting for something to be written on it,
and then if it's written, I'd be happy to say, would you be interested in taking a look
at this critically?
I'd love to get your thoughts.
But the idea of Paul and Galatians 3 really registers interesting ideas to me.
These Gentiles, he's making an argument to the Galatians, oh, foolish Galatians, who
has bewitched you?
People are trying to Judaize them, it seems, circumcised, the whole nine.
You need to convert.
I think Galatians 3, and I'd love to get your thoughts while we go, Galatians 3, he's making
an argument and saying, to be a seed of Abraham, someone is arguing you need to convert.
He's saying, before Abraham was circumcised, it was a promise, and by faith, he was justified.
Then he says this really weird thing.
Paul says, it is not to the descendants, or to the seeds, but to the seed, singular,
which is Christ, and you need to be in Christ to be in Abraham's descendant, which made
me think, this might be Paul's way of arguing, not only is he skipping the whole, this before
he was circumcised, before Abraham was circumcised, he was a Gentile, he was in the land of Ur,
and God called him, and he was faithful, he listened to God, he wasn't even circumcised
yet, so he's saying to these Gentiles, you don't need to be circumcised, and that weird
entrance of saying, be in Christ, and you will be in Abraham, you will be getting the
promises of being his seed.
They're not Abraham's actual literal seed though, so what do you think?
Well, so I think the way to think about this is to say that Paul is still being Jewish
here, because in the Jewish text, the tribes do return, but also the Gentiles go up to
Jerusalem, but I don't think anywhere talks about Gentiles becoming Jews, or Gentiles
being circumcised, or Gentiles becoming other than Gentiles, they are actually going to
Jerusalem, and it seems they are keeping, they're not being turned into something else
when they come in at the end of time, so it would make perfect sense for Paul to think
that way, it's just part of the Jewish tradition, and that, given all sorts of personal circumstances,
Paul doesn't want Gentiles circumcised, and it actually fits with a broader, I think it
fits with a broader Jewish eschatology, which is the Gentile, the Gentiles go up to Jerusalem,
a lot, the Gentiles who become Jews all of a sudden, so they submit themselves to the
God of Israel, but they remain who they are.
Paula Fredericksson wrote this, did you read her book, the Paul the Pagan's Apostle, or
you just have too many things to read?
It is, oh it's upstairs, it's in a pile of books to be read.
So I listened to it on Audible, I listened to it twice because I was hoping to get an
interview with her, thought it was really interesting.
The Godfair thing comes up a lot, which the historical, what's going on here, and Paul
sees these Godfairs interested in the God of Israel, and it makes an interesting case
to say, he thinks that this is the prophecies that one day they're going to come and realize
the truth of God.
I think she's right about that.
And he's using that eschatologically, but it just made me wonder what your thoughts
might be on how to interpret the all-Israel thing, because James Tabor, where I ask him
and he takes the position that, well what happens is there's a pause, and Matthew Teeson
takes the same thing.
And I think Paula Fredericksson does as well, where there's a hardening on the Jews, which
means a hardening on Israel, and it's only Gentile focused, and Paul, which might make
sense why it's like a proto-church replacement thing where people end up interpreting Paul
the wrong way and it goes too far.
But if he's pausing the Jews, because they're hard and they're not listening, there's a
stumble and blah, blah, blah, we're going to focus on the Gentiles, but when that's
done, then all Israel will be saved.
Yeah, well see, that might be related to Mark 13.10, which is part of the description of
the latter days, and the gospel must first be preached, and then the end, well that's
Matthew's version, but it's the same thing in Mark.
The gospel must first be preached to all the nations, and then the end will come.
So that actually sounds a bit like Paul, that is, he wants to convert the Gentile world
and once the Gentile world is converted, then the end will come.
And again, if you're working with traditional ideas of Jewish eschatology from Deuteronomy
30 on, they repent at the end.
So they are saved.
Who repents at the end?
Israel.
Israel repents at the end.
For Paul's point of view, you would think that would mean, well, the Jews who have not
received Jesus as the Messiah will receive him as the Messiah.
They will recognize their mistake, and for Paul that would be something like the repentance
of Deuteronomy 30.
So I think it all fits together somehow, and I guess the main point that I would want to
make is that you do have this early Christian experience with the Gentiles, but I still
think everything is being interpreted within a Jewish framework.
Everything's been given by the Torah and Jewish interpretations of it.
Paul, every bit of theologizing he does is still coming out of his tradition, the tradition
in which he was trained.
Something about Paul, and then I'll wrap things up, because you know, I like to unload
what I think is interesting and then see how you guys deal with it.
I'm going to suffer some other person with this windbag.
Acts 17.
If there's a kernel here, Paul, I definitely think there's some interesting stuff here
that seems to be possibly really related to Paul, but at the same time kind of fictionalized
like an Aristotle kind of figure in a way too, like a combination of stuff going on
in Acts.
But he quotes epimonities.
He says, in him we move, we breathe, we have our being, and then he says, we too are the
offspring.
Zeus is really the original context, but he's using this saying, your own poets have said,
now what's his argument, the resurrection?
Well, they're like, what's this dummy got to say, this babbler, and he's talking about
resurrection, and Dr. Price brought this to my attention.
I'd never thought about this, never heard of this before.
First Timothy is talking about these certain groups and epimonities that have this cave
where they're showing where Zeus died or something.
If I'm not mistaken, it's Zeus.
If we're talking about the same thing, I think it's Zeus.
And he's like, you dummies?
No, epimonities is angry, and he's calling them these lazy, whatever they are, something
in the original context of the poem, and he's saying, no, Zeus is alive.
We live, we breathe, we have our being because of Zeus.
We are the offspring of Zeus.
This is his argument in the original poem.
And here Paul's quoting epimonities where this is, in its actual context, there's an
argument about Zeus being alive, and he is our God and all that.
And he's saying the unknown God that you don't know is actually the one I'm telling you today.
And it's a beautiful picture of how he's using an apologetic from their own sources.
Do you think that there's something to that?
I'm not sure what you're asking here.
Is it thinkable that Paul thought like that?
Yeah.
Paul might be using it.
Well, I don't know the sources of Acts 17, I don't know to what extent.
There's history there.
One of the things that is interesting is that Paul never mentions Athens in his letters,
and in Acts he fails.
So there was no church founded in Athens, which actually harmonizes then with the letters
where there is no reference to it because he had a bad reception there.
I'm not sure what you're asking.
If you're asking me, is it possible that Paul actually knows the literary context of
the quotation, the original context?
I didn't know if you'd heard of that context.
I have no idea.
What I will say is that it's not impossible for 1st century Jew to think like that.
Now, Josephus is very sophisticated, but there are places in Josephus where he will say something
like, you know, Zeus is the name for Yahweh.
It's another name for Yahweh, the Greeks.
So there are actually, I don't know, half a dozen texts or so from the 2nd Temple period
in which Jews are trying to relate their God to the pagan world in which they will say,
you know, well, that's another name for what we have.
And so they're trying to be ecumenical and generous and build bridges.
Now that's not very Lutheran, but Paul wasn't a Lutheran, so could he have thought such
a thing on an occasion or thought, you know, taking the opportunity, well, maybe so.
I don't know.
I'm not, I don't think a Bardian reading of Paul makes sense.
I think there is some sort of natural theology, if you will, in Romans 1, and it's not exactly
Acts 17, but you might if you want to draw lines between the two.
So this is kind of like the authorship of the apocalypse, you know, if I find out after
I go to the Great Library in the sky that, you know, Acts 17 is a pretty good summary
of something Paul said on some occasion, I wouldn't be dumbfounded, you know, I wouldn't
say absolutely impossible, you must, the record must be wrong.
I wouldn't think that.
Thank you.
