Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, thank you so much for letting me do this man and come up here and harass
you.
I get to actually harass you and have fun and ask questions, but seriously you just wrote
that book.
If you don't mind showing everybody the book real quick, yeah, you got a glare, just there
you go.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament.
When you first dropped this, I thought to myself, hold on, someone's going to take this
wrong, right?
They're going to go, look at the title, oh yeah, yeah, I'm sure.
The atheist handbook, this isn't meant for anyone, but a nonbeliever, someone who doesn't
believe a God exists, so they're thinking this is only for them.
Is that the case?
Yeah, I mean, you've sort of answered it, I think, in the way you framed the question.
No, I mean, I think we all have to be, I think it's good to be candid about the overall goal
when we write something and when we make a video.
And I'm not in any way backing away from the fact that, you know, a seminary, the seminary
that I went to said that they were there to equip the saints, right?
Equip them to preach the gospel throughout all the world and to do so knowing the biblical
text.
Well, this book is designed to equip atheists and skeptics who are interested in discussing
and debating biblical topics or Old Testament topics, so I don't back away from that at
all.
Right.
That's how it's designed.
Now, that doesn't mean that it's written in some sort of antagonistic fashion.
I recently did an interview on Dr. Michael Brown's radio show, YouTube show, I think
it's it's radio and YouTube.
And you know, I don't think that anybody could accuse me after watching that of being antagonistic
toward Christianity or antagonistic toward religion.
What I'm trying to do in the book is because I agree with the not God position, I think
that the how is it that Graham Oppie puts it that the the that's terrible.
I can't think of this proposition that the proposition no gods exist.
I think that proposition is probably true.
So because of that, I think that my positions, my arguments, because I'm convinced that they
speak to the supernatural not being being behind the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament
text are going to align with the conclusions of a skeptic or an atheist.
And so, you know, I see atheists getting bullied online at the I see skeptics getting bullied
online because they are accused of not knowing the context of the of the Old Testament.
And sometimes that's true, of course.
In fact, that might be true half the time.
I mean, there's sometimes that there's not there'd be no reason for the book if it weren't
true, because that's the purpose of the book is that was going to be my next question was
like, why did you write the book?
Yeah, and this leads right into it.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, the example that I give in the book and that I give all the time when I talk about
it is First Samuel 15, as in you hear, you know, very, very often, an atheist or a skeptic
in a debate, usually with a fundamentalist or a Christian apologist will say, how can
you, you know, claim that your deity is omnibenevolent or the ground of all morality, you know,
and unchanging, and yet he calls for his people to commit mass genocide on the Amalekites,
for example, which, you know, spoilers, legitimate criticism, legitimate criticism.
And instead of addressing that issue very often, the Christian apologist will ask, well, do you
know the context?
Jewish apologists as well.
Yes, that's true.
That's true.
I don't I've had that criticism thrown at me when I mentioned this and they said, you
don't know why they were trying to wipe out that this was what they said.
So they're already, yeah, you they're making some of this up, but why would they want to
annihilate them unless they were being attacked first or they were going to take them out?
So there's always a criticism back.
No doubt.
No doubt.
That's a fair point.
I appreciate your point.
I know.
So the the thing that I say in the book is that you don't have to know the history of
the interaction between the Amalekites and the Israelites in order to know that mass
genocide is a bad thing.
You just don't have to do that.
You don't have to know it, but it helps in these discussions and it helps in general.
So the point of the book is to give the reader and it's intended for atheists and
skeptics, but it's the same data for everybody.
It'll give the reader it's intended to give the reader not only a broad background to
things like what the narrative of the Old Testament is, what the history of the
ancient Near East is, how archaeology works, those sorts of things, but also then
digging down deep into specific hot button issues like slavery in the Bible or the
dating of the Book of Daniel or did Moses write the Pentateuch, those sorts of things.
So yes, it is geared toward the atheist and the skeptic in order to equip them.
Might I say just like any seminary and any Christian college or any Christian school
is geared toward saying this is literally true and accurate.
But that doesn't mean that that seminary is coming at it and saying those stupid
atheists, those dumb skeptics, they're not doing that.
Right.
Right.
And in the same way, I mean, the last paragraph to the book in the conclusion talks
about conversations that I have on the atheist network group, which is a channel
of Oz and, you know,
murder, shed, Steve had a study shell and Biddy Buddha and skids the clown and Wes
trying to think of everybody.
I apologize.
Whoever I've forgotten, Bryce, anyway, all these people, their whole goal
in having this atheist network group is to have better conversations.
In fact, we were just talking about this off air.
They are hosting a conference October 9th and 10th of this year out in Fort Wayne,
Indiana, where it's called better.
The conference is called better and it's designed to help atheists
and skeptics to be able to approach conversations that this book is sort of
prepping you for in a way that's not antagonistic, that's not divisive.
I'm speaking at the conference and mine is how to utilize historical
inaccuracies in the biblical text in the Hebrew Bible in order to have
effective, meaningful conversations.
So you don't, you know, the goal is not to go, you big dummy, you don't know
that all these things are wrong in the book of Daniel.
The point is to say, hey, look, let's take a step back.
Why would these things be inaccurate in the book of Daniel?
Maybe there's another way to interpret this.
So, yeah, if just to plug it, if you go to YouTube and type in
the atheist network group or I think you can just type in Tang, T-A-N-G.
It'll it'll bring it up and they've got links to get it.
But it's going to be great.
Sorry, now I'm shilling.
No, you're gamelessly.
I must. No, no, no.
I mean, I'm friends with all of them.
So or at least I know a couple of them for sure.
But I'm it's going to be a lot of fun.
Seth Andrews is going to be there.
Anthony Magnobosco is speaking at Dave Warnock.
Others. Yes, it's going to be a T-Jubble community is important to talk
to and have because like, where do you go once you're not part of it?
And that book right there?
I mean, that's a powerful book.
Once you start reading it, you're opening up Pandora's box.
If you're not already somebody who's considered this, I think that
when Christians think of atheists, they think most of the ones I talk about,
not the ones that I interview.
I interview Christians all the time.
So I guess I need to really specify.
I'm talking about fundamentalists.
They have this like they are evil people.
There's something like, you know, I mean, oftentimes not all.
Not all fundamentalists are the same either.
Right. Yeah, that's the complexity of this.
But there's like a vilification, like there's something wrong.
And you need to come back.
There's a real drive that they think their subjective truth is absolute.
And that's what's the fact that you need to live by.
So I guess the final question in the vein of this is,
why is it important to know the Old Testament narrative?
Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest thing is in order to have a better conversation
with a Christian apologist or a fundamentalist,
is you have to know the text that they're using and the context that they're understanding.
So going back to the first Samuel 15 thing,
if they ask you the question, what's the context of first Samuel 15?
You could, and I see it all the time, just say, look, the context doesn't matter.
Give me a scenario where it's OK outside of God, your God, your specific God.
Because if Asher commanded mass genocide, you'd say that was wrong.
Right. Or if any human called for mass genocide, you'd say that was wrong.
So outside of your deity, your particular deity, can you give me an example
of when it would be OK to call for mass genocide, including killing women,
children, infants, cattle?
When is that OK?
You could say that.
But the problem is you're already putting that person on a defensive position
in a defensive position that I don't think you need to.
And I think you're making the task harder.
Now, you might be scoring points with the audience,
but it's probably going to be your audience that you're scoring points with,
right, your atheistic or your skeptical audience who's already on your side.
But they're already there.
The goal, I think, to have these better conversations is to be
be able to not only further
strengthen, solidify, whatever your own positions with data.
Like I don't mean that in a like
I can't think of the term now, but like in a bad way,
supporting your own position, but ensuring that your position
has good justification with the data.
But it's it's also to be able to bring somebody
that doesn't hold your position already to your side, bring them along.
And so by understanding their on their view on the narrative,
saying, OK, look, let me tell you about the Amalekites.
Yes, so back in Exodus 17, you have this thing, you know,
where the Israelites are coming up out of Egypt and the Amalekites
ambush them from the back.
And this was a long time before Saul, hundreds of years before Saul.
But there's this sort of cosmic battle that's set up in the text
where Yahweh now from generation to generation is going to be against Amalek.
And so that's what the background is for this is what the writer's picking up on.
So then when God, you know, tests all essentially and gives him this mission
to go wipe out the Amalekites, it's not for on a whim.
It's to conclude this cosmic battle that Yahweh's been having for all this time.
Well, if you can say that automatically,
the Apologist is probably thinking I didn't know all that, right?
Right. Probably. Right.
And if they did, they're going, OK, all right, you've done your homework.
I can't throw that in your face anymore.
You've clear because we're going to be in the middle of the day.
Anymore, you've clear because what is the one claim that we hear all the time?
I don't know. Yeah, you don't know the context.
You don't read the Bible, atheist.
You don't read it, right?
And if you do, you cherry pick it.
So I think understanding the narrative is really important for these conversations.
I think you're right.
No, I think that's a powerful point.
And those poor, you know, descendants of those poor guys who I mean,
they're cursed forever.
How do you get around?
It doesn't matter how nice their children are.
Yeah. You know, you're done
because you messed with the wrong God. Yeah.
I just think that's when you start looking at that,
the way we're looking at it now. Yeah.
I mean, and then they say you're on the wrong side.
It's crazy. It makes you realize, like, whoa, a paradigm shift.
That's a mind.
Just blows your mind on how you would see it's OK.
But I could see how when you're on the team,
it's like America going into a war.
Yes. OK, we go into a war.
We think Middle East during when all the stuff went down.
I'm thinking my dad, you know, his high speed, bad ass military special forces.
And so he comes back, yeah, we kicked some ass.
And I'm like, yeah, you know, but in my mind, I'm wondering
how many civilians, how many people over there that were what or if there were any
of the people that maybe none of them had any involvement
in anything that happened or whatever.
So it's like we should talk about my my experience
doing archaeology over in Syria, because I worked very closely
with people from a local village and, yeah, we would disagree on
you know, the way they carry out.
We disagree with their ethical system
because it's based on some aspects of the Koran and Islam.
But I mean, they're they're normal people.
Yeah, they're trying to live.
And that's what I think is also happening with atheists and Christians.
And it's like, I want to break that wall down.
Yeah. But that.
But how do you break that wall down when the very epistemology
they live by requires them to try and make you become like them?
So it kind of forces you into this like kind of a combat
situation where you're having to write a book like here's the atheist handbook.
And it's not to say I'm trying to make everyone an atheist.
It's trying to say, now do you understand why I don't agree with your conclusions?
And just maybe it might I would hope evolve their position in a way
where it's not so fundamentalist.
You and me, we're not going to see the day that religion disappears.
In fact, I don't know if it ever will.
It's a tool in which humans have lived by and it's been useful for many centuries.
Who knows if that would ever even change?
The point is we're trying to make a dent on the way we're looked at and approached
and hopefully it affects the world.
I think there's some horrible ideologies out there in the world
that could really use some common sense in this respect, I think.
Go out. Go seriously.
I know I'm fine with showing it because I stand behind it.
Everybody go look up the atheist network group
and find get yourself a ticket to this conference, the better conference,
because that's what this is all about.
All of the speakers got street epistemology,
people that are just just trying to figure out a way to deal with
believers that hold these positions that we disagree with.
And then we think in many ways are dangerous to society
because they're basing what it is that they believe, as you say, on this mindset
that not only am I right, but, you know,
John Collins, I think, said it best to me in one of the video
that he did with us on our channel where he was talking about biblical values,
biblical values.
And he said the real danger with this type of thought
is that when you know that you're right and you have this divine mandate
to enforce, I guess I would say,
that right, that correct position that you have.
And there is no, like there's no wiggle room, you have to be right about it.
Then what there's only one other way to go.
It's to try to convince them or violence, right?
There's no that you sort of left with no other cards to play.
And and so that's why I think this is a.
It's a good thing to be able to figure out how we can have these meaningful,
better conversations as atheists, as skeptics with with Christians.
So again, atheists network group grabs and tickets.
I'll see you out there.
Awesome. Let me see that book one more time, Dr.
Josh, and I will be out there signing these.
Awesome. So, you know, can they buy it there in person to you?
They will be able to see.
But you might want to read it before you get there.
So, you know, that's true. That's true.
But it's on the audiobook.
So maybe listen to the audiobook because Seth Andrews reads the audiobook.
Right. Listen to it. Get you both.
Yeah. Yeah. And then come out to the conference.
Why have both?
So, you know what I mean?
I've got the paper in case I need a roll of doobie.
No, I'm just kidding.
Need to prop a door open or something.
Get a little bit higher up on the shelf.
Yeah, that's all. That's all.
Thank you, Dr. Josh. Thank you.
