Ladies and gentlemen, Derek Lambert, your host, MythVision Podcast. I am a skeptic,
I am an atheist, I am a naturalist, I am someone who doesn't believe in the spiritual or believe
in the divine. I once worshipped a man named Jesus Christ as an ex-Christian. I used to go to
the Christian churches and bounce around between denominations as I continued to study. And after
I found critical thinking and continued to actually test the things that I was once believing in,
came to the side where I don't believe. But there's a man who claims to be the man
that I once worshipped. Now I may have worshipped him wrong, I may have not understood him properly,
this guy is coming to set the record straight. He claims to have been alive for 2000 years and
his wife is Mary Magdalene. I really enjoyed this conversation, he's actually quite a great guy,
very very nice guy. But his claims are bold and extremely extraordinary. I want you guys to stay
tuned, make sure you like this video, subscribe and hit the bell and join our Patreon. I want you
to wonder what it would be like to actually carry on a conversation with Jesus. And if you do wonder
that, then you might want to watch a show because this man claims to be that very person.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Your host, Eric Lambert, guys,
you've been waiting for this show. Well, here it is. Introducing Dr. Robert M. Price.
He's practically my granddad, double PhD, New Testament studies and theology. He's obviously
a scholar in the field, but also a friend of everyone. And so thank you for joining us here
today, Dr. Price. Oh, my pleasure and honor. David Samuel, welcome man to the channel. You're
finally coming out and saying, hey, I'm here, welcome man. Yes, yes. Thanks for having me on.
And I just want to say that David helps us with the website. You guys can go to
MythVisionPodcast.com. You guys check out the Patreon. You can join, help us with what we're
doing here and check out all the videos we have. Subscribe to the channel. And like I said,
prior to hit record, the first shall be last and the last shall be first. We have none other than
Jesus who is located in Australia. You are called Jesus. We call you Jesus. I know you get called
AJ, but I'm going to refer to you as Jesus. This is going to be an interesting interview,
unlike I think any interview I've ever done myself. But I want to say thank you for joining
us today on MythVision. It's my pleasure, Derek. And what is the name of your website and the
YouTube channel real quick, just for anybody who might be interested? Well, our website is
DivineTruth.com. So anybody who wants to watch anything we've produced, we've got thousands
of videos on there and so forth. But it's DivineTruth.com. And I forget the name of our YouTube
channel now, but it's basically the same. DivineTruth is the name of the channel. And so people
can get information from both of those locations if after the show if they want to. Well, I think
it'll be interesting to start us out simple. And I think both of our gentlemen here will understand
we've watched a lot of your material. We're acquainted with your shows. So we kind of have
the inside look on knowing some of the answers that you'll have to some questions and things like
that. Some of these questions we hope are new and not things that have been asked a million times.
But I have to open us up just so people have context and know what this is about. You are
saying that you are the second coming of Jesus who was the man in the first century who was
crucified by Pontius Pilate and who's the Son of God. If I'm not mistaken, I don't want to put words
in your mouth. Yeah, I'm not saying a lot of that. Firstly, I'm saying that I am the Jesus that
existed in the first century, obviously. But I've had 2000 years of existence. I'm not the
second coming of me. I'm the first coming of me. This is just all a part of my life. I've lived
2000 years. So a lot of that time I've lived in the spirit world, obviously. And I've been back
on earth now for 57 years. And I'm also not saying that I'm the only Son of God or anything like that.
All of those statements about what I say are often fabrications of the media rather than
what I've actually said. So I'm actually saying that all of us are children of God. But we become a
Son of God in a special sense by entering a specific relationship that involves receiving
God's love to the point of alignment with God. And that's something that I taught in the first
century and that I continue to teach now. So yeah, so Jesus and I actually have a few things in
common. Firstly, we're both South Australians, so from the driest state in the world. I believe you
are from Renmark. Is that right, Jesus? No, from Loxton, which is a Loxton. Sorry, sorry. Yeah,
that's Riverland. Yes, that's right. Loxton, which is just around the corner from Renmark.
Yes, so that's that's in the Riverland. And we also share a similar history when it comes to,
I guess, religion. We were both born and raised as Jehovah's Witnesses.
We were born in, okay, you were born in, right, but you were raised in, you were raised as a
Jehovah's Witness. I was born as an Anglican and my mother investigated different religions
when I was about seven years of age and eventually most of my family, including myself, became Jehovah's
Witnesses around about the time when I was about eight or nine years of age. Yeah.
Well, just out of curiosity, were you in the Riverland? Were Loxton as a young kid as a Jehovah's
Witness? That's a pretty small, I mean, community. Loxton, I'd say, would have a population of,
what, 20,000, 15,000? Oh, not even that. I think it was about 5,000 people. Wow, okay. So we,
yeah, we were the very first people in Loxton to become Jehovah's Witnesses, actually. So.
Oh, wow. Okay. Wow. So, yeah. If you don't mind, I think this is, you know, this is so
interesting to me that someone would actually, you know, say that they've been alive for 2,000
years since the first century. I think that's right there off the bat is just a fascinating
statement. And I think David would agree, Dr. Price would agree, we want to know more. We
obviously need to know more. So the first question we wanted to ask that we had written down was
about the Messianic secret. Okay. The idea in the text of the New Testament is that Jesus is kind
of like saying, shh, I'm not, and I'm actually speaking about you in the context. So I'm going
to try my best rather than listening to this to refer to you as this Jesus. And I think that'll
make this an interesting interview. You hit yourself. You wouldn't show that unless I'm mistaken
or the text isn't being accurate, I will ask you to correct the text and say, hey, this isn't right.
It almost might be a good question to ask up front. Are there any books that are actually
accurate in portraying you completely? No. Okay. So we're going to come to the source then,
according to this. I want everyone who's watching to say, okay, the book isn't going to give you
all your answers. There might be some things there that are accurate. Maybe you can clarify.
So were you openly proclaiming that you were the Messiah, the Savior of Israel in the first
century? Well, I was proclaiming that I was the Messiah, not the Savior of Israel. There's a lot
of history, I suppose, to discuss if you want to really understand the background of my life in the
first century. My father believed, Joseph believed that I would be the Messiah. He had indications
he felt from God and from angelic forces that he believed in at the time, not all through his life,
but at the time of my birth, he believed that I was the foretold Messiah. But over a period of
time, and by the time I was five or six years of age, he was really struggling to continue to
believe that that would be the case. And my nature was a lot different to his. I was a lot more
gentler person than he was. He definitely believed in the recovery of Israel against the Roman forces.
He felt that the Messiah would lead Israel to freedom from Rome. And I had no intention
of doing any of that even as a young child. I was a nonviolent person even as a young child.
So he, besides educating me through the priesthood that he was connected to, we lived in Egypt
until I was nearly 12 years of age. And he educated me in the local, you could call it,
I suppose, the local temple that we would go to. And he educated me there, but he also put me
through education trying to make me a soldier as well, from a very young age. And I was very
anti of anything to do with war or soldiering. And so my father and I, from a very young age,
we entered into what you would call a major disagreement. My father often became violent
with me as a result of the disagreements. But I could never agree that I was going to be
the savior of Israel, and particularly the savior of Israel in the way he understood it.
And I was going to be a savior of a kind, but only in the sense that I would be able to share
with people what God's truth was about God and having a relationship with God and also
the development of the human soul into a place of a more loving condition. And I started to understand
that during my teenage years, more than any other time before then, but my father and I had major
disagreements about what my role would be. So as it turned out, he still felt that even during
my teenage years that I was potentially the Messiah. But I did not agree with him. I didn't feel
I was at the time. It was only during my late teenage years that I started to recognize myself
as the person foretold in earlier scripture that would be coming. And that was only through my
connection with God and my relationship with God that that became clear to me.
Jesus, if I'm not mistaken, your father, Joseph, was part of the Sanhedrin, was that correct?
Well, when I was born, he wasn't, but when I was born, he aspired to be. And over the period of my
life, by the time I died, he was a member of the Sanhedrin. He wasn't present the night that I was
condemned to death, but he was aware that that was going to happen. And also, to some extent,
at that time, he agreed with my condemnation to death. He later regretted that, but at the time
he felt that I was becoming an apostate to the faith and also a major thorn in the side of the
Jewish faith. So he was actually, although he wasn't present at the vote, he did to some extent before
then agree with people's opinions of me, particularly his friends' opinions of me.
Jesus, you don't mind me asking. The New Testament portrays, and I don't know how
accurate this is because there's a debate amongst mythicists, which are people who think you didn't
even exist at all to begin with, and those who say that there was a guy, but he's mythologized,
which would probably fit more in line with what you actually believe about these texts that were
written about you. So my question is, did you have a brother named James, or was this man named
James just a pseudonym for a baptized Christian or someone that was part of your movement?
Well, my mother and father had a total of nine children, but I had five brothers
and two sisters while I was alive, obviously. So there were eight of us, totally. My mother had
a child die as well in childbirth, so there's a total of nine children. But yeah, I had a
brother. James Thomas was also my brother. I had a number of other brothers. One was named Judas,
but not the Judas that was involved in the so-called betrayal of myself. But yeah,
I had brothers and sisters. I had two sisters. They were named after Jacob's two daughters,
Rachel and Leah. So yes, I had brothers and sisters. I was the eldest brother of my siblings.
I was born first. And by the time we left Egypt, my mother and father had eight children.
Was your father Joseph of Arimathea?
Yes. The answer to that question is yes. He was often claimed to be different people in the Bible
for different reasons, because he did change quite significantly after my death. You could say
he became a believer in what I was teaching after my death. And he was quite distraught about how
the Sanhedrin eventually treated me and about my death itself. And so he actually gave up
his role in the Sanhedrin after my death. And unfortunately, he was also quite sad after my
death. And he felt quite guilty after my death. And so he actually left my mother with James,
that's John's brother James. And I'm sorry, with John, James and John were brothers,
not my brother James. Two James is in the narrative. And he finished up leaving my mother
there. And I suppose you would call it nowadays proselytizing throughout Europe. And he actually
died in England. And my mother didn't see him again shortly after my death.
Hmm. That brings up so many questions. David. Yeah, so I guess a lot of people go down these
routes to asking you these basic questions. And I kind of want to poke into unknown territory,
but are we sticking to the script here, David? Or? Well, I haven't probably answered your first
question. And you asked about the sciatic secret, whether they were... Yeah, let's answer that.
Because I think there's an interesting part to that as well, in that
most people believe that God is mysterious and therefore a keeper of secrets. And most people
also believe that Jesus being so-called a part of God or God's Son is also to an extent a keeper
of secrets. And nothing could be further from the truth. God's intention and also my intention,
because I'm associated with him in the sense that he's my father. And I am connected to his
desires. And our intention is to share truth with people and to be open and honest with everyone.
And so under no circumstances have I ever or will I ever try to cover over truth with people.
Under no circumstances will I ever try and create secrets or tell people what to do
with their experiences with God or with me. And so a lot of the claims in the Bible that I did
such things are completely false and written after I died in order to create some sense of mystery.
You see, most so-called God men in the past, as you correctly said, I was basically
mis-were created around me in order to compare me with the gods of the Romans and the Greeks,
who had all sorts of things happen to them, some of them including things like walking on water and
turning water into wine and all of these other so-called things, which by the way also never
happened. But, you know, they were just mis-created in order to create a following. And a lot of the
followers after my death tried to create similar myths in order to have some kind of comparison
or competition, you could say, with these other gods of other nations. And in no way was I ever
a God. I'm a human just as you are. And I'm a son of God in the same sense that you are. And so
all these myths were created in order to put me above others in order to attempt to force people
to listen to my message, which of course is problematic in itself. So a lot of the things
that were created, including the so-called mysteries surrounding myself and my claims,
were all false, because I was honest and open with everyone just as I am now. And I have no
intention of covering over any truth, because I do believe that truth is what saves humanity.
And I'm here, I'm talking not just about theological truth. I'm talking about scientific,
physical evidence, which to my mind is a large portion of the truth. And these particular
things need to be properly explained to humanity. But I'm also talking about the truth about God
and the truth about the human soul and the truth about why God created us and where we're headed
and where we came from. And the truth about life after death was a big part also of what I was
trying to teach in the first century. And in fact, my own death was a demonstration of many of the
things that I taught before my death. Jesus, we're just asking you to clarify one thing,
because you're just talking about your dad. And that's not Joseph. I'm talking about your father,
Heavenly Father. We've got lots of questions, by the way, but we're not going to be able to get
through most of them. One of the questions asked from what in the group, in our mid-vision group,
was from Melissa in Newcastle, Newcastle, England, that is. And she asked, is your father
Yahweh? Is it Jehovah? Is that your father, your Heavenly Father, not your physical father?
Well, in the first century, I called him Yahweh, because that was what everyone around me called
God at the time. The Jews referred to God as Yahweh in the first century. And because they also viewed
God primarily as a masculine being, I referred to God as Yahweh in my discussions with them
in the first century. Of course, God himself or herself, you could say, doesn't have a name,
and it's only a name we've given the entity. God as an entity exists, and the names we give God
are really human constructions based on what they believe God to be, in most cases. So,
unfortunately, on Earth, most people on Earth believe God to be a fairly violent sort of
creature, unfortunately. A very young testament, I would be sure to get it.
Yeah. I noticed you referred to it. Even in New Testament, David, if you look at Book of Revelation,
for example, it is saying that I will come and destroy people. God will come and destroy the
wicked at arm again, and everyone who is an unbeliever will be erased from the Earth. These
kind of claims are never going to occur, because God's not an unloving being. And also, God doesn't
make mistakes in God's creations. So, for us to believe that God would create, the pinnacle of
His creation is the human soul, and to imagine that God would create a whole group of people that
He would then go ahead and completely annihilate afterwards, rather than just re-educating them,
redeeming them, is a completely false belief. So, a lot of those beliefs are really based upon the
fact that many people want wicked people to be punished. They want wicked people to be pummeled
into the ground, basically, rather than redeemed. But God wants our redemption, and He's not that
interested, really, in our punishment. Hold on one second, guys. I think this is important to
ask in light of this, because go ahead if you need to say something.
No, I just want to clarify. A lot of the Divine Tree videos, you refer to God as
Mother God. I think you've seen you refer to God as Father, as in male. Is there any reason that
you refer to the Creator of the cosmos as a female? Just out of curiosity.
The best way to explain that is that God has masculine and feminine qualities,
and it's appropriate under certain circumstances to refer to God as masculine or male,
because there are certain masculine type of qualities that God does display to humanity.
But it's also appropriate to talk about God as female, because there are certain feminine
qualities that God also displays. The reality is that God is gender-neutral,
is the best way of saying it. But God does have masculine and feminine qualities,
and He created our complete soul in the image. In other words, He gave our soul masculine and
feminine qualities. And by the way, each of us that you are looking at now are not one whole soul
each, but rather we are one half of a soul each. And these are things I taught in the first century.
There are slight references to such things in the Bible, but unfortunately, most people who
listened to what I was teaching didn't understand what I was saying. So naturally,
there's a distortion of what they then write. If I made Jesus, I have to poke in to get...
I'm going to be a little bit of a critic, so to speak, but also ask you a tougher question.
So I'm not a believer, right? You love me no matter what. I like that, because I love you
no matter what. I may not agree and believe what you are saying is true in the ontological sense,
but I think everyone can relate to the narratives and relate to this stuff. But most people aren't
going to think that what you're saying is the truth, even though I love how you carry yourself
and your kind and your loving. So my question would be, as just a curious person, if I were to
ask you what could you give me? What could you show me, even though I know the miracles? I've
seen the videos where there's no miracles that are happening right now. You haven't connected
in the same sense that you were in the first century here on Earth now.
What could you give me to prove to me that you were Jesus? You know what I mean? The Jesus of
the first century, other than a narrative and saying what happened. You know what I mean?
It's not important for me to prove to you anything, to be frank. I feel that if you listen to what I
teach and decide to connect to God directly, God will prove to you His existence. And also God would
then prove to you, God would share His love for you and you will feel that. And in the process
of feeling that you will learn things that you didn't know before. And that's the benefit of
having a relationship with God. Now, to my mind, I don't have to prove anything to you.
All you need to do is, if you wanted to do anything, is to listen to what I have to say,
if you want to. And the reality is that most people don't listen to me until after they die.
You know, most people who have learnt the truth about the universe have learnt the truth only
after they've died. Because after they've died, they've gotten rid of the notion that this Earth
life is the only life there is. And so then they have started to investigate further things that
they were close to investigating while they were on Earth. And so, you know, many of my
friends now are even members of the very Sanhedrin that condemned me to death.
Because after they died, they realised that they weren't teaching the right thing and that
what they were hearing from me was correct all along. And so after they died, they decided to
embrace some of those teachings, of course. And they began a personal relationship we got after
that. And then they learnt that God exists. They didn't believe that beforehand. And you know,
most members of the Sanhedrin were really atheist in a lot of ways, in the sense that
they just really believed in power more than anything else.
They're not cooking in hell. They're not burning. There's no place of torture and torment.
What about a purgatory? Is there anything after?
Well, that's actually an interesting question, Derek, that you just raised. Because on some of
the Divine Truth videos, and just earlier we mentioned about the Divine Truth YouTube,
if you just simply search for Divine Truth on YouTube, you'll find all of Jesus' videos. He's
got, like I said, I think thousands of hours of content if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, you speak
actually a lot about the hells. And the Christian general mainstream Christian belief is if you're
condemned to hell, that's eternal. From what I understand, from what I've seen from your videos,
the hells that you describe can be temporary. They are all temporary. And they are all for
the purpose of redeeming a person. The hells are a place of the spirit world, which you could say
are removed from love. So just like if you go to different places here on earth, you will notice
that there are some places that are more removed from love than other places. There's more violence
there. There's more murders, killings, rapes. There's more desire to harm than there is in other
places. And you could say even on earth, there are these hellish locations, which also involve
the state of the individual, the state of the individual who has no hope internally. I mean,
they have no feelings that there is anything other than just getting as much out of life
as they possibly can before they die, even at the expense of others. And the hells of the spirit
world are very similar locations. We don't automatically change as soon as we die. We are
the same person when we die as we were when we are alive. And there's no instant acknowledgement
of truth when you die, except for perhaps one truth. And that is that you're now still alive
rather than having died and thought you would be non-existent anymore and therefore not conscious.
And you still realize that you're conscious, so therefore you realize life must continue.
That's about the only change that ever happens to the majority of people who die. And then what
happens is their condition of love determines their location. And in fact, the way God's created
the universe is the condition of love actually creates locations. And so the hell locations
were not created by God, actually. They were created by our soul, creating an unloving condition
for which it now must live in until it changes its condition. And so you could say the hells are
loving creations of the person who's in an unloving state creating an unloving condition to live in
until such a time as their condition changes and therefore their love will change and therefore
the location in which they live can change. And it's very similar if you think about it on earth,
you know, a person who's lawless is not suited to a peaceful environment because they will create
a lawless environment. And so they have to be restricted. And this is why on earth we have
prisons, right? To try to restrict people who are lawless from infecting the peacefulness of
general society. And in a way you could say the hells of the spirit world are the same. They are
created by, in this case, the lawless people for a place in which they can live and exist until
such a time as they no longer are lawless. And once they choose to be more lawful or law abiding,
and here I'm not talking about human laws, but God's laws to be more abiding to God's laws,
which are all based around love. And until they do that, they must stay in that location. But they
can get out of that location at any time. There's no restriction on them moving out of that location
aside of that, aside from that being the location they like to live in. And a person who's lawless
does like living in a lawless society. A person who's peaceful doesn't, isn't attracted to a lawless
society. Love to hear your thoughts on that, Dr. Price. Well, I'd like to know either thoughts or
follow-up questions, because there's so many questions to ask. And yeah, there's so many
questions, Dr. Price. Are you, I gather you're sort of building followers more and more. Do you have
any thought about starting a church or any such thing? That's loosely defined. Yeah, but I don't
sort of see anybody who listens to me as a follower. To truly follow me, you'd have to live the lifestyle
I live and I don't see anybody around me or there's very few people around me living the lifestyle I
live. So I don't really call them followers. They're listeners, people who listen. And to various degrees,
you know, most people listen. And then when they hear something they don't really want to hear,
then they turn off, right? And so, you know, for the majority of people, they listen for a while,
and then they hear something that's a bit confronting emotionally for them or confronting
spiritually for them, or confronting to their current level of faith or hope or whatever it is
that it has limited their acceptance of loving ideas and concepts. And then they don't listen
anymore. And so, for me, I feel that most people listen for a while. And some people, very few
actually, actually try to enter this relationship with God that I'm explaining. And those people do
experience the benefits of that relationship. But there's never going to be a church. And
we may have centers where people come to learn in the sense of like auditoriums where you can
rock up and listen to truth being created in the future. But the reality is there's no intention
to set up a church. There's already far too many religions on the planet. And we don't need to start
another one. What we need to do is we need to come, as humanity, we need to come to acknowledgement of
some fundamental truths. And unless we do that, and I feel anybody can do that, whether you're an
atheist or a believer in some religious faith, you can come to an acknowledgement of some fundamental
truths that are plainly obvious, both physical truths, you know, like science has discovered many
physical truths, but also some spiritual truths, such as if you become a violent person, you're
going to in fact encourage more violence. And these kind of spiritual truths are, I think,
self-evident now on the planet. And we do need places where you can come to learn about those
particular things, but certainly not going to start another religious faith. And my feeling is that
and most religion has been created to support some very damaging conducts and behaviors that
are engaged on the earth that begin in the family, actually. And so a family is generally
attracted to a religion, because the family itself has engaged in specific conduct,
particularly parents with children, that they then need some kind of support external to themselves
to justify. And so they want to justify, it is God told me to do that, or God told me to, you know,
example, if you spare the rod, you spoil the child. So God told me I must beat you as a child, you know,
and basically be violent with you as a child before you can learn those kinds of things
and are often used as an excuse to, you know, to engage what I feel is abusive behavior.
So, you know, religions are often used as an excuse to engage violent and abusive behavior.
And the reality is, this is why many people become atheists, understandably. And in fact,
I have found many atheists to be even more loving than many people who are religious.
And many people who are religious are extremely violent, not only to their own children,
but also to people of other faiths and using a religion to back up this violence in any way
is completely, obviously, disingenuous and false. And it's just people lying to themselves about
their true motives. And so I just feel, yep.
So they agree on that.
It's a loaded question, kind of layered, because I feel like I probably could answer one of them
pretty simply. Is Satan the devil real? Number one, is that something that just books created?
And then reincarnation, I've seen a few interviews where some people believe that they were someone
from the first century, not just your wife, but there are others who say that they are, you know,
they were reincarnated. Let me ask you that first, because that's a loaded question.
Well, you've asked two questions. So the first one was, not the re-encano,
the weather safety. So I think that's an important question. The answer is no,
there is no such person as the devil. There are many, many people who used to live on earth,
who are now spirits, who are, you could almost call them demonic in their violence.
You know, they are very violent people and who used to live on earth also in a violent manner.
And they have carried that violence into their spirit life.
And they often do influence people on earth. And so they often do have ways,
there are ways that a person in the spirit can influence a person on earth quite easily.
And so there are what you would call demonic, I suppose you could call them,
influences on people on earth. But they are people who used to live on earth themselves,
who are in a very poor condition of love. They have very little love in them at all.
And they hope to create and beget more violence on earth. And so they try to connect to people on
earth and influence them. And many people on earth think then they're being influenced by Satan,
you know, like as an entity, but no such entity exists. And in fact, if you think about it,
if God is a loving God, there would have been no way that such an entity could ever exist.
And so, and there's many logical points there that we could discuss, obviously,
regarding the logic of whether a devil exists or not. But the reality is,
there is no devil or Satan as an entity. And so that's number one.
Thank you. Thank you.
So stop blaming the devil for your actions.
We all agree on this by the way. We're all in agreement here. So then reincarnation and then
I will let David get the next question then, Dr. Bob, that way we don't step on each other.
So the reincarnation issue is you're asked about next. And reincarnation is taught in a lot of
different ways here on earth. But basically, the fundamental teaching is that once you pass,
you immediately incarnate. You know, for many people, there's the belief that, you know,
began with Eastern philosophy. But there was many people that believe was that when you breathed,
breathed your last breath, they used to believe this is way back before I existed,
that that breath entered a newborn child that is just being born. And then that's the way you
became another being, basically. And then of course, since then, philosophy, reincarnation
philosophy has grown for lots of different reasons. And it would take us hours to discuss all the
reasons. And to be more, I suppose you could say refined in its teaching than that. But the reality
is there is no such thing as reincarnation either. And so, and, and the way that 14 people have returned,
there's been 14 of us who have returned, it's not in the traditional way at people view reincarnation.
So whenever anybody claims that we're saying we're reincarnated Jesus or reincarnated in Mary's case,
Mary Magdalene, and that's not the case, we are people that have been existing for 2000 years.
All we did was we connected to another body that was created by our parents in this life
in order to express ourselves during this life and in order to demonstrate certain truths.
And, and so it's not the same as what people believe reincarnation to be. Now,
there are many reasons why people believe in reincarnation. But every one of those reasons,
you can logically explain the arguments to if you understand how the universe works and why it
appears that reincarnation may exist. And so I'm perfectly happy to answer all those questions. But
that would be another like 20 hour discussion, you know what I mean? And I'm sure I'm sure that we've
got we've got so many questions we could do five to 10 shows and I'm confident that we're going to
but I'm sorry, sorry about it. Yeah, I'll legally continue answer.
Yeah, you will find almost with every question you answer, ask every answer I give raises another
10 questions. And that is that is going to be the case because for most, for the most part,
things are, while things are quite, I feel there's two ways to understand something. One, one way is
to sort of understand a complete overview picture, and then start drilling into the details. But what
happens in most interviews that we have, including this one, obviously, is we drill into the details
without getting the big picture. And, and I feel at some point, it's important that
we get the big picture, right? And then, and once we understand the big picture,
then we can start drilling in the details and you'll find all the details fit into
that big picture. And, and I think that's an important way to approach many questions.
But it is fascinating to answer the detailed questions. But you will always find when you
answer them, that there will always be big question thing, big picture questions that appear as a
result of the answer to those questions. Yeah. So my answer, for example, to the reincarnation
issue, brings up a lot more questions. Well, why do people seem like they have another life or
have memories from another life? Or, you know, why is it that certain children repeat things that
people who have died used to stay and all these kind of things. There's, there's, there's completely
logical answers to all of those kinds of questions that do not require that you believe in reincarnation.
So I feel sometimes, though, that people like to believe in certain things, because it gives
them some sense that their own internal confusion right now can be almost ignored or elated,
rather than them having to consistently seek for truth in their life.
Walk against the Nakhomadi ms, Nosti, Nosti texts, I guess, they kind of
had some kind of belief in reincarnation. So screw with that out.
Can I just say, though, I'm not suggesting to anybody that they scribble out anything that
they have discovered up until now, what I'm suggesting is that there are answers to many
of their questions that give them an alternate answer, rather than the belief they may have imbibed,
thinking that that is the only answer to those questions. And, and this is something that I
feel humanity does very frequently. And even scientists do it very frequently, where, you know,
they all sort of focus in on one area or endeavor of study. And in that process, you ignore the other
areas of in or endeavors of study. And doing that is very damaging to yourself personally,
because you will begin to imbibe beliefs that you may then have to adjust later on,
or you may even change your whole life. Many of you, I know, historically have been
members of Christian religious faiths. And that caused you to change a lot of your life,
even during those time periods, only to later perhaps regret that, because you realize new
things that you've discovered that don't match the old things you were being taught. And so I feel,
I feel with all discovery, we need to be in an open state where we allow ourselves to discover
more and more truthful information. And that does require at times, throwing away information that
is found to be false. And, and I suppose in some ways, because I've lived 2000 years,
I've been able to watch people who have believed in reincarnation during that time,
and see the damages that it's had on their life after they've passed,
and of also being able to watch Christians over that 2000 years of time, and see the damage that
that has also incurred on their life, even after they've passed. So, you know, what I find myself
is that unless you believe the actual factual truth, as God can demonstrate it to us, you will
always be disappointed, and you will always be going down roads that eventually end up to be dead
ends, that you must then turn around and travel back up again, before you can go down another road.
And I think it's very important for us as humans to realize that there are some fundamental truths
that we can generally all agree on, and then begin investigation and be very open minded about all
forms of investigation. What I find is that many people on earth are only interested in the physical
forms of investigation. Now, humanity up to now, scientists have now proven that 90, around 90% of
the universe is dark, they can't see it, that they've measured its weight, and they realized that
there's all these things that you cannot see that exist. And so we now need to start going well,
if that's the case, then it probably means 90% of our investigations need to focus more upon the
things we can't see than the things we can. And it is easy to investigate things we can see,
but much more difficult to investigate things you can't see unless you know how to do that.
There are other people around that think that they are Jesus returned. There's a fellow in Russia,
I don't know much about him, but I hear he's impressive. I saw Reverend Moon several times,
and I know many of his followers. Do you think it's possible that all these people are right?
I know Buddhism has the idea that a Buddha or Bodhisattva can manifest on earth in various people
at the same time. And I wondered, is that a possibility or how do you view these others?
One second. And to answer that question, sorry. Let me just pause.
I'm just restarting. I apologize. That's all good. Okay. And to answer that question, Dr.
Price, we really need to get a little bit of what you call, I suppose, context to the question.
The reality is, I've met many hundreds of thousands of people who claim to be me. In the
spirit world, there are literally millions of people who claim to be me. And I've met many of
them in an attempt to help them see that not actually me. But usually, it hasn't resulted very
well, obviously. But in the spirit world, there are millions of people who claim to be me.
Many of them attempt to channel information to people who are mediums on earth. There are methods
that you can hear people, spirits speaking to you. And in fact, many people with schizophrenia do
actually hear actual people talking to them who exist in the spirit world. And so there are many
ways you can actually hear people talking to you from the spirit world while you're living on earth.
And many of the people you mentioned are over cloaked by these spirits who claim themselves
to be Jesus. They are not Jesus. I am. I think you've actually met them. You and Mary went to
Mexico and met the Mexican Jesus. So just from memory, I've met a few people on earth who've
claimed themselves to be Jesus and have discussions with them, but not the ones you've mentioned.
No. But in the end of the day, all of them, it can be proven that they are not. And it's quite
easy when, for example, the person who claims to be Jesus is going to have had a history of 2000
years, not just a history of a few years in the first century, 30 or so years in the first century,
and then a big gap of nothing and then a life in this life. Now, every one of the people you
mentioned, they don't remember their spirit life because they actually didn't have one.
And so the reality is they are just recurgitating information from spirit sources
through channels. Not all of that information is false, of course, and it is the opinion of
those spirits that they are telling the truth in many cases, but they are not because they
don't know the truth to tell. And so when I see these kind of events happening, and this happens
very often on earth, many people who have that relationship with spirits are classified as
mentally unstable, of course, in some way. And in some ways, they can be mentally unstable because
it's like they are two different people. They are one person when they are not connected to the spirit
they're talking to. And then when they let the spirit over clothe them and change their behavior,
then they become another person. And frequently, you observe that in these people where they sort
of change from being one person to another person. That does not happen to me. I have never changed
over my 2000 years of life in the sense, you know, in that sense, I've never been over cloaked by
anyone. And also, there is a common view even with myself that somehow God over cloaked me.
And while I've entered a position of, I suppose you could say, closeness with God because of
us being in better rapport due to my acceptance of God's love, and I'm not over cloaked by God,
I could never be God on earth, and I never will be God on earth. And so, you know, those kind
of beliefs are also false. So there are a lot of these people, in answer to your question,
Dr, a lot of these people are very clear what I would classify as mediums or channels
of people who used to live and who now live in the spirit world in different locations. And
none of them are in the spheres where I used to live. They're all below the sixth sphere of the
spirit world. The spirit world has many spheres up to 36 spheres that we know of at this point.
And all of the people you mentioned are over cloaked by people who are
in the spheres six or lower from the spirit world. And that means they have not discovered
more truth than that. Now, that level of truth is generally more than what people have on earth.
And so, many people on earth are impressed by these people channeling this information.
But the facts are that it still is a limit of the truth. It's not the complete truth that
is being channeled. Jesus, if I might be critical, I want to poke because this is obviously I'm trying
to gain insight on your answers from these things. This is really interesting. You said you lived
for 2000 years. Now, most people are going to know you're what 57, you said 57 years old.
This body is 57. Yes. So if someone wanted to be critical of what you just said, right?
And they said, okay, Jesus, how do we know that you're not over cloaked? How do we know you're
saying you're the guy? If we went to the Russian Jesus, he might say,
listen, that guy is over cloaked by another spirit. I'm the real guy. And we can do that all day long.
How do we know you're the guy? Is there anything you can or we just have to take that on a faith type
thing? No, I don't expect anybody to take anything on faith. And in fact, if you believe the guy in
Russia is Jesus, then you're already taking it on faith. And to be frank, that faith is not based
upon much substantial, because basically he's just regurgitating Bible teachings that came from 2000
years ago that in themselves are also demonstrably false. So my feelings are, you know, if you trust
that, then of course you're going to be quite foolish. And I'm not suggesting people trust me
either. What I'm suggesting is that they listen to all things that are being taught and analyze
them carefully and use their logic and their brain that God has given them to determine the
sincerity of a person along with what is actually happening to the person. Now, every single person
I have talked to who claims to be Jesus has always had some level of instability in them,
aside from myself, of course. And so, you know, my feelings are that you talk to them
and you have the personal experience. You talk to them, find out. Rather than just believing
what the media says or what other people say. Now, if you believe what the media says or other
people say, then I think you're pretty foolish too, because at the end of the day,
my experience with the media has been they just fabricate things to suit themselves.
And many of the things said about myself are complete fabrications,
have nothing to do with anything I've ever said or done. And if that's the case with me,
then it's highly likely that it's going to be the case with everyone else. So my feeling is
investigate the claims and investigate the way of life, investigate the truth. And I'm not the
same as these other men, because I do not wish to have followers, and I never have wished to have
followers. I have what are called disciples. And disciples, if in the true sense of the word,
is a taught one, a person who listens to teachings and then practices them themselves.
And that's what a disciple is, a person who listens to a group of teachings. And then through
their own experience, learns them to be true or not, learns them to be true or false. And what
I'm suggesting is that people can engage their own experience here and decide whether those
things are true or false for themselves. And so I don't need anybody to trust me or believe me.
Although, if you're going to engage a relationship with God, I am the only person on earth teaching
the proper way to have a relationship with God. And now whether you believe that or not
is up to you. But again, that can be proven through your personal experience, if you decide to have
one. And every other method that has been tried on earth is obviously a dismal failure, because if
you look at most religious faiths who say they all have relationships with God, and so forth,
the net result of those religious faiths has been more war, more violence, more strife,
and even in families has created strife within families, and even abuse of children has been
created to a large degree through following some of these faiths in terms of the faiths
recommending the violent abuse of children, for example, through what's called discipline.
And so if you examine the outcome of all of these people who claim they have a relationship with
God, and then compare it with what a relationship with God should achieve, which I would believe
would should achieve more love and less war, more peace, less suffering. And if it's not
achieving those things, then obviously no relationship with God exists. And so I feel
quite strongly that that needs to be recognized by all of humanity, not just the people in those
religious faiths. I think we can agree on that stuff. I mean, I think we can agree on that.
Yeah, for those positive things. But David, I'll hog the time if I don't pass that.
Derek, we've got we've got so many questions, but I'm going to get through them all. That's for
sure. We'll have to leave them for another episode. But just just back on the okay. So
this is an interesting one, Jesus. This is from Chris from the UK, and he asks,
do you feel like Paul did justice to your teachings? How do you feel about his very public
disputes with your brother, James, over the requirement to keep the law and the legitimacy
of his teachings? Firstly, you must understand that a lot of the things that are claimed in the
Bible are actually written by people that weren't the original writers of those particular
manuscripts. So in the case of my life, for example, the gospel accounts are meant to be
accounts of my life. And I personally know all of the gospel writers, but the books that are now
in the Bible don't bear much resemblance to what they originally wrote. They have been changed over
many years, and particularly in the first 300 years after my death, they got changed a lot.
So you're not really getting a complete recollection or account of what really happened.
The same applies to Paul and his writings. Many of the things that are now in Paul's writings in
the Bible, because they're such a substantial part of the New Testament, they have been modified to
the teachings of the ages over periods of time, particularly again the first 300 years of Christianity.
That all being said, Paul had his issues, emotional issues. He had his originally,
when I first met him on the road to Damascus, he was quite a dedicated man to rubbing out the
Christian faith. And he was also quite a violent man, and he also had a very poor opinion of women
at the time. And obviously, as he imbibed more and more of my teachings through his interactions
with people who knew me, he came to see that many of these things that he was doing personally
were wrong, were unloving, and so therefore wrong. And so he changed over that time. Now,
many of the things written in the Bible, some of those things that are written about Paul and
arguments with James, for example, and so forth, some of those things are true, but not to the
extent that they were sort of blown up afterwards. It's sort of like two of you having a disagreement,
and then somebody, a third party who's not really very interested in the truth of your
disagreement, exaggerates your disagreement in order to prove their particular point or whatever.
And it is true that there were disagreements between Paul and James, but there were disagreements
between almost everyone with what I taught aside from Mary, Magdalene, which most of the men never
listened to. So the reality is, when I died, Mary had the most accurate view of my teachings. And
then after that, probably John, the Apostle John, had the most accurate view of my teachings.
But they were mild people. Mary and the Apostle John were gentle, humble people. And so very
frequently they weren't listened to by people who were more arrogant and more opinionated.
And many of those men had emotions, just like everybody on earth does now. And many of them
also, if you think about it, came from a very misogynistic society where they would not listen
to women. And so you can see that the development of the Christian faiths, or so-called Christian
faith, which bears no resemblance at all to most of the things I taught in the first century,
the development of that faith was very much based around personal opinions of oftentimes
very arrogant and opinionated men who wanted to change my original teachings to suit themselves
and to gain power over women and to gain power over other aspects of society, politics and other
aspects of society. So the reality is, yes, Paul did have some disagreements. And in some cases,
he was right. You know, like the Jewish law was certainly not worth following because it had very
bearing on the truth of how God views love. And there are many things in the Jewish faith
that were unloving and so therefore needing to be discarded. Just like today, there are many
things in almost every faith that are unloving and need to be discarded because they are blatantly
unloving. And Paul stood up for some of those things and got shot down a bit sometimes about
standing up for those things. And then sometimes others like John or Mary stood up for some things
and they got shot down for standing up with such things. So it was very much, you could think of
the first century Christian faith very much in its developmental phase. And after I left
many distortions, even from the people who were listening to me, arose because they didn't understand
at the time what I was teaching. And you could see even now, there are many times,
I'm actually here now saying things and the media and other people are all claiming that I did say
things that I never said. And so you imagine if I wasn't here, it's going to be very easy
then to claim that I said something that I didn't say. And also to modify what I did say
based on your own hearing and your own assessment intellectually of what is
a very emotional and message about love really. And so these kind of things are going to happen
and they happened in the first century with Paul and all the other disciples.
I had this idea. I wondered what you think of it. Obviously, you have knowledge of things that
happened to you in the first century that are not found in the canonical Gospels or
are distorted. Are you at all interested in producing a pure version of what you think
people ought to know about your first period on earth and what happened? Because I would like
to write it if you do. I am interested in producing such a thing. Obviously, to my mind,
there are a list of different things of importance. And to me, my life is not that important.
I feel there are much more important things than my life. For example, what humanity on earth
at the moment generally feels about God is a much more important issue to address than
the history of my life. But I do wish to obviously fix up or correct any inaccuracies that exist
about my life because many of the inaccuracies, unfortunately, have resulted in teachings
that actually have confounded Christianity and caused more and more problems and divisions
rather than actually helping it. Obviously, if you can correct many of these things,
it may have the prospect of unifying belief systems rather than causing defragmentation
of belief systems. That all being said, the most important thing we can talk about, I believe,
is God and our relationship with God and our reception of God's love and the transformation
of the human soul and what that gives us. But there are the kind of things that I taught in
the first century, which were unfortunately distorted by the Bible account. So, yes, I am
going to have to, at some point, and even in this discussion, at some point say, yes, there are certain
things that happened and they didn't quite happen that way that you're now believing they happened.
There are other things that are not recorded that did happen. And then there are things that
obviously didn't happen at all that were fabricated. And it's important to understand
the difference. And when you understand the consistency of love and the consistency of
truth, truth is always consistent. It is not illogical. So, whenever you see something in the
Bible where I'm supposedly doing one thing on one hand and then doing something that seems almost
the opposite thing on the next in the next hand, then obviously there's an inconsistency there
and that and I'm not an inconsistent person and neither is God an inconsistent being. So,
any inconsistency has to have been created through some other source other than the original source.
And so, you know, this will help you determine what might be true and what might not be true
in such counts. And let me know that I may be a service. I would love to tackle that.
Yeah, Bob, it's an interesting thing to tackle. And I'm sure when we get a bit of time to spend
face to face together, it would be a very interesting thing to discuss. And maybe even
the discussions that lead up to the writing of the book can be recorded as well because
you'll find in those discussions, a lot of things become very plain that you can see through logic
that many of the things claimed can't have actually occurred. Now, I can give you some
examples of that. You know, the Sermon on the Mount, which is a very common thing quoted,
you know, Matthew 5 through 7 and those kind of verses, you know, that are quoted frequently as
if I said them all in one hit in one sermon, that's not the case. They are actually recordings of
individual things I said over, you know, many, many years that the Bible writers decided in the
case of Matthew, he decided to put them all together as if they were one sermon so that
people could get the basic teachings in sort of one hit, if you like. And, you know, he did that
as a philosophical way of dealing, more of a logical way of dealing with the material. And
as a writer, he just shows to do that. But unfortunately, over the years, it's now become
distorted. And it's now claimed that that was one sermon being stated from start to finish,
which is not the case. That's impossible unless Jesus was a multiple personality.
Can you imagine? Wait a minute, he was just talking about this. What's this? It's just a
byproduct of collecting things. The Sermon on the Mount is kind of like robbers. Yeah,
it's a collection of statements that I made over many years, you know, and obviously Matthew
wasn't one of the first disciples, you know, he was early in after my becoming at one with God,
there was a period, my life on earth, you know, it took me 30, nearly 31 years to become at one
with God in love, you know, to become into the point of what I call born again. It took me 31
years to do that. And once I became born again, certain people came along into my life, listening
to the teachings and Matthew was one of them. But there were many people who knew me before I became
born again in the first century. You know, James, John, Peter, all of those people knew me for many
years before, in fact, that I became at one with God. And so they knew not only what I was like
before I became one with God, but also what I was like after I became one with God. And so, you know,
they had a personal experience of me that Matthew didn't have. So, you know, Matthew could only
listen to those things through hearsay, because he wasn't there. And in the case of Mark, Mark was a
very young man when I died, he was only 15 years of age when I died. And I remember him as a young
man, he used to spend a lot of time with myself and Mary. And he basically, his parents, you know,
basically abandoned him. So, he was an orphan. And so, he spent a lot of times with us in our
travels. So, he did have a personal experience of me over a period of time, since he was about
nine years of age to 15. And so, he knew me before I became at one with God and also after. But he,
you know, obviously, when you're nine to 15 years of age, you don't remember everything
with clarity when you become 30 or 40, when he was writing the book. So, you know, of course,
there there's also, you know, there's his writings in which he sometimes didn't understand things.
And then other revisionists got hold of his writings. And then they changed all of his
writings to suit themselves in many cases. And so, the book now bears very little resemblance to
the book that he wrote. And this is a common occurrence with all the Bible books, unfortunately.
And you don't mind the same old highly books, actually.
So, on Mark, and this is important because there's always these topics that come up on here,
I got this is like a question I would love to dive deep. And maybe we can dive down the road on
this deep. Maybe you can give a simple answer. And then I got a really good question that I'd
like to dive in because I know that you need the time to answer. And I know that. And I don't want
to cut you off or anything like that, because I value that. And I don't want to be rude. But
were there Gospels? This is a simple question. Were there Gospels before Mark? Were there other
ones like primitive versions of the Gospels written about you? Or was Mark the earliest gospel
written about you? And there were people who wrote about me. And if I can explain a little bit
about the history there. And Luke was a person I first met when he was five years of age. And
his father, he was a Greek. And his father came from Greece to see me one time. And he brought
Luke along with him. He used to often abandon Luke and leave him home with a with a nurse.
But in this case, his father brought him with him. And I met Luke for the first time when he was
five years of age. And I had not yet become at one with God when I met Luke for the first time.
But as it turned out, Luke eventually became my son-in-law because he married my daughter,
Sarah, and he became my son. Of course, all that happened after I died. Mary Magdalene was
pregnant with my child at the time of my death. We were married. And after my death, she gave birth
to Sarah. And Sarah eventually met Luke and eventually they married. And as a result, Luke
spent a lot of time with Mary Magdalene. And so Mary through Mary did not write the books,
but Luke wrote them. He was a well educated person. He wrote many of the things that Mary
dictated to him, much like a person would write today, you know, where you dictate to a dictation
device or to a person who's typing for you and you dictate all of your memoirs or whatever.
And Mary did a lot of that. And so there were many, many books, many, you could say, letters or
written material that were written in that way, that were the very first writings that were ever
written about my life. But again, frequently dismissed because of the misogyny of the times.
There were many women in the first century who understood God's truth and understood the reception
of God's love better than most men who listened to me did. And many of those women also wrote
about those things. They were educated enough to write in some cases, and they wrote about such
things. But none of those things either ever made the mainstream because for the same reason,
you know, people didn't really want to know the complete story because the complete story was too
human to share. And they wanted me to appear like a God. And so if anything made me look
more human, it was better that it wasn't mentioned or referred to.
Thank you for that answer. That's interesting. So David, I want to ask one more if that's okay
with you. Sure. Go ahead. Go ahead. Did you rise physically from the dead? So you mentioned how
you've been alive for 2000 years. That doesn't mean and when you say that that doesn't necessitate,
that means you're physically alive. And this is a dispute. Even Paul talks about dying, you know,
the body in the grave and rising with a spiritual body. So my question is, are the Christians
wrong when they say that you rose physically and they want to burn people at the stake who don't
agree with the hypostatic union and different ideas like, was he physical? Was he not? Did he rise
from the grave? Literally, like, my question is that were you spiritually risen and ascended on
high or was it something like a physical resurrection? That's my question. Sure. To properly answer
that question, Derek, you've got to understand the way the human soul and its attachments,
the two bodies, are designed. So let's firstly have a bit of an overview of that,
because we need to understand that before I can answer your question. Okay. God designed the human
soul. The human soul is a complete unit. So you can think of it like a sphere, if you like,
a complete unit. And when it incarnates for the first time, it splits into and one half of the
soul connects to a spirit body and physical body that is actually created at the point of conception.
And then the other half of the body goes to another spirit body and physical body, which are
created at the point of conception in another pregnancy. And so basically the two halves of
the soul split. And then two bodies are created at the point of conception. One is a physical form
that you see in this dimension. And another is a spiritual body that you see in a different
dimension. So they are two dimensional existences. They look very much the same to each other.
They both have genetic code. They are both structured in the same way in the sense that
they both have hearts. They both have brains. They both have limbs. You look identical almost
in the spirit form as you do in the physical form. But the difference is, is that one form
can be seen by in the physical wavelength spectrum. So, you know, from the, you know,
you could say red to violet spectrum, you know, the visible light spectrum, one form can be seen.
And the other form is seen in a different spectrum. So there are two bodies created at the time of
conception. And one half of the soul connects to those two bodies. Now, what happens when you die,
and this happened to me as well, and it's going to happen to you and everybody else,
exactly the same way as it always has in history, is when you die, there is a cord. The cord connects
from the base of your skull down to the tip of your spine. And this cord is, people refer to it in
the spirit world as a silver cord. And it's a cord that connects the spirit body to the physical
body. And what the function of that cord is, is to transmit new neurological, you know, nervous
system and neurological information, including information that comes from the brain of the
spirit body to the brain of the material body. It transmits information from one body to the other
so that you have a seamless existence. So you could think of that. So you can think of the spirit,
the physical body, almost like a, I suppose, a robot that the soul is functioning through,
if you like, as is the spirit body. Now, when you die, the cord snaps. So what happens there is
instead of most of your thought, all of your thought processes and, and all of your motor
processes and everything else that are controlled by a spirit body, moving through into the brain
of the physical body, instead of that happening anymore, because the cord is snapped. Now,
it's fully functioning in the spirit body only. And so now you're a spirit. And this is exactly
what happened to me as soon as I died. So shortly after, while I was on the so-called cross, which
was actually a stake, and I, I, the two bodies separated, my physical body died, the cord snapped,
and I became, I came to look upon myself, you know, as people describe even in hospitals and so
forth in what are called near-death experiences, it's all the same thing. You come to look upon
yourself and you can see your physical body and you're away from your physical body and you can see
it. Now, in that state, because I was one with God by this stage and I knew a lot about God's laws,
I can create other bodies out of matter. And that's what I chose to do. So what I did to prove to
the disciples that the so-called resurrection, which is not really a resurrection, but rather a
transition of one life into another, I wanted to prove to them that I was still alive. And the
only way that I could do that for them to see it with their physical spectrum eyes, if you like,
was for me to create a body they could see. And so I created many different bodies, actually,
which I appeared to them over a period of nearly 50 days. I did that. And, and I think in the Bible
you can see there's inferences to that because they didn't recognize me in each case. And the
reason why they didn't recognize me is I created a different body in each case to materialize,
to demonstrate to them that I was still alive. The very first person I did that with was Mary,
because I love her and she's my wife. And so the very first person I did that to was Mary. Of course,
she wasn't believed at the time. And so I had to do it with others in order to, and I had to do it
with men in particular, in order for anybody to believe that it was actually happening. So there
was a period of time where I did live on earth through these bodies that I materialized over a
period of 50 days after my death. And after that time, I appeared to more than 500 people during
that time. So those 500 people came to know and see that I was still alive. And I spoke to them
about the same things I spoke to them, I reminded them of things that I spoke to them about before
I died. I could connect to them because I could remind them of events that occurred in their life
with me that only happened between me and them. And so they knew that it could only be me sharing
this information. And as a result of that, they then came to believe that there wasn't afterlife.
And this is also why Paul said that as there is a physical body, so too there is a spiritual one.
And because he had had the experience of seeing my spiritual body as I materialized in front of
him, but also he had talked to many of these people who had seen my life after my death
and had interactions with me after my death. I just got to have a drink.
Thank you. No, that was complex, David. Well, I mean, wow, I'm just going to rewind a little bit
because you actually answered some questions that some of our members of the group actually asked
were you crucified on a stake or across through us. So you've clarified that it's a stake, which is
a bit controversial as far as Christian fundamentalism is concerned.
Yeah, but it probably shouldn't be because the way most Jews were killed and the reason
why a pilot killed me in that way was he wanted to make a point to the Jews. The way most Jews
were killed if they were condemned by the Jewish faith was on a stake, just a pole hanging from
a pole with your arms above. And the way the Romans used to kill you on a stake was with a cross
stake. And he wanted to show everybody that it wasn't his intention to kill me,
it was the Sanhedrin's intention to kill me. So he wanted to make a statement and he purposefully
put me on a stake for that reason, to make a statement that he was not responsible for my death,
which obviously wasn't strictly true. But that's why he did it the way he did it. Now,
of course, the people who were killed with me, they were killed on crosses. And of course,
the story gets modified in the telling and so forth. And in shorthand, everybody starts saying,
well, you were hung on a stake or a cross. The reality was, if you look at the actual
translations, you'll see I was hung on a tree, which is probably the accurate way of saying it.
And in my case, it was a stake, as if it really matters. Does it really matter how a person dies?
Isn't it better to know how they lived? David, did you have a question or did you just want to touch
on that? I just wanted to touch on that. And actually, if you're more interested in a more in
depth kind of answer, I encourage you to watch a video that I watched, Jesus with Dr. Jeff White
Hood, I believe. Dr. Jeff is a psychologist. Dr. Jeff White, Whiteman.
Yeah, you get the link in the description.
We'll get the link, but it's a fascinating interview. You cover this, and you also just
rewind back a little bit as well. You also cover that you had a daughter named Sarah
from that interview. I believe she's living in the East Coast in Canada at the moment,
if I'm not mistaken. She is one of the people who have returned, but she does not want to do
anything about that and also wants to remain in complete denial of that at this stage. So I
don't think there's too much more I can say without harming her choices of life.
Suddenly, that's going to, I mean, if there's a lot of Catholics watching, this may upset them,
but two days after you were crucified, and this is going by the same interview with Dr. Jeff,
you actually saw the Apostle Peter rape your wife, Mary Magdalene. Fascinating.
Can you expand on that a little further? Did you, I mean, did you obviously,
you saw that? I did. You also mentioned that Peter was also a serial rapist. He was not a
very good guy. Do you actually have a good explanation as far as Dr. Jeff actually asked you,
why would you want to hang out with these guys, if they're your apostles? I mean, these don't
sound like very reputable guys to me. And you said, well, obviously I hung out with
tax collectors and so forth. Yeah, it's not that I chose to hang out with them. It's more probably
accurate to say they chose to hang out with me. And the trouble with Peter is that he
was a quite an arrogant fellow at the time he was living on earth. He's not like that anymore.
But, you know, he's now a celestial spirit, in fact, what you would classify as an angel. But
he on earth was quite a violent man. He had a very high opinion of himself. He had a very
low opinion of women. But on top of that, he had a very angry spirit towards Mary. He always did
the entire time Mary and I were together. And he thought that Mary was manipulating me and controlling
me somehow. He believed that my love for Mary was misguided. He believed that I would have been far
better off marrying a good, what he classified as a good Jewish girl. And Peter himself had a very
poor relationship with women. He had a number of wives, which he also treated quite badly.
And so the reality is that he never really embraced too after my death and way after my death
any loving attitude, actually. And so, you know, it took him many years to embrace love
as the reality of human existence, you know? This was after he died.
No, well, on earth, he did eventually become a lot more loving person.
But it took him many years to do so. And he also, after he passed in the spirit world,
went through many years of regret about his behavior.
In the hells, as described in the hells? Yes, he spent some time in the hells.
He spent almost 50 years in the hells, actually, Peter, as did many of the disciples, actually,
due to even longer. So many of them spent a large amount of time there, mostly because they refused
to embrace principles of love that I was teaching. One of the principles of love that I taught on
earth was that women were equal to men. And of course, at the time, this was a very, very strange
teaching indeed. And so frequently, I would have Mary present when men were discussing matters,
and the disciples tolerated it, but they were very angry about it. And frequently,
they used to talk behind my back about why I allowed Mary to be there,
rather than seeing that my love for Mary was, well, they didn't even see that my love for Mary
was on the soulmate love basis, which meant that my love for her was always going to be
stronger than my love for anyone else. And so, you know, Peter was very jealous of that love,
and his jealousy is what caused him, in fact, to finish up raping Mary after my death.
And I know it's very disappointing for most Catholics to hear that, and many get very angry
about that. But the reality is that it happened, and I'm only going to say what happened. There's
no point in saying things that didn't happen, and there's also no point in whitewashing
things just for the sake of a person's emotional experience.
I guess they kind of viewed Mary Magdalene as the first century Yoko Ono.
Exactly. Exactly, if you want to put it that way. He viewed Mary as the main,
and many of the disciples were in agreement with him, actually. They viewed Mary as,
well, you know, her background was such that she had a, I suppose you would call it a checkered
background, and Mary can discuss some of those matters with you. We'd love to have Mary on the
show, by the way, at some point. Yeah, we'll talk about that. I'm sure she'll think about that.
But, yeah, she had a checkered background, a very harsh childhood, and her father sold her
into prostitution when she was 12 years of age. Her father raped her from the age of 5 to 12,
and she got pregnant when she was 12, and her father, when she became pregnant, sold her
into prostitution at the age of 12. So she had a very difficult life, and I met her after she
had finished with prostitution, and she was living in Magdala as a woman who owned a business
that was helping other women to live and survive, and that's when I met her, and we knew we were
so soon as we met, but it took some time for us to develop a relationship, and so we were married
a year and a half before my death, and Mary was pregnant with Sarah, three months pregnant with
Sarah when I died. I think the vicar of Christ, the Pope, kind of clarified that story in 1969,
and denounced kind of what you just said, and if I'm not mistaken.
Yes, I suppose there's a lot of, what Mary goes about?
Thousands of years, actually, what you just said was taken by most Christians as correct, but
I think, yeah, I think in, well, we're dealing with the Roman Catholic zone, they kind of
clarified that in a teaching in 1969. Yes, of course, they never believed that I was married,
and in fact, that is the main reason why they promote celibacy amongst the priesthood, but the
reality is that all of us are intended to have, and as I said, the soul incarnates and splits in
halves, so you actually have another half of yourself out there, whether it's a male or a female,
it can only be one or the other, and so, you know, and I'm not saying, so I'm saying when the two
halves split, each half can only enter a male body or a female one, obviously, and so your soulmate
could be male or your soulmate could be female, but in the case of myself and my soul, and the other
half of me is a female Mary, Mary Madeleine, and I recognized her as soon as I saw her, and she took
some a bit longer time to recognize that connection, but, you know, unfortunately, a lot of the things
still said, though, by the churches about my life is still false, because it promotes
some of the false teachings that they wish to continue with, and that's an unfortunate.
Sorry, guys.
Okay, Dr. Price, I'm going to relinquish my next question, so you get two in a row you can have.
Guilty. Yeah, go for it, Dr. Price, with other people having questions that have been submitted.
We've got way too many to get through, so go for it, Dr. Price. No, go for it.
You want to do his questions? Is that what you're saying? Ask people's questions?
Oh, no, they're just that David should probably read the questions that have been submitted,
so they got a chance to have an answer. Well, there's so many.
You had one of them, David.
Yes, I know what I've got a lot, but let's just start off with Vincent from
Birmingham in the UK. He asks, were you first born as Michael the Archangel?
And please tell us your experience if that is the case.
And the answer to that question, short answer is no. And the long answer is this, and when I
became alive in the first century, I was one of those people who could speak to spirits,
and I often did. And in fact, there's records in the Bible of me speaking to spirits who other
people could not see. And I frequently did that. And I also had what are called some guides,
some people who helped me understand love better than the average person. And one of those people
was Michael, the person who's called Michael the Archangel. He was a person who also lived on earth,
but he lived on earth nearly 150,000 years ago. So he's had a very long experience
of life, and he's lived in the spirit world, of course, most of that time, as has the so-called
Archangel Gabriel and some of the others that are sometimes referred to by the Catholic faith.
Michael and Gabriel were friends of mine in the first century in that they used to speak with
me often. They were in the spirit form, and I was on earth, and they used to speak with me very
often. And for that reason, I could tell other people what they were saying, even though those
other people could not hear them, I could. So frequently they would come, and I would speak
as if I was them. I would speak to the people who they wanted to speak to. And unfortunately,
that gets misinterpreted, then, as me being Michael or having a history of Michael, which is
not true. I am the person I am. I've only had 2,000 years of existence. I'm a relative newcomer
to the earth in comparison to Michael and Gabriel. They've lived over 100,000 years, so
they've had a long experience of earth life. And for that reason, I was very interested in talking
to them about earth history and what's happened over the thousands of years before I came to earth
on earth itself. And because they've observed all those things, they could tell me. So
we've always had a friendship, and I still talk to them today. So
David, keep going, brother. I think getting the guests, getting the questions from people who
are fans is always... Yeah. Look, we've got to give Dr Price the floor at some stage, because
I'm sure he's got a lot of questions. But Jesus, when... This is from Lindsay from
Brice Vegas, a neighbour of yours, Brisbane. Jesus, when is your actual birthday? We know
that, obviously, it's not December 25th. It's a pagan tradition. Do you have a date,
October or September, October at some point? Do you know the date that you were born? I mean,
do you hold December the 20th? Firstly, in Israel at the time, we never celebrated
birthdays. So that's one thing to bear in mind. And the time that I was born in the first century,
of course, the way the lunar cycle works is very different to the solar dating system.
And so the reality is, I was born around about September the 27th on two BCE. So two BCE. That
was my birth date around about if you put it into a solar cycle. And so, yes, I was not born on December
the 25th. Again, that date was attributed to me because they wanted to have some joining between
pagan philosophies and my existence as a god that they wanted to promote. And so they gave me
dates that belonged to pagan philosophy. And December 25th, as most of you would know,
is relating to the birth of the sun in the Northern Hemisphere. So the analogy being me,
the firstborn sun, the birth of the sun, and the birth of the sun in the sense of the sun
entering the first, you know, it's starting to increase in its solar capacity after that time
in the Northern Hemisphere. And so, you know, they tried to align those two dates. And also,
there were celebrations in pagan philosophy for the birth of the sun, for the new coming sun.
And they wanted to try to incorporate Christian faith into the pagan religion in order to have
some infiltration. And that happened 300 years, actually, or so, after my death. So before then,
you won't find any records of anybody celebrating my birth at December the 25th.
But after 325 BCE, you will find that there are then records of my so-called birth being December
the 25th. And so, and that was gradually taken on board over the next 400 years,
until such a time it became a celebration of my birth.
Balance them back between you and Bob. I want Bob to make sure you're involved. So
do you have anything? There's so much, I know, but...
Well, of all of you, Bob would probably know more about the history of the Christian faith.
Is that correct, Bob, that in terms of, like, what happened with, you know,
how the Catholic faith even got developed, which is really an interesting, you know,
the Council of Nicaea and other councils that occurred where groups of men got together and
decided what was canon and what wasn't canon and decided to throw out things that, you know,
disagreed with their current philosophies and so forth. And these are all well known historically,
really. Yeah, the... I think that, well, for one thing, it's sort of a misnomer that the Council
of Nicaea established the canon of the New Testament, though that... That's right. It happened
over a 300-year period, really, but... Yeah, it was long afterward, but they had their hands full
at this Council with trying to... I think of the song building the perfect beast. They're
tinkering with the different theological elements that would make up an Orthodox,
proper Christ, as if it was just a kind of mathematical formula. It had nothing to do,
really, with the life of the historical man. They're sort of creating it as they go and it
remains a pure abstraction, really. It is, and the reality is it was done for political expediency.
There was the... What was happening at the time was the Roman Empire looked like it was going to
go into complete disarray because of the Christian faith and its teachings. And so,
the government of the day decided to imbibe the Christian faith as the state religion, as a way
of increasing its power, which they managed then to do for nearly the next, what, thousand years or
more. And so, the reality is it was done for political expediency, rather than any other reason,
and very few of the books or the teachings that were imbibed at the time actually came from
those of us who lived in the first century. Did King Arthur exist? I've met people who
claimed to be King Arthur, but I've never met the actual King Arthur, so I can't really answer
that question. I didn't know if there was anything. I mean, I kind of wonder what you know after 2000
years. Well, actually, I've met... What Buddha is this? Yeah, Buddha is a person.
Buddha is a person, but you haven't, from what I'm saying, you haven't been out of
reach yet? Has he still been stuck in the sixth fear, or you haven't been able to make contact with him?
I've met him and had conversations with him, but he is stuck in the sixth fear of the spirit world.
He refuses to acknowledge that he is an individual. He feels that he is a collective of individuals.
He is a man who used to live on earth, and many of the teachings that he started with were quite
loving to earth in a way. They promoted the quality of man and so forth, but he was also
a highly spirit-influenced person as well when he was living on earth, so he could communicate to
spirits as well when he was on earth, similar to how I could. But he's now still in the sixth
fear of the spirit world. He lives quite an alone existence, actually, and he does absorb a lot of
worshipful energy from earth, because there are many, many people who still consider him
more like a god than a human. He basically lives off a lot of that feeling, rather than accepting
any new truth. I always felt that the notion of the Buddha as a human is more powerful than the
Buddha as an incarnate god, because in the story, he sheltered, just as you described
Joseph of Arimathea, his father, Sudodhana, knew that his son might become a great conqueror or
a spiritual redeemer, and he wanted the conqueror thing. To that end, he kept the Buddha sheltered
in the royal estate, so he wouldn't know there was suffering in the world, but he found out about
death, sorrow, poverty, sickness, and all that, and it blew his mind, and so here is a human being
that says, I got to put a stop to this. I got to do something about it. Oh, man, what an idea that
this man is setting out to save the world. It just kind of wrecks it when you say, oh, no,
he was a god pretending to be a man. Yeah, I feel a lot of affinity with him, to be frank,
and that's why I've wanted to have conversations with him through my life, but unfortunately,
those conversations have yet to have any success in terms of helping him progress from where he is,
but I do feel he has had a great effect on people on earth in terms of trying to influence them
towards peace, and any person on earth who does that is a fairly strange person, generally,
in the sense that it's rare to find such people who are willing themselves to die
for the sake of trying to help people come to peace. Jesus, I have a question, David, if you don't
mind. Yeah, sure. Mohammed, okay. Yeah, great. We're hitting big figures, right? So, man was a
military leader, a mighty military leader of his tribe of people. At least this is what it said
about him. He listened to his father, or he didn't really necessarily, I was thinking Allah,
though, but he wouldn't really consider him father, maybe in part in some places there.
Allah begetteth not, and is not begotten. Exactly. So, my question is, what do you know about him
that we don't know historically, that we can't read in books, that we can't? Well, a lot of what I
would say would be controversial there too, unfortunately, but I'm sure you've played
through a whole episode just on this, but yeah. Again, it's important to understand the history
of things, probably, and the reality is that most Muslims today, when they refer to Allah,
they're referring to what they believe to be the creator of the universe. But the original Allah,
who Muhammad actually spoke with, was not the creator of the universe, but rather was a spirit
claiming to be the creator of the universe. So, he was a man who I've actually met as well, Allah.
He was a man who lived on earth. He's now in the sixth year of the spirit world as well.
He's a very loving man now, and we've had many conversations, but he is not the creator that
most Muslims worship. And in fact, the Christian God, Jesus, is not the creator that most Christians
worship either, right? The reality is that the real God, who is all of our fathers,
the father of all, is probably a better way of saying that, is the creator of the universe,
and me, I am a man, just as Muhammad was a man, and Allah was a man too, who used to live on earth.
But what happened was that Allah, at the time, had a lot of good philosophy,
which he felt would help Muhammad through his life. And therefore, in a similar way to how Moses
penned the Ten Commandments, Muhammad penned an entire book, if you like, of teachings which were
channeled teachings from another spirit. And Moses also was not at the time channeling God
when he penned the Ten Commandments, but rather was channeling another spirit who was trying to help
Moses and the Israelites come to a more loving condition. Of course, it was very difficult back
then to do such a thing, because people were had a very strong tendency towards violence
and self-protection, rather than being in a loving condition. So these kind of men are unique in
history for the reason that they started to encourage teachings that were against the general flow
of the teachings of the day. So, you know, Muhammad did that as well. So he was a prophet
as the Muslims came, just as I am a prophet, just as the Muslims came. But we are both,
we're connecting to different sources of material. In his case, he was connecting to Allah,
the spirit, not Allah, the God, you know, the same God of a different name, if you like,
that I was connecting to. And the reason why is because he didn't understand
the flow of God's love and how that works. And unfortunately, still does not. Muhammad is also
in the sixth sphere at the moment. And again, I've had conversations with him too for the same
reasons, because he was a person on earth. So I've had conversations with him too,
because he was a person on earth who demonstrated the same kind of desire for peaceful behavior in
the end. So even though he started out quite a warrior, he could see the violence and destruction
and what it caused. And if you think about it today, many people who go to war do see firsthand
the terrible effects of war. They feel it on themselves, and they also see it, you know,
in society. And so many of them become strong advocates afterwards of a more peaceful resolution
to things. And as he did. So you can see over the development of history, there are some people
who have demonstrated leadership in the regard of trying to encourage peace. And unfortunately,
there are other teachings that got translated into the Koran text that encouraged war,
unfortunately, just as the so-called Christian text has a tendency to encourage the same thing.
And so in that regard, they are very similar to each other. And what I find quite sad with regard
to the Muslim and Christian face is that they are so similar to each other in many regards,
and in that there is a very strong, unloving teachings about God, what I would call even
blasphemy about God, in that God is sort of treated like he's a warrior of some kind who's
going to destroy the wicked, rather than a redeemer who is going to educate, reeducate the wicked
into righteousness. And I feel that is the primary fault of almost all the holy books
in the way that they portray God.
I've got to change my battery. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, guys. It's interesting. And we've got to try and wrap it up here soon, David.
No, I realize it's getting, it's like, I realize that it's getting towards
9 o'clock or
Yeah, it's getting 9, and he's got an hour or something, and Dr. Price, he's not a God,
so he's definitely getting tired.
No, that's cool.
That's cool. We can have another conversation anytime you want anyway, sir.
What we would love to, but just let me know when you're back on air, Derek.
Oh, that's cool. Yeah, so I mean, just going back with that Muhammad analogy, Jesus,
just for our Mormon or former Mormon viewers, because we recently done quite a lengthy,
or Derek did quite a lengthy series on Mormonism with David Fitzgerald and Dr. Price,
in one of your interviews, you actually spoke with a with a believing Mormon and
a similar story to what you just said about Muhammad, where a spirit that did have the
best intentions revealed himself to Joseph Smith, and you gave a similar analogy with Muhammad.
Have you met Joseph Smith in the spirit world?
He's probably down on the ranks, huh? He's probably stuck in the hells, right?
I can ask my spirit friends now where he is. He's actually in the third sphere of the spirit
world, so he's not in the hells at the moment. He's progressing in the spirit world, so
as does everyone eventually, you know. You just found that out just now? You literally did.
Right, okay. Interesting. No, I mean, I'm just wondering, you know what I mean?
Well, I just ask, and they tell me. Okay. That's interesting. You know, we
have some questions, but for any Mormons or ex-mormons watching, Jesus does, I think,
two videos with a believing Mormon, and it's a great interview. You're really not
bagging the faith in any way, shape, or form. In fact, you're almost endorsing it in a way as
like a fair belief system. It's just that spirit from what I understood from the interview.
Especially the bad intentions, talks to Joseph Smith, and that's kind of, you know,
how it grew from there, from my understanding. Correct me if I'm wrong.
Yeah, I sort of feel that every religious faith has certain teachings in it that have
a grain of truth, or some, in fact, whole truth sometimes in it. And then other times,
there are obvious things that are quite false and obviously created to support,
you know, obviously a lot of the unloving behavior at the time. So, for example, in the time when
Joseph Smith received his channelings, there was a general feeling amongst some in America,
the new Americas, that they should be able to have many wives rather than one, and some of the
channelings also encouraged that view. And so, you know, it's like, and of course that also occurred
in the case of like the channelings relating to, you know, Muhammad, and also in even in the Bible,
it refers to a man having sometimes more than one wife, although one wife was the preferred
option. It was sometimes encouraged to have more, or allowed at least by the faith.
None of those things are God's opinion, of course. They are just human's opinions.
Humans who want the ability, in this case, to control many women and who are quite misogynistic.
And so, you know, unfortunately, in many faiths today, there is quite a lot of misogyny. There's
quite a lot of really abusive women. And this is why in many faiths today, many women are not
very attracted to them because of the way the faith treats women generally. And, you know,
this is something that's definitely got to change. People need to learn to treat their women
and their girls the same way I treat women or girls, which is as equals. And I just sort of feel
that, you know, many religious faiths come from a history of not having women as they're equal.
So, it's not right to say that I agree with many of any faiths' teachings. There are some faiths
that have some teachings that are correct. And then there are some parts of their teachings
that are incorrect and obviously unloving and also obviously illogical. And so,
it's best to discard those teachings in favor of more logic and scientific evidence.
I could ask a couple more if you're like a big names, maybe I can ask you about. And then maybe
we could wrap it up for the show and we'll do another one. I really, first of all,
I want to say before I even ask this, thank you. As you can see, we have probing questions,
there's curiosity, no ill intent, nothing like that. This has been a fantastic interview. And
if there's one thing that I could walk away for anyone who's watching Skeptic or not,
just love and compassion toward people is only promoted no matter what you believe at the end
of the day. And I just want to say that. So, Jesus, I find these interesting questions of things
like where is Abraham at? Was Abraham an actual historical person? I mean, a lot of scholars
actually don't even think the guy existed that this is actually a narrative invented. In that
question, I guess in asking that, you answer if he existed. If he did, are there any people that
didn't exist that were invented that you can say, look, that guy's not in the, he doesn't exist. This
was actually a fiction. Well, yeah, it's a good question, firstly, about the reality of things,
isn't it? And the reality is I've met Abraham. So the man who is claimed to be Abraham in the Bible,
I've actually met him and asked him about his life. So yes, he existed as did Isaac and Jacob.
They are all people who did actually exist, just like Esau existed and other men that are also
founders of other faiths and nations often have existed. Oftentimes, there's a lot of folklore
about them though, or what you classify as inflated creations. It's a bit like me arguing about my
dad and how good he is with you arguing about how you get your dad and how good you are. And
sooner or later, one of us, if we're not interested in truth, is going to start exaggerating.
And this is often what has happened historically. And unfortunately, a lot of that gets recorded as
fact. And it's obviously distortion. So, you know, I can tell you about Abraham's life because I've
actually talked to him about his life. And remember most of the conversations I've had.
He is now a celestial angel as well. He lives in the high spheres above the 8th,
along with Sarah and also Hagar and also Esau, the man who is so-called founder of the,
you know, what is now known as the Palestinian lineage. He's also now in the celestial heavens
as well. So, there are a lot of people who have changed over their life in the spirit world and
changed their views. Just as a person who grows on earth here usually changes their view over the
course of their life. And that's to be expected. If we're going to be growing individuals, we're
naturally going to change our views. But yeah, Abraham existed. If you want to know more about
his life, I'm happy to tell you about his life. But what would be even better, I think, is for
most people to get to the stage where they can talk to him directly and ask him. And that's
usually the best way to, you know, rather than getting everything third hand, it's usually the
best way to answer most of these questions. David? Well, look, we've obviously got to wrap it up.
But we would love to have you back on Jesus for another couple of shows because there's just
so many questions that our viewers have that Dr Bob has that Derek has. So, we'll attempt to wrap
it up. But just a couple last questions, I guess, just you just mentioned lineage. Can you trace
your lineage back to King David? Well, the reality is I was of the tribe of Judah and Mary Magdalene
was of the tribe of Benjamin. We often knew which tribe we belonged to in the first century because
it was well indoctrinated into you from your parents, you know, it doesn't really matter,
does it? Where my lineage had come from? Yes, one of my, you know, some people are just obviously
fascinated about that. Yeah, well, one of my forefathers was David. I've spoken to David as well.
But, you know, as you do when you're investigating things in the spirit world, you get to speak to
the persons you're hoping to find out more about. And David is obviously a friend of mine as well.
So, you know, I've gotten to speak with him. Is the story in the Bible true in relation to
King David, Bathsheba? It seems like a failing, a harsh punishment that Yahweh would put to death.
Well, Yahweh doesn't punish anybody. Is that fiction or is that true? That's a, you know,
the baby of Bathsheba had to die because of King David sins? It seems a bit unfair.
That's what he believed at the time. Obviously, it's not true. The baby died, but not through
anybody's, not through anybody's specifics in, obviously. The reasons why children die at birth
are often to do with unloving things that have happened in many generations past that have had
that finish up putting a genetic imprint on the next generation. And so, unfortunately,
you know, children die for this reason. It's not God's intention that children die.
And just like it's not really God's intention that any of us die, the reality is that we could
choose when to die rather than die of old age like many of us do. And we only get old because of
certain impurities that are now in our genetic structure about what is it, 5% or less of our
genetic structure has problems with it that causes us to age and die. But, you know, these
particular things are all curable problems. So he, you know, Bathsheba's son didn't die as a result
specifically of that particular sin of David's or Bathsheba's son.
It was recorded that way.
That's right. It's recorded that way because the people at the time believe such things.
And they believe that God was a punishing God and they believed that if they did something wrong
and their conscience bothered them, that something really bad was going to happen in the future as
a result of the thing that they did. And unfortunately, sometimes even thinking that causes problems
in themselves. So, you know, a lot of these things are self-fulfilling as a result of our
feelings and belief systems. But the reality is God does not punish anybody for things.
God's laws automatically correct our sins. And if you think of sin, again, I feel that's another
problem is the definition of sin on the planet is very flawed. There's always stigma and judgment
associated with the word sin. When I used the word myself in the first century,
I used it in the sense of a sin is just missing the mark of the perfection of love.
That's all. And many of us do that every day. You know, we miss the mark of perfection of love.
Every time we miss the mark of love, a negative consequence is going to happen because the law,
God's laws, are governed by love. So every time we live in disharmony with love, there is going to
be some negative consequence in our life, but not as a result of God's specific punishment,
but rather the fact that we're just like breaking a law, just like jumping off a building would
be breaking the law of gravity. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, I would love to keep
going because I want to find out we've got questions. We're going to take your questions
after this episode, you guys go in the description. You're more than welcome to email me. Be kind.
Okay, if you're not kind, I'm just not going to entertain the question. I understand if you
don't believe what he's saying, I understand if you're skeptic, but there's no reason to be an
unkind person in this scenario. I want to ask questions down the road, Jesus, of the end,
you know, how's this world going to end if there is going to be an end? You know, did Adam exist?
Well, let's go into other people in history. Let's talk more about what you remember, what you
can recall of the 2000 years of life that you've lived and more. I'm sure the creativity of some
of our audience who've watched, you might have a question. So send it in. Don't forget to support
us. You guys can become a patron, of course, a myth vision. It helps us keep this episode,
this show going and help Dr. Price. He has a patron as well. You guys go down in the description.
If you want to see more about Jesus and Mary Magdalene, his wife, you guys can go to the
YouTube channel. You can check out their website, or you can wait for the next episode here,
whatever you want to do. I really appreciate you joining Jesus. I appreciate it.
Awesome interview. Thank you. Yeah, you're most impressive. I'm glad to have met you.
Yeah, thanks. Thanks. Thanks, Bob. I think a lot of times people believe that it's impossible to
answer certain questions. But the reality is, my experience has been that God wants us to know
the answers to everything. And any person who's honest with you will want you to know the answers
to everything. And so that's all I'm going to be is honest with you. And whether you believe me or
not is another matter. No, thank you. You've been kind. I mean, yeah, you're not a dictator. You're
not a, you know, you don't go telling people you better do, you know, so. Exactly. And thank you
for also going to such great lengths to make this happen. I know we had some technical issues in
the last couple of days, but so you resolved those magnificently. And thank you for that.
Yeah, it's been great. No, thank you very much. Very much appreciated. I want to say he almost
walked on water just getting the internet connected here because your internet was definitely giving
you a pain. Yeah. Yeah. And I met Mary did a lot of that work. So a lot of that has to go to Mary.
She had the frustration of dealing with our telecommunications.
Naturally. That's the technology. Oh, Jesus was a carpenter and the Greek word known that is
techno. And he says naturally your technology kind of guy. Yeah. Yeah. Ironically, I wanted
to be a carpenter in this life, but it didn't come about. So. Well, thank you so much. I really
appreciate it. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, I mean, I don't know how you can possibly forget
that we are midfielder.
Yeah.
