MythVision Patreon members, thank you so much for helping support MythVision making this
possible, continuing to bring education. We've also started a college course platform where
we're going to help educate more people at an affordable cost that'll never get the opportunity
to go to an actual college or learn this stuff through an academic, I guess you'd say, they
take that as their course in life. Anyone can learn this material. And of course,
we're trying to bring it to them at their computers. Well, in this video today,
this is while I was in Israel or in the Holy Land, we went through this Hezekiah's tunnel,
which was long, deep down in the earth. It was really, really interesting. Even moments
during this, I thought, what if the walls collapse? What if an earthquake happens and I'm crushed?
I mean, claustrophobia is something that I probably fear a little, but this is the raw video.
I haven't even edited it out to do any perfections with music or anything to make it fancy.
I hope you enjoy it. I want you to follow me through the tunnel. Our good friend Neil Gnostic
Forman is also there and we go down into this tunnel. He recorded his own version. I was right
there behind the tour guide. Ross Nichols, great guy, funny. He's very witty and he's a great person.
And I hope that more people will go subscribe to him as well. I just want to give you something
because I have hundreds of videos from our tour in the Holy Land. And of course, we went all over
the place. So I can't wait till my time freeze up where I can edit some of that material. I'm
still editing courses that I have coming out. I've got a lot of stuff that's coming, but here is
something for you during these holidays. I hope you enjoy this. And let me know what you think
about the tour. Drop a comment here in the Patreon and I like to see them. I do see your comments
here. Thank you for your support. I have so much more to bring and just this is my way of showing
appreciation. Seeing the tour down there in the tunnel is quite interesting. We're about to go
through Hezekiah's tunnel into a dark wet tunnel that goes way, way back. And me and Gnostic
Informant are about to do that. It's about to be real. It's about to be real. So be on the lookout
as we travel deep into this tunnel that has a lot of history. And yeah, I'm hoping this is a lot of
fun. We'll see. You're going to watch it with us. Here we go. Heading down to Hezekiah's tunnel.
Hey, mid vision ready? Yep, ready. Mid vision's ready.
Here we go. We're going down. I think this is the first time we're going to get wet
during the trip. You didn't go into the
cesareo? You didn't go into the metaturnal? Um, you didn't get baptized? Oh yeah, yeah, but I'm
yeah, this is more like suspenseful. Oh, oh, going into the dark. Dark tunnel, deep, scary.
Here we go.
I like this. Yeah, we need to get like in a place and turn all our flashlights off so
we can experience the darkness. Right.
What's up?
So let me, hey, let me give y'all a little bit of the fear factor before we go in there. Oh,
yeah. Because it just slipped my mind. Water snakes? Yeah, no, not actually,
but what we do have is when we get to the bottom, it's not too late if somebody goes,
oh, I don't want to do that, but I just want you to know that it's 433 meters, 1750 feet.
It is, it is dark, but you have a flashlight, right? It's, it's somewhat cramped in places that
other times it's going to be really high, but that's the way that they constructed the tunnel.
I first thought that maybe they were trying to impress the boss from the outside and they
made it real tall at first, but actually that's part of the engineering, right? So you're, they
started and they were swinging just regular, but they had to work their way down because you have
to create the plumb so that the water flows. That's the whole purpose of it. So I just thought
that they were just doing a really good job because by the time you get in the, you know,
in the middle, you're going to be duck walking a little bit, you know, except I mean, I'm the
perfect size human. So I can go through that a lot of ducking, but some of you guys are, you know,
I think you have people trying to come through.
Let's do this thing. We're heading in. This side would be fun.
Two tombs look out right over here.
Oh.
All right, get ready. This ought to be fun.
Go down.
Well, it talks about it. It is required now. What do they call it?
Chapter.
Continuing down the path here.
Look at that view.
Okay.
Turning back now to the water system. Warnshaft, Hezekiah's Tunnel.
Yes, you ready? Guys, it gets exciting now. Really exciting.
We have our handy dandy flashlight.
No turning back.
You guys in a video, just so you know. So she was asking about Warren's shaft.
So Warren discovered this in 1838. But really, we have records of people talking about it from
the 1600s. But Warren is the man. I mean, Warren comes in, these guys are all these
19th century explorers all over the place. So Warren in 1838 finds it. You have everybody
who's anybody in the 19th century, these explorers, they're all through here. We have Condor. We have
Robinson. Everybody that's anybody in the 19th century, they're coming through this. It's not
like it is now. Like right now, you go in there and it's, you know, I mean, they didn't have all
this. Obviously they're hiking, they're climbing down, they're pushing brush aside, and it's
uncontrollable. It's not like it's regulated. Sometimes the water rushes in on them. I mean,
it was scary back then, but now they've cleaned it all out where it's a level flow. So we shouldn't
have that today. Nice. Thank God, right? Somebody said shouldn't. Shouldn't.
Have you done it before?
Yeah, I'm not sure if that's stuff that they found. So they, they could have, I don't know if they
found that. They're in the city of Davidson. That's not in the tunnel. Right, right, right.
Good question, man. Yeah, it would have been interesting. So this, this is just, you know,
the modern walkway to get you ready. Like right now, if this is making you feel a little uncomfortable,
you better turn around. You better turn around.
You all are in a bag. Ain't no going back, boy. Oh, this is, I've seen this. I've seen this video before.
There's an emergency exit down to the right of that. Oh no, it's right here to the right. Okay.
Wow, this goes far. We're going down. This is steep. We're going in the 80s. Yeah, a lot of
tumor groups, you know, a lot of people come through here, obviously. Do you come back up this
night? No, no, it's not that good. This is probably the lowest, as far as sea level goes,
my entire life on the planet. I don't know, because I've got friends in places where the whiskey
drowns in the beer, chases my wounds away, but I'll be okay.
This is real slippery here, guys. Very slippery, right? Just so you know, it's very slippery right
here. Yes, ma'am.
Be careful where the rock is every time.
So we're talking about this tunnel that we're going through. The thing that people have to
understand is it flows the idea biblically. Fundamentalists will look at this and they began
to say as early as 1871 that what's going on is this is the fulfillment. When they first
found it, 1871 is when they started selling. You know what? This probably was what's talked about
in the Bible. So II Kings 22, II Chronicles 32, and as they had 22 verses 9 and 11. Well, it's
definitely something. Yeah, well, I imagine we're here. No, no, no, that's right. But what they're
saying is they say this was what has a kind of punch through, right, to bring water into the
city once the Na'kari is coming. The Assyrians are coming. So Israel is... Is that deep? Yeah,
no, is that shorudo? Well, that's the question. Now, critical scholars have come here. Give me
the critical scholar. That's what I want to hear. For a long time, people just said, yeah, it's
Hezekiah's tunnel, and that obviously gets its name because the Bible talks about this tunnel.
But Ronnie Wright and the archaeology team that came in like 2011, I believe is when the paper
is published, they begin to propose other ideas. Not that it wasn't done at Hezekiah's time, but
that it was done in stages. So that way you don't have to say... So he gets the layup that they
toss up for him. Yeah, he's... They give him the Elio, but he slammed it down. Exactly. I get it,
I get it. But he had to know it. Don't think it wasn't this major work. But at the same time,
like we've passed through what they think is Canaanite and Jebusite. Yeah. So over time,
people began to cut more and more and more, and it all has to do with water. Yeah. That makes
sense. I like that approach. So I think that's probably right. I think in Hezekiah's time...
This would be a lot to do in one lifetime. Yeah. So from a critical standpoint, even if somebody
said, well, you know, was it Hezekiah? Was it Uzziah? Was it one of the kings? Yeah. I think
because we have this record... Strangely, we have this record extension and five other stuff
is twisted that deal with this. You have to say there's just completely something to say. Yeah. So
eighth century, but why do you like... He looks at this and he says, you know,
the kind that we're going to go through, the way that we do things, it was probably done in part
as early as the ninth century. So it's like in stages. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense.
Now, check this out. This is really important. The Gihon, the Gihon spring. It's mentioned,
as you can see, when Solomon, when Solomon is anointed king, he goes down to the Gihon spring.
Notice it says that Zidoth with the Sadducees, you know? So there's two priestly groups. You have
Abietar and you have Zidoth. There's a major split between the two. You have two totally different
groups here. Zidoth ultimately wins today. And remember, Abietar, he sides against Solomon. He
bets on the wrong horse. So what happens is Solomon, when he takes the throne, he banishes
the people of the priest of Abietar's line and he goes, you go to Anatot. Well, that's not so bad,
really, because Anatot is a priestly city. So he's in a priestly city. But guess who's from Anatot?
Jeremiah. Oh, okay. So because he comes out of that school, then. Yeah, Jeremiah is a priest. He's a son
of a priest. His dad, when reading Jeremiah 1, is Hilkiah. Hilkiah discovers a, check this out.
Hilkiah discovers a small one. Damn, that's wobbly. Nice, great job, man. Yeah. Check that out.
Want to try walking? You can.
It has Menea's. That's scary. I don't know if I trust it. Zidoth, anyway, Zidoth, priest, right.
So they would look around. Yeah, there's a competition.
I don't know, it's just fired up. Yeah. Now where's they going?
Oh, yeah. Absolutely.
Okay, so a lot of work has been done in the city of David. We were coming down the,
pulling out some of the discoveries of the bull, these seal impressions. And so what's
interesting about these, they're found not only in the city of David, but in the Gabbati parking lot,
Mazar, Benjamin Mazar, his daughter, and then, you know, all the way down through a lot just
recently passed away. But these scholars were finding these bulls, and they have names that we
know from the Bible. You know, some might say, well, how do we know it's really that particular
person? Some of them are pretty specific. We'll talk about those later then. You guys go down there,
but this is the way it will work. I got excited. You can report back to us. We were just going to
get a little more exercise. Yeah, because we haven't done anything of that. No exercise. We,
this is the dry. I think that's the dry.
I think you guys get to go down deeper than that. I mean, I think we're going deeper down that way.
Okay. Following you?
Pretty much warnings.
Here we go. No turning back.
Worth it.
It's raining.
Neil is up there. Yep. But I got the mic too.
So, wow. Gets claustrophobic up here. Did you already lose your sandal? Oh snap. Cold water. Here we go.
Oh, yeah.
You see that shiny white beard? Look at that sexy man right here.
That's kind of high, ain't it? I'm already regretting the way it was.
By the way, so let me tell you, the first time I came in here in a little while, you're going to get,
you're going to get the feeling that surely we made a wrong turn. So, they do have a couple of
these offshoots that Warren and these guys talked about, you know, because they were like,
what's going on here? What was it? A wrong turn in Albuquerque or what? Wrong turn.
Here we go. We're in Hezekiah's tunnel. Watch your steps. This is awesome.
Several projects going on here. What's going on? There's a lot of debate as to what we have going
on in these different... Wow, this kind of... So, this is incredible. We're drilling down into...
It's like... Wow.
There's a little step up. It's never mind. So, let's check this out there. So, at times,
you've got a good bit of distance here, but in other places, we get to where, you know,
you kind of punch down as they'll see. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But the point is, look at the water's level.
Yeah, water's level. Yeah, see there? This is nice. I'd say right now, we're about 8 inches,
6 to 8 inches of water above our ankles, just letting the audience know. Yeah.
This is great. I got 31 minutes of recording left. Let's see what we can do.
All right, you ready? Yeah. You ready? Everybody turn your lights off. All lights off. Ready? Lights off.
Let's test it with the lights off. Off, yeah. I can't get it off. You too. All of them. The only
light I see is the camera now. Hang on, listen, listen, listen, listen. What I want you to
understand is that in the 19th century, when people came through here, they had a candle,
you know, like in their lips. So, you got it made.
Wow. This is pretty badass.
Welcome to the tunnel. Welcome to the tunnel.
You can see the carving right here. You can see how they cut out the rock.
Yeah, like you can see the scratches, like they're carving. No, no, no, that's people trying to get
out of here, dear. Yeah. Let me out of here. Okay, watch your hands, there. All right.
Hello. How many times you've been through here?
Probably five. I think I brought all my boys and a couple of tuna brews.
But I feel like this is sort of like a home away from home there. Yeah. I mean, it's nice and cozy.
I like the color scheme. Oh my god. It's like you're gonna want to see the way people show their
door away at the side. Like you can, like look at Derek, you're like the perfect example of what
you're proud. Yeah, like this. Actually, stay there a second. I'll take a photo, like so you can see.
Look, MJ, don't tell Derek he's a perfect anything. I mean, like for the show. I don't need it.
You're good. Derek, you're the perfect size. It's not the best because it doesn't look like
what you see. It's Joe with his shoulder like right now. Joe was upright and perfect in all his
ways. Well, I'm just like Joe. Okay. I got it.
It's almost like a Derek built this thing. Oh.
Wow. Can you imagine the arthritis these guys had at the end of their life?
Yeah. We could probably find some writings where these guys are saying, you know, I was employed by
his attire and I just got shafted. I couldn't get. Yeah, get it. I got shafted. I got shafted.
I couldn't take off and on Saturdays. Oh, wow.
A little beach. Someone had a battery down there and you're like, and I need it. I'm losing
pay. Call an ancient astronauts or whatever. Maybe they didn't. Maybe that is an ancient
that's that's an ancient israeli battery right there. Right.
Just like the pyramids supposedly where water is down here.
I want to make sure we get out while you got that. Yeah, I'm with you.
Yeah. Watch your head. It's creeping down a little again.
One more thing. We have pretty smooth walking here, but when these guys came through in the
19th century, this wasn't like this. Really? In fact, I'm writing a paper for Albright
about about some of this early explorers working with this stuff. Wow. Watch your head.
What is this?
Looks like sludge or something.
It's oozing. It's oozing with adventure is what it's oozing with.
Watch your head. Watch your head.
Watch your head.
I'm glad you got flashlights for everybody. That was a good move.
Yeah. Everybody can experience it a little, you know.
Now, weren't they using this to escape during battle or at least in some ways there was a
connection to battle. So what they want to do according to the biblical account is the Assyrian
Samacharyd is coming. This is the standard view. Watch your head. Watch your head. We can't have the
Gighorn spring, your main water source outside the gate. Even though you're going to have to bring
the water in. Wow. Fundamentals would say good old Hezekiah can hear the Assyrians are coming,
the Assyrians are coming, the Assyrians are coming. He gets his boys and he goes, hey,
I got to make a tunnel. Now if you have to ask yourself how long do you think it took to make
this tunnel? Yeah, that's not overnight. So Ellie Shulkan and other scholars are putting running
right and putting forward theories that this was not just done killing. We got to wait, boys. Let's
get it. Right, right. Now, look at this. When you get up to where I am, I want you to think about
something. Why are we turning left here? Because I'm amazed you always keep your left hand on the
left wall and you get out to the right. You don't think we made a wrong turn, do you? What happened
is the way they think this was made is people are on top and they're using like noise sounding.
So you've got a team that's coming from your way, a team that's coming this way and they're
whack, whack. And then there's somebody on top's like, you know, he takes a break. He comes back,
he's like, they're way off course, man. Well, if you'd be surprised that some places it's not that
far off, but in other places it is. We'll talk a little about that out here. Watch your head.
Director Jam, sharp turns.
Wow, dude, this is cool. Wait until you hear the story about how we discovered them.
Not the tunnel, but the inscription. Okay. We have an ancient record. Get this there. We have an
ancient account of how this thing was made and it's scratched in the stone. Wow.
I'm going to tell you about a little bit about that.
Don't worry, we only got 60 minutes of this left.
Seems like they were trying to scrape back here.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Look, another one. Another little scrape.
Oh, are you okay? And watch your step over here, everybody. There's a hole again. A little one.
Now look, I'm just letting you know you have a pretty nice, uh, honey back here, Ross.
Hey, let me tell you what, that honey comes from a lot of hill hiking, maybe.
Watch your step, Eric. Yep, another one, a bad drop.
Oh, right here. Okay. Watch it here. This is probably the most crouching location.
It's almost like they started getting desperate. Yeah, it's like four foot and four inches in here.
Eric, they're actually just tired like swinging the pick. They're like, dude, we gotta do that with the right.
Okay, now you kind of stand up and stretch your back a little bit.
This is super long.
Four hundred and thirty-three meters, seventeen hundred and fifty feet of fun, baby.
Now, is that from the start we walked in where the water was, or?
Yeah, watch your head. Watch your head.
Yeah, from the Guihon Spring, it goes from the Guihon Spring to what's called Salom.
Salom, uh, out here.
We're almost there, y'all.
We're almost there.
Look up here. There's like an opening up here. Yeah, someone left the bra.
Hey, look, there's a brazier.
Someone's bra died. Somebody's bra's in here.
That's such a random place to stop. Someone knocked off one of their bucket lists down here.
Somebody said, it's getting hot in here.
Take off all of clothes.
How deep are we underground? It's very. I'll show you a map.
I love the fact that you can see chisel marks along the way.
This is like, here's what we know. This tunnel, ancient people, people can debate,
was it the biblical account of Hezekiah, 2 Kings 22, 2 Chronicles 32, Isaiah 22,
was it 9th century, 8th century, but a team of workers built this thing.
It's a magnificent example of ancient engineering. The only example in the Middle East like
this. This is wild. I've never been in a tunnel like this.
I've been in the cheddar cave system in the UK and it's almost as fast to open, but not as wet.
Wow.
So we're still dealing with, there's people in front of us that are just, that's wild, man.
The Bible doesn't say how long it took to build this thing.
No, it doesn't.
There's no telling. That might be lost to history.
Yeah, and I think that the scholars are right that this thing was done in phases.
Yeah. Wow.
What the heck is wrong with people?
I tell you, isn't that bad?
Yeah.
Ancient or modern?
I honestly don't know. Looks, I don't know. Pretty smooth, certainly.
Yeah.
See how it constantly turns, man.
I noticed it's more narrow at the hips here than it was earlier.
Some have proposed that the workers digging were following more natural fissures in the earth.
So it wasn't like, you know, some have proposed that it's not so much that they're,
they've got a real plan. You know, they're going where their picks will allow them to go.
I don't know if I'll buy that, but it's at least out there.
They had to end up at a specific point.
All right. They had what?
They had to end up at a start of a specific point and end up at a specific target.
That's right. And we're going to talk about that in front of the ancient.
It's actually a replica of the inscription, but I'm going to take you to see if you go with me to
Istanbul. I'll show you the real one.
How in the world did it end up at Istanbul?
Oh, it's really skinny.
Yeah.
Yeah, much more than earlier.
It's just a hip part that's skinny.
Like it opens up on someone.
Just a tip for anybody in the future.
Bring your own flashlights.
My batteries starting to flicker.
Yeah, we have to pray that mine lasts because I couldn't get the charger to work
and we're about to be at the climax when we get to the inscription.
And is that in the dark or do they light up the inscription?
No, it's in dark, man.
Wow.
I know you're looking for it.
If you don't know, there's something here.
Someone's got to bring a tap light in here.
Yeah. Look how high the sillings are here.
Yeah. So, you know, we're getting towards the end.
I remember the other inscription was the other ancient point like this.
Sillings are way taller.
And again, just so people understand, they weren't swinging the axe 25 feet in the air,
but they started there.
So, they worked their way down to get the plumb on the water rather than the other way around.
Wow. Yeah, that's way up there.
So, you can see how much work it took to get the water to flow from the home
outside the ancient city gates into the ancient city wall.
Oh, wow.
Wow. That's about 25, 30 feet up.
We got to look at the little crack on the side.
Wow. Flashlights make a difference just letting people know.
Another tip, please bring a good flashlight.
I do. I do. It's flickering. Just a little, but it's fine.
Come on.
Yes, they scraped the heck out of this rock.
So, we caught up and we're, I don't know if this is our group, but if it is and they make,
if they have a tour guide, we're going to let them go ahead so that your viewers can hear the rest of it.
Yeah. Yeah.
You want to hear the real story he said? Just wait. We're getting there.
Okay, get ready. Get ready, MythVision.
Look, they walked right by it. They don't even know. They don't even know about the inscription.
Oh, really?
It's just about the water experience for them, huh? Okay. I want you to look at this.
So, listen. Hey, guys, if you're with, uh,
so, is everybody caught up? No.
All right. So, I'm going to go ahead.
What? Just a light.
Oh, you did that? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Good job. Thank you. Oh, is this your light? No, that's built in.
No. Okay.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Bye-bye. No, no, no, no. Go, go, go, go, go.
Okay, look. How many people are back there? Is everybody caught up?
Okay. So, I'm going to start telling the story. Sorry.
Go ahead. So, in 1880, now, remember, this was discovered in the modern day in 1838.
We talked about that. But in 1880, two students of Conrad Schick, who was an architect, he was also
sort of, he's called the first scholar in Jerusalem. But he had a school that trained the
local inhabitants on all sorts of trades and so forth. He had a student by the name,
well, let me see if I want to tell you the name yet. We'll talk about him in a minute. So, two
students come through here, they decide they're going to go in the tunnel. But there are legends
that there are demons in the tunnel, that there's a genie. We just met two of them, right? So,
but they're scared. No, no, no, really. That's what that was. Don't get freaked out on me now.
But what happens is, no, just keep little kids. I love that. But what happens is,
Jacob Aliyahu comes through this side, all right? His buddy is going to go through the other side
and they're going to meet in the middle. But the other guy gets scared because he thinks there's
a devil in here or something. So, he runs off, poor Jacob is walking. Now, this wasn't like it is.
Now, there's busted up rubble, the water rises, they hadn't regulated it. This was plugged up on
the south end. So, anytime the water's flowing, it's like if the water comes up in the Gihon
spring, you get trapped in, not here, because it's tall enough, but he's walking and he stumbles. And
as he stumbles, he kind of feels his way up and he feels something different here.
And what he finds is, he finds the inscription, but he can't make it out. Remember, he doesn't
have a nice flashlight like you do. He's got a candle in his lips. So, he's able to look and he
thinks, I think I see, I think I see ancient writing, but he doesn't, you know, this is not
quite as bright. But look at the, look at the script here. This is a replica of what was discovered.
It contains six lines. It's written in Paleo-Hebrew, and it's believed to be dated to about the 8th to
7th century BCE. Now, I'll show you something that none of these other people know about.
Look at this. See this charring right here? It's dark, it's black. We believe, scholars believe
that right here, that this was what the ancient person who inscribed here set up his candle.
It's a niche in the rock. Now, they didn't understand that people went through this tunnel
for decades and never knew about this. Now, by the way, I want you to know that it was actually
recessed in here. This is just, you know, it's just a replica. It wasn't like a picture hung
up on the wall like you see it now. But it's, see, it's got cracks in it. So there's a lot of debate
about what it says. First of all, they're not so familiar with the script. It's a little bit different,
and what is sometimes tough, the scholars debated, is there, is that a line in the rock, you know,
like it just cracked or is that actually a chisel mark? When you walk by, feel with your finger,
you'll notice that the letters aren't etched in deeply. So this is a yod. This is a Hebrew yod.
Hey, you know, as you work your way, like you can't hardly read it. It's not scratched in deeply.
But this was filled with silicate because the water would rise above it. So they had to clean it
because what you want to do with an inscription is you want to get a squeeze, which is where you
take like paper, you wet it, you mash it into the rock, and you let it dry. And once you, once it
dries, you peel it off, and you can then, you have a reverse, actually the reverse of this, right?
So the scholars are trying to get this done where they can read it. Well, it's so full, they tried
it two or three times. Ultimately, a man named Herman Guta is able to clean it, and they're able
to get these things. But I'm going to go ahead and move because we have people coming up behind us.
But as you walk by, this thing that the little child was screaming at us about, it gives you a light
so that you can read the inscription and look at the replica. By the way, the Ottomans were in
control when this was discovered. And the Ottomans, there was, we don't know who hired, but I know the
person who actually chiseled this out of the wall and got it, you know, got it out. Ultimately,
it's now in Istanbul, which was Constantinople at the time. So this is a replica. It's a replica.
Yeah. Now we're almost out.
We have stairs up here.
This is nice.
So if you notice, it's only like 19 feet inside and you're at the inscription.
Yeah. People for decades, like I said, we go through there. It's just a chance. Jacob Eliyahu
is this young guy's name. Jacob Eliyahu is a farted Jew. His family had made Aliyah. They lived in
the land and Jacob worked for Conrad Schick. He plays into the research. Are you going to give us
a skinny on the Shapiro situation? Because it ties in with Shapiro. And see, you're something that I'm
really pushing right now. One guy, one guy there, knows, was the first to determine what it actually
said. Remember now, there are several scholars going in there in the 1800s and the Archibald Seisi.
Yeah. It was actually the water. Hey guys, listen, the water was actually, when they first discovered
it, it was covering the bottom portion of the inscription. So you see how much higher it was
and there's rubble all in there. But Archibald Seisi is a brilliant scholar and he knew like
20 languages is what they say. But when Archibald Seisi went in, they looked at it and they gave
readings. But one guy named Moses Wilhelm Shapiro was the first to determine that it meant that
two teams of builders were working from one end to the next. He's the first guy. Now we all know
that now. But this is in 1880. He's the first one. The other thing that Shapiro knew is every
scholar said that the ancient paleo said 1,000 cubits. Shapiro said it said 1,200 cubits. Now
everybody knows those. So I think that the only fair thing to do to vindicate Shapiro, there needs to
be a plaque that says my boy Moses Shapiro was the first to do it. That's right. It needs to be
right here. Thank you Moses Shapiro for telling us what this actual inscription meant and for
reading it correctly. Does he translate? He did. So we've got a lot more to look at but this
was uh has a cat's tongue. I just got crapped on. By a bird. I know right? You know there's an ancient
saying. There's an ancient saying that the man who gets deposited on by a local bird coming out of this
place is probably doomed. No don't laugh. You're skeptical but you I'm just saying be careful when
step out on the road. Hey hey hey. Nice. Well you didn't get wet. You sure didn't get wet.
