In the beginning, the world was under threat by a terrible dragon.
Its seven heads vomited up floodwaters, hoping to drown the world until nothing remained.
The council of gods was in disarray, overwhelmed by the power of the twisting chaos monster.
Finally, one of the younger deities stepped in to make a proposition to the divine council.
He would slay the dragon if they promised to make him king over the pantheon.
They agreed.
The young god armed himself with arrows made of lightning and rode his chariot out from
the mountain of the gods.
His dark storm clouds rushed over the sea, exploding with thunder as he shot his lightning
at the dragon.
In the end, the god was the victor.
He broke the dragon's body and crushed its seven heads.
This is the story of the biblical god Yahweh, triumphing over the dragon Leviathan.
And it's the story of the Canaanite god Baal Haddad, along with several gods in the cultures
which surrounded ancient Israel.
Ugarit
The biblical narrative claims that when the creator god, most frequently called by the
names Yahweh and Elohim, helped the Hebrews escape their slavery in Egypt, Yahweh promised
he would give them a land to call their own, if they promised to worship only him.
The world might be full of polytheists, but the Hebrews were to be strict monotheists.
With the promise made, Yahweh led the Hebrews to the land of Canaan, where they nearly extinguished
the native population and established their own kingdom.
Not long after, the Hebrew kingdom faced civil war and split in two, the kingdom of Israel
in the north, the kingdom of Judah in the south.
Over the next few centuries, the Israelite and Judean kingdoms were repeatedly seduced
by their pagan neighbors to worship other gods.
Furious at this repeated betrayal of their ancestral promise, Yahweh punished the two
kingdoms.
First, he had the Israelites conquered by an enemy nation.
Later, he did the same to the Judeans.
The Jewish survivors eventually resettled their lost kingdom, this time firmly preserving
their promise of monotheism.
In the early 20th century, archaeologists stumbled across the ruins of Ugarit, an ancient
city in Syria.
There they found hundreds of texts, written in the 14th through 12th centuries BCE.
The Ugaritic texts were written in a language closely related to biblical Hebrew, but they
were hundreds of years older than any book in the Bible.
I'm going to take a quick pause because I'm very excited about today's sponsor, Ground
News.
You all know my goal is to boost critical thinking so we're not trapped in echo chambers which
I like to call Plato's Cave.
As this documentary shows, the Bible's demonization of Baal worshippers is an early example of
religious intolerance still seen today.
The spread of false information can fuel ongoing hatred and intolerance.
So what can we do if we crave factual reporting from around the globe and don't want to remain
in our little Plato's Cave?
Enter Ground News.
This app and website collects news from over 50,000 different sources providing a comprehensive
view of any given story.
We need a tool that helps us see multiple angles, which Ground News does perfectly.
For example, there's a current religious freedom report noting rising bigotry amid
the Gaza War.
Ground News found 55 articles covering this story and we can easily see that the majority
of coverage is coming from the right.
We also get information on the factuality and ownership of these sources.
It's easy to compare headlines.
Lee Enterprises in America writes, US lectures India on alleged discrimination of minorities.
While Indie TV in India reports, it's time the US, forever preaching to others, got off
its high horse.
One of my favorite features is how it identifies your blind spots.
If you tend to click on articles that lean a certain way, Ground News will show you perspectives
from the other side, helping you to avoid echo chambers.
It's a great way to get out of our little Plato's Cave.
If you value critical thinking and unbiased news coverage as much as I do, Ground News
is a tool for you.
They're offering viewers of my channel a 40% discount on the vantage plan, which provides
access to all these amazing features.
Check them out at www.ground.news.com or scan the QR code on the screen to save 40% on the
same vantage plan I use for unlimited access to all their features.
You can find the link in the description or the pinned comment under the video by signing
up you're not only helping yourself but also supporting this channel.
Thank you, Ground News, for sponsoring today's video.
Now let's dive back into the documentary.
Viewers realized the Ugaritic Pantheon was the Canaanite Pantheon.
Rather than only knowing about the Canaanites through the damning reports by their Hebrew
conquerors, we had their stories in their own words.
What we learned was the so-called biblical religion was far less monotheistic than the
Bible's authors might insist.
Compared to the biblical narrative, the majority of historians agree that no such exodus from
Egypt happened.
Instead, the ancient Israelites and Judeans were a pair of subcultures which emerged within
Canaanite society.
The Hebrews were Canaanites.
They were not monotheists who fell into polytheism.
They were polytheist from the very beginning.
The precise historical origins of Yahweh are still debated, but on the basis of the evidence
from Ugarit, other troves of rediscovered ancient documents and snippets of stories still
present in the Bible, the prevailing theory is that Yahweh worship developed somewhere
in Midian or Edom and then migrated northward into Israel and Judah.
Yahweh was initially integrated into the Canaanite Pantheon as a storm warrior god, very similar
to an existing Canaanite god named Baal Haddad.
As Yahweh's followers grew in socio-political strength in the next few centuries, they assigned
to him attributes or stories which had belonged to other gods in the Pantheon.
Ultimately, worship of any deities other than Yahweh was suppressed by cultural leaders.
This included attempts to edit the books of the Bible, altering or removing any passage
which seemed to contain a positive reference to other gods.
The effort was only mostly successful.
Digging through the Bible will reveal Israel's underlying polytheistic worldview.
Father of the Gods
In the Ugaritic literature, we find that at the top of the Canaanite Pantheon was El, the
deity whose name essentially means just God.
El was given a variety of titles.
One of these was El-Yan, which means Most High.
Another was Shaddai, which has traditionally been translated as Almighty.
The consort of El was a goddess named Athirat, Ashirat, or Asherah.
Together, El and Asherah were identified as the parents of the seventy gods, which comprised
the main part of the Pantheon.
According to this same theological tradition, the human world consisted of seventy nations,
so that each god was assigned a nation to rule as their own domain.
We see this concept in Genesis 10, which claims humanity separated into seventy nations after
Noah's flood.
In the Hebrew Bible's historical narrative, which spans the book of Genesis through the
book of Kings, we find various poems and songs.
Based on linguistic features, some of these poems are considered by many scholars to be
the oldest parts of the Bible.
One of these is Deuteronomy 32, where we find this statement.
When El-Yan distributed the nations, when he divided the sons of man, he fixed the boundaries
of the peoples according to the number of the sons of.
The share of Yahweh was his people, Jacob, the portion of his inheritance.
In the blank space, different versions of Deuteronomy fill in different words.
The common Hebrew text says, sons of Israel.
Different Greek copies translated the lines as angels of God, or sons of God, disagreeing
with the Hebrew version.
Other copies of the verse say, gods, sons of God, or sons of the gods.
What did the text originally say?
There was obviously some form of the Hebrew word for God, whether El, Elohim, Elim, or
Israel.
When the alternate versions are compared, and the reasoning behind their differences
is considered, the evidence leads us to an original form which says, the nations were
sorted out according to the sons of El.
Amid this assignment of nations to the gods of El's Pantheon, Yahweh received the Hebrew
nation here called Jacob.
The natural implication is that when this poem was first written, Yahweh was identified
as one of the sons of El.
He was just one God among many, but the author of the poem in Deuteronomy 32 believed Yahweh
was ascending in power and deserved recognition.
Praise, O heavens, his people, worship him, all you gods.
The short Psalm 82 also refers to the role of Israel's God within the wider Pantheon.
Elohim has taken his place in the assembly of El.
Among the gods, he holds judgment.
How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked, Sila?
Judge for the weak and the orphan.
Give justice for the lowly and the destitute.
Rescue the weak and the needy.
Deliver them from the hand of the wicked.
They do not know nor understand.
They walk around in darkness.
All the foundations of the earth are shaken.
I say, you are gods, sons of Elion, all of you.
Nevertheless, you shall die like man and fall like one of the princes.
Rise up, Elohim, judge the earth, for all the nations belong to you.
The author sets the scene, Yahweh, aka Elohim, sitting as a member of the assembly of El,
Adat El, close to the Ugaritic term for the Pantheon, assembly of gods, Adat Ilm.
Yahweh addresses the other members of this assembly, whom the Psalm identifies as gods
and sons of Elion.
Yahweh accuses these other gods, his peers, of a severe sin.
They have utterly felled to enforce justice in the world.
Their punishment is essentially a death sentence.
Despite being gods, they will die like man, and their nations will be taken from them,
given to Yahweh to rule with justice.
Comparably, in Exodus 1212, Yahweh vows to punish the gods of Egypt, for allowing the
Hebrews to have been enslaved by the pharaoh, for I will pass through the land of Egypt
on this night, and I will slay the first born in the land of Egypt, from man to animals,
and against all the gods of Egypt, I will execute judgments.
I am Yahweh.
The author's message assumes the essential truth of the Canaanite worldview.
He does not challenge the idea that nations are ruled by various gods, nor that Yahweh
was just one member of the same pantheon.
Instead, the central point of the Psalm seems to be the author's recognition that Yahweh's
following had grown in sociopolitical strength, resulting in other deities being undeserving
of worship.
The Psalm unwittingly hints at the historical development of Yahweh worship as an emergent
subculture within Canaanite religion.
This exaltation of Yahweh over the pantheon is seen in other parts of the Bible as well.
Though in a less obvious way, the people in the Kingdom of Israel and Judah had a large
variety of stories about the distant past.
Stories included myths about how the world was created, legends about ancient heroes,
and folktales about noble or clever ancestors who received divine favor.
When these stories were brought together and edited into a single historical narrative,
the result contained contradictions between the competing traditions, often within the
same individual books.
According to one tradition, the Creator God was exclusively known to humans by names like
El, El Shaddai, or Elohim, sources like Genesis 1-1, 5-1, 17-1, 28-3, 31-13, 35-11, etc.
He revealed his true name, Yahweh, only after he summoned Moses to be his prophet during
the Exodus in Exodus 6-2-3.
Elohim also spoke to Moses and said to him, I am Yahweh.
I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as El Shaddai, but I did not make myself known
to them by my name Yahweh.
This directly contradicts another tradition, which said that humans knew the Creator God
by the name Yahweh from the very beginning.
The patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob repeatedly call him Yahweh.
And when this God summons Moses to be his prophet, he simply identifies himself as the
same Yahweh known to the patriarchs.
The first tradition corresponds to another historical development within Israelite theology.
Sort of the next logical step after Psalm 82, Yahweh's followers held on to stories
in which their ancestors worshiped the Canaanite God El, yet over time Yahweh's importance
within the Pantheon was increased until this group concluded Yahweh was actually another
name for El.
This led to the invention of the claim in Exodus 6 as an attempt to explain the incongruity.
This was not a linear process.
Some worshipers of Yahweh thought he was El, while others had no such belief.
The contradiction between their two versions of the ancestral stories only became a glaring
problem when they were combined, becoming the books we call Genesis and Exodus.
With the merging of Yahweh and El, this meant that Yahweh was at the top of the Pantheon,
the God of Gods.
It could also mean that El's consort, Asherah, was now Yahweh's consort, but her presence
in this role is missing from the Bible.
What few references to her exist in the Bible are extremely negative references to Asherah
worship, and Asherim ritual objects, somehow connected to her following.
Some archaeological discoveries, such as a 10th century BCE colt stand found at Ta'anak
depict Asherah alongside Yahweh, while the 9th century BCE inscriptions found at Kuntelet-Adrud
mention an Asherah ritual object which belongs to Yahweh.
Likewise with the merging of Yahweh and El, we might wonder if there are other references
to the Pantheon in the Hebrew Bible than what we've already seen.
Genesis 6 opens with the sons of Gods, taking human women as their wives, and the book of
Job begins with the sons of Elohim assembling in front of Yahweh, their ruler.
Another noteworthy example is Deuteronomy 4, 19-20, and when you look up to the heavens
and see the sun, the moon, and the stars, all the hosts of heaven, do not be led astray
and bow down to them, and serve them, things that Yahweh your God has allotted to all the
peoples everywhere under heaven.
But Yahweh has taken you and brought you out of the iron smelter out of Egypt to become
a people of his very own possession as you are now.
For this author, the reality of other gods is taken for granted.
Even the worship of these other gods by all the peoples everywhere under heaven is frowned
upon or forbidden.
Instead, the author's point was only that the Hebrews were uniquely restricted to worshipping
a single God, Yahweh.
It's the same idea found in Deuteronomy 32, except that the theology has developed to
a point where Yahweh is no longer one of many members within the pantheon, but its ruler.
Yahweh was the one who assigned the nations to the gods, and he kept the Hebrews for himself.
Readers of the Pantheon
With the existence of the Canaanite Pantheon, assumed by various biblical authors, readers
might expect to find direct references to those gods, at least occasionally in the Bible.
This is exactly the case.
There are several passages which disparage the gods of the enemies of Israel and Judah,
but there are others which demonstrate that Yahweh was not near as omnipotent as his followers
might have hoped.
In Judges 1, 3-18, Yahweh's promise to help the Hebrews in battle is thwarted by the superior
technology of Israel's enemies.
Later in 2 Kings 3, Yahweh likewise promises to help the Israelites and Judeans win a battle
against the Moabites.
A promise he fails to uphold.
Why?
Because the Moabites offered the right sacrifice to their own god.
It appears that Yahweh was outmaneuvered on the divine battlefield by the Moabite god,
Shemosh.
Various Canaanite gods are known through the Ugaritic texts.
Following their names from these older external sources, we find several of them in the Hebrew
text of the Bible, but they have mostly been hidden in the common English translations.
In one myth, the storm god Baal Hadad is devoured by Mott, the god of death, though Baal is
eventually rescued.
The story appears to have been intended to explain seasonal droughts, the rains provided
by Baal were withheld because of his temporary departure to the underworld.
Similar to the Greek myth of Hades is abduction of Persephone.
In Isaiah 25, a prophecy written in the 8th or 7th centuries BCE flips this myth around.
In promising a triumphant future for the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, the prophet declares,
On this mountain Yahweh Savioth will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast
of well-aged wines, of rich food filled with marrow, of well-aged wines strained clear,
and he will destroy on this mountain the shroud that is cast over all peoples, the sheet that
is spread over all nations.
He will swallow up Mott forever.
When the Lord Yahweh will wipe away the tears from all faces and the disgrace of his people,
he will take away from all the earth, for Yahweh has spoken.
Instead of Mott devouring the storm god Baal Hadad, leading to agricultural failure, the
storm god Yahweh will himself devour Mott, providing an immense feast for all peoples.
Local allusions to the death god Mott may also be found in Job 1813.
The firstborn of Mott consumes their limbs, or Psalm 4914.
Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol, Mott shall be their shepherd.
Straight to the grave they descend, and their form shall waste away.
Sheol shall be their home.
A few chapters later in Isaiah, the author again borrows from Baal Hadad's mythology.
Rather than Baal slaying the dragon Lotan, it is Yahweh who will kill Leviathan.
Isaiah's description of Leviathan is lifted almost word for word from the myth about Baal
which survived at Ugarit.
Leviathan, the fleeing serpent, the twisting serpent.
Lotan, the fleeing serpent, the twisting serpent.
The dragon Leviathan is mentioned multiple times in the Hebrew Bible, sometimes given
the name Rahab.
In some passages, Leviathan Rahab is the primordial chaos monster which only Yahweh
is capable of subduing.
On other occasions, the dragon is minimized as a mere creation of Yahweh's.
Two of the more obscure Canaanite deities were the siblings Shalem and Shahar.
Shalem was the god of dusk, while Shahar was the god of dawn.
The name Jerusalem has been understood by the religiously devout as a Hebrew phrase
meaning city of peace.
Because of the city's political importance for the Judean monarchy, different scribes
came up with competing origin stories for Jerusalem, such as that it only got its name
after David conquered the Canaanite tribe which lived there, or that it evolved from
an older name during the time of a legendary priest king named Melchizedek.
In reality, Jerusalem had been known by its common name for several centuries before the
rise of the Judean monarchy, as attested by Egyptian sources in the 14th century BCE,
and possibly also the 19th century.
Its name is now widely agreed to mean foundation of Shalem, named for the god of dusk.
Where Shalem is found across the entire Bible in an indirect way via Jerusalem, his sibling
Shahar is mentioned just once, but in a passage which is clearly borrowing from an older,
more elaborate mythology, Isaiah 14, 3-23, contains a prophecy directed against the king
of an enemy nation.
The king's cruel arrogance earns him a sharp rebuke, and the prophet says the king will
die a loathsome death, and won't even receive a proper burial.
To illustrate just how profoundly terrible the king's fate is, the prophet draws a comparison
with a rebellious heavenly being.
Many English translations have watered down the mythological allusions made here, and
centuries of Christian interpretation have made them even harder to notice.
How you are fallen from heaven, Helel, son of Shahar.
How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low.
You set in your heart.
I will ascend to heaven.
I will raise my throne above the stars of El.
I will sit on the mount of assembly, on the heights of Zephan.
I will ascend to the tops of the clouds.
I will make myself like El-Yan.
But you are brought down to Sheol, to the depths of the pit.
The father of the Canaanite Pantheon, El El-Yan, is mentioned twice.
We have three references to the Pantheon itself.
First, we see the stars of El.
Remember from Deuteronomy 4 that stars were thought to be gods?
Then we have the mount of assembly, which parallels Ogeritic phrases used for the Pantheon,
group of assembly, and assembly of the gods.
Third, the author mentions Zephan, the name of the mountain where the gods would gather,
a sort of Canaanite equivalent to Mount Olympus from Greek mythology.
The king himself is equated with a figure named Helel, son of Shahar.
Shahar was himself a son of El, which would make Helel a grandson of El.
The exact myth Isaiah borrows from is still lost to us.
Scholars have variously suggested connections to the gods Atar, Phaeton, or Halalu, but
it was clearly inspired by astrology.
Venus, the star born from the dawn, attempts to exalt himself above other stars in the
sky by remaining visible even in the light of day.
Like Icarus, the minor gods hubris led to his downfall, flying too close to the sun.
Isaiah 14 assumes the reader will be familiar with the polytheistic myth underlying his
rebuke of the king.
Because of the obvious illusion of Venus, Greek copies of Isaiah 14 translated Helel's
name as Eosphorus, while Latin versions called him Lucifer, and Christians began interpreting
the human king at the center of Isaiah's prophecy as a fallen angel called the devil
and Satan.
This misunderstanding of Isaiah 14 blend over into Ezekiel 28, where we find a similar
condemnation of a human king through the use of mythological references.
Elsewhere still, Isaiah briefly mentions yet another god.
In the Ugaritic literature, we find references to Habbi, an obscure god or demon from the
underworld who frightens even El.
Isaiah 26-20 mentions this Habbi as instilling fear.
The presence of other gods in Israelite and Judean culture are more difficult to notice
in English translations of the Bible without explanatory footnotes.
One notable example is Samson, whose story in the Book of Judges is a favorite for Sunday
school.
The titular judges were heroes in Hebrew society rising up to protect their community from
foreign enemies before the establishment of an Israelite or Judean monarchy.
Among these heroes, Samson's story is by far the most obviously mythological.
His personality, his incredible strength, and his fantastic deeds have frequently earned
comparisons to Gilgamesh or Heracles.
Like those demigods, Samson's legend even begins with the story of his birth announced
by a mysterious visitor from heaven.
Scholars have argued the account shows signs of having been edited, possibly to sanitize
an earlier version of the story where the heavenly visitor was in fact Samson's father.
Samson's story is set in the vicinity of the town Bethshemesh, a name which means house
of Shamash, the Canaanite sun god.
Samson's name in Hebrew, Shemshon, even comes from this god and means something like little
sun.
Samson's enormous strength comes from growing long hair and ancient illustrations of the
sun in this region of the world sometimes depicted the sun's radiance as hair.
The chief antagonist of Samson's story is the woman Delilah whose name comes from the
word Leila, which means night.
Samson's tragic downfall comes when Delilah cuts his hair.
The little sun is defeated when night extinguishes his radiance.
Other gods sometimes overlooked in the Bible are deities which protect important people
or stand guard over holy places.
The prophet Isaiah, living in the 8th century BCE, tells of six winged snakes who serve
Yahweh's throne in his temple.
Royal sills from the Judean king Hezekiah, who was Isaiah's contemporary, likewise show
four winged snakes.
These divine snake guardians in Judean iconography may have been remnants of Egyptian influence
on Canaanite culture.
Most books in the Hebrew Bible were written or edited after the Judean kingdom was conquered
by the Babylonians.
These books frequently mention divine beings called cherubs which overshadow Isaiah's
snakes as the protectors of Yahweh's throne in the temple.
Readers discovered these minor gods had faces like humans but bodies like lions or bulls
and wings like eagles.
The cherubs were based on Mesopotamian deities called lamassu, which were engraved on the
temples and city walls.
Some parts of the Bible also say the cherubs functioned as Yahweh's throne, just as we
find engravings of kings sitting on thrones carried by lamassu.
Alongside this, the Hebrew and Greek words for angel both directly translate into English
as messenger.
An angel was merely a lesser god running errands for Yahweh, carrying out his orders.
War Against Chaos
In many ancient mythologies, the universe is not the creation of something from out of
nothing.
Instead, the universe sort of already exists and must be brought to order.
The initial state of the world is quite literally an ocean of pure chaotic emptiness from which
the first primordial gods emerged.
They create the world by bringing order to the chaos, forming sky and land, then fashioning
plants and animals to inhabit those domains.
Land is given firm boundaries which the waters are not allowed to cross.
Bless Yahweh, O my soul.
Yahweh, my God, you are very great.
You are clothed with honor and majesty, wrapped in light as with a garment.
You stretch out the heavens like a tent.
You set the beams of your chambers on the waters.
You set the earth on its foundations, so that it shall never be shaken.
You cover it with the deep as with the garment.
The water stood above the mountains.
At your rebuke they flee.
At the sound of your thunder they take to flight.
They rose up to the mountains, ran down to the valleys, to the place that you appointed
for them.
You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth.
Often the waters of chaos are personified as a god or a monster.
For the Canaanites, Lotan fulfilled this role in his fight against Baal Haddad.
But Lotan was actually a servant of the ocean god called Yam and Nahar, names which literally
mean sea and river.
One of the surviving Canaanite epics tells how, in the early ages of the world, El permitted
Baal to become king of the gods after Baal and Yam fought for the position.
I tell you, O Prince Baal, I declare, O writer of the clouds, now your enemy, O Baal, now
you will smite your enemy.
Like the head of Prince Yam, between the eyes of Judge Nahar, Yam shall collapse and
fall to the ground.
One of Baal Haddad's earliest appearances is in the epic of Gilgamesh.
With the first glow of dawn, a black cloud rose up from the horizon.
Inside it, Adad thunders, while Shulat and Hanish go in front, moving as heralds over
hill and plain.
Even here with the gods Shulat and Hanish, Baal was sometimes accompanied by other deities
when he took action.
These lesser gods, such as Rechef and Diber, sometimes show up in the Bible.
Yet man is born to trouble, as sons of Rechef fly upward, Job 5.7.
You shall not be afraid of terror at night, nor of the arrow that flies in the day, nor
of Diber, who walks in darkness, nor of Qateb, who lays waste at noon, Psalm 91, 5-6.
As a storm god, Baal's arsenal for war included his earth-shaking thunder, his arrows or spears
made of lightning, and sometimes fire or hell.
Coincidentally, the Bible shows Yahweh wielding the same weapons, such as in Psalm 18.
Yahweh also thundered in the heavens, and El-Yan uttered his voice, and he sent out
his arrows and scattered them.
He flashed forth lightnings and routed them.
The comparison between Baal and Yahweh is impossible to avoid.
Baal's mythology predates anything in the Bible by hundreds of years, so the simplest
explanation for these similarities between the two gods is that Yahweh's followers copied
from Baal's mythology, sometimes word for word, as we saw in Isaiah 27.
The historical situation appears to be that, when Yahweh worship migrated from Midian or
Edom northward into Canaan, Yahweh's followers purposefully adapted Baal's attributes and
stories for their own god.
This theory may also explain the deep rivalry between the two gods' followers as portrayed
in the Bible.
With our context firmly established, we find the poem in Chapter 3 of the Book of Habakkuk.
This passage suffers from several scribal errors in the surviving Hebrew and Greek copies.
Critical scholarship works hard to make sense of the chapter by seeking to explain where
these errors came from, such as letters or words that sound the same or look the same,
having been mistaken for each other.
Other words in Habakkuk 3 are extremely rare, making them difficult to translate because
their meaning is so obscure.
But when these scholarly studies come together, the picture comes into focus and the chapter
makes a lot more sense.
In this poem, the storm god Yahweh, also named Eloah, emerges from his home on his holy mountain
in Edom.
Yahweh's worshipers are under threat, and he must save them.
His thunder shakes the mountains, Yahweh is on the march, accompanied by Canaanite gods
of disease and the underworld.
There was Hebion, the strong one, before him went Diber, and Reshev followed close behind.
The people of Kushan and Midian tremble in fear as Yahweh's war party passes by.
What is his enemy?
Who has threatened his followers?
It is Yam, the sea god.
Was your wrath against Nahar, O Yahweh?
Or your anger against Nahar?
Or your rage against Yam?
When you drove your horses your chariots to victory?
Yahweh readies his bow to launch poison-tipped arrows.
He prepares his bolts of lightning to throw like spears.
His storm clouds blot out the sky as the gods of the sun and moon watch Yahweh's battle
against his enemies.
Shamash raised high his hands.
Yareek stood still in his exalted place.
Habakkuk 3 was written by an Israelite or Judean author for whom Yam, Hebion, Diber,
Reshev, Shamash, and Yaree were as real as Yahweh.
And the appearance of this diverse spread of Canaanite gods in such a dense cluster makes
it essentially certain the author accepted the existence of the many other Canaanite
gods unmentioned in the poem.
He had no real reason to doubt they existed.
After the Bible
As is the case with all spiritual belief systems, the religion of Yahweh evolved.
The perpetual elevation of Yahweh eventually reached a point where he was believed to exist
in a category all his own.
As the god over all gods, the supreme creator of all things, he had no origin and so had
no equal.
For the people who believed this, it meant all those other gods were not really gods.
Not in the sense Yahweh is.
They were one of his many creations, a species we now commonly call angels, or perhaps some
of those things we thought were gods were really just demons, the disembodied spirits
of dead Nephilim, maliciously pranking humans, or better yet, those gods never existed at
all except as figments of the human imagination.
Ironically, as some Jewish philosophers stressed the total and absolute supremacy of Yahweh,
they started to think that maybe he was too separate from the angels and humans he made.
As the distance between creator and creation continued to widen, these theologians began
speculating that some divine hierarchy existed in the gap.
Angels were at the bottom of the ladder, somewhere a little ways above them were those cherubs
and mini-winged snakes, and somewhere above them were a superior version of angelic princes
called archangels in Greek.
Yahweh delegated to these princes, these archangels, different parts of the world to rule.
When kingdoms on the earth went to war, it corresponded to these angelic princes battling
each other in the heavens.
But the prince of the kingdom of Persia opposed me for twenty-one days, so Michael, one of
the chief princes, came to help me, and I left him there with the prince of the kingdom
of Persia, and have come to help you understand what is to happen to your people at the end
of days.
Now I must return to fight against the prince of Persia, and when I am through with him,
the prince of Greece will come.
But I am to tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth.
There is no one with me who contends against these princes except Michael, your prince.
At that time, Michael the Great Prince, the protector of your people shall arise, Daniel
10-12.
They essentially recreated the concept of the supreme god El, assigning the seventy nations
of the world to be ruled by the gods of the Canaanite Pantheon.
Even after this, a few Jewish thinkers continued to speculate about the gap between Yahweh
and these angelic princes, because even archangels are Yahweh's creations.
The eventual conclusion for these thinkers was that there must exist some being who stands
right on the line between God and all that he made, a mediator who represents all of
creation to God, while also perfectly representing Yahweh to all of creation.
Who could fulfill this role?
The answer?
Yahweh's own inner wisdom, his creative word, given personal form outside of himself, and
the father who created the universe has given to his archangelic and most ancient word a
preeminent gift to stand on the confines of both and separate that which has been created
from the Creator, and this same word is continually a suppliant to the immortal God on behalf
of the mortal race, and is also the ambassador sent by the ruler of all, saying, and I stood
in the middle between the Lord and you, neither being uncreated like God, nor yet created
like you, but being in the middle between these two extremities, Philo of Alexandria,
who is the heir of divine things.
Yet the desperate need to insist that Yahweh exists in a category of one, far above all
creation resulted in an odd twist.
Why is it that he speaks as if of some other God, saying that he made man after the image
of God and not that he made him after his own image?
Very appropriately and without any falsehood was this oracular sentence uttered by God,
for no mortal thing could have been formed on the similitude of the supreme father of
the universe, but only after the pattern of the second God, who is the word of the supreme
being, Philo of Alexandria, questions and answers on Genesis.
The insistence that Yahweh is wholly unlike anything he created, even his personified
word, took such philosophers right back to a form of polytheism.
Their pantheon consisted of, at the very minimum, the supreme creator God, a second other God,
who acted as the supreme God's representative, archangels ruling the world's kingdoms, and
an array of angels presiding over different components of the physical universe.
While such beliefs may not have ever been accepted by the majority of ancient Jews,
the presence of these ideas well into the first century CE and beyond contradicts the
off-repeated notion that ancient Judaism was a homogenous religion expressed by perfect
monotheism.
But this just raises the question of whether ideas like monotheism or polytheism should
even be used when talking about ancient Judaism.
Hope you enjoyed this video.
This was scripted by Mark Edward.
Be sure to check his links in the description.
If you like what we're doing here and enjoy these style of videos, please, I could use
your help.
We need to grow our Patreon and our YouTube membership so that we can continue these projects
and you become part of our family.
You can get early access to things and I want to incorporate meetings on Zoom to hang out
with those who've joined us.
Please like this video so that YouTube recognizes.
The Pantheon of YouTube will see this is getting attention.
Share it on your social media platforms for others to get educated on what's going on
in the Bible.
And be sure to drop a comment on your favorite parts or even ideas that you have that you
thought about during the video itself.
If you want to take your learning to another level, mvp-courses.com, that is our course
website where we have academics who teach classes.
You can take the class, own it for life and learn from some of the leading experts in
their field.
I promise you, it's worth it.
If you purchase a course, you own it for life, it's in high quality, take it at your own
pace and some of the academics actually do Zoom meetings following up with their students
regularly.
We appreciate everything you do and never forget we are MythVision.
