Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, ladies and gentlemen.
Derek Lambert, I'm your host.
I'm here with a professional archaeologist,
Dr. Robert Cargill.
Welcome back.
Hey, Derek, good to be back with you.
I'm glad you're here.
We've got breaking news.
We're all demanded to repent at this moment
because they discovered Sodom and Gomorrah.
Yeah, I saw that.
Yeah.
I figured just get our audience up to speed.
There are certain individuals,
like the gentleman you see on the screen here.
I've had a few back and forth videos in the past.
He really jumps on the trend stuff,
so he gets a lot of attention.
And if it's Joe Rogan, he's on it.
If it's something celebrity, demonic, secret, satanic rituals,
or they heard trumpets around the world,
that kind of Christian.
So I wanted to bring some education,
some real scholarship like you,
and what scholars think when it comes to the archaeology
on Sodom and Gomorrah.
What does this even mean if we found locations?
I mean, I've got your book here in my hand, right?
Cities that built the Bible.
I think the title hints at it.
But anyway, Ruslan is the guy who did a video.
He actually is playing a clip from Pints with Aquinas.
And that is a Catholic apologist YouTube channel
that got 1.2 million views on a Sodom and Gomorrah video
talking about it look like a new blue up here.
And this is somehow proving God.
And they have exorcist on their show.
They go all out.
Dr. Cargill, here's your YouTube channel.
I'm going to put this in the chat for the live.
So everybody who's tuning in right now,
you're going to want to be here for the short live
that I get the opportunity to talk to him about this archaeology.
Subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Get his books.
Cities that Built the Bible.
Melchizedek King of Sodom, which we have to explore together.
Yeah.
Oh, there's so much.
And then you got Qumran through real time, a virtual.
You have courses you're doing.
You're working your butt off at Iowa.
Iowa, University of Iowa.
Go Hawks.
Woo.
Well, I'm rooting for the Hawks today
because I'm going to tell you what,
I'm kind of annoyed at the endless sensational nonsense
that I find in the public arena online.
And, you know, look, nothing personal,
but I want to correct the record.
What's going on with the archaeology,
with the Dead Sea, Sodom and Gomorrah?
What's the proof here?
Okay.
So here's what it is.
People have been looking for Sodom and Gomorrah
for a very long time.
In fact, a lot of the earliest explorers,
these British, these wealthy British noblemen
who would go over, I mean, you could argue
that the origins of biblical archaeology were,
you know, these colonial, you know,
these British explorers with a Bible in one hand
and a spade in the other,
basically going to try to prove the Bible.
At least they're going to try to find the places
where these events took place.
And so they've got their Bible.
They've got their spade.
They've usually got a local guide.
And they're going around trying to find these places.
Jerusalem, you can find.
Bethlehem, you can find.
But when it comes to some of these places
like Sodom and Gomorrah,
basically you go down to the Dead Sea
and you start looking for ruins.
And what do we know about the destruction
of Sodom and Gomorrah?
You look in Genesis.
You look there.
You're starting, you know,
you start reading about in 13
where Abraham separates from Lot.
You read Genesis 14, which I wrote an entire book on,
this encounter with Melchizedek,
which is highly problematic, right?
The Melchizedek.
And I titled it King of Sodom,
kind of hinting at what I argue there.
The Melchizedek is not the King of Shalem.
He's actually the King of Sodom.
And we can do that another time.
I can't wait.
Yeah, so then, you know, Genesis 18,
when he's trying to negotiate for the freedom,
for God to spare Sodom,
why is Abraham trying to spare this city?
Remember, he already went to rescue all the people
of Sodom earlier back in Genesis 14.
And now God's going to destroy Sodom
and Gomorrah in Genesis 19.
And how does he do it?
What does the Bible say?
He does it with fire and brimstone from heaven.
And that's the narrative we have.
By the way, we've got this great story at the end of it,
whereas Lot and his family are leaving.
Lot's wife, Mrs. Lot, turns around and looks back
and is turned into a pillar of salt.
And so this is the story that we have.
Then, you know, Lot and his daughters do some naughty things.
And, you know, and we move on, we move on from there.
But this is the story.
So there have been folks since, you know,
the colonial times that have been going over to the Dead Sea,
trying to look for some kind of evidence
of the remains of Sodom and Gomorrah.
And this continues on today,
most specifically with Stephen Collins
of Veritas International University,
who is digging at Tel-Ahmam
and is basically claiming that he has, you know, this city.
And he's trying to make a case that he's found it.
Now, is that the city?
I don't know.
Was it destroyed by fire and brimstone from heaven?
Probably not.
I mean, I think as a scientist, as a scholar, we can say,
no, this is a story that we have in the Bible.
We call them etiologies, by the way.
The big fancy word is an etiology.
This is an explanation
for an otherwise naturally occurring phenomenon.
And I would love to discuss with you these naturally occurring phenomena
that take place down at the Dead Sea.
I mean, just as someone who doesn't know the archaeology
in that region, the tall-tail signs for me
were his wife turned into a pillar of salt.
I was there.
Meaning, we were on buses.
We were going down, swimming in the sea.
I saw like clusters of salt that started to kind of become pillars.
There's a lot of landscape that you could,
almost like people look at the clouds and they see faces.
Well, you can look at the rock formation and see people.
If you really try hard enough, you could try to make someone out.
So I could imagine the landscape reflecting,
as you say in the title of this book, the cities that built the Bible.
It makes me think that these locations, these geographic,
the environments that play a role in those locations,
get their own, like you said, etiological mythological origins.
And let's deal with the very thing that I would imagine
the fundamentalist who grabs ahold of the Bible like myself would say
in the videos that you see with Pines of Aquinas and Ruslan,
is that like, well, how do you explain the pottery?
How do you explain if they find charred rooftops and things like that?
We're in the Dead Sea.
Is there any actual physical evidence apart from imagining?
And listen, I'm willing to even speculate and say,
Hey, what if comets or some actual natural phenomena from heaven
actually happened and people just said,
Hey, we're going to say, I mean, look, earthquakes happen.
Look at what happened down in what was the flooding of New Orleans.
People said it was God.
Would that therefore prove it was God?
Because of the homosexuality in California.
Come on.
Well, this is what always happens.
A naturally occurring phenomenon, earthquake, flooding,
always is going to be attributed to the divine realm.
And it's whatever my list of grievances, whatever who I personally hate,
the deity that I worship tends to hate that same group of people.
That's been going on for thousands of years, right?
That hasn't changed.
But let's specifically, for your viewers,
let's tick off the list of things associated with Sodom and Gomorrah,
and let's look at it.
The first thing is this pillar of salt.
So not only are the rock formations,
but there's a very specific phenomenon that takes place
at this lowest point on the face of the earth, on the Dead Sea.
Anybody who looks at a picture of the Dead Sea,
whether it's on Google Earth or Google Maps,
will notice that the southern half of the Dead Sea is now salt flats.
It's all of the development going on in northern Israel and in the West Bank.
All the development, be it farming or be it housing developments,
is siphoning off the Jordan River.
They're siphoning off the water.
Less and less water is getting into the Dead Sea,
meaning it's receding.
The shoreline is receding.
We are the last generation to see the Dead Sea.
You and I, we're it.
It's going to be gone in 30 or 40 years.
It just won't be there anymore.
There are a couple of plans, by the way, to save it,
but it's going to involve cutting a channel either from the Mediterranean
or from Acaba to bring water back in.
Environmentalists don't like this because it's going to change the environment
of the Dead Sea, but it's receding.
If you look at a picture of it, you'll see that it's all salt flats.
What they do is they bring the water in there, they let it evaporate,
then they bring in a bulldozer and mine the salt,
and then they sell it in the local mall.
But what happened in antiquity, what happens still to this day is
all of the water from the region goes down there,
and then there's no place for it to escape, so it has to evaporate.
The salt water will climb up, and then it will carry the salt minerals with it,
and then the water will evaporate, and the salt stays there.
Salt attracts water, so it'll suck up the next water,
it'll bring up that salt with it, that water will evaporate,
and what you'll see are these stalagmites.
They begin to grow, and over time, these will grow to the size of me.
I'm 6'1", I won't say I'm 6'3", 2'15", right?
I'm 6'1", and about 2'60", right?
And I'm about 6'1", and these pillars of salt can get as big as I am.
And, as I said in a documentary back when I was younger and had long, curly blonde hair,
if you're standing at a distance and you look out on the Dead Sea,
these 6' tall pillars of salt, they can look like a human being, right?
They can just look like a human.
So, if you're living 4,000 years ago, 3,000 years ago,
and you see something, there's a bunch of these things on the southern end of the Dead Sea,
they still happen today.
And you don't know any better that looks like some people standing down there.
How do you explain this if you don't know physics and you don't know evaporation and stalagmites and all this stuff?
Well, let me tell you a story.
I was just about to say, it's obvious that more people keep turning
and looking back at the fake destruction of this place somewhere down there in the Dead Sea today,
people keep turning into pillars of salt, ladies and gentlemen.
There it is, but how do you explain a rainbow in the sky?
How do you explain a pillar of salt?
Let me tell you a story, and that's what's going on.
So, the pillars of salt can be explained by the naturally occurring phenomenon that takes place down there.
I don't know, with the exception of fundamentalist scholars,
I don't know of any archaeologists or any scholar that thinks
that Lot's wife literally got turned into a pillar of salt.
That's a story that only fundamentalists accept.
Yeah, that now is shifting from what I would say.
The identification of, was there a city of Sodom?
Sure, I have no problem with that.
It's an ancient city.
There were lots of ancient cities.
Where was it?
Here's something that I actually agree with Stephen Collins.
I think it was in the Kikar.
I actually think it was in the plain of the Jordan on the northern end of the Dead Sea.
I don't think it was on the southern end, because if you read back in Genesis 13,
where Lot and Abram are, they've just got too many herds.
They've just grown too abundant, and they decide to split up.
Lot looks over at Sodom, and then Lot looks over here in the Highlands,
and he says, I'm going to go over there to the plain of the Jordan.
And what's the plain of the Jordan?
It's that area, Jericho, northern end of the Dead Sea.
That was a verdant, beautiful, round, right, a Kikar, this round area.
It was a gorgeous area.
Sodom wasn't some desert.
It was hot.
It's still 100, however many, 20 degrees down there.
But it had access to this water.
The Jordan was coming right through there, both sides of the river.
And that would have been a nice place for a city.
And Lot clearly chose that place, not because he wanted to go have sex.
It was just a nice place to raise a family.
That was the big city.
And of course, there was Sodom, Gomorrah, and these five cities of the plain,
the plain of the Jordan.
So I think that Stephen Collins was at least looking in the right place,
and who knows?
He might have a city.
It was a major city.
That might be it.
He might be digging till how a mom might be ancient Sodom.
We don't know now.
It's kind of just to give an analogy.
I just want to put it in the same.
We don't have a lot of time.
And I want to get all your information on this is that it's like saying,
oh, we found where Pontius Pilate's judgment seat was.
And there's a good reason we have discovered where he would have judged people
right there on the temple or the city wall.
Therefore, Jesus rose from the dead.
And it's like, come on, guys, why are you leaping to the just because people,
places and things may be does not mean that cause.
And maybe a natural disaster did happen, which left an imprint on the
author or maybe repetitive natural disasters occur.
Correct.
And so that leads us to the next point.
So so so Stephen Collins might be digging in the right spot.
That might be the city and Sodom might have been or may have been a real
place.
Great.
No problem with that whatsoever.
He may not be.
We don't know.
But but there's there's something there.
All right.
The Jordan River is a fault line.
It's a rift valley.
It's the Jordan Rift Valley.
It goes from the highest point in the region, the Mount Hermon way up in
the north, where they've got the ski resort down to the lowest point on
the face of the earth.
And you can tell by the way that it's the one piece of land is ducking
under the other one and throwing up the Jordanian side.
You can look at the rift in the earth when you look over at the
Maktesh Ramon and Maktesh Haggadol, you know, the grand canyons over
there in southern Israel, how the earth is just ripped apart.
This is a earthquake.
This is an earthquake fault line.
So guess what you're going to have a lot of natural destructive forces
taking place.
You've even got a mention of an earthquake in the book of Amos, right?
So a few years after the after the earthquake, that's how the that's
how the book of Amos, pardon me, you have you have the reference to that.
You have the reference in Isaiah.
You've got references to these earthquakes all the time.
By the way, if you look at a Google Earth map, Google Earth map, satellite
map, you'll notice a massive volcano of glass.
What's the remains of a volcano south?
I guess it's southeast of Damascus.
So this is a this used to be a very volcanic area.
It's a major fault line that so you can expect there to be all kinds of
naturally occurring destructive forces.
Now, what's going to happen if you get a major earthquake in a place like this
that's really, really hot?
Naturally, things are going to fall down.
And do you need arrowheads?
Do you need an army to burn a Bronze Age or an Iron Age?
No, you can just have a place that's that's going to
fall down and burn to the ground.
So that can explain very easily an earthquake fault.
By the way, the fires get really hot when some places burn up and there's only
a little that fuel can get really, really hot and it can explain anything.
Could it have been a comet from the sky?
Sure.
But could it also just been an earthquake fault and things fall down and burn
and and get into a pit?
Yeah, you can explain all of this stuff very naturally.
You know, Dr. Cargill, my oh, did you?
Yeah, no, no, no, go ahead.
I want to talk about the third problem.
Okay.
Remember that.
Please don't forget.
Yeah.
Last night, my brother was over.
I love my brother to death.
I would fight to the death to protect him.
He, you know, I'm so tight.
But we totally have different kind of epistemological approaches to how we
are assessing information and believing what we're hearing.
Right.
And I threw out some examples of peregrinus, someone from Lucian who
commits himself to the pyre and burns himself to death for his philosophy
and how Lucian makes up a story and people literally the next day were
saying how they saw this Phoenix bird ascend out of the flames, which he
made up.
And he's like, whoa, I made that up.
People believe in things.
My point was, is I kind of brought this point to him too.
I said, bro, imagine I get arrested and I'm in prison for 10 years.
My wife, Ryan gets pregnant, but she swears that she had a dream.
And I'm looking at him, right?
Right.
Right.
God came to her and I mean, it's, I am just being funny.
But I looked at him and he goes, I know where you're going with this.
And I'm like, would you believe that Ryan did not see another man or that
nothing happened?
No other guy slept with her.
What if she told you, because he's a big UFO guy.
Right.
I said, what if she said that UFOs abducted her and they had semen in
these like protective jars and they inserted semen, you know, and would
you believe her?
And he's like, no.
Okay.
Why are we not going with the most plausible from prior probability
experience that everyone recognizes in the natural world?
Right.
Why are we leaping?
What is the deal here anyway?
Right.
That's a different discussion.
I imagine we could go on a rabbit trail, but I encourage people to not get
sensational, like these videos that are hyping and this proves God.
Right.
And I really did.
But when your approach and when the university that you teach at or when
that you attend or tells you that whatever that holy book says has to be
true and your approach to science, we use the air quotes there or your approach
to, you know, biblical studies.
And by that, I mean apologetics is that whatever that holy book says has to
be true and that your starting point, then you're going to dismiss all of the
other very rational explanations and you're going to stick to this, this
explanation that necessarily involves the divine realm that necessarily involves
suspending any kind of rational discourse, any kind of logic, any kind of
reason, any kind of scientific scientific evidence, and you're going to
immediately jump to God did it.
Yeah.
And how do you explain the canonization of the Quran?
Yeah.
No.
I mean, I watched that video.
I watched that video that you did.
That was a good discussion because it's the same.
It's the same phenomenon with the Hebrew Bible and with the Christian New
Testament.
Right.
It was pieced together over time.
It's just there are certain traditions where you're just, we are now allowed to
at least have this discussion and other traditions or not.
But the third big piece of evidence is the Dead Sea was quite well known.
If you look at all the historians, the Roman historians that were writing
about the Dead Sea, it's called the Asphalt Lake, Asphalt Titus, right?
It's known for this substance that floats up and they would go through
and scrape it off.
They would mine this stuff called bitumen.
And bitumen was a very important substance because not only could you rub it into
your boats and whatever you wanted to put it on to waterproof it, but it was also
highly flammable.
And so you've got this substance naturally occurring in the Dead Sea that is highly
flammable, but that everybody wanted because you could coat your boats with it
and it would just harden and it would make everything waterproof.
So you've got a region in the Dead Sea that smells like sulfur.
The sulfur content down there is ridiculous.
So it smells like fire.
You've got this substance that if there's a spark at all, it's just going to burst
in the flames and it's 120 degrees, right?
You've been swimming down there and you're in the water for 10 minutes
and you just start to burn and look at me.
I burn pretty easily, right?
It's a place that's just known for just spontaneously catching on fire.
Plus you've got these pillars of salt.
The water just evaporates like that.
All of this adds up to any earthquake with any kind of, you know,
if you've got a straw roof or any kind of thatch roof on it.
And if something sparks, if you've got a fire and it falls over your lamp fall,
the whole thing is going to burn, right?
And so you can very easily explain how a city can just or, you know,
at least a large chunk of an area can go up into flames
and you can explain salt pillars that look like people.
I mean, it's surprising.
Let's put it this way.
It's not surprising how we can have a story about an entire city being destroyed down there.
A popular city, a city that Abram wanted to defend,
a city that Lot wanted to graze as Catalan because it was an important place.
And yet, like most cities that aren't Jerusalem,
any city that is, you know, that's not associated with the capital of Judea,
it has to be destroyed.
And why is it going to be destroyed?
Because God wants it destroyed.
And that's what's going on with Sodom and Gomorrah.
I feel like I need to share something that I think is interesting
because you just tackled the most plausible explanation
and expressing where this story comes from, what's the deal with it.
I did the Curse of Ham little documentary, having fun doing that.
And in it, I explored some comparisons between Lot and Noah.
You brought up bitumen, which is used, of course, to seal up boats and stuff,
which I could imagine the flood, even Noah's narrative may be connected to Lot's.
And I thought, hold on, there's something strikingly similar between Noah and Lot.
Number one, world cataclysm by water.
And of course, Noah survives it.
World cataclysm by fire. Lot survives it.
And his family, notice I didn't add that part, I should add it.
And his family other than the wife on Lot's part.
And it literally says in the text, Noah, because he's the first guy who plants a vineyard in the vine.
He's the first guy in the grape.
He drank wine and got drunk. Lot, he drank wine and got drunk.
His daughters did it, of course.
His offspring saw his nakedness.
And of course, he curses Canaan, not Ham.
And this gets lost into some probabilities of mythical antecedents and stuff.
But here, his offspring saw his nakedness literally.
And both daughters do the Jerry Springer with him to have his.
It says Noah woke and knew what his youngest did to him.
Lot woke and did not know.
And these are like almost verbatim quotes in English, of course, of what's being translated here.
He woke and did not know what his daughters did with him.
National genealogies are mentioned after this catastrophe from his seed table of nations.
And of course, national genealogy mentioned after this catastrophe from his seed, Ammonites and Moabites.
And it explains the etiological myth, as you've described, on nations, geographies, the region, the whole line.
And so we pretty much just solved this whole thing, in my opinion.
But what is your take on why Christians do this?
What do you think it is?
Well, there's a known trope, right?
That the Bible likes to try to identify all of Israel's enemies as the product of illicit sexual affairs.
So if you go through and look at all of the Ammonites, the Moabites, all of Israel's enemies,
they'll always give you some backstory of how they were the product of some illicit sexual activity.
They're illegitimate somehow.
And Sodom and Gomorrah is giving us this with Lot and his daughters.
And they're giving us, this is not the way it's supposed to be.
Right.
And that's basically what the story is giving us.
It's also, and what I write about in my Melchizedek book is the interaction of Abraham and Melchizedek in Genesis 14 is the only time in the Bible where Sodom is never described negatively.
So if you go back in Genesis 13, and it talks about the destruction of Sodom, it talks about this was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah.
And then every time after that, Genesis 18, Deuteronomy, Isaiah, any time that Sodom is destroyed, it's either going to be the destruction of Sodom or the sin of Sodom.
But in Genesis 14, when Abram is directly talking about Sodom, there's no mention of the sin of Sodom.
Why?
Because Abram is intimately associated with Sodom.
He's there rescuing the people of Sodom.
He's helping the people of Sodom.
A lot is there living in Sodom, right?
So there's something about the way that the narrative is put together that they don't want to mention anything about the sin of Sodom while Abram is actively trying to help them.
And then once Abram has nothing to do with the city anymore, oh yeah, this was a sinful city and God destroyed it.
Oh my gosh, you made me want to like investigate a little deeper.
Am I like my next script?
The next script I'm working on, it's so wild how I came to this conclusion similar.
It's on Judah, that strange chapter 38 that sticks in the middle of the story.
I love this story.
Well, obviously, you know, when I say this, you'll totally get the direction I go with the academics is this is this is definitely a parallel narrative to the David succession story.
There's so many parallels and I go into the linguistics.
I actually use other scholars and stuff that pointed out, but I had to open it with the juicy.
Nothing tells better than sex.
And so I literally go through you can see the yellow highlighted stuff.
Genesis three, Genesis six, Genesis nine, Genesis 16, Genesis 17, you go to every one of these chapters.
You're getting again Jerry Springer baby.
And if it's not the curse of having children from it literally starts with a bang.
And then it goes from the bang to the son did something to the dad, the daughters took the dad did this with the dad.
And then the wife can't have a kid so that she's got her slaves involved to become wives and carry children and they got beef.
And then and it like Abraham saying, hey, you're my sister.
And then it literally says the Pharaoh was with Sarah or Sarah at the time.
Like in the later a bimilek, it could be debated though that others got a hold of Isaac's wife.
And so there's a whole lot of interesting things like I kind of fun.
I'm being funny here.
And I'm like, looks like Isaac picked up his pimp tricks from his father by claiming Rebecca was his sister, the same king of bimilek.
Anyway, I just have a little fun with this script.
I, Juden Tamar, though, is one of my favorite stories.
I love to teach Juden Tamar, Genesis 38, just because it's the story of a woman who takes her own redemption upon herself and does it successfully.
And she does it to such a successful extent that she shames Judah.
And Judah is like, there's this great line at the end that says she is more righteous than I.
Yes.
So Judah has to admit his culpability in attempting to try to basically kill Tamar.
He's trying to have her off and he's like, no, you got me.
I'm the guilty one here.
And so I love it as a story of a woman who takes her own redemption upon herself and succeeds.
I love that story too.
And that part, I just did the parallels on that and that part where he says, find her and burn her alive.
That's Judah's quote, right?
Burn her alive.
This is the same guy whose two sons already died for doing evil on the side of the Lord.
One of them spills a seed on the ground.
We know the famous don't jerk off scene.
Yeah.
That misrepresentation.
Yeah.
Yeah.
People are like, don't don't spill your seed.
And then, you know, that passage that burned her alive.
And then he's found to like be guilty because he realizes she was more righteous.
Well, Nathan confronts David and says, here's this guy and literally put that man to death.
David says, you know what?
The shame turns right around.
I show the parallels.
It's it's remarkable.
I love the literary genius of the authors for doing this.
However, it's literature.
That's right.
I'm not helping my calls and would say, here, this is true.
If you don't believe this, you're going to hell and it's crazy.
And this is the beauty of it.
It's why I teach the Bible.
It's why I teach the Bible at a public university.
It is profound literature and it needs to be taught and in people need to be able to see the beauty of the literature of the Bible.
And the power and the empowerment that we can draw from seeing this ancient literature.
This isn't modern stuff.
This stuff has been around for thousands of years and there have been people trying to say we can move out even within this highly patriarchal society.
There were opportunities.
There were there were people screaming out, preserving.
They thought they thought the ancient Israelites, right?
They they found it necessary to to preserve these stories like Judah and Tamar as ugly as that story is of a woman taking it upon herself to find her own redemption,
even though she had to do some pretty rough things.
And that story was preserved in the text of the Hebrew Bible.
And this we're talking 2,500 years ago that this that they were they were they were finding it important to preserve that in literature.
And yet there are stories that are just as lewd today that there are some people saying, well, we have to ban that.
We can't let our kids read that.
This is in the Bible, right?
There are some rough things in the Bible and those same stories that it's important to to read and to study the Bible as literature because we can learn so much and yet to not take it as fundamentalist truth as history.
It doesn't have to have happened in order for us to be able to glean some truth from it.
You know, I that script I've been working on, I keep granting on, I open up with saying you thought the Game of Thrones was good.
Actually, just read the Bible.
Like, don't bring the religious package.
Just read it and you'll actually go.
Wow, this would make for a hell of a show.
I mean, it would make a wild run up when it comes to the Bible, especially if you read some of the stuff like.
Leviathan, the fire breathing dragon, you can bring in the fiction.
It's it's fun.
The problem is you'd have to do it on HBO because the Bible is essentially are, if not X rated document that some of the stuff in there is really brutal.
And this is why all of these pieces of legislation that are going through some of these states to ban a lot of this literature often make an exception.
They'll say, we can't have anything that includes this, this, this, this or this, except the Bible, except the Bible will allow that.
And it's like, you're, you're, you're exposing your own hypocrisy, right?
The Bible is this really brutal book when it comes to sex and genocide.
And it's got all of the stuff that you want to ban from all this other literature.
It's in it.
But because it's your holy book, you want to make sure that kids still read it.
You just don't want them to read that part.
And one more thing I think it's worth tackling as we have 350 people watching.
If you want real salvation, get one of Dr. Cargill's books.
Subscribe to his YouTube channel before we wrap this up because I'm going to end up sharing that again.
I'm just reminding you.
Remember now, look what happened.
The angels.
Look, I am Abraham standing here with Yahweh saying, but if there's 350 righteous watching right now, and he says, if there's 350, I won't tell you.
If there's 350, I won't destroy them.
And I says, well, what if there's 300 Lord?
And he's like, all right, if there's 300 watching.
And so anyway, right now we're in that negotiation process.
You have a little time before the two angels appear into this slide chat.
Right.
When that happens, don't look back is all I could say.
But the whole, the sexual sin.
Yeah.
You brought up an interesting angle.
This story, this etiological myth.
Yeah.
It's not used by Christians left and right even today as the sin of Sodom was the sexual act of same sex relationships.
And it's like, if you just did some reading, a little bit of reading of the ancient world and the hospitality of the stranger, because you never know.
I mean, the story literally tells you they're divine.
And there are strangers and you don't know who they're entertaining.
That's the whole point.
And the next thing you know, these divine people come and how do they treat them?
Lude in their crass.
And they want to just abuse them.
And of course they go to the full length of making a sexual abuse.
Right.
Right.
And you have that same story with the man with his, when the man comes into the town and he throws his concubine out there and they literally assault her until she's dead in the morning.
And then he chops her up and sends her out, you know, because he's pissed at it.
But you have this trope that is repeated in the Bible, but it has more to do with the Bible's view of cities.
The Bible just hates cities.
Right.
It's supposed to be a nomadic people that rely solely on God.
So it has a very low view of cities.
And then it's this notion that you're supposed to take care of the foreigner.
You're supposed to take care of the sojourner because this was ancient Israel, right?
This was, this was the model.
And so if you don't take care of the person who comes into town, you're not a good person.
And these guys came into town and they didn't show them hospitality.
But this tradition of the sexual nature of this sin becomes the overwhelming.
It becomes the narrative, right?
And so people like to point it at all.
They just like with the sin of Onan, right?
When I was little, nobody ever explained to me that the sin of Onan was the socially unjust.
The very perverse thing that he was doing was he was supposed to give his sister-in-law a son.
So that there would be someone to inherit the property to take care of the mother.
But instead he kept pulling out and then, you know, spilling his seed on the ground.
And by that, he's exploiting her sexually and he's exploiting her fiscally, right?
Because as long as she doesn't produce a son, he gets to benefit from all of the crops,
all of the, you know, that he's now responsible for.
So as long as he's not giving her a son, he's exploiting her sexually and he's exploiting her financially.
And so God kills her not because he's masturbating, right?
God kills him not because, but because he's exploiting her in a social justice standpoint.
And who else is going to go and punish? God does it.
But no one ever told me that.
So I literally thought since it's a farming thing, you know, seed, Bermuda seed, right?
Or, you know, rye grass is expensive.
It's 60 bucks a bag when I go out to Menards.
And so I thought he literally spilled it like grass seed.
And so God killed him because that's expensive and you got to be careful with that stuff.
I never knew as a kid, no one ever told me.
And so I was like, well, you can't waste.
I just didn't know.
But that's because people don't want to talk about sex, illicit sex.
It's a problem.
But the sin there wasn't, sin wasn't masturbation.
It was he was exploiting her sexually.
Right.
Because I used to ask myself as a young kid, too, it'd be like, hold on.
I haven't been struck dead yet.
It wasn't the point.
I'm a kid.
I mean, come on.
It went through puberty together.
Right. Right.
But if you, but if you sexually exploit the person that you're supposed to be protecting,
remember those leverage laws are designed to protect the the unprotected widow and he's
exploiting her.
That's what made God mad and that's why you have this story of him striking him dead.
And that that's it's funny how the meaning of a story gets capped.
Like it's like we miss the point.
We miss hospitality.
We miss the point of this Lev right law of carrying on.
It's a respect to your brother is what it is.
And then of course God strikes him dead and then he finds a way to make sure that the,
the Judah line continues, of course, down into Perez and then Perez to David and, you
know, eventually David to Solomon and so on.
But Tamar realized the men in this family aren't going to take care of me.
I got to do it.
And it's going to, it's, I've got to, I got to dress up a certain way and I got to do
some things that I'm not going to be proud of, but I'm going to redeem myself and she
does it.
And at the end of that story, Judah says, she is more righteous than I am.
You actually have the male that was responsible for, for all of this exploitation in the first
place, admitting she's more righteous than I am.
She did it right.
I'm the one to blame because she, he got caught.
He got, he got exposed in all of this.
And that's why I love Genesis 38.
It's, it kind of makes me think, I don't know how to interpret the lot one then because
they almost sound like they're trying to make law innocent.
When he wakes, he doesn't know, which it's a myth.
But even if you try to think of it as if it really happened, like pretend, you just said
a few days ago in Sodom, take my virgin daughters.
Now they're prego in a cave and you're with them alone, how they get pregnant.
You know what I mean?
Like it's the only thing I can say there is it's the difference between trying to interpret,
let's say Jesus's teachings as parables versus allegories.
If you try to read an interpretation into every single aspect of the story, you might
fail.
Sometimes there's just one message and that is ancient Israel is trying to show that all
of its enemies on all of its borders came from illicit sexual and that's it.
If you try to read something into every little aspect of it, you're going to fail.
You're going to be led astray.
So sometimes it's just pillars of salt.
The place blows up because it smells like fire and sulfur and these guys down here in
Edom, they came from an odd, let's say sexual relationship, sexual origin.
It's just a back to a seamless plug in your book, The Cities that Built the Bible.
Thank you.
What's interesting about this is you could almost say not only cities but the geography
that built it because it's part of it.
You know where they're placed, where they're located.
I remember I had Ronald Handel on and for those who don't know great Hebrew Bible scholar
has written great stuff on Genesis.
He talks about how giants like where would this idea probably come from?
And it might have been people who've moved from region to region and probably nomadic
or discovered certain large structures.
Like today we see this same phenomenon today with ancient alien shows and like look at the
civilization.
How did they move that 20,000 ton stone and stuff?
And it's like they must have been enormous, massive giants or anti-gravitational stuff
with your modern alien context.
Well, in the ancient world, they're human too.
So they're seeing these stones and going, I know that me and my five brothers and like,
you know, three sisters, we couldn't do that.
So they must have been really big humans instead of thinking maybe there's a mass civilization
here at one point that had the capability of moving and creating this.
So a myth of a large, massive God, demigod figure may explain this city.
I don't know.
Do you think that plays a role?
I just interviewed one of my old colleague from UCLA, Kara Cooney.
I know that you've spoken with Professor Cooney as well.
And we talked about this a little bit.
This is an interview that we're going to put out on the excavator on the Bible and archaeology
YouTube channel here, I think next week.
And we talk about, you know, when you don't care about human suffering, you can accomplish
some pretty magnificent feats, right?
If it's slave labor or if it's, you know, very low paid labor that you don't care about
exploitation.
If there's not OSHA regulations and stuff like that, you can, you can make them do some
pretty phenomenal things, especially if you're using rollers and you're just raising the
sand level and you're rolling.
We know how they built the parent.
We know how they did it.
We know we could, we can explain most of this stuff.
And I spend a lot of time going on history channel and, and, and, you know, these other
CNN and in discovery, trying to explain these things when I can, right?
I used to go on ancient aliens and try to debunk this stuff and just say, you know, traditional
scholars and skeptics.
And then there's this and I'm like, yeah, no, we know how they do that.
But is it possible that it's an alien?
And then then you wouldn't see me anymore on the show because they're going off on some,
some theory, but we know how they did it.
And it comes down to what is your hermeneutic?
If you think that the only explanation is what the Bible says, and it has to be this
way because the Bible says it, okay, but just know that most scholars, most archaeologists,
most scientists don't operate that way.
We think that that's bad science.
It just comes down to what's the most plausible explanation based on the evidence.
And if you say, well, this thing that's written in the Bible has to be true because it's written
in the Bible. That's a circular argument.
And we we just have to reject that because of the circularity of the false logic.
The interesting thing you brought up about Karakuni and I actually have some interviews
I haven't put out because we haven't finished the course that I had with her that we're
going to be editing, putting out.
And she says the same thing.
She said that there are documents.
We have the actual writings of the kings, the pharaohs of the time of them documenting
what's happening on a day to day basis of the stones being moved to build the pyramids.
And I mean, like, there's a lot of, you know, manpower involved in relocating these stones
from the quarry to make these pyramids.
She said, also, the interesting thing is, is the wonder of the pyramids are still working today.
That's the point. You go into this land, you're looking and you go, only a God could have done that.
I know. That's the point, right?
So we're still duped by it.
And they've also got the pay receipts for how they paid these guys, you know, when they built it.
So you've got evidence for how they were created and who created them.
These were largely Egyptian peoples who who were hired to to build these things.
But that doesn't match the biblical narrative.
And so a lot of people just don't want to accept the evidence that we do have
and instead want to accept the biblical narrative for which we have no archaeological evidence.
And it's in you and I can make videos and we can we can teach this stuff in our in our classes.
But it's going to come down to what people want to believe.
And I do this with the the Mount Abal thing all the time.
I use the old X files.
Some people just want to believe certain things.
And so that's what they're going to do.
And I can I can talk about logic and evidence all the time.
But if people don't want to believe that, if they want to believe alternative facts,
that's what they're going to do.
Absolutely.
I'm going to get these few questions because I got to let you roll here.
Matt Lambert, what a wonderful last name you have.
We share that.
Thank you so much.
Hey, Derek, loved the video with Paul today.
I was on apology.
I made the cartoon I'm finally deified into a cartoon.
So just showing love to you guys.
Thank you, Matt.
Appreciate that.
Ricky Johnson, a three dollar super sticker.
Thank you for the love.
Ricky always been in the chat.
I appreciate the love.
Victor Engelman, wasn't Genesis 14 taken from the great revolt
against Narum Sin, a popular account at the time?
This is a theory that's out there.
Very good.
So somebody really knows their history here.
This is one of the theories.
When Genesis 14 may have come, it is possible.
I argue in my book that Genesis 14 is actually two narratives stitched together.
One is an account.
This is the Melchizedek book.
This is a.
Yeah, I don't have that one yet.
Do this.
No, I got to send you this one.
If I can.
OK, I'm making it fall down.
This is this book here.
If I can do that there screen.
There we go.
The argument being that.
The first half of it may record some stylized version of an account of
Hedala Omer, this this king that came down and sacked Canaan, right?
Came down and with these kings and took the things.
And then they wrote Abraham the hero because you've got this really
interesting thing that says Abraham the Hebrew.
And that's a weird that's a.
So, you know, why the Hebrew?
So, so because of this, they may have written Abraham.
And in the second half of it is this hero story of Abraham in his mighty men,
you know, coming in and rescuing lot and all of these people that have a lot
of mayor had stolen and come back.
So this is a great question.
Very, very good.
It was Victor, a very, very good point that first half of the story may have
been taken from some historical record.
And this may have been one of the historical accounts that has been
posited as possible source for the first part of Genesis 14.
Interesting thing that that brought to my attention is I'm trying to find
mythical antecedents to several of the characters.
And I'm sure when I get to Joseph, there's going to be some fun I can dive
into because I personally can already see and done some research in the past on
this, but I want to have fun with this one on the Judah thing.
No, I was like, I don't see any myth, right?
I don't see a particular myth of a character that I see Judas modeling.
But what I did find, and this is in a guy, Argonauts of the Desert,
Philip Vajenbaum, he brought up this Herodotus account that I thought was
really interesting in Herodotus.
He talks about Xerxes and Xerxes.
There's an account Xerxes literally goes out of his way to this girl
that he is fond of, gets her to marry his son, then commits, you know,
the act of sleeping with her.
But before he would, she's like, can you give me something as a promise or an oath?
He gives her his coat.
And the other the other part of Herodotus that mentions about the Babylonian
traditions points out how there are these shrine prostitutes.
Same thing you see in Judah's story where they had signets.
The men had signets, staffs and I can't remember what else it mentions in Judah.
But it also mentions this in the Herodotus account about Babylonian traditions.
And there's this weird, like very disrespectful Herodotus writes it like
it was a very not a nasty cultural practice.
The Babylonian cities, they took a virgin woman and they would have them
lined up sitting outside the temple.
The men would come and they put the silver on their lap.
And then they would say something.
It was a certain name of a god in Babylon, but they call it Aphrodite, of course,
once Herodotus writes it because they have names in the Greek.
They want to get to the gods.
And like I thought, whoa, this is going to be my next documentary.
I'm curious. I don't know.
I mean, I don't make much to do with it because who knows?
They were in captivity.
They would have known maybe some of these traditions.
But it is an account that reflects something similar I saw in Judah.
It would certainly be something worth pursuing, looking into.
And then you've always got the problem,
especially with the Persian material of which came first.
And so it but it would be definitely something worth looking into.
Absolutely.
Last one here is from our friend, Nuri Suna.
Thank you for the super chat.
No comments for there.
I appreciate you.
You're you're so I don't know.
You're doing so much here.
And I hope that you come back because I want to talk about your books.
You got to send me the other one.
We've got to tackle this one specifically at deep dive.
No. And listen, last time I was on here, so many of you have a wonderful audience.
Your viewers are just great.
They came over to my channel.
They were asking questions.
They were they were making themselves very visible and asking questions.
So I love coming over here.
And like I said, you've got a very smart and a very active audience.
So I love I love chatting with you.
Let's get Dr.
Cargill, some subscribers today.
Let me refresh and just see.
Did we get anybody to subscribe?
Let's see. Let's see.
I hope so. I hope that we got some.
But well, the last time we chatted, I had 2400 and now I've got 23000.
So I would like to I would like to thank you because a lot of that was
stimulated by our early conversations a couple of months ago.
And so we've been on the climb ever since we started chatting.
So many thanks to you and to your audience.
Keep it coming and keep those questions coming.
Subscribe to Dr.
Cargill, get one of his books.
I understand this one's a bit pricey.
Yeah, it's OUP and it's a technical one.
So you need to know some Hebrew, some Greek, Aramaic will help.
There's some Euguritic in there.
But it's it's this one is going to take a while to filter through
because there's there's so many academic arguments in there.
And so they can check that out on Amazon if they can afford it.
The cities that built the built the Bible is more affordable, of course.
Yeah, so check that out.
This is a popular book.
Anybody can read it.
You don't need to be an expert.
You don't need to have have read the Bible.
If you're interested in kind of figuring out, hey, where did this Bible come from?
And what is some of the biblical
archaeology that contributed to how we got the Bible?
This is the book for you.
Wow, the cities that built the Bible is a magnificent tour through 14 cities.
The Phoenician or Phoenicia cities of Tyre, Sidon,
Biblos, Ugarit, Nineveh, Babylon,
Megiddo, Athens, Alexander, Alexandria, Jerusalem,
Qumran, Bethlehem, Nazareth and Rome along the way.
Cargill includes photos of art.
You do that in the middle, actually, don't you?
Yeah, I do that.
And I and I share a lot of travel stories.
I share some really heartfelt, personal stuff.
Me digging down in a, yeah, there we are, digging at Tel Ezeka.
This is with Tel Aviv University, the biggest site there in Israel today.
By the way, if you're looking for a site to dig at in Israel,
that's the place to go.
Tel Ezeka, if you've never if you've never dug with
Professor Lipschitz or with with this entire team there,
it's just a wonderful, wonderful excavation.
They're doing some great work there.
And I would encourage anybody to go.
This is David and Goliath story, right?
This is right there in the Ella Valley.
And I would just that that's a wonderful dig.
It's a great place to be.
I love going there.
And then, last of all,
do you have courses online people can take?
Or is it only at the university?
You know, right now I'm teaching History of Jerusalem
and I'm teaching Dead Sea Scrolls and biblical Aramaic.
So those three this semester,
but I'm in the process of developing an online cities of the Bible course.
I teach it at the University of Iowa,
but I'm getting ready to redo this course
so that it will be made available to anyone who wants to take it online.
So we're redoing all of the videos in 4K
and then we're probably be 90 to 100 different small short lectures
and then including some discussions to kind of summarize each of the chapters.
And then along with the textbook,
it will be a complete course that we're going to make available later this year.
If not early next year, it'll be called Cities of the Bible
and it'll be made available to everyone,
not just members of the University of Iowa.
I'm telling you what, thank you for your time.
I knew that you have an appointment.
We just had to come in here.
Time is up.
Look, I tried to haggle with him.
He said that if there are five righteous,
and let me tell you, it's 381 people watching right now
and he said there ain't a single righteous one left.
So we're about to get, I don't know, melted from the rooftop down.
I think it's time the apocalypse is upon us.
Any final positive, encouraging words or anything you'd like to say to our audience
before we let you go, Dr. Cargill.
I just, to the people and some of the smartest audience out there,
thanks for watching.
Hope to see you again soon and keep those hard questions coming.
Never stop asking hard questions.
Hey, thank you, Migdalia.
Thank you so much for the Super Chat.
Hi, Derek. Love this channel.
Been a fan for over two years. Subscribe.
Thank you so much.
And ladies and gentlemen, never forget, we are MythVision.
