What does it all mean?
It's about onion.
We are our MythVision.
Home of MythVision podcast and MythVision radio group.
My co-host is the one and only, the wise one himself, Kevin Maxwell.
And I mean that folks, Kevin Maxwell thought about this correlation between the Zodiac and
the political parties in ancient Israel.
And he's got the summer solstices and the equinoxes lined up with the political parties.
And that had me thinking, and next thing I know, I was writing a book on the subject.
I'm still doing it right now.
So you know, Kevin comes up with an idea, he ties you up all year long.
So anyway, Kevin's co-hosting with me this time.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams.
We are on Facebook, so give us a like, won't you?
And please remember to like and subscribe.
You can comment, you can discuss our material on YouTube.
And folks, this is not some Middle Eastern snake handling.
You can catch our PayPal and Patreon accounts there.
Don't so don't let them wiggle out of your grasp, okay?
Show us some warm and fuzzy, won't you?
We've got an in-depth show with renowned Memphis' scholar Dr. Richard Carrier.
We'll be discussing his book entitled On the Historicity of Jesus.
And then we've got two more shows after that planned with Dr. Robert Price because he is
a favorite of yours.
You've let us know that.
And so we'll be talking with him about the legacy of the Dutch Radical School and what
it means to be a complete textual scholar.
But back with us today, we're excited because we've got author Michael Lido with us.
And Michael has now written two books on celestial mythology called On Earth as it is in Heaven,
written in 2009.
And the secret astrology of the Bible, which he wrote the following year, they are both
available on amazon.com.
One of them is available on Kindle.
That's the first book on Earth as it is in Heaven, both excellent volumes.
And Michael is his own worst critic.
He will begin to and has already begun to revise and amend certain assertions as his
thinking progresses.
He still though is convinced that the Bible consists of many astral myths which he shall
share with us today.
So please welcome back to MythVision Podcast, Michael Lido.
Michael, it's great to have you with us.
It's always great to be here.
I hope to become a favorite in the future.
I'd like to start out.
Last time we started off with Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Not hieroglyphs, but Egyptian carvings.
I'd like to go back, say a few thousand years, because we did the ISIS, Neat Virgo type thing
on that one.
And I want to go back a little further, say 25,000 BC in Ukraine.
Hey, that sounds good.
We can connect with that, Michael.
And you're already a favorite, so you're just cementing your position.
Have at it.
This is the Venus of LaSalle, very famous sculpture.
Apparently, this is her face looking at it, and that's her hair, though I really can't
make too much out of it.
She is barefoot and pregnant, so we know there's a trailer part nearby.
But the important aspect is the horn right here.
This is the horn.
This is the sliver.
The moon god would wear the horn because it would show the phases of the moon.
It's holding the horn, and this has 13 marks on it, which is the lunar year, the calendar.
So you got the 13 marks for the number of lunar months and a solar month, which is interesting
because 13 was the number of the associated with female menstruation.
I guess you don't have male menstruation, but it was associated with that cycle.
An interesting aspect, sex was taboo during that time.
Now on Friday, that was the day they would make love and honor to Venus.
However, Friday the 13th, you have a contradiction.
You have the 13, which is your taboo, and then you also have to make love for your goddess.
So that's how that came in as being a taboo day, Friday the 13th.
That's where that superstition came from.
Now also from this same area, is this guy right here.
It looks like this is a leg.
I thought he was Enzite Man there for a while, but I think that's a leg.
Yeah, yeah, what's going on?
But on this guy, he has a belt.
So you got to ask yourself, what guy wears a belt?
Could that be an early version of Orion?
Yeah, Orion was going to say.
Here's his head.
It looks like he has his arm around something.
That should be where the bull would be, but it's broken off here, and there's no tell
on what the heck that is there.
But I want it to, I mean, you can get information.
That could be an earliest depiction that we have of Orion.
Then again, it may not.
You know that Venus piece with the 13 months, I'm thinking about that little intercalation
thing they used to do because 12 at 30 days of peace for a month would not be enough to
cover the year once they adjusted and found out that the real year is 365.24 days and
not 360 days.
So the 13th, does that make up for that?
Is that putting in that extra month?
It's more like 12 and a half months, really, for the lunar cycle.
It's not quite right.
So when you get on that lunar month, it kicks out for a couple of weeks, and that's why
Ramadan and all these different celebrations are all at different times every year.
They keep pushing them back, pushing them back.
I know one time they had a hissy fit because it fell on 9-11, and it was like, hey, you
know what, that's just how the calendar works.
I think the important thing to look at on that is that it's, that's not, it could not
be a true Venus.
I mean, Venus was Virgo and the planet Venus, and she was an Earth goddess associated with
the moon.
So she was probably, if anything, a moon goddess, which they had in Europe, like Greece.
Greece had a moon goddess.
So I'm thinking that the Venus title may not quite be correct.
I don't know for certain, but who knows?
Here's what I'm thinking with the first picture is, well, there's, is it 13?
Because if you sometimes, if you count the ends of the things she's holding, it might
get 14.
And then, of course, in the genealogies in the Bible, there's 14 generations between
each one.
There's 14 days till the new moon.
I guess the new moon is a 29 and a half day cycle, which leaves, actually, I'm just reading
about this in this book, Astronomy and Empire in the Ancient Andes.
He talks a little bit about how they, you can't really connect this stuff necessarily
to the Bible, but with astronomy and ancient astronomy, there's the intercalation month
to maintain alignment between the lunar calendar and the solar year.
So it says after three years, the annual 11 day excess between 12 lunar months and solar
year accumulates to about 30 days.
This results in the periodic need to add an intercalation month.
So then it would be a 13 month year every three years or something like that.
So maybe that's where this 13 could come from too.
So I grabbed all these books.
I don't know if they were that sophisticated on the calendars.
Yeah, maybe not.
Yeah, I was just wondering.
I hope your viewers don't turn off, but I wanted to show you, or I wanted to mention
something that's odd.
This is probably the most discredited author in the entire world is Immanuel Velifowski.
This is ancient chaos.
He wrote the world in collision, earth and upheaval.
Basically what he did was he claimed that Venus popped out of Jupiter where the red
spot is and went around as the comet and almost collided and Mars was there and almost
hit the earth.
And that's why we have the red sea parted and that's where it caused all the plagues
and the exodus and everything else.
Michael, what is this guy doing?
It sounds like hype, man.
Every title you name by him is sensational, right, Kevin?
You hear that?
What's it called?
Age?
Chaos?
Something?
This is ages and chaos.
Ages and chaos.
And so when you read through it, it's like everything is BS, BS, BS, BS, BS.
And then he comes to this one thing right here.
I'll show you.
And I got one here.
This is the one he has in here.
It's all nice and drawn in.
Let me give you a share here.
Let me see if I can find, not trying to go the other way.
Putting it in reverse, baby.
Yeah.
We all got a bunch of books here today.
Oh, yeah.
You brought your cash of books and I brought some myself.
We can share with our viewership.
Well, yeah, I got here with a thousand faces from the college library.
Oh, man, great.
That's Joseph Campbell.
Yeah.
Oh, super.
That's his classic book, man.
I want that one.
I don't have that particular book by him.
But the.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mike, you got it.
This is the actual booty that was brought back by Tutmost the third.
Right.
And this is in the tunes of rank Meyer, who was his visor and he went and he listed everything
he has.
And what Velikovsky says was, oh, yeah, this was a treasure of Solomon and it lists everything
he had and the numbers of each one.
And I go, what?
Oh, wait a minute.
You know, that's not the, this is something I could verify.
Right.
I can go.
I can find this.
And if you know anything about Egyptian numbers, the numbers are actually underneath here.
They got like these upside down use and they use the base five counting system and you
can look up how to read the Egyptian numbers.
And what you find out is that each item here to this, the type of number, the item and
the number is exactly what is stated in Kings and Chronicles.
Okay.
So it's like, I mean, if it just just said shields, yeah, it's like, okay, I mean, that
I'd be like a generic booty that you would bring back, but this has the the aspect.
So it was, but most of third, his conquest provided the backstory for the Kings and Chronicles
shishat.
This here though, the, the problem I have is that it combines the treasures of Kings
and Chronicles, not just one.
So I'm looking at there was, had it been some coordination between the authors of Kings
and Chronicles to have done this, although they are supposed to have been written different
times.
I don't know whether he actually got it off of this list, you know, off the wall or
whether there was probably a written record of this somewhere that they could have had
access to.
Are you just saying the math for the number of items adds up from both books?
Right.
Or are you saying half of the pictures from one book and half the pictures from another
book or, or is it something else?
Both books are in here and the items from each books are in here.
Right.
They're just spread around a bit, you're saying.
Right.
Just spread out through here.
I was just kind of wondering, Luther, is like, why did they divide the items up certain
numbers of one book and certain numbers in another book?
So these would add up to specific numbers.
Well, that's, that's fascinating.
You know about Kings versus Chronicles that one is supposed to give a kind of a pro-Israel
view and the other a pro-Juda view.
Chronicles is more pro-Juda in the way that it, that it treats the Kings.
So the material is told two different ways.
I guess you could use two different sets of numbers.
I have found numbers, for example, that are in Chronicles that are not in Kings.
And those numbers are significant.
Let's say King, King David's coronation.
So at David's coronation, all the tribes are given.
I think this is, it has a lot of twos.
What is it?
Second Chronicles 20.
I'm not going to, don't quote me on that.
But anyway, at King David's coronation, it talks about 4,600 Levites, you know, 46 with
two zeros.
And then what do you read in John in the New Testament?
It says that it took 46 years to build the temple.
Jesus is having a conversation with the Jews there.
It all, it all fits together and it's in Chronicles, but that particular detail is not in Kings,
as I recall.
And one more thing, who is it that was in charge of the temple?
It was the Levites and the numerical value of Levi is 46 again.
So yeah, I mean, one book as opposed to the other could be more sensitive about the numerics.
One could make use of it and the other maybe not so.
Yeah, I'm just thinking about how these treasures relate to some of the metaphors in the Bible.
And because I know like the 12 stones or the precious stones are the 12 signs of Zodiac.
So what about the treasures from the foreign cities?
Because I know the foreign city might represent like the bottom half of the Zodiac and the
top half might represent like Zion or the mountain of God, because King David is Mount
Zion and Samuel are kings.
And then the lame and the blind are outside the city.
That's the night cycle or whatever.
So that would be not necessarily a place where there's these riches, but where they're
being taken from.
Or I don't know, how does that, how do you think that relates to the pottery and stuff
relates in the Bible?
I don't know.
I don't think it relates at all, to be honest with you.
I know most of the cities that Joshua conquered are astrologically in Pisces, Pegasus, and
going up to Cygnus, and Draco, and Lyra, and those types of places.
I'm not sure how you're relating that below about the Zodiac treasure.
Well, I know there's the idea in Psalms where there's the potter and there's the clay.
And the clay is used as a description of like Jerusalem or the material world.
And then clay is the feet of the statue in Daniel 2.
And then in Romans he talks about, we are the potter.
And should we say to the potter, should the pot say to the potter, do this with your potter?
The idea of the creation is made of clay or the pots and pans and the different items,
whereas the creator would be something higher than that, or that would have some sort of
teaching about that.
So that's kind of where I'm trying to understand some of this stone archaeology stuff, too.
Yeah, Michael, Michael, Kevin got me on to the polarity of the Zodiac, the top half and
the bottom half.
And I have found that to be a very useful bifurcation.
It's all over.
Once you look for it, you can't unsee it because it really is prevalent.
So it's almost as if the loyal guys are the top half of the Zodiac and then the rebels,
however you want to contextualize that, that would be the bottom half.
The negatives, the fall and the winter as opposed to the spring and summer, however you characterize
it.
But it does seem to be all over the place, so I wouldn't be surprised.
I don't see the Zodiac that way, like you guys do.
It's bad guys and good guys that are up and down all over the place, I mean, most of your
bad guys are going to come from the north, they're going to come from the constellation
of Draco, coming from the north.
Your Philistines are down in the south in Aquarius, stuff like that.
So I just don't see it.
I think they're interchangeable for sure.
I think sometimes the Zodiac, the top half of the Zodiac might be the whole Zodiac or
sometimes it might be flipped like Newton, Gabba's, all of a sudden the females on top
and the males on the bottom.
Hey, that sounds interesting, doesn't it, Michael?
Well, that's the way the adjudication is tatted, yeah.
There you go.
Yeah.
Have you guys, you guys want to see the Holy Grail?
Yeah, Michael, everybody wants to see the Holy Grail.
Do you have it?
Oh, I got it.
Yeah, of course I do.
Of course.
If you recall, remember the Indiana Jones Last Crusade movie, good movie, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, it was far better than that temple of doom.
So there they are at the end, they're Sean Connery, he's going to die, can't let Sean
Connery die.
Correct.
Of course, I have to figure out which is the Holy Grail because the Holy Grail will give
him life, right?
Okay.
Mystery of the Holy Grail, it does two things, if you drink from the Holy Grail, it can give
you everlasting life or it can give you knowledge, right, to asthma, right, from the Holy Grail.
Okay.
Garden of Eden, what did you have, you had Tria life, Tria knowledge, right, they gave
me the same things.
Okay.
Epic of Gilgamesh, what did he want?
He wanted a plant at the bottom of the ocean that would give him eternal life, right?
So we have these common theme elements, which is what I stressed the last time, theme elements
and not exactly structural elements.
And right here is where it's all at.
There's your Holy Grail.
We've got Hydra, which is the water snake, okay.
All right.
It gives you the impression of the Gilgamesh whole thing that's at the bottom of the ocean
and here we have it by Eve and Adam.
So it's right between Adam and Eve, right here.
Hmm.
So it's a crater.
Right.
That's, that's, that's what that is.
Yeah.
Okay.
What are, what are the constellations for Eve and Adam, Michael?
What are they?
Eve is Virgo and Adam is Leo.
Ah, okay.
Okay.
What happened?
Okay.
She, she comes out of the, I think we talked about this last time or maybe I talked about
it with you, uh, Ninty, Lady of the Rib and I, we talked about where her name came from.
I know we did that last time.
Yes.
But yeah, she came, uh, this was one big constellation called Assad and it went from cancer all the
way over to Libra.
And that was, they probably made it into one big constellation because of the procession
of the, of the solstice.
So when it went through there, uh, this was one big lion and Eve's head would have been
right about where the rib was.
So that's why she came out of the rib of Adam.
Now later on the Greeks said, oh, this is all Petui.
We're going to break all this stuff up.
And there's no big constellation of Assad where you got Leo over here and we got Virgo
over here and Virgo's head is on the tail.
So what they did was they created a midrash, uh, that stated that Adam had a tail and Eve
came from his tailbone.
So I'm not, you know, to me that's kind of like another little fingerprint that, you
know, you know, that, that shows that Holly changed the constellations and they changed
the story to suit it.
Ah, okay.
So what about booties or the, is that, I know David Warner Maths and talks about Eve and
her husband, uh, Virgo and booties, uh, booties was, uh, uh, in my book, booties is, is, uh,
the story of, uh, Joseph in the pit that is, that is him, the governor is, booties is a
governor essentially that's, uh, both, uh, Joseph eventually became like a visor in Egypt.
And that was a story of him in the pit.
There's a lot of elements in there.
The star of tourists, the, uh, purple garnet star of tourists was the coat of many colors
that he had.
He only had one color.
And in the, uh, New Testament, our tourists would become the, uh, garnet robe or the purple
robe, the mock robe that they put on Jesus.
So yeah.
Um, now you mentioned that, see the constellations, you have your, your main zodiac constellation
and then there are smaller, like satellite constellations that are part of the story
with it.
And then when one zodiac constellation or group ends, somebody either dies or they say,
Hey, the story is over.
If you look in, in Genesis, um, uh, the story when he talks about Jacob, he had Jacob.
Oh, he's being born.
He has this thing with Esau.
He goes, he marries the ugly lady, the cute one.
They have a bunch of wives and they go back and makes it up with brother Esau, then they
go.
Uh, Ruben, uh, I guess takes his, his handmade and Diana gets raped and then they go up and
then, uh, I think Rachel dies and it's like, uh, there's a star which is up in Ursa Major.
There's a star in Ursa Major.
I think it's Capella in the tail, which is also the name of the same star in our eye
guy.
So they were both represented Rachel.
That's where she's from and that's where she died kind of interesting.
And then that, uh, there's a, there's a tense problem that I have that says this, this is
the story of Jacob.
Now, after all that it starts, this is the story of Jacob, uh, uh, Gideon.
I got a lot of Gideons.
I gave them away for free.
They got, uh, these are the genealogies of, uh, of Jacob, but I'm thinking that that
they have that tense wrong there.
That should be, this was the story of Jacob and his story ends at that point and all the
stuff about Jacob from there on out was added, inherited material.
So at that point we start with the story of Judah, we start with the story of Joseph
and Joseph goes into Egypt and that's where we, which is Tars and then that ends Tars
group.
So Tars somehow got associated in this group with Bodhis and the Northern crown, which
is out of the way, but that's how I work.
Okay.
Michael, uh, I like what you said here, uh, about, um, the transition to a different zodiacal
group.
Now you have something that I have never seen anyone point out before and that is the use
of the number 40 in telegraphing in the text that we're about to change the zodiacal group.
So, so this is what comes to mind with that.
That's not quite, it's not the group.
It's a specific constellation of 40, just one constellation.
Thank you for the correction.
Okay.
Uh, let's say, let's go with an obvious aquarium figure like John the baptizer.
Okay.
John the baptizer is the water bearer.
He's an aquarium type figure.
Jesus gets baptized by him.
He goes into the desert, the wilderness for 40 days, 40 nights.
Here we go.
According to your theory, there's some kind of a change that has to take place.
What is the change?
What's going on with the constellations there?
And, uh, I guess that would come out in, in the wilderness journey, whatever it is that
Jesus experienced in the wilderness.
I am, I, the wilderness would probably be the same wilderness that Moses was in.
It would be the constellation of Cetus.
That's my guess.
I don't see how it would be different.
Uh, I mean, it could be a different constellation, but they're both wildernesses because there
was both vast, empty spaces in those constellations.
Now, I know he was taken up on a mountain.
Uh, the only, the mountain that we have in there is Sinai.
So I don't know, but it doesn't say, Hey, he was taken up on the mountain Sinai, but
it was, you know, that's probably the same star though.
I'm guessing.
Well, that's pretty good.
I mean, in order to follow the footsteps of Moses, because, you know, the point in Gospel
of John that Christ gave us grace, Moses gave the law.
So yeah, I guess that would be Sinai because Jesus has somehow got to pass that and surmount
that in order to get to his mission and purpose.
That makes sense to me.
How about, how about it, Kevin?
Does that ring any bell with you?
Yeah.
Well, I'm just thinking of Galatians chapter four where he's talks about the two Jerusalem's,
which are then kind of in Hebrews 12 used as a parallel to the two mountains.
So there's the mountain of sin and then there's the mountain, the new Jerusalem or the new
mountain Zion.
So there's, so there's that sort of polarity between the old and the new covenant displayed
in these two mountains and like Moses, he goes up the mountain a bunch of times.
But it seems like he goes up near the beginning of the wilderness period to, to get the law.
And then at the end, he dies on the mountain.
And it was a different, you know, okay.
Yeah.
And then there's another mountain even in the Noah story at Mount Ararat at the end of
the 40 days of, well, it's, it's actually five months of, of the flood.
So then it's, so I'm thinking the flood is sort of like the material, material realm,
the mother, the emotions, sometimes water is used as the emotions.
And this is the Aquarius, perhaps.
And it's at the end of the flood period, which would be the rainy season, probably would
be in the, around Aquarius, and then you have their land on the mountain after the flood.
So this could be some to do with the equinoxes, which would be sort of the authority of each
half of the zodiac.
That's how I'm kind of looking at it.
No, that's nowhere near ramen, but that's, that's okay.
The flood is Argo and, you know, the, the, no one went when he lands is Orion Aquarius
is the, the death of Samson and, and, you know, I don't have between meeting, but hey,
you know, hey, I could be wrong.
Yeah.
Well, I'm, I'm sort of just kind of pulling it together.
I haven't read your book, so I'm just trying to puzzle together some of what I'm hearing.
Let me get something out of here that I discovered while researching the numbers and the stars
and the letters.
One of the things he comes up and he mentions is that when a new star comes in to, to being
when they discover a new star, they have to add another letter to it.
Right.
Got a new star.
They have to add a letter for that star.
So that changes everything.
Yeah.
So that changes the word that that constellation would make up.
And what the author is saying is, is that's either one or two things, either God is going
to raise hell.
He's going to cause destruction on earth, or it's like a new, it's like a new hope,
a new confidence that he's going to have with man.
He's kind of changing directions when he creates a new star.
So there's two places where we have oscillating stars that I found, where a star is no longer
seen and then seen again.
One we discussed last time, which was Mount Sinai, which changes and that's where he got
the 10th commandment and we got this new covenant with man.
And there's another one I discovered recently, which is kind of like out there, but it's
in the Argo for the flood.
There is a star there that's real far south.
It goes from, from 14 from, what was it for the stars, from 14 to six.
So the six is barely, it's a barely visible illumination.
It's six is barely visible.
I'm not even sure if they would even see it or whether they could even see it from where
they were at.
If they did and that star came in there and that oscillates every 20 years and they could
say, okay, we have to change this and this would show a destruction of the earth by putting
this new thing in this constellation.
That's just the working theory.
Okay.
So yeah, Argo is, you think, you think that's connected to this 40 or with the arc story?
Yeah, 40 days is, he was on Argo, Moses, Moses is the, the rudder, the steerer, cannabis
he represents Argo and if you go into the midrash, it talks about the physical features
of Moses being this bright white type guy and everything else and it practically talks
about the star itself and then yeah, he's 40 days and then when they land, now he becomes
a constellation Orion, the three stars in the belt that his three sons and then he has
the sons who would then be the servants, the four sons of companion that's in the foot
of Orion, that's the hair, that's like a pedestal that he puts himself on.
There's the, what's known as the tent scene in Noah, very important scene where he does,
the son goes in with a cord, he does this unspeakable act and he comes out and the brothers
have to go in and cover his father up.
What he did was he took the cord and he unmanned Noah, okay, just took it right off, buddy
and what that represents, see and that's the same thing there because that is the same
thing that happened to Osiris, different pieces and that was the piece that was missing, he
represented Orion and then there was an Assyrian one, I forget what it was but he actually
spit off the organ in that one and there's a similar one with the Greek mythology does
the same thing and there is right in the middle where Orion's manhood should be, there is
a nebula that shows that, hey, there's something missing here.
The interesting thing about that is that nebula really isn't visible, it's like one
of those things that's barely visible but you really would have to look for it to see
it and there's a lot of dozen things I discovered that fit into my theory here if they could
see just another magnitude, so I'm guessing maybe they could see a little better back then,
they had maybe something to aid them looking, I know the Chinese would look at the stars
through a tube that would help them out, not any glass but with a tube, I read something
that they might have had a primitive type telescope back then but there's nothing certain
on this but it seems that they, from the myths that they could see a little bit more than
what we can see today, Michael, Michael, yeah, go ahead, I'm just hearing the midrash, it
sounds like I need to read the midrash to understand some of these practices, I read,
there's one written by called Hebrew myths and something else, it's written by two authors,
one of the authors was Robert Graves who is a famous historian, he did the I-Claudius
series for public television, I think it was on, and it goes through the midrashes which
is kind of like the story themselves and it's really boring but what's good is the footnotes,
you read the footnotes in there and it tells you, it gives you all the Greek comparisons
which is great because when you get the Greek comparisons, you know what constellations
are talking about. Michael, is his co-author Raphael Patai and I'm not sure because he
has written, okay, right, because he has written books with Raphael Patai, that's the other
guy, Kevin, with that and what jogged my memory when you talked about the Greek, yes, they
wrote a book on Dionysus together and I have that one so and of course that's relevant
too because Dionysus is represented with the wine and with Virgo and with Vindemiatrix
which is the vine in the right hand of Virgo and so on, so yeah, okay, Graves and Patai.
Okay, so how global was this? Like a lot of this midrash stuff is just from the Hebrews?
Yeah, the Hebrews wrote it, they have a hard time assigning exact dates to this stuff, they're
saying it could be as early as 200 BC as late as 400 AD, something in that area, they generally
like to go with the later dates, so it kind of shows that the rabbis were quite aware of the
astrological myth all the way up to about 400 AD and the classical explanation for the midrashes,
all of a sudden the Greeks came, they conquered the Jews and they had all these questions because
the Greeks were all these great thinkers and philosophers and the Hebrews couldn't come up
with stuff on their own, so they said okay, so they came up with stuff like where did Cain's
wife come from? Okay, so they wrote explanations about Cain's wife in there and they came up with
different stories of Cain and Abel, both were born with twins, both had a twin sister, Eve wanted
Abel to marry his twin sister who apparently was a hottie and Cain's twin sister looked like Cain
in a dress, so Cain wanted a twin sister and then that's why he really killed Abel, was over a woman
and not because he didn't please God or anything like that, so. Right, right, of course, most of
the time it is, it's over a woman. Yeah, it's like oh the smoke didn't go up, oh it's like come on,
you're gonna kill somebody because the smoke went the wrong way, because the wind's going in a different direction
and they're like hey, you know, a babe, yeah I can see it for you know. Right, the truth comes out guys, that's good.
Okay, so yeah, so you, where did you get those pictures that you were showing us
at the beginning? Is that from your research? Is that in the book itself?
The internet, the pictures of the constellations, like it from Bullinger's book,
he wrote the, what was it, gospel, scriptures and the stars, gospels and the stars or something,
he wrote them around the 19th century and in fact there's certain religions that are still
following Bullinger today and they're writing books based on his stuff and I think we talked
about Bullinger last time. Yeah, yeah we did, we did, I wish people would take him more seriously
and connect with his work because I think they'd find some fruitful lines of inquiry if you'd follow
it out, but you know people give lip service to it, right, the seminaries aren't really interested.
I didn't think Bullinger was correct, I thought Bullinger would have been good, I wanted to
combine Bullinger and Gerald Massey and kind of come up with something and I couldn't do that,
they were both out, I could find either one, I did find some good stuff in Bullinger that
related to the Old Testament, but I think his stuff on the New Testament was not quite correct.
Okay. He, for instance, like the Northern Crown, he claims the Northern Crown was the,
this grand crown used to glorify Jesus and for me it was the crown of thorns, so we're like,
you know, if there's any grand crown to glorify Jesus, it would be the Southern Crown,
not the Northern Crown. Interesting, why the Southern Crown, Michael? What is it about the
Southern Crown? The Southern Crown represented Solomon, that was the crowning of Solomon,
that was the final, I gotta move this chair for a second, hold on.
All right, anyway, the Southern Crown represented Solomon, that was the final
chapter, the final aspect of the cosmic myth was the crowning of Solomon.
The interesting thing, now you brought that out, now we're going to get something,
this thing goes full circle, because it starts off with Eve, who was a representation of the
goddess Ishtar, all right, starting off giving birth to everybody. At the end, we end up with
David and Bathsheba, who gives birth to Solomon, that's the last of the great cosmic myth that
covers the entire cosmos. The star that represented Bathsheba was the same star that represented
Ishtar, so what we have is this great, it's almost like a coming and closing at both ends,
it comes around, it starts with Ishtar, ends with Ishtar, ends with the same goddess. Now,
the story of David is so edited, I was looking at that, and when somebody tries to say
something is false, or how should I say this, you know when Trump is lying,
his lips are moving, right, I mean, and in the Bible when they're trying to present a story
really hard to say this is true, this is true, this is true, it couldn't be this,
I'm like, no, no, they're doing it, it's a head fake, doing it just the opposite.
So I'm thinking, so I'm looking at the story of David and Bathsheba and Uriah and what this really
was, and I'm using, I'm taking out different bits and pieces because it's tossed in there,
through resumptive repetition, and I'm looking at one of the things that they did was the first
child of David and Bathsheba from their illegitimate relationship that they had,
they had this illegit, the child that he died, and then it was the second child that became
Solomon, not the first one, so they went out of their way to get rid of that one child,
all right, so it was actually that first child from that relationship, and then what
they did was, is when he met Bathsheba, she was bathing, right, and it tells you, oh,
this was the cleaning from her menstruation cycle, that's, it was her periodic cleaning,
right, they're trying to let you know she's not pregnant, no, she's not pregnant, and I'm like,
hmm, they're going out of their way to try to let you know this, so hypothesis,
what if she was pregnant from Uriah at that time, and wanted to entice David,
and Uriah wanted her to entice David, so that she would sleep with David, and that David would
think that Uriah's child was his, and then Uriah, when he came back, in order to make sure David
thought the child was his, he didn't sleep with his wife that night, all right, that was a plan,
so that his son would become the ruler of the kingdom, and that was David's punishment for
fooling around with another man's wife, is that somebody other than his son would rule the kingdom,
and Uriah went willingly to go into the front of battle, and get killed, so that his son would be
able to rule the kingdom, and he gets killed in the Star of Antares, which is also known as the
rival of Mars, it's right in front of the bow of Sagittarius, so it all ties in together,
and he was the sacrifice of the informal equinox, he was Tamaz, the consort of Ishtar,
who she takes off her clothing, one piece at a time, to go into the underworld, nor the rescue
and in some stories, Tamaz comes back as somebody else, he reincarnates, so it's possible,
when people of that era looked at the story, they're seeing it knowing these old myths,
and that perhaps that Solomon was this soul of Uriah coming back, so they did everything
they could to take that out of there, so that everybody would believe that Solomon came directly
from David. Interesting, interesting, wow, I'm gonna have to probably go back and listen to that
again. Right, I mean you just did, what do you want to call it, sacrilege? You just rocked
the scriptures, Michael, and before that you were talking about Trump, so you're jeopardizing all
our federal funding, what are you doing here? What are you doing to us? No, no, but I mean,
you can get the Trump stuff out. Yeah, we'll have to put some beeps in. Yeah, right. Put some
beeps in, man, that'll take care of it, you're right, you're right. Yeah, you know what I say
out of it, is when you're on the air, he gets it off of you.
Yeah, Feast of Trumpets, there you go, ah, there you go. That's how you take care of it,
that's right, and then you say huge, don't pronounce it huge, just huge, huge Feast of
Trumpets. Yeah, everybody will get that, everybody will get that. That's a great story about Uriah,
great supposition on your part. It's just a hypothesis, I'm not sure, but I know that there's
something more to that story than they're not telling us, they want their way to do a lot of
disguising. Well, I think you're right, if you look at Uriah, Uriah or Uriah, which would be the
same thing, and it should mean my light is the Lord. Now, you're not going to have a character
with a name like my light is the Lord to be extinguished so easily. That's not going to go
down like that. Oh, the light of the Lord got put in front of the battle, and then his life got,
and his light, light of life got snuffed out, that's not going to happen. So, there's more to the
story, I'm convinced, there's more twists and turns than we've seen. Yeah, and I tell you what,
a great guy Uriah is during the whole thing, it's like, man, this guy should be king, you know, it's
like. Yeah, right, yeah, exactly, that's right, that's right. Well, it looks like we got 10 minutes
left on this zoom thing. So, I'm just letting you know. All right, good, we don't have long, so
we're going to be wrapping up. I love this idea about Kevin, did you have something? Well,
I'm just wondering, like, what, can you tell me more about your book, a little bit, just so I
get caught up a little bit, I know you've done an episode already. I'm just, I'm meeting you for
the first time, so. Yeah, the book, it's a basic story is that the Old Testament stories, all these
fantastic stories are actually cosmic myths. Right. And each one is, it's a story of the constellation.
In order to come up with the cosmic myth, I had to go through and edit, cut out quite a bit of
wordy words that have nothing to do with
the cosmic myth at all. And when you do that, it comes up with some really nice different stories
and what you actually have in there. I was really, you know, the irony that comes through, like the
one I just gave you, there's irony in this, there's humor in this that you don't see because of all
the stuff that's been added. And it's a very concise cosmic myth. It's very, it goes pretty
much in a contiguous fashion, starting with Leo and Virgo, it cuts back to Libra, and then it goes
around Cancer, Gemini, it goes all around the constellations that way. Samson is kind of a
anomaly story that doesn't quite fit, but it's there. It's a little longer because it takes
up Aquarius, but it has to reuse Leo and those constellations. And then it comes all the way
back to Sagittarius and Scorpio, you know, budding on the end of Libra where it had started. So it's,
yeah, it's very, you know, covers the constellations. And this is the only
time I've seen any ancient religion actually do this type of thing. I mean, there's all types of
stories there that are cosmic myths, but a complete story that goes around in the entire circle to
create not only the cosmic myth, but a history. And this was done to make it look like it was
done probably in the Bronze Age. And I was guessing probably around 1900 and something B.C.,
which I know now is wrong. I'm thinking now this is probably written well after 500 B.C.,
probably 400 B.C. or earlier because the constellations show Greek influence and Assyrian influence
and Egyptian influence. And even one case looks like something maybe Rome was influenced in there.
So that would make these very late writings, but it was made literally to look very, very old.
Of course, I concur with you on the revisionist dating, particularly with the Gamatria, the
Anomatology, the allegory. You've got techniques that were influenced, as you say, by the Greeks,
by the Romans. You've got themes that were influenced by the Persians. Yeah, all of that
opts for a late date. No question in my mind. Yeah, that makes sense.
So I'm also a strict minimalist. I don't believe in the United Monarchy having ever existed.
I believe that Solomon was based on the life of Hammamurabi. And in fact, there's a guy who wrote
a paper or thesis describing the contemporaries of Hammamurabi and the contemporaries of Solomon.
And he matches them all up. And he says, look at this. These guys had to have lived in the same
era. So being the good Christian that he was, he's saying, Hammamurabi must have lived
a thousand BC. And he was a contemporary with Solomon. And I'm like, dude, you just killed
your whole paper. I do that. That's in stone. You're not going to be able to move them up to
a thousand. You want to take Solomon and move back to where the great city states were? Hey,
do that, but you're not going to be able to move them up. Right. So his whole thing
got thrown out. No one even looked at his paper. Just like Velikovsky. Hey, he has the kings and
the chronicles all there listed from the works of breasted. There are all there. And the numbers
are there. No one's going to see that because the guys are quacks and no one's going to read his
book. And the same thing with this guy. He's out there. No one's going to read. So there's a lot
of books where you can get one good tidbit of information out of it, even though the rest of
it's bad. I mean, yeah, I've been trying to get something good out of the session, but I can't.
So how did you start looking at astrology in the Bible?
Pretty much by accident. I mean, when I started studying the Bible, and while I was studying
the Bible, I became godless. And then I started reading everything I could about the Bible. I
read a book by a guy named Jackson, Joe Jackson from the American Atheist Society, and he had
something in there from Gerald Massey and some 19th century guys. So I looked them up. I managed
to find some reprints of his. And I started reading him, as well as a dozen other guys,
G.R.S. Mead, and those guys back in the 19th century. And then they had the thing about
the astrology. I'm interested in those books. Kind of made sense, but
nobody had put anything really together. They said, oh, this is this. Oh, yeah,
Jude a lion. Okay, he was Leo. I was like, all right, but what about, you know,
he got like 11 more of these guys, you know, and then it's like,
uh, you know, he, so he said Moses was, was a Cepheus and his wife was Cassiopeia and stuff
like that, which was really out to lunch. You know, so there's a lot of different things that,
in fact, most of the stuff I ended up differing on these guys. Once I started doing my own research,
about the only thing Massey gave me, he gave me the starting point of Leo and Virgo.
And you'll see everybody who writes on this topic will start with Leo and Virgo,
and they will copy Gerald Massey like hell. I mean, it's unbelievable. So we're Massey's
right. They're right. We're Massey's wrong. They're wrong. And I can't, you know,
Have you read, have you read, uh, Massey's American disciple, Alvin Boyd-Tune?
Absolutely.
What do you think of, what do you think of him?
You know what, you're asking me to make a comment on a book I read decades ago, and I,
I just don't remember the stuff that was in there, though, although he was,
I'm reading Coon and I thought, gee, this is, this really isn't,
look, he was able to get stuff out of Massey that I didn't see.
Right, right. That's what I was aiming at.
Yeah, he was apparently the way he reworded stuff, or he probably knew, I think he knew him,
and he had lectures from him and stuff like that, that he was able to transcribe into
English that I could understand.
Yeah, it sounded like, sorry, sounded like he was,
like I just started reading his book, Who Is This King of Glory? And at the beginning,
at least I haven't gotten very far into it, but he's just, he's kind of analyzing or
criticizing Christianity at the beginning and saying like, how can you have two masters if
there's one within you and one outside of you in history and stuff like that. And then, so it's,
it's, it seems like a lot of the astrothiologists do that where they, they're a combination of
criticizing the logic of the doctrines, and it's showing the obvious nature.
Gerald, Gerald, Gerald Massey had a lot of weird stuff. Everything is Egypt,
so everything that the Bible had is compared to Egypt. There's no Babylon, the, you know,
the Assyrians, he does very little of their influence over the Greeks. Everything is related to
Egypt. Egypt goes to the sub-Saharan, and he gets involved with Bushmen and when, when men were
man apes and different things like that, that's just kind of really out there. Some of his stuff
that he does is he compares Egypt to the naming of British pubs. Okay, you know, the headless man
or something. Oh, this is Osiris, you know, I'm like, you know, sometimes a headless guy is just
a headless guy, you know, it's like, you know, who knows, he just can't, you know,
right. So I, I'm kind of skeptical on a lot of his stuff. He draws parallels where there probably
shouldn't be parallels and draw lines and connections that I kind of question.
But Michael, you have demonstrated in both your books that many of the stories
in the Old Testament that we thought were familiar are actually talking about celestial myth.
The corollaries are quite obvious. And if you want to check that out, if you want to learn more
about it, Michael's two books are on on earth as it is in heaven. Did I get the right title of the
first book on earth? Let me correct you on this a little bit on earth as it is in the
Catholic roots of the Bible is actually probably the only book that I've written on the astral myth.
The other books that are out there, the ones that you quote, I did was I took
out, I took a number of books. One is I wrote the Bronze Age Bible, which I don't want anybody to
please don't buy that and read it. But unless you want to see what the old script looked like,
because this is this is a very difficult book to read. So I broke it down into two aspects. One was
the the actual text itself. So I put in there and the other part was the just the astro myth.
And I broke the astral myth down saying this is this and this is this. And I left out all the
labor pains on how I got there. A lot of the footnotes and the end notes and the sourcing
that goes into it. In this book, not only do I source every tidbit of information that I have
in a standard format, I also put the page number on there and I quote the source. I quote the actual
word cell. So while I got 100,000 words of text, I have 40,000 words in the end notes.
I saw that. And so that's really the one folks to know Michael Lido by on earth as it is in heaven.
It is available in the hard copy version. And on no hard copy. There's no hard copy,
paper, paper, paperback, paperback, thanks, paperback and kindle. All right, get that right.
The other book, I mean, if you want to pick the other one up, it's an easier read. It's the baby.
All right. This is all the labor pains. There is a second book. It was called Bible Bluper's
Evidence that Demands the Verdict II. And I rewrote that, took the mistakes out, and I put
that into the skeptics of the Bible. This is written back in the 90s. Some of it is kind of
out there. And some of it has some good information too. So that's my other book. I touched on the
astrology thing in here. And so all right, he's all right, folks. He's like the living scripture.
He talks about he's constantly moving, developing, progressing. Michael Lido, ladies and gentlemen,
Michael, we've got to go. Thank you so much for being with us now. It's the second time. We don't
want it to be the last time. Will you come back and see us? Oh, if I'm breathing, I'll come back.
All right. All right. We're going to hold you to that. Kevin, you got anything you want to add?
I'm just really interested to read your books now. And I'm just looking forward to
asking you some more questions. I'm looking forward to seeing some cells too.
Yeah. Hey, that sounds good. All right, ladies and gentlemen,
Ms. Vision with Michael Lido. All right, have a good evening, everybody. We'll see you next time.
