Dr. Richard C. Miller, we talked about Justin's confession, we talked about how he's comparing Jesus,
we believe nothing different, nothing different than what you do with the Sun's a Zeus, you list off
a bunch of people, Caesar's, eyewitnesses, the whole night. You've given us some detail on that
and I must, I want to do something while we're critiquing the kind of literalist approach,
I also want to critique those who want to act like this is Xerox parallelism and like
this is exactly the same story, I've heard some atheists sides that really do not do justice for
this whole argument, you're posturing for us to see and that is, they go well, Jesus is just
Dionysus again in another story and Osiris is just another story, it's like almost like a Xerox copy,
parallelism, we've seen like some videos circulating on the internet where Jesus has 12 disciples,
Horace has 12 disciples, Horace was born on December 25th, Horace was this and it's like,
you're not being accurate with the source, so why would Justin or anyone compare Jesus to the
other figures? Is there something in their stories that highlights a comparison that is worth noting
like Hercules dies in a certain way and then ends up becoming deified or
what would you say are some of the elements of those myths?
Yeah, well first I want to point out that those are archetypal figures that he's,
you know, Beleripha and Hercules Asclepius, these were the most important, this was the
installment of an individual into the classical Mediterranean Hall of Fame and those were the
archetypal figures, those were the ones that set the standard on how those kind of stories
should be produced and how they would have signaled in the ancient world and so memetically
are following Hellenism, that is patterning after prior Hellenistic forms or Hellenic forms,
all those that come after them are in some ways echoing many of the motifs and registering many
of the same signals in order to classify them within this demigod tradition. It was an honorific
tradition, not an ontologically real thought in terms of that each individual was in fact
a demigod in the most scientific pure knowledgeable sense, rather it was an honor that was bestowed
on them, almost like a trophy or a, like I said, the Hall of Fame, kind of like the Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame or something like this in the ancient world, these were the ones that were the most
celebrated, the most iconic and in order to get installed in that you needed to be
basically patterning your life and or have your story told in a way that patterns after
these archetypal figures in one way or another. In terms of the Xerox copy, no, Jesus is a near
eastern installment in this, he's a garden variety sample from that world, an adaptation in the
Near East, a Levantine example, something coming up out of Judaism, it's really kind of bizarre
if you think about it, but if you back off a little bit and go, okay, we've seen this before,
a deity with a demigod son with a storied life that has feats and this sort of thing that's
born of a mortal woman and with a divine parent and then at the end of their career ascends
to heaven or has some other manifestation of their translated state, whether it's a vanished body
or any number of other signals that I detail in the book and so that was the tradition and so
it's important to take a peek at or take actually a very careful look at each one of those archetypal
figures to in order to kind of piece together, what are we talking about here and how did those
stories echo and get used, became used as templates for further installments into the,
you know, Classical Minitry and Hall of Fame and it's interesting because I put in the book here,
I've got a whole list of individuals that were supposedly sired by Zeus, that is,
Zeus was their parent in legend, right, and yet they had a mortal parent, a mortal mother and so
this was a very common practice in order to elevate your king or your founding figure,
these were the kind of, even some philosophers and generals and stuff made it into this list
in various ways and so it was a way to hype them up to give them an elevated status, to give them
a better veneration and visibility in the Greek East where this sort of thing was commonplace and
in fact required in many situations in order to signal that this was a great figure.
In the Roman world we have Exaltario Memoriae and this is the kind of the way of exalting the
memory of someone and so these kind of storied embellishments would be put upon them, you know,
the Caesar Augustuses and the later emperors, in fact you could only do one or the other
according to Seneca, you're either a fool or you're a king and by king they meant something
much higher than what we think, we think even the emperors were often not even regarded as kings
in Rome, the founding figures were and so in either way what he's saying you're either the most
amazing exalted one or we're going to deface you and so you get Claudius who's lampooned,
thrown into Hades and that's his pumpkinification, you know, which is a mockery of the, it's actually
a play on the word apotheosis and so he is instead of installed into the Hall of Fame,
he's, his story is told of being down in Hades and going through toils and all the people that he
upset now making him face all of the, you know, ignoble deeds and things that he had done as a
tyrant according to Seneca and so, so he's getting damned Nadio Memoriae, his, his memory is being
damned and so a lot of his statues would then be defaced and, you know, he's not given honor.
In a non-democratic world, this is the one, one of the last major powers that the public had over
these figures, they needed then to live up to high standards because they wanted an exalted
knocklade and that is to be thought of later after they're gone as great figures and to have a legacy
after them rather than to be denounced and so in a non-democratic world, this, the disenfranchised
then the public was able then to have the power of either exalting these figures after they passed
on sometimes even before or even damning them. Now they wouldn't do that before because they'd be
put in trouble but yeah, so this was, this was how that worked and Seneca is very clear that those
are the only two outcomes for any given emperor, you're either one or the other and so I think we,
looking at the archetypal figures, I did want to read this excerpt so this is from Cicero,
he talks about it and he lists the archetypes here and this is how he sees it. Now each word in
here is, is important so please not let, don't let me gloss over any of this as, as just me reading so
human manner and community custom establish that they as regards fame and disposition
raise up to heaven, in other words it's a community act, persons of distinguished
benefaction, these are people that are benefiting society that are esteemed in that way as, as
elevating the quality of, of ancient life in some way or provided as examples, icons. Thus
Hercules, Castor and Pollux, that's the deostery that Justin mentions, a lot of these are mentioned
by, by Justin, Escalepius also mentioned by Justin, Lieber also known as Dionysus I think
also mentioned by Justin if I'm not mistaken, Romulus we've already been talking about him,
the, that's the, those are the, those are the archetypal figures, now you might quibble about
one or two others in the list or whatever but he's getting at the heart of the matter,
he, he carries on and he says the same one whom you regard as Quirainus, just kind of like what
we do with Jesus, he's given a second title, this is lofty God title, right, Jesus is the
Christos and Romulus is Quirainus, so with their souls enduring and enjoying eternal life are
fittingly regarded as gods since they are the best and thus are immortal. And so that's the
Hall of Fame, Cicero by the way, let me tell you a little bit about him, so he was, he had proximity,
he was during the time of Julius Caesar in Augustus, he was the top senator, the most influential and
powerful politician in that world besides the emperor, he had a front row seat to the, the
beginning of the emperor cult and in fact was a participant in how that was formed and, and had
a, an inside look at what exactly that meant and what they were trying to do with the emperors
in regard to this tradition. And he writes about this and tells you? Yeah, yeah, and he, he admits
all of this and says this is exactly what we're doing and so basically the Roman emperors that
come are patterned after these because they also have to be demigods, you know Caesar Augustus
with Apollo and so forth and so now not each one has this, some of them have apotheosis, some of
them have the, I imagine if I were to continue, if we were to continue and interrogate all of classical
literature we don't have it all surviving, but, but if we, if we were able to get access to that
I'm sure that we would find much, much more evidence for each emperor along the way, pretty much it
was the custom, in fact this is what I detail in the book, how were, what was the funeral for a
Caesar like and so basically they'd have a wax effigy of the Caesar, the actual body would be
done away with and in a personal, well done away with is the wrong word, but a personal funeral
for the family, but then they would create a wax effigy that would go into the, the auditorium
and the, the forum and they would bring out, the public would show up and there would be this huge
ceremony there and they would burn the effigy, why would they do that? Well it's in alignment with
Heracles who's, it's Heracles and Romulus that are the two most archetypal in the tradition.
And so Heracles at the end of his trials, his, his feats, his proving that he should be Heracles,
the demigod, at the end of it he is, is killed on a pyre, he dies a sort of a kind of proto martyr's
death on a funeral pyre, a, a burn, you know, a kind of a, a burned at the stake kind of situation
and in this, his, he ascends to heaven and there's no, there's no bones, they come in and they have
eyewitnesses go and pick through the fire, they can't find any bone remains and therefore
he's regarded as translated, his body did not see decay, in fact was a demigod and so that's the
tradition and, and that gets kind of ritualized in the consecration of the Roman emperors as each
one receives exaltatio, memoriae in their funerary consecration. So I, even in what you said his
body shall not see decay like sounds biblical, it sounds jesus-y and jesus-y but it is an
interesting thing you're describing here, it makes me think of all of these figures he lists as
examples and not in a xerox copy way but as like a prototype like you're saying and, and an example
of, look, we believe he became a god too, okay, he's not necessarily saying, oh well jesus jumped
on a fire and like, or, you know, like some, you need to see literally in his story, which I find
thrown at us skeptics or critics all the time with the secular approaches that, and that's I think
just kind of pointing out why I think so many overexaggerate even on a skeptical side to try
and act like, no, identical parallels without defaultifying data because, right, the reaction
typically is you can't prove, well, if jesus didn't dump on, jump on a fire or if jesus didn't have a
senate kill him, like, like how far are you willing to go, right? Like, do you need a xerox to be
proven wrong here about your views? Right, it wouldn't even be believable in that, I mean,
it wouldn't even be legitimate if it were exactly the same because none of the others were exactly
the same. All of the other predecessors or successors rather to this tradition had their own kind of
garden variety variation on it. Some of them died this way and that, but the idea was the body was
missing. That's the kind of the linchpin of it all. And so, and that's the one theme that you see
top to bottom, that the body goes missing, they can't find the body. And what that signaled in
terms of what they were trying to say was, imagine if the body was found, what does that mean?
Clearly mortal. You can't find the body. It's got to be gone. They have to be translated.
And so, it became basically one of the signals that indicated translation. Now, the other tradition
is Romulus, which is a very, is a different kind of story, but has the same underlying meta-narrative,
the same honorific kind of mode and purpose to it. And it has many of the same
character points. In fact, you find those conflated in various ways in terms of mimicry later and
mimetic kind of work against this in later permutations of the translation fable. And so,
and with Romulus, it's a little different. There you get the eyewitness testimony.
Julius Proculus and rodent counters and great commissions and mountaintop species and a whole
bunch of other stuff. And he's taken away in a cloud and this sort of thing. And there's a
thunderclap and prodigies. I mean, it's very much in the Gospels, it's an earthquake. I think in
some other accounts, they're also earthquakes. So, basically following the Romulian tradition,
you end up with another set of motifs then that variously recur that are signaling,
hey, this guy is kind of, he's the new Romulus, so to speak. And so, rulers in the ancient world,
broadening this out a little bit beyond just the translation fable. Anyone who wanted to rule
in the Greek East, from Alexander onward, basically, had to have these different
signals in their life. And then from then on also, they needed to be
cast as imitations of each one of these archetypal figures. Once you get to Alexander the Great,
he was great in his own right, the greatest. And so, from then on, if you wanted to rule in the
Greek East, you were measured against the greatness of Alexander. And you had to, in some ways,
put your own propaganda forth that you are basically the next Alexander, so to speak.
Kind of like Julius Caesar defeated the Gauls. And literally, nobody had ever,
not even Alexander the Great, defeated them. And he did. And that was a way of going,
yay, even though the feat that really Alexander the Great did was much greater overall,
as far as what he accomplished. Julius Caesar was able to say, look, I did something even
Alexander the Great didn't do. And I've got a great book on that. Maybe we can post
it in the video or whatever, and it's by someone that has nothing to do with Christianity.
What they're interested in is later, Alexander's individuals, and this is across the line,
individuals who wanted to rule in that area, in that region in the world, had to, in some ways,
imitate Alexander in their coins, in their dress. We have, even pushing over into Rome,
we had individuals imitating Romulus. The Caesars, many of them would live right in Romulus's
supposed house. They had a house there that was supposedly, now we know Romulus to be a
legendary figure, but they had a house there that they regarded as the actual original house of
Romulus. And they would live in his house, dress like him, the whole thing, and put in,
they wanted down their coins. They wanted everything to look like this is in complete
alignment with the legacy of Romulus. Basically, they were in lockstep. You go to Mark Antony,
he's living with Cleopatra and so forth in Egypt, and he's dressing like Dionysus and Heracles.
So he's got the wine cloth, and he's got all of the, he would walk around. In fact, he was almost
made fun of in some ways because he took it so far. In that part of the world, you had to imitate
these figures in order to be, in order to achieve cultural capital and credibility. And so this
was a deliberate propaganda kind of strategy that recurred over and over again with each
particular ruler. In fact, I don't know of an exception. So yeah. So to sum up what you're
saying ultimately at the end of the day is that if you wanted to be somebody, kind of like John
Dominic Crossen when he was debating a Muslim and explaining to the Muslim if Muhammad existed in
the first century, and he was not a son of God or was not proclaiming a son of God, we probably
wouldn't even know who this guy was. Nobody would have wrote about him. He'd have been a nobody
little laughable, whatever. And if he was mentioned, he was mentioned in mockery, never in fame. So
it's because that he, you know, seventh century Arabia, Christian domination debates within was
God, did God die on the cross kind of debates of theology that even allows Muhammad to even come
up with his ideas that you see within the Quran that are even able to take off. But you're suggesting
like, if they weren't doing what the propaganda was in the Greek and Roman world, you can just say
goodbye to Jesus ever have taken off. Right. And that's a fact. That is a fact of history. I think
that what basically in that world, when someone was great, you had to frame their life in that
fashion that it was think of like a decorative frame in the Elizabethan era or something where
you'd have a famous paint, a famous figure who's painted, they would take all day and paint them
and everything and they would be in their best dress and everything. Imagine that on the wall.
Now you've got this thick or neat, beautifully meticulously carved frame that goes around in
that painting that is itself its own work of art. Think of that this way. And so birth narratives,
divine birth narratives and translation at the end of their career to become a demigod or to be
installed in this hall of fame. That was the protocol for elevating the individual. This is
a person of extreme significance. Now that's scandalous for a Palestinian peasant to be also
installed ethnically different, not central, definitely on the margins in the backwater
galley. That's the offensiveness of this. So this was supposed to be reserved for the greatest
and most iconic figures in classical antiquity. And now you have this group coming forward with
their hero and saying, no, screw you guys. We've got our own guy. And so that's really the offensiveness
of it. And that's where you see the edge in the earliest Christian texts. And that's where people
are fussing. That's where the discussions are going on. And that's where people are getting killed.
It really forces me to want to ask you, what do you think happened that made this peasant from
the backwaters of galley even popular? This is the famous thing I used to hear when I was with
Richard Carrey and Robert Price was like, well, if this guy did exist, I mean, he would have been
a nobody. And then if he was a nobody, who would have ever made him this somebody, right? So
mythists had this leg up argument where they're like, there'd be no reason if he was just this
nobody. And part of me wonders, I mean, why deify this guy at all? And who was clever enough to
have come up with that, you know? Well, so it's the philosophy. It's the way. So the early Christians
called this is the way, right? You find this an axon and a few other early Christian texts.
This is their philosophy that they're bringing forward. This is their, their cultists, their,
their system of thought, their strategy, their religious devotion, their piety,
all of that's at stake for this. And so basically the frame then, and this is where theologians
get it backwards, not that I like to speak much to theology, but the frame is what gets gets
emphasized in creeds and so forth, that frame that goes around Jesus. But the teachings themselves,
you know, that's if people may variously take that seriously, but they take deathly seriously,
whether Jesus rose from the dead, whether there was a virgin birth, whereas the ancients would
not have sought that way. They would have seen that frame as exalting the philosophy, the founding
figure, the icon that's being elevated there. That's what they, that's what they were trying
to get to. And so it's the content in the gospels, not the bookends to it, that is being exalted
by this. And so this is a stylistic literary pattern, generic pattern that exists in many,
many, many texts, and I outline hundreds of them here. And so basically the philosophy being
proffered by the early Christians, that's what's being elevated. And this was how they did that.
This is how they did that in the ancient world, to exalt a figure they needed to be embellished
with these framing contours. Dennis McDonald debated Mike Lacona not too long ago, about a
year ago. And he said in that debate, he says, it's the 80 chapters of Jesus' sayings and teachings
and moral lessons and parables that provoke the five chapters about that frame of what you're
describing, apotheosis, birth narrative, death, resurrection, whatever. It's the 80 chapters
that people, he says Christians should be focused on the 80 chapters. They make the five
everything and not the 80. And the 80 is where it's at. So it now makes sense hearing you say that,
how what you're suggesting makes a lot of sense in line with what Dennis McDonald was saying.
That's right. That's right. Yeah, I think that, and if anything there, I mean, if there is something
to be had from this in terms of just humanistic, the human plight generally, if we were to just
kind of divorce it from the religious kind of constructs and sacredness of everything,
if we can extract anything from Jesus in terms of value today, it would be there. It would be
looking at his love your enemies and these core kind of valuable philosophical ideas and ideals
that he's proposing there. And those are, that's the treasure. So yeah. Thank you. I hope you liked
my dead Richard Miller in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe and never forget we are Ms. Vision.
