Join our Patreon.
Do you only want a number one?
We are Misfitians.
Welcome back ladies and gentlemen.
It's your host Derek Lambert as usual.
I have a special guest today.
We're going to get into some very interesting things.
And one of those things is anti-Judaism in the book of acts.
We might rabbit trail into some very interesting stuff from there.
But I want to introduce Dr. Jennifer Byrd.
Welcome to MythVision podcast.
Thanks for having me Derek.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you.
And you are a PhD in the field.
Let me go ahead and give them some of your credentials.
A little bio.
I thought the bio was very sweet to the point.
It's a little bit beefy, but here we go.
Dr. Jennifer Byrd relocated to the Portland, Oregon area in 2013.
After her six year stint as an associate professor of religion at Greensboro College in North Carolina.
I don't blame you.
She is currently an adjunct, adjunct, sorry,
at University of Portland and part time faculty member for Portland Community College.
And she teaches courses in person or online.
Go to the website.
It's in the description.
It's on the screen.
Make sure you guys go check her out for church groups and anyone interested in what she has to offer.
In terms of her scholarship, her dissertation was published as abuse, power and fearful obedience.
Reconsidering first Peter's command to wife's a look at the material and rhetorical effects of this passage.
Permission granted, which is her book, take the Bible into your own hands came out of teaching dozens of introductory courses to both testaments of the Christian Bible, inviting people to stop and wrestle with what is actually being said.
Interesting.
Instead of what most of us have been told that it says and she is working on her third book, Marriage in the Bible.
I do not think it means what you think it means.
I like that title.
This will be a deeper look at the basic content she offers in the video series, just out marriage in the Bible, a discussion among friends.
For people wanting to talk about marriage equality or whether or not is biblical to affirm same sex marriage, starting with what the Bible does and does not say is what she wants to walk you through first.
Her education.
She earned a bachelor's in mathematics with an education minor from Virginia Tech 1994 and MDiv from Princeton Theological Seminary in 2001 and a PhD in New Testament and early Christianity from Vanderbilt University 2007.
Teaching has always been a passion of hers, especially when it comes to communicating academically rigorous content, which I totally understand to a general audience.
This guy right here, getting to have a hand in people's aha moments is priceless.
And I have those aha moments with people like you all the time.
So thank you so much for joining me.
Thanks for reading that and for such a lovely way of reading that.
Well, it's passion because that's what we do.
We love what we're doing here.
And I guess let's jump off on what got you into this, I think.
Sure.
Wow.
Yeah, let's do that.
I did come from a Christian family.
Is that what you mean?
Like my whole, how did I get into what I'm doing?
Just a quick.
It's subjective.
It's subjective.
It's you and what makes you passionate about this?
So,
Honestly, to cut to the chase on that, you know, I do.
I come from a Christian family, Christian background, United Methodist, if you're interested.
And I think what really got me here is the kind of the thing that got me into higher ed.
In biblical studies was the issue of women and scriptures and what they say how people, you know, find ways to accommodate them.
I have some interesting stories.
And I'm from my dating someone in college that at one point I asked my mom to take me to go get essentially a new wardrobe, not full, but, you know, a few pieces, a significant piece of my wardrobe that were much baggier.
So I wouldn't cause my boyfriend to stumble.
You know, those kinds of things.
Yes.
I imagine you are familiar with.
Well, I stumble all the time.
I mean, I'm just kidding.
No, but, you know, I know.
Yeah.
And one of the things that shows up actually in the introduction of my book is this moment when my mother was being ordained, right?
Big day for a person.
Huge day in her life, right?
And she and I have a five hour drive home together and I, in my very conservative, you know, evangelical state, turned to my mother and said very earnestly and honestly, I don't understand how you can get ordained because it's against God's will for women to be ordained.
Yeah.
Wow. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. And I was basing that, you know, on 1st Timothy two, right? I do not commit a woman to teacher. Yeah.
So those kinds of moments and yet I had these really important strong women in my life as my role models, my family members.
And so those, those kinds of things really came to head at went right after college when I was doing volunteer. I was a staff member with Young Life, an evangelical organization and had this
kind of surreal moment of someone showing me the Martha and Mary passage through a new lens. And I had this like, if you can read this really important passage that Jesus spoke, you know, supposedly, right?
You can interpret that differently in a way that frees me up as compared to, you know, like something that different. It was a major shift.
What else is there? Like, what else am I missing? You know, so that was kind of got the ball rolling and I ended up a few years later at seminary and, you know, the more you dive into these things, as you well know, right?
Yes.
As you're a student of these things yourself, right? The more you learn, the more it's like, oh my gosh, first of all, I wish more people knew this, right? I wish more people had access to this information in a way that wasn't threatening, right?
Because I had people pull me aside before I went to seminary and begged me not to go. They were afraid I was going to think my way out of my faith, right?
Yeah, that's typical. And that's why a lot of people, they are afraid of apologetics even too. It's like, you know, you start getting into some treacherous grounds when you have a fundamentalist approach to your apologetics.
You're going to run into a brick wall. I mean, at some point, something has to happen. So I'm with you. Yeah. So the women issue is a huge one. I mean, obviously, I see Facebook posts by Christians.
Mind you, it was like six, seven years ago. Not, I haven't come out and just went on my personal profile like, hey guys, this is what I think now.
I lose a lot of friends that way, which I could care, couldn't care less, but, you know, because I don't really socialize with them anyway, but they post things and I see them and it's always like a picture of a this teaching woman and like it's, it's not like it's not a positive post with that makes sense.
They're not saying go, you know, way to go. Yeah. Yeah, it's saying shut up woman is pretty much what they're trying to say like you have no authority. Who are you, you know, right? Yeah. So I, I get you, I get you. Yeah, yeah. Oh, I'm sure you do. Yeah.
Yes, ma'am. So that was, yeah, those moments of, yeah, the aha moments for me were pretty significant and I know how much it was difficult, right, to kind of sort through some of it.
But worth it. You know, yes ma'am. So let me ask you this about about this, your book that you published.
Yeah.
Is this in the vein of particularly dealing with the women issue and
No, it's actually, I mean, there are a couple chapters. It's very clear. Obviously, you can't.
Yes.
And then it's not so a lot of people, a lot of students, for instance, you know, who take my intro classes are like, I didn't sign up for a feminist class. I signed up for intro.
I'm like, well, you know, we could talk about that. Why is it that you assume just because I'm bringing up a woman's perspective to every single passage? Why does that strike you as feminism?
Whereas it's only because you've only been given the male perspective on every single passage your whole life. So I'm not doing a feminist. I'm just doing an intro.
So every single topic that I do address in permission granted, I am addressing from my particular perspective, which raises questions that tend to involve the other and females and, you know, and so and slaves and things like that.
But it's, it's more of a general, like they're, excuse me, you know, 12, 12 chapters seemed appropriate.
Yeah. Yeah. And then just some of the biggest, it's essentially the, like, what are the most interesting conversations to have with students about what's actually going on in the story.
And, and like, and the most transformative then, you know, so like, the fact that there are two creation stories and like, really sitting with that, like really kind of, you know, a different take, a dramatically different take on Genesis three, for instance, and, you know, talking about the fact that there's
And talking about the fact that it's not just the Hebrew Bible, but it's also in the New Testament. Yes. You know, all of these pieces that are like, Oh, one of my favorite is the cover ups and edited stories.
So, you know, like, what's the story of Samson that every child who goes to Sunday school is taught, right? Why do we find, why do we feel like we need to teach children about Samson when he's, you know what I mean, like he has anger issues.
He's probably bipolar and that's, I'm not judging that, but like he probably is the way he's described, right? He's like freak of nature, Lord, like massively strong and he's awful in relationships. How many different women does he, right?
Paint tonight, calls a cow, you know, like it's only because the women nag him that he gets in, like, these are not good examples for children.
Right, right.
You're like, we need to teach him because Samson's in there and like, what's the take of, I mean, that is, that is one of the most shocking stories, I think, for people who grew up in a church kind of more passively engaged to actually read and realize he has like it's a terrorist suicide event.
And then Delilah, like you start getting into these interesting what's going on here. Yeah, there's so much. I also think there's an astro or a celestial aspect to the Samson narrative where his seven locked hair, he's the sun figure.
There's that that probably is playing behind. You got to kind of read behind the lines to see where his hair gets cut off. The seven locks is the seven days of the week. The light is being cut off. They gouge his eyes out for the reason of winter solstice possibly he's going down and sunlight is dimming.
There's an interesting perspective to consider that not saying that that's the story itself, but behind the narrative, it may have a heavenly body picture, in my opinion.
And so there's the human aspect, which they, in my opinion, they anthropomorphize their science of the world, if you will, and the cosmos went into their own relevant situation, if you will.
So I think that Samson might be a sun figure. His name means the little sun or something like the sun, I think, is the name of Samson.
Maybe in a different, yeah, I'm not sure which language. I'm not familiar. Yeah. Yeah.
How much is sun, but anyway.
Yeah, I don't know that it's, it's not, it means the sun. It means a little sun or something like that. So I don't know, you know.
I'm just, yeah, I'm not familiar. Yeah.
But yeah, so I guess if you don't mind, we can go to Acts.
We can do whatever you want. I'm here to chat with you, Derek.
Awesome.
I'm happy to have this conversation.
Well, I'm happy to have you here because when you said anti-Judaism, I thought to myself, well, I definitely see that happen in the early church.
Like we can't deny it. And is that just a later thing?
Or are you guys blaming the early church when they're actually looking at texts that are also saying things that give off the impression that we're moving out of Judaism and Israel as a nation to something of another nation, so to speak.
Absolutely. Absolutely. I think you would love Denise Kimberbuehl's book, Why This New Nation, Why This New People.
Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Short answer.
If we are only winning the early church, we're missing most of the picture, which is not just the book of Acts. It's not just that in Hebrews.
Matthew.
Yes, exactly. We see it in the Second Gospel, like chronologically speaking. We see it heavily in John's Gospel.
You know, so when you see the later writings reflecting a subtle or less subtle move in that direction, it's definitely in the Gospel of Luke as well.
Like when you see that, you know, I see that as kind of what we were discussing before recording. Like these are just kind of the logical conclusions of what was started that perhaps Paul meant well when he brought Gentiles in through a different door than the Jews get in through the covenant.
Right? Jews get in by keeping the law. Gentiles get into the covenant this other way, and he probably meant well, but he didn't realize the flip side of that was going to be all the antagonism, you know, within that covenant space and the people, human part of it all, right?
Right.
The human's defense of themselves and their traditions versus, you know, I don't want to cut off the end of my kindness, you know, so all those things going on.
And so that starts this kind of infighting within Judaism, right? That we absolutely see played out in the Gospels and increasing, I think in increasing amounts that then leads into 1 Peter and Hebrews and Acts is shocking.
Like I haven't taught the Book of Acts in an intro in at least a decade. I can't go there. It's too much.
Really?
Yeah.
Okay, so I guess this is heavier material.
It is. Are you okay with that?
I am. I think for our audience's sake, there's some like me who are just going to know and know where you're going with this and like understand replacement theology concepts, like kind of getting that gist that something really is radically changing.
What is the, if you would like kind of give a brief synopsis of what is going on in the New Testament, because there are groups that want to try and make it the whole New Testament and you'd be shocked to find out, but I'm sure you know there are some groups that are fundamentalist type and they say the whole New
Testament is super Jewish. It's all Jewish to the core and like, really? And then there are others who go so far, they throw out everything that even seems Jewish and they say no, no, no, it's not at all.
But is there a progressive revelation? Let me not use that phrase because that's used in fundamental circles. A progressive evolution of a change even happening in the documents of the New Testament.
Yeah, I think so.
I mean, simple answer. I do think so.
What does that mean, I guess?
A little more complexly, right?
Yeah.
First of all, I do want to, I love the fact that you, you know, you made the comment about the whole New Testament is Jewish.
I like to call it the newer Testament instead. I find that a little more respectful of Judaism.
Okay.
To say, to acknowledge that when you call it Old Testament and New Testament, you are using a Christian label for them both.
I think all of the supercessionism, right, that this particular segment of Judaism became separate, became Christianity, but claimed that it trumps everything from original Judaism.
So for the general field of Judaism in the first century. So, so if I, I don't want to throw anyone by my language.
Absolutely. And I have a lot of Jewish friends who do watches and they're going to respect that about you already, I can tell you, but, and I tried a tiptoe, but then I get used to talking to other scholars who aren't Jewish.
I get used to just using Old Testament to be easy because it's what I was raised to think, but I think that everybody knows I don't mean it disrespectful, but yes, I agree.
Yeah. And when it's a deep, deeply rooted terminology for you, right, it's hard to shift.
Yes, ma'am.
Yeah.
Um, so what were we saying?
Yeah.
What's going on in it?
I do think, well briefly, I do think that all of the newer Testament should be seen as Jewish material.
Yes.
I don't know that I am necessarily going to stand on those things. It's all, you know, what I mean by that is everyone, all of the writings are written as if the person is standing within the tradition of Judaism.
Right.
Right. And I think that that feels a little different to me than to say it's all Jewish.
Because it's being written at a time when there is a fight within Judaism about what true Judaism looks like.
And we, that's why there's a group called Pharisees that sprung up 200 BCE or so, you know, wanting more purity, wanting more connection to the Torah and keeping to the rules.
We have, there's, there are divisions within Judaism about what it really, truly should be or look like, which isn't unique to anyone, right? That's, that's what happens with traditions, right? What's the truth?
Right.
Right.
So that when we get to these writings that become labeled Christian, they are still wrestling within a Jewish framework, I think. And I think that's really shocking to a lot of people.
Right.
One of my little YouTube clips is, you know, the whole New Testament, you know, all New Testament writings are Jewish. And so, yeah, it's something to think about. It might shift the way you frame, you know, the way you come at the writings, right?
Scriptures, if you think about it that way. I mean, for some people just saying that Jesus is Jewish is shocking. So, you know, people are all on a whole spectrum here, I get that, right?
Right.
So like a brief overview then of the New Testament writings on this. Is that what you're asking?
Yeah, because, because you bring up an interesting point here. There's division and most the critical scholars that I look at like, such as yourself, Christine Hayes, Dr. Christine Hayes, Dr. Paula Fredrickson, you know, newer perspectives on Paul type stuff.
They want to place Paul in a more Jewish framework, respectively. Okay.
This is important.
I do have my little questions I have. I just want to put this out there for my audience to see where my brain is when I'm thinking this.
I'm very, I don't know what to do with it, but it seems very strange that at the core and whether this is just Pauline theology that somehow overrides the Jewishness situation of these guys is that you have a man dying for your sense.
Now, what that means is there, is there Christology that starts to, that kinds of gets imported or something that, that overrides because I don't know if a truly non, let me put it like this is Hellenistic to the core is the best thing I could say.
Yeah, because a guy dying for your sense is an abomination that God would take a sacrifice of a human.
You know, right.
So I wonder what's going on there, but anyway, I respect your work their work and I'm saying, okay, what's going on because I have another friend James Stevens valiant he wrote a book called creating Christ he thinks that there's more Roman influence.
But regardless, he suggests that there's an evolution from what seems to be very Jewish only.
But Matthew, I only came for the last sheep of the house of Israel to let's bring these Gentiles in, and the movement in right before your eyes and the newer Testament documents evolves.
And next thing you know, it's like, you don't have to be a Jew, really, anymore.
It's like, Whoa, what's going on now. There's advantages to it.
But you don't have to be it and then of course the church goes all the way and says, you crucified our Lord and now you anti Semitism.
What's going on in terms of the book of acts that's changing from Judaism that you're that you're talking about here.
Your audio your audio is off a little I don't know what's going on.
Is it there you go you're back you're back.
I'm not sure what's yeah.
I'm sorry.
But yes, interesting stuff. I love what you would the way you phrased it.
Well, you did you touched on so many like juicy topics in that little summary and what you're the way you're looking at it.
And so, gosh, can I back up before going into whatever you just because I think it's really I think it's I mean, honestly, I respect it a great deal.
First of all, that's what you're seeing and you're reading other people and considering their thoughts.
But I think it's a very important thing to consider that because Paul was talking to Gentiles.
The way he took the execution of a Jewish man and the belief in the resurrection of that man right the way he took that event and interpreted it was for Gentiles.
So of course, but it right of course, it's Greek and Roman in right those are the frameworks that he draws upon.
I mean, if you look at the goddess Isis, if you look at, you know, all these different Dionysus if you look at I'm drawing a blank on one of the really important ones right now Mithras.
Right. If you look at all of though that language.
That's what Paul is drawing on in his letters when he's talking to people about making sense of this thing.
It's, you know, if you go down and there's a couple different ways to look at it right there.
I have to come back later I couldn't recommend a couple books actually that just address this specifically feel free.
And we think we know we think that Paul spent a couple years in Ephesus at least hard to know, historically speaking how true acts is on that but if we can trust it generally.
And if you go look at the context of Ephesus in the first century. Right. There are six cities on that spot, or six ethicists is that kind of moved around a little bit with the, with the changing the tide, but, or the changing the coast, but if you look at
when Paul was around, I mean, they've done a lot of archaeology on it. It's really exciting to go see.
But the primary goddess of the city is Artemis right a female. The second most important God in the city is the goddess Isis.
She has a temple in the in the bulletarian in the political part of the town, a temple to I to a goddess female. Hello.
Right. I mean, and so these gods and goddesses are important and their follow their followers are that language is being used to talk about the death, the resurrection what the community looks like the things are committed to.
Absolutely. You could also look at it through the through the concept of the models of salvation that Paul employees in his letters, which is, which is, I think, quite fruitful.
But it's also really hard, I think, for Christians to, or for people who are familiar with this concept that Jesus died for our sins.
To see that in any way besides whatever nebulous that thing is that they believe when they say that, because you can't get someone to pin down with that actually means by the way Jesus died for my sins.
What is that? What equation is that fulfilling, you know, right.
But if you look at those models of salvation, all but one are Greek or Roman, they're not Jewish.
So spot on on that.
So that's an import. That's a Hellenistic import that I think is interesting, because I thought to myself, the pillars, right, Peter, James, the Petrine, this, you know, there's no way I just couldn't wrap my head around.
There's no way these guys, unless there's such a French group that I'm not aware of that somehow found their way out there and it's possible.
I'm not going to say it's not. But to me, I just couldn't wrap my head around them believing in this human sacrifice for their sins.
It would have been naturally an abomination for any Torah observant Jew, which even today it is. And so I'm with you 100%.
100%. That makes perfect sense. The import of Pauline theology, or at least let's just say even if it wasn't Pauline, let's say he isn't the original, which, which let's just say the evidence we have, he may be.
But there were previous churches that exist. I, my question would be, do you think this is, we get nitty gritty here.
Why is Paul going to synagogues? Okay, if you talk to me here, you already know what's going on.
It's great. It's great question. One thing, there's a book.
Oh, shoot. Again, I'll come back with it, but it was John Dominic Cross and collaborated and I'm sorry I don't have their, these names on my tongue right now.
In search of Paul, and it's a very long subtitle. And their, their premise is that Paul in his own letters make does makes no reference to talking with Jews, right. He goes straight in and he makes this new thing.
Right. He's talking to Gentiles. It's all about the Gentiles bringing them into the government. And the book of Acts suggests that he always goes straight to the synagogue and talks to Jews.
And it's not until he fights with them and they throw him out that he then goes to the Gentiles. This book, the John Dominic Cross and whoever. Sorry dude.
Suggest that. When he goes to the synagogues, he's actually only interacting with the God viewers. Are you familiar with that label?
Yes, yes.
I don't know if all of your listeners are. God fears would be Gentiles who want to be a part of the synagogue. And so they, you know, they're patrons, they support it financially, they're part of the community, but they would be, you know, considered part, but there's a distinction since they aren't Jewish, right.
Right.
So their argument is that Paul always went to talk to those folks to try to win them back over into this Gentile space that is now also a part of the government. I think there's an interesting thing there to consider.
My take is, I think I'm very suspect of the book of Acts period.
And that is because if you start to look at even just those first few chapters, you've got people saying things right out of the gate after Jesus's execution and a resurrection right that event right out of the gate.
They're saying things that it took close to 90 years to develop.
Sorry, you don't get to do that, but you do when you're writing in the year 120 or so, and you're looking back and writing this retrospective history, which is different than history.
So, from the, you know, from the get go, there's like, like a collapse of time or something, right. And so Peter is saying things that there is no way he would be saying Paul is doing things and saying things that he never talks about.
In his own letters, in places where it would be really helpful to know if it had been true.
It's fair to say that they're making Paul look a lot like Peter and Peter look a lot like Paul.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
They're making him more almost like they're balancing them out on purpose because they were total polar opposites in reality.
Or that they at least fought with each other.
Right. Paul, and I actually don't even think of them as polar opposites so much as having our, but that's just me right having a power fight.
This is a power struggle between the two of them.
And because Paula starts his correctness, his authority over and over and over and over, you know, he does protest too much right.
That's my take. But yes, I think you're absolutely right in that there's a there's this weird flipping of roles. And for me, I don't need, I don't need Paul to be anything in particular.
But I'm really offended on Paul's behalf, because he's taken in and shown to be a part of that original group of disciples and apostles.
No, no, no, no, no. That's not, I mean, according to Paul, he had nothing. Thank you very much to do with them.
Yeah, yeah, you as a woman, I have to say this for our audience. This is so important guys.
You know, that that song, this is a man's world. Okay, look, if it weren't for women, all right, the things you guys girls catch in these texts that we men go right past and don't realize there's emotion in these in these letters that we don't pick.
Yeah, he said shut up. Okay, no, you're like, he said shut up. And it's like, what's that mean and you're like, let me tell you and like, so I'm glad that you brought that up because that I've been trying to point out how much animosity really goes on in Paul's letters.
You got to have a eye for it though and you ladies do.
That's interesting.
Well, I've also heard from other scholars, they said that the females scholars thankfully we have them starting to rise on the scene. They can even do it in the Gospels and I'm like, Well, how did I do that.
No, you can tell the women can tell that one gospel writer knows about the other one and he he's purposely doing something different.
Yes.
Yeah.
Paul is no my actually after this marriage in the Bible book my next book which is one I've been working on for almost 20 years now.
Just because I can't finally sit down and write it but is for reading Paul read this.
Right.
Because I want if you're going to read the letters of Paul I want you to consider, you know, this list of things so that you'll essentially what you just said so that you have a heads up when Paul says XYZ.
I actually have a framework to say, Oh, wait a minute.
Really, do I need to trust that just because he said it.
And that's that anyway we're getting up on all these fun changes. I mean, the way that Paul has authority and power and that scholars and pastors need to agree with Paul in order to have power and authority is just really fascinating to me.
And I just want to come in and say, Well, what if he doesn't have so much power and authority to begin with.
What if he's wrong at points. What if his best effort to fix a problem works temporarily, but 2000 years later we need to let it go.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I mean he's coming from a framework that might be just, you know, it's a human we we've got a lot. I tell this to people all the time you know if you're going to cherry pick cherry pick but that's okay I'd rather you be a cherry picker than try to really follow this thing to the
because God forbid we're stoning children again, you know, like I'm just joking around with that but you know.
Yes.
So anti Judaism in acts.
I think.
Yes, ma'am.
Okay, I mean, so kind of what are the highlights here.
There are a couple things that people if you just wanted to go you could kind of take this and go just kind of read through some of the, some of the passages for yourself but go to the speeches.
Before we go before I say anymore I do want to just for your, you know, for the folks watching this listening to this whatever that for your sake I think it's really it's a really hard thing to consider.
When this is really sacred writings, these are sacred scriptures for you, these are inspired by God, and I do not, you know, I never want to dismiss a person's belief in that right.
I want to respect that actually and invite you into maybe a more complex thinking about it. And so I hope my cats, by the way, are not too distracting.
I don't know.
But that but when but many of us are taught to think of what said in any of scripture but in particular the book of acts as actual like documentation of what happens right.
And, and it makes sense because that's how they read, they read like a narrative of someone who was there with witnessing it and get it.
But when we understand and we look at like the way histories, a Historia would be written, they were more interested in telling the story as it should have happened.
Then in telling, then in doing any kind of research to find out what actually did because I mean obviously think about it they didn't have data banks the way we do you know they didn't have those kinds of resources word of mouth is trustworthy until it isn't right.
So his stories like, and you can look at secular versions to kind of verify. Oh, right, right, right, you know.
Thucydides tells the story of the Peloponnesian war. He's not in the middle of any of those arguments those fates or cheer cheerleading sections pepper allies or, you know, pep talks or in the battlefield but he's got all these long speeches.
He admits he makes that stuff up right what's relevant what would have been said so when we look at the speeches and acts.
They are pretty long. First of all, yeah, nobody gets up and make that kind of a speech. You know, in the middle about to stone somebody or whatever right.
So go read the speeches and pay attention to what's being said they start out identifying with whichever group of Jewish men they're talking to they call them Israelites they call them brothers they talk about our ancestors.
They call us these things and then right when they're about to stick, you know, whatever. It's your ancestors, your people, the shift, and you killed Jesus, the Christ, and when you reference that about the Christ killers.
It is said in the book of acts at least a dozen times.
Stephen, Peter and Paul all all accuse very sort of Lee Jewish man of killing Jesus.
So, that isn't historically speaking, it's not the Jews that did it's very complex political right.
So that's one thing just pay attention to the language of the speeches which make up a pretty significant component and also kind of create the framework of the background for most people right they take those as actual fact.
And they, you know, Stephen actually said I'm just dying breath, you know, just like Jesus did in Luke in his dying breath father forgive them and you know what they do and Stephen says basically the same thing like really
Show me somebody who's dying of suffocation on the cross.
Wow. Yeah, like he has all this energy to say these things anyway.
That's interesting. I like how you said that they painted how they think it should have gone.
That's one way of saying, as some scholars do not all agree that they're painting over purposefully what they wish would have taken place but also laying out like look we can't have animosity, you know, down the road.
So, we got to make sure that everyone knows that we're all one mind, one spirit.
That's really powerful there. Honestly, I mean, the kind of the passing the baton right Jesus to Peter, Peter the rock upon which I'm going to build this thing right.
Peter's the one standing up and making these really grandiose speeches and and he's powerful and people believe just from his speeches and then, you know, and then the stoning and then, you know, right after Pentecost and then you have the stoning of Stephen and these people and so there's this passing the baton and
Yes, Paul is kind of baptized into this perspective, this group. And yes it does pass on to him for the rest of the second half of the book. Yeah, we're more than half but
So the anti Judaism. Is there any jabs in particular in acts that take us away from Judaism, if you will, trying to.
Okay. Um, so saying that Jews are the ones who killed Jesus, who is the leader or the one worshipped in this segment of Judaism.
You know, it's such a great and size of question because even within the book of acts, we don't yet have a clear embracing of a different label called Christian.
And the label comes up twice and there's it's like an offhanded reference to. Oh yeah and that's the, that's the community was that was first called Christians, you know, and then there, I can't remember the other references so that it isn't that we're trying to define
Christians is that we're trying to define this segment as correct the true tradition, but but all every single time like there's this.
We are us and now it's us and them are sorry sorry start that we all of us together and then it goes to us and you.
There's always this, the label of Jews, you die away is used in that sense to try to claim that Jews are different from us believer Jewish types over here or something you know so it's
that's where that book that I referenced Denise Denise Kimberby's book why this new people, why this new race.
Anyway, so getting away from Judaism specifically there I mean there are lots of the part of the problem is it's a lot of building blocks it's a lot of saying that the Jews don't understand their own scriptures, but saying it many times.
I mean, if you think back to your more fundamentalist thinking.
I don't know if that was a thing that you maybe thought and believe that Jews just really didn't understand their scripture they weren't reading it right.
I couldn't wrap my head around how they couldn't see as a Christian, how they couldn't see that this was Jesus right I mean because you can see the way that you're taught to view it.
That's in the Old Testament the way, but but then again now I'm looking at it as you know the way I think now and I'm going well you know if you gave me a book I could probably write a heck of a story utilizing things that are in a book.
Incorporating concepts versus etc into a book possibly.
I'm not trying to take away the magic of it I just think I couldn't understand why you couldn't accept this.
You know, yeah, and what's interesting I think about that is.
They are cherry picking right they are also when they're writing the book back when they're writing the Gospels.
Matthew who quotes it how many times and at least 28 direct you know this happened in order to fill what was spoken you know that he's pulling those out of context right so there's also and there's also a tradition to do that right the way that you
know the way that I used to be really good at this.
I knew like a million was so much of scripture that when you talked about a tent here I would connect it to five other passages that referenced tense and they must all have meaning together.
Yes, that sound familiar.
Yes, absolutely.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's what that's what some of the Jews were doing in the first century BCE CE like they were doing that and so.
And it's not like someone was coming on and saying stop courting in a context that's disrespectful. Nobody was saying that was wrong.
It was one of the ways you did things and so so that when we read Matthew saying this happened to add meaning to what happened back here.
We're we're thinking of it more as that was predicting this moment so we're taught to misunderstand the prophets themselves and then that leads to all these other ways that now we have this shift to see everything is talking about Jesus.
Yes, instead of reading them themselves for what they're addressing at that point in time.
They there's a saying Christians have the Old Testament is the New Testament. This is how they say Old Testament is the New Testament concealed.
The New Testament is the Old Testament revealed and you know I used to think the magic was in there but you know the interpretive weight is looking at it through the New Testament which then I could see why Jews who are looking at
their book and saying no, no, no, no, nice try.
Well, not with my interpretive method, you know, so I'm going with the end game and the end game is what I think is true telling you of the beginning.
And they're going dude, you don't understand.
Yeah, that's not what we believe that's not what it taught and I had Rabbi Tobias Singer he's an Orthodox Jew come on my channel a couple times already.
He points out some interesting funnies if you will that Paul does.
And this quotes, well, he didn't miss, he misquoted some stuff too, but he says he purposely uses text for only his own means.
So like 1 Corinthians 9 he talks about how there's a law that says don't muzzle an ox.
And he says but does God really care about ox and no, he's talking about us.
And it was like, I thought ancient Israel was worried about their ox.
And you know, like, I just don't even know what to do with it.
You know what I mean?
I love that.
I was like, you know what any of the others are.
But that's, I mean, yeah, he goes to Hebrews.
I'll find out from him.
Oh, Hebrews is full of it because it's so it quotes so many times from the Hebrew Bible scriptures.
And it's say, and then it twists it and oh, it gets me either angry or you know, cracks me up.
It depends on the mood.
I mean, you know, the space I'm in, whether I'm angry about it or just like, can you believe, but I take delight in finding out.
Because it takes away the abracadabra that I used to have about it where I see that these are humans that they're doing it for their means.
I used to think all of it was magic, you know, and when I use magic, I mean, it was super natural in that sense.
That God was ordaining and kind of orchestrating all of this even back then.
Yes.
Like talking about in the creation story when God in chapter one says now let us and that Christians many times think that's the Trinity, right?
Yeah.
I'm familiar.
I have a really hard time getting some people to consider that maybe that's not the case and maybe that's actually disrespectful.
I read an idea that's 2000 years later back into, but you're right.
It's magic.
It's God's hand at work is how I used to make sense of that.
I absolutely love you.
You are seriously like I really want to do more shows with you and we can go into all sorts of topics.
You would entertain with acts and Matthew question on Matthew because you heard me at the beginning say replacement theology.
Yeah.
I would listen to a scholar.
I can't remember his name.
We're not in the memory game very well.
I know there's a man who says something like this.
Hold on.
What is it?
There Bible versus says I know Paul.
I once knew a man who went to the third heaven.
So I once knew a man who gave a lecture on this.
It wasn't me though.
This is this is some other guy.
He was talking about Matthew and how it takes these little jabs like these little obvious.
You got to know what you're looking at replacement theology things like there will be people from the east and the west that will come sit at the table with Abraham.
And it won't be the sons of Abraham.
It won't be like the descendants of Abraham so to speak.
There are going to be people who are coming in like Jesus kind of pokes at and one person after the lecture.
I found the lecture to be fascinating.
He said there's so much more.
I can't go into that in Matthew that you need to read this book that both they always have books.
And the guy said, well, you know, you only gave a few examples, but you could understand that like this.
He goes, that would be the case if I didn't have over and over and over examples in Matthew.
To me that gives a dating on a text as well because there'd be no way pre temples destruction in my opinion, where the economy in the situation, the environment that you would have a replacement theology when the Romans had not conquered the Jews.
Why would you say you're giving this to a new people.
So it plays a part in the tent in the war of 70 and would you like to comment on that.
Well, I, I do think that not specific.
Well, I was first of I was trying to track with you because I hadn't heard the specific label replacement theology but now I think I understand what you're referring to.
You know, yes, the, what you refer to in terms of the ideas.
I can't really add anything I'm just tracking and I agree with what you said. Yeah, I mean you and me will be on the same page is probably an earlier form of Matthew I'm just saying like down the road there were editors probably they added in some some redactions or interpolated maybe
possibly these concepts I don't know. Well, you know, I maybe kind of a different angle on what you're talking about.
I don't know I'm assuming but I you know that you think of you know mark having been written first, and then Matthew and then Luke and then john.
And that mark is sometime kind of immediately prior to or during that war with Rome right and that when you consider that it makes sense of the hurried nature, the hurried tone of the, I mean, how many times does they use the word immediately you through media like it's there
in a hurry to get to the store like where we're headed here. It's obviously the shortest. It's the least well, you know, massaged.
But it is, it is the heaviest in the apocalyptic element, meaning this could be that moment that God is going to visit us and get Rome off our f and backs.
Yep, and establish us as our own state. Finally, it's been 2000 freakin years and finally going to happen right it's now it's, let's get to run let's get to Jerusalem make this thing happen right the urgency of and you have that you have that passage and markets very intensely apocalyptic apocalyptic
element recedes with each gospel to the point where John is anti apocalyptic is not even our right.
So, I mean, in terms of that, you know, the temple destruction they speak of it differently and Matthew and Luke then in mark, right, it is spoken of differently, and you can have him predicting things that he couldn't predict, you know,
I wonder if I'm going to get you to cuss one time on the show. I'm trying not to. I would have.
Welcome to be.
Well, damn it. It's time to go ahead and start.
Um, no, I just think I don't know you. Yeah, I try.
You're cool. No, you're cool. I can already tell you're absolutely awesome. If I live near you, I would interview you in person and we'd have a definition, the whole nine.
But we got to do what we got to do right now. So, um, I'm so interested in more of what you're bringing here because let me ask you this. I'm sure you're aware of Dr. Christine Hayes and Dr. Paula Fredrickson.
I suspect.
Okay. Paula Fredrickson. Let's go with Dr. Fredrickson because they're similar in many ways. And I think that Dr. Dr Hayes relies on Fredrickson's work a little on the New Testament because she's the scholar in the, in the, in that kind of stuff.
What do you have? And do you have any, like things in common or do you guys pretty much, you pretty much agree with her or are there things different?
Because does she agree with you? Because it sounds like when I listen to her lectures and I haven't listened to enough and I haven't read her books that I have right now and audio audible. I got to read them.
I can't really comment, but it sounds like she, she's trying to make Paul be a really good Jew.
Who's trying to do the right thing. And I'm not saying he wasn't a Jew and they couldn't possibly be doing it.
I know some people would think he was a real Greek and not even a biological descent of Abraham because of this. I'm like, I don't know where they get that, but they just think he's too far for them to, for him to be a real Jew, practicing Jew.
And then acts, of course, paints this vivid gamma Leo, you know, like, come on, man.
Yeah, as I will come back to your specific question, but the scholar whose work I used for this six week course on the anti-Jews and acts.
Shelly Matthews, she has a couple books and that's one thing she talks about is there are five or six significant Greek things associated Greek or really important.
The gamma Leo thing about Paul.
Each of them separately maybe, but all of them together.
Yeah, yeah.
Here's one of my things about I, to be honest, haven't read a lot of Paula Fredrickson I've listened to several of her papers at conferences.
I think she's, I mean, she's a brilliant woman and she's an incredible scholar and I, when I've heard her papers presented my, my response to her is similar to my response to a lot of scholars and that is
there's a really important nugget in here that would explode things if you could say it more passionately.
There's a lot of like, there's a lot of work on emotion in making a change.
We are more emotional than we are rational, even though many of us, I'm assuming two of the two of us here like to think of ourselves as very rational, but we are emotional beings.
So, I, you know, I think I probably would agree with everything Paul has said and I would defer to her because she has, she's in an area of expertise that I just don't spend a lot of time in.
And I think, I think the idea of looking reading Paul through a Jewish lens, I think is very productive.
So I respect that panel Eisenbaum does something similar actually she talks about her, the book that I'm thinking of as Paul was not a Christian.
Yeah, there's a great subtitle to it. And she is a Jewish woman also doing New Testament studies at Islet.
Anyway, so, so that's, I can't get into specifics, unfortunately, about Fredrickson, but I do respect her very much and, you know, would consider that I have something to learn from her, not so you know what I'm saying.
So, right, I would take a critical lens, but I still am thinking she's, she's pointing out things because she's steeped in that worldview that I can learn from.
So, absolutely, bring up an interesting point about Paul.
If we're looking at Paul as a Jew through the Jewish lens. This is where it gets really the rubber hits the road for me. And this goes back to the to these nugget drops that we were talking about.
What the heck is a truly Jewish man trying to be faithful Jew, and she believes apocalyptic Jew, and I don't blame her I mean the whole Paul's obviously apocalyptic.
He's trying to fulfill God's promise or to make it happen almost like I'm going to play a little funny politics. We've had some pretty hardcore right wing fundamentalist presidents over time that have tried to make prophecy be fulfilled in the Middle East.
Anyway, you know what I'm saying. Paul seems to be doing that on behalf of the Jewish people trying to, it seems, fulfill or make the Gentiles receive the light somehow, but his message is what I have a problem with.
And how can a truly Jewish man in Paula Frederick and sense, have a man die for the children of Israel, it appears he he dies for Israel.
And then in some places it appears he's universal, like Paul in act 17, clearly from one man all the nations and it like from all men everywhere to repent and then you got Matthew that says only for the lawsuit for the House of Israel or he came to save his people from their sins.
It's a exclusive elect group. So you have a once again another rift in the New Testament of exclusivity, limited, very particulars and universal, broad, they can't even get their minds made up so I laid a lot on you there didn't I.
I love it because, you know, what I always try to do with students or because I don't know how much we can address in just this brief conversation but what I try to lay out for people is to the best of our understanding.
Let's let's posit this guy Jesus from Nazareth. Okay.
And he let's posit that what primarily what is spoken about him and the things he said are true to a guy at that point in time who's the Jew, who's fed up to here with not having the promises fulfilled.
Find the way a very recent change in the taxation system that is fleecing us even more. And so I'm pissed, and I'm, I'm drawing on Amos and I'm drawing on all these prophets who've gone to those in charge and said, Get your shit together, because the way you're treating us is breaking the covenant.
You see that, right? This is not true Judaism, the way you're behaving is not it. Get it together, or Rome's going to come in, you know, and blah, blah, blah. And so, if we read Jesus's story, the narrative that gets the thing that gets him killed is standing up for Israel.
Right. Standing up for that true, keeping the covenant, worshiping this God, we are taking care of each other. When we have someone fraudulent in power, we denounce them and get them out.
That can be seen as dying for Israel. He's right.
Right. Yes. Oh, yeah.
That is what gets him killed is well, Rome has moved in and forced the Jews to collect taxes on their behalf.
Right. Around the year six come in error, they literally make that change. I said, Well, hey, actually, we've noticed you all have this gathering once a year, and most Jews come to Jerusalem for that.
Right. Whatever gathering. So why don't you just collect taxes for us? Well, no wonder that's the time of year Passover, that all these rebels start, start things up.
Right.
Wow.
More Jews go to Jerusalem. That means more Roman guards, more Roman presence needs to be there to keep the peace. Right. So no wonder it's not like someone like Jesus who's drawing crowds.
Right. When he's out in the wilderness, when he's out in the rural parts, he goes to a town and I don't care if it's 50 or 5000. It doesn't matter. 50 is probably likely and they call it 5000 to make a point.
Right.
Right.
But, but they hear he comes and they're like, Oh yeah, he's the one. He's what he's saying. That's neat. He, he's speaking up for me because I'm being pleased by this system, this taxation system and I'm having to give it up my land and then I'm the only one around to work it.
And then they're trying to take their part to and how am I supposed to make those ends meet, you know, like, he's, you know, that guy going to Jerusalem in the middle of a whole, a high holy day, festive week on festival.
Of course he knows he's going to be killed by the end of the week. It's kind of the point is to get in there and say, stop your shenanigans. No wonder he goes to the temple the first morning of the week.
My father's house is supposed to be a house of prayer, you idiots.
You're making it a den of robbers and I love to point that out because people are stealing their charging too much like no, no, no.
Think about it. What is the den of robbers?
A den of robbers is where you collect your loot. It's where you make your plans. It's where you're safe as a robber.
This is your hideout and it's a holy place.
And it's the temple. Yeah.
And that standing up for that is a way of standing up for Israel.
So that's what gets him killed because the Jewish leaders in Rome are absolutely in cahoots.
And then you have Paul that takes that out of the political dynamic and he turns it into a divinity element.
And so we go from imitating Jesus's righteous anger to worship being a God.
How else do you get someone who's crucified by the who's executed by the Romans?
Who is now someone that the Romans can worship.
You do it by removing it from the economic and political sphere and turning it into this other thing, this spiritual reality or something like that.
Right.
So Paul and all of his best intentions, right?
Oh, he shifts the game, right? I mean, it's all kinds of...
So that, yeah, now we've got, now we've got, is he dying for us? What does that mean?
He's dying for our sins. Well, the sins would be the people that are corrupt.
Not every single thing you've ever done. That's how Jesus does.
Someone who dies for your sins is sin can't handle the love. So sin has to squelch it out, right?
Doesn't it say somewhere about like, better for one man to die for the nation than the whole nation to be destroyed or something like that?
One of the high priest enemies, if you will, well, he seemed to be prophesying or something.
So, but yeah, that does make sense that they took what could have just simply have been a rebel-like figure, Jesus, not saying he was like a hardcore absolute.
He could have been stoic in nature too, but I don't know. There's so many Jesuses out there.
There are so many. And really, it tells you more about the person interpreting him.
Exactly. I think if we're going to be fair, no matter what, I'm more convinced that if there was a guy, just my opinion, he was a hardcore badass who was fighting for his people.
And they flipped him. Yeah, they flipped him and softened up the edges, if you will.
It may not have gotten all of it out, but there's hints there in some of the Gospels that seem to let you know. Absolutely.
Yeah, I'm with you on that. And so then to the other part of the question, I'm sorry, I kind of eat there.
But then how do we then reconcile that event with what's being said in the Gospels or later?
And that's where it becomes this mental gymnastics, right? Paul is the one who gets to tell the story first.
You've got the event in 30-ish common era. Paul comes along and is writing letters and is going out to the Gentiles for the next 20 years, 25, actually, 30, whatever.
He's interpreting this event through this lens of bringing in the Gentiles, which is entirely separate from Jesus being angry with his leaders for breaking covenant, right?
Right.
Paul is read telling the story, and that's what Mark and the subsequent Gospels have to contend with.
They have to make sense of the righteous anger of a good Jew that's now been turned into an object of worship.
Like, how do you tell that story?
Wow.
Right?
Yeah.
And that's why you end up getting such, I think, obviously, just my opinion here.
That's why you get such varied perspectives and spins on what it is he died for or how you make sense of what he died for.
Wow.
And who's your audience?
For Matthew's Gospel, who's your audience?
Most likely other Jews who aren't on board yet with Jesus being the Messiah.
So, of course, you're going to be targeting them and saying, yeah, came for you idiots. Wake up.
You only, yeah.
Or even focused on you. Don't even go to the Gentiles.
Don't go to the Maritans.
Just not even a part.
Yep.
This is interesting. I love what you just said.
And the way that I see it is, is, you know, we've got a you only figure that becomes bigger.
Paul's never even met Jesus in real life.
So what I wish we had authentic writings that we know for a fact, Peter or James actually wrote that we would know.
Because in what, and even if James wrote James and let's say interpreters or interpolators added some of the, my Lord Jesus Christ, that kind of stuff.
You know, because it does have a very Jewish hinge to it.
Oh, absolutely.
Salvation, you know.
Yeah, it's our actions, right?
Yeah.
Take care of each other. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Interesting.
I know.
I, you know, I have Jewish family through family member who converted and married in and, you know, I've said to them, you know, I think, I think you all have the right to be really pissed at Paul.
It happened the way that it did though. I am with you that I don't think he meant for this to happen.
Yeah.
Oh, he comes again.
That's okay.
I don't think he meant, I'd like to, I'd like to give people the benefit of the doubt that they had good intentions, right?
I say that even about first Peter, which is absolutely awful on the elements of this is Minerva, by the way.
Hey.
Hello cat, but they're sorry.
Yeah, I think that I think that they're doing the best they could in the moments or whatever, right?
I mean, I think it's really fun. Look at, look at the conversion, I think should be put an air quotes of Paul. I think of, I think of it more as an epiphany and not a conversion moment.
Because if you look at what Paul says in Galatians chapter one about his change of heart, it's, it's an epiphany. You know, God was pleased to reveal his son in me.
The Greek is in me. Every English translation says to me because of that story on the road to Damascus.
That, that to me, this is, I have to poke because you bring, make, make deeper questions become.
This sounds like an imported concept that wasn't Jewish necessarily. I mean, it could be, but when Paul says he revealed his son in me, is this stoicism?
Is this platonic thought? Is this Greco-Roman influence? Is it, is it strictly Jewish only? I mean,
Absolutely. Absolutely. It's great, right? Because who is his audience? Who is he talking to? What are they going to relate to?
I mean, when Paul says, I become all things to all people, I think genuinely that is his most revealing comment of all, right?
And that needs to be taken a little more seriously, right?
Yeah.
You know, so, so, okay, so Paul has this moment and he says he goes off into the desert to work some shit out.
Yeah.
Well, yes, that's what you do when you go to the desert. You go to pray and to think and to get some, right?
But that's what he says. I have this thing and he throws in a really juicy dose of, you know, I was called by God before I was even born, by the way.
I'm that important, right? Not these guys who followed him the last year, you know, like, and then he goes off into the desert to figure some stuff out.
And then he goes to Damascus and he doesn't talk to any of these guys. And if you look at the book of Acts and how it domesticates or however you want to say that, right?
It takes his story and it's all about, you know, this other, this other version.
I just think, yeah, I don't think he meant the harm that came from it.
This is great. This is great.
So Paul is, in my best estimation, trying to do what he thinks is right here in a situation where, I mean, I suspect he sees the hypocrisy that's going on in his own time and saying this isn't, you know, we've got really, really wonderful,
gentle people and we need to assimilate in some way also.
It's not only a sociological way in which that it fits really well to make a simple Judaism gravel, you know, let's let's get along with the guys that were that were living next to and I think he was such a Hellenistic Jew,
nonetheless, but super Hellenistic that he might be a little flexible in ways others would never be.
You know, wouldn't you think a Jew would have tried to convert them and say, hey, you need to snip your, you know, stuff.
If you, you know, you're going to start collabing unless you're going to remain a God fear on the outside and just keep your distance.
Now he's making them step their game up in one way.
He's becoming more Jewish by saying, get rid of the other gods.
In another way, saying, don't worry about the wieners now as you can just come as you are.
I like, you know, the thought of being a good Jew, but, but considering his own upbringing, potentially much more Hellenized.
Of course, he knows how to get and wants to get along with Gentiles.
You know, I, I like that. I like what that throws into the framework for me.
I, you know, what if, I mean, maybe you've considered this already, but what if we consider that Paul was among the people?
You know, I've had, even at the beginning of this series on anti-Judaism and acts, like, why was Paul killing followers of Jesus to begin with?
Like, why was he doing that?
I'm like, well, let's think about that.
What does it say that Jesus was criticizing what was going on down at the temple and Paul was offended by it?
So Paul's offended by it. Paul was a part of that, that world. He is, he is in with the people of the temple, right?
He has power given to him by the temple.
Of course he's threatened by what Jesus says.
And so whatever you do with that and then his realization, what he goes from is, I've been the, I'm among the people that this Jew was, you know, accusing of being, you know, accusing of being exploitative.
So I'm, I'm threatened by him and his potential followers to now I'm just doing something totally different.
I mean, it's a, it's a, it's a striking shift.
It's not a, it isn't, it's a shift that, that the tradition has taught us to see smoothly and seamlessly.
But I don't think it's all that smooth and seamless.
I think that there's, I think there's more to it to make that kind of a shift to I'm, I'm really pissed that there's somebody else who's making a big deal of the rich and fame, the rich and powerful becoming more rich and more powerful.
Like, I don't, I'm offended that you're upset by that to, hey, let's make that God a God, like that guy a God, like that.
Here's the thing, I'm just trying to like sneak into this, but I, when I was at Greensboro College, one of my honors students, I won't name her because she might want to be named, but I won't because I have an astro commission.
But she did write her honors thesis was doing a DSM five reading of Paul.
And of course, you got to take that with a grain of salt, Paul isn't doing all the writings of the letters that are his right, but he's has a hand in it and what is described of him is something of a psychotic break.
That I've got a guy who thinks that Paul was literally crazy. Okay, in some sense, I mean, I've actually heard a set about Martin Luther, Martin Luther, the reformer might have been a little crazy or something because anyone who had the guts.
You got to think, is there really any, any, does he have a filter? Does he not realize, you know, like, yeah, it seems like anyone who's, it's like me walking up, you know, let me walk into the White House with a pistol on my hip.
Can you imagine what the, what's wrong with you? Like, are you crazy? So someone like Paul, I don't know, and he just speculates, he thinks he might be a little crazy.
It is a speculation. But my point in saying that was to was to highlight the shift is more radical, I think, than most people stop to consider. And I don't, and I say, yeah, you're just saying that.
Honestly, this is interesting. Yeah, I don't need it to be true or any of that. But I think it's interesting fodder, you know, for like, what does that say? And it is also more about also about taking into consideration his, his anger and the way he lashes out at times and his letters and things like that.
But anyway, so why was I making that point?
I wanted to say something about that point that I thought was interesting. Maybe you'll figure out where where you left off in your brain on that.
And if you think about that psychologically, what Paul might be doing is he if he was on the side of the people who were doing bad or part of the team that was in the wrong and and they killed the Jesus and then they kill Stephen.
If you buy that narrative, even though Dr. Eisenman says that may have been James the brother of the Lord that was actually killed instead of Stephen, there's speculation on the narrative there.
Regardless, let's just suppose he's guilty. He feels guilt about this, but he realizes there's no saving grace. He can't save his brothers. He can't get the Jews. He realized how crazy staunch he was.
Okay. And he says, I'm up against an impossible immovable mountain of people who are so knuckleheaded in his view.
I can't go to them. In fact, God has a stumbling block. All right.
And God has blinded them for now. He's got them hearted hearts, Romans nine through 11. You know, right now he's got a pause on them till the fullness of the Gentiles comes in.
Right.
Then I think that God's mercy will melt the hearts of these hardheaded knuckleheads. What do you think?
That's a legitimate way to look at it. Absolutely.
That's like a psychological analysis 2000 years removed.
Totally inappropriate.
But if you want to make, try to make some sort of cohesive, cohesive sense of the claims he's making.
I think honestly, that's probably one of the nicer ways to respect the things he wrote or things he had had hand in writing and, and, you know, what's been told to us through the book of Acts.
I mean, I think that's a really interesting way of looking at it because, you know, when you went off into the desert, what did he do?
He had to search through his scripture. He had to sort through the scriptures to find things to piece together to make sense of this. Right.
When I was in seminary, my one of my favorite professors, Dr. Don Jewel, a Lutheran, good man, just the sweetest, kindest man.
You know, he's like, yeah, he, for his dissertation, he worked with Dahl. I can't remember his first name right now, but they're, they spent their time, you know, this man, this other, his advisor, you know, spent his academic career trying to understand why Paul made those particular connections to begin with.
We can look at them and say, well, of course, that makes sense. But given how well Paul knew his own scriptures and how he would have studied them and understood them, he was, in a sense, how did he make those initial connections?
What made him, you know, make that, oh, what if we do this? What if we take that idea and put it in that we can make sense of, you know, this whole bringing the nations, the Gentiles, the nations to the table with the rest of the people to come in.
I'm not sure if I made my point clear there. I'm got distracted by my sweet little cat.
So he, you know, Paul made these connections that we can read as making sense. But how did he make those initially? And it takes some cherry picking, it takes some, you know, it takes some finagling of the scriptures initially.
Right.
You just see them as making sense.
I think, because we've got so much, this has been a wonderful podcast by the way.
This is great. You are wonderful. Absolutely. Absolutely.
This is a question I have for this show.
Okay.
Before we ask the question, I want everyone to go get her book. Okay. Show her some support. Go to the website. You guys have been on the screen right in front of your eyes.
You know, you don't need a bright light to let you know.
It's right there. You know, go check it out. Show her some love. Show her some support. Comment down below some positive positivity. You know, that's, that's what we're in it for.
The last question will be, Paul says, I am not a liar. I am not a liar.
Now, we can do a lot of things with that. We could try and look at it in different ways. We could say, well, people are accusing him of lying because they're just mad at him with his new doctrine, or you could say,
why is he saying that? Is he lying about something? And what is he lying about? Do you have an opinion? You know, everyone has opinions. It's okay. There's no problem. What's your thoughts?
Oh, gosh, I'm trying to remember which letter that's in. Is that in 1 Corinthians or is that in?
I think a couple of different letters.
I think, well, the reason I'm pausing on that, on answering your question is the context matters, right?
Yes.
I think it comes in the midst of the super apostles passage, right? Chapters 10 to 13 of 2 Corinthians, which is that, you know, like he is pissed.
I love it.
Right?
Oh.
And so I think that that context matters that he is so angry that people are not believing him. People are not taking his word as correct.
Somebody came along behind him and had a whole new idea or at least changed it enough, makes him angry.
I'm not lying.
People are calling him a liar. You know, that's how I read that is he is just fed up with not being respected or not being the final say someone else could actually come along and convince these people otherwise, something like that.
But I mean, I see, you know, there's, I think he means it in that moment on that particular topic on that particular issue. That's how I read that just to make it clear what I'm trying to say.
That makes sense. Yeah, no, I see hints in Galatians where he doesn't say, I'm not a liar, doesn't have to say that, but I get the hint that he's trying to make a case.
He's trying to say, look, they approved it. Okay, everything was good.
Totally.
I don't need them anyway. Yeah.
No, he says a couple times, I did not confer with any human on this. I mean, it is, it's not just a hint there. It is lots of layers of rhetorical like this is legit people.
You know, this is interesting. It makes me want to ask another one, but I don't want to get too far lost there. I interviewed lots of mythicists. Okay, they are not to common in academic realms because well, it's kind of a shun view.
It's like a French view, which I understand why historians would take a historical Jesus.
But there are a lot of people who see Paul's visionary Christ, Paul's illuminating idea and say the concept of Jesus Christ, even if there was a Jew somehow that may have died.
And they know that according to them, they're like, that's not the, there was no historical guy that they'll say is, is ultimately the basis for this. This is more of a mystery school, Hellenistic deity, deity, depending on how you want to pronounce it.
The Gospels are kind of a euhemerist idea of the Christ angelic figure, which they consider Christ to be an angel, sort of like Daniel's son of man, like a son of man.
And I had Dr. John J. Collins on recently, Old Testament scholar, he just recently was on and he was talking about how Daniel's angelic Lord or angelic figure was angelic.
And I asked him this, I was like, what about Jesus though? Like, could he have been Paul's, what if Paul's imaginary or let's not, I don't mean that disrespectful, his visionary Christ was an angel instead of a man here on earth in recent history.
And what they did in the Gospels, they took a historical context in which Jews were killed all the time, things like that. And they narrated historical fiction of the times.
Could it be that this guy didn't actually exist, so to speak, but he was just a template for Jews? And so it's not a bad question to ask, it really isn't, even though I know it's taboo to touch it, but do you have an opinion?
I think, you know, I don't ever go that place with, you know, in anything I write or when I teach, because I'm trying to get people to make baby steps and reconsidering the way they view what the Bible is.
But I think ultimately that's what I think is, I don't necessarily go to the mystical visionary place, but that serves to talk about putting, you know, that serves as a placeholder for the story, for the narrative, for the meaning.
Your way makes sense. I mean, that's what I tell the guys who are on both sides all the time. Both sides can make sense depending on how you want to view the evidence.
But like, I wonder if it can be a both and in many ways. And that's why I think historicism, ultimately, the historicist position has stronger balance, because it can be myth and yet be a real basis in reality, real guy, real things.
But you can't have, you gotta go all the way to be a mythicist and it's like, if you're wrong, then it could be both. And the archons of this age crucified him. Well, that sounds like the devils, the demons, the deities.
Yeah, but that's just the deuteropal saying, right? Archons for Paul are the actual, like the government leaders and the humans.
You see how you see that? And that's perfect. I mean, like, but there are people who say that they're purely demons. What if it was spirits that are working in those people?
Right, right, right, right. No, I totally get that too. I do. I do.
I'm just throwing it out there, but yeah.
And I relate to it, you know, I remember reading and reading things that way kind of taps back into the whole magical, right, the Bible, it's like the whole thing is being orchestrated by God or whatever.
No, I don't disagree. I think it's an, I think it's an excellent way of getting at what's going on, you know. And so I think, you know, I respect the way, the way people, people are going to read the narrative.
They're going to read these things through who they are. It's just the way we do. It's just what we do, right?
Can I throw one last thing in?
Anything you want.
I know that you want to wrap up soon, but I, there was one more thing I wanted to say about the anti-Judaism in Acts, but because you kept asking and I kept not really well answering.
Okay.
But I did, you know, I did want to leave that part of it is there's just lots of little lots of things that kind of add up. But one thing that I think is, again, a thing that many people that are either raised in or familiar with the Christian tradition kind of take for granted.
And that is that there's a reason why the Christian tradition has been okay embracing Paul, because he became one of us, because he's on our side.
We're okay with embracing this guy who literally, according to the story, had people killed.
If he left that, that's why we're okay with it.
Right.
But the people he left are Jews.
And so that is the very subconscious message, right, very, very rhetorically powerful, they were not necessarily super conscious of it.
Why were so compelled by this conversion story that people today will embrace and they look to Paul's story as an example for it, right?
I was this horrible person and now I'm not because I love Jesus.
That's, that's how people, that's how the story of Acts reads. Paul was the worst person and he was killing the followers of Jesus and then he became one.
And so now we're all fine with it, but we're not stopping to think about what that says in about all the people that Paul used to identify with who are now essentially Jews.
Paul gave me an aha moment. I'm not kidding. I'm serious, because you just made me realize in light of the Acts and everything you were talking about, because it was, we should have said anti-Judaism in the New Testament, because it is in, it is obviously in Acts.
Acts is so much in line with what you're saying.
But I just thought about what I said earlier with Romans 11.
The fullness of the Gentile comes in. Paul's understanding is the Christian understanding and the Christian understanding, the way that Christians, what I mean by that today and throughout church history is that right now it ain't about the Jews anymore.
It's about the Gentiles because the fullness of the Gentiles has not come in.
Therefore, all Israel hasn't been saved. And just till recent, like I said earlier with presidents that want to make prophecy fulfilled, they're fundamentalist Christians.
They want to import Jews from across the earth into Israel because they want to make in time prophecy happen and all this. And it's like, look, you know, that's above my pay grade to comment.
I'm apolitical here on this channel as much as possible, but there may be pros, but there are a lot of cons to what has happened. And it's just the way I'm looking at it is I think that would be a driving force as well.
And people would probably have sermons throughout history saying it ain't about the Jews. It's about the Gentiles right now.
Can you imagine subconsciously what that does in a Christian's mind? Not only did he leave the Jews, he saw them as hard-headed knuckleheads on and on and on and on and on.
And I don't think that that's his original intention at all. I think it was a simple issue.
Yeah, can you imagine if I left like being part of your group or whatever, like, and then later on somehow our color, our skin complexion becomes the primary focus somehow or whatever it may be.
I could see how something spins off and become bigger than what it ever originally may have been.
And, you know, then you kind of fold into that this whole, all the negative, you know, Paul had a message for the Jews and he says to them in a synagogue, you've rejected it, and that's what opened the door to the Gentiles.
So your rejection of the truth is what makes me go and do what I need to do, but you're condemning yourself to not even deserving eternal life.
That's, you know, it's like, oh my gosh, I'm gonna start to work up all over again. Yeah, I mean, it's just, it's in there, planting seeds for sure.
Your energy is contagious and I love this. I wish I was at your college. I could like learn from you. You really bring an exciting, you make everything fun. Thank you so much.
Thanks for having me. This has been such a fun conversation.
I told you, I was like, look, I promise I'm not an enemy. I prophesied. No, I'm just kidding.
You really are awesome. Ladies and gentlemen, go check her works out, please, her websites on the screen. The book is there. Dr. Jennifer Byrd, do you have anything you'd like to say closing us out?
No, I thank you. I just, it's been a delightful conversation. I was really, truly, I appreciate getting to speak with you.
Ditto. Ditto.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, you know how it always ends. And if you forget, we are MythVision.
Join our Patreon.
We are MythVision.
MythVision.
