We are live on MythVision podcast and Dr. Kip Davis YouTube channel with my friend Steven Nelson, as well as Dr. Delcey Allison Jr.
So you have Dr. Kip Davis, Dr. Delcey Allison Jr., Steven Nelson, and of course, MythVision, Derek Lambert. I'm the host of MythVision.
So what are we doing this stream for? Well, there's been all sorts of back and forth about the Gospel of Matthew.
What is this author up to with the two donkey scene that we see in this Gospel when it looks like Mark has one donkey?
And there's this huge rabbit trail of discussions and responses online. It's like a dream within a dream within a dream kind of thing.
And me and Kip have been going back and forth and Steven's been part of it.
And of course, we've been referencing Dr. Delcey Allison Jr.'s commentary with W.D. Davies and I had to look down to make sure I didn't say J.W. Davies.
I don't know why I'm trying to make sure I had the name right.
To discuss this matter, why not get the horse's mouth to tell us what's going on and what his thoughts are?
So Kip, where do you want to take us into first?
So maybe I'll just start with a breakdown of my interest in this.
As a scholar of the Hebrew Bible and of the Dead Sea Scrolls with a casual interest in the New Testament,
certainly an interest in so far as it addresses textual and historical concerns for century Judaism.
This is a question that attracted my attention by the very strong assertion made by a Christian apologist
that this passage that Matthew quotes from Zechariah and Zechariah 9 verse 9 is proof positive
that Matthew was reading out of the Masoretic text, the Hebrew text of Zechariah.
And he provided a pretty nonsensical word salad in order to arrive at that point about Matthew's lexical abilities.
But this, as I'm sure everyone who's spent any amount of time with this passage,
the point that the apologist was attempting to make was that Matthew knew what he was doing.
And he wasn't being ridiculous or making this absurd situation out of what appears in Mark.
And as I worked through this, I kept on coming back to what I think is the critical point.
What is Matthew doing with this story and why?
And it seems certain to me that Matthew's primary motivation in retelling this story is to get two donkeys in there somehow for some reason.
I've got some of my own thoughts on that and I'm sure we'll get into it.
But I think this probably sets us up for what I look forward to in conversation over the course of the next hour.
And Del, me and Kip might bounce back before that was muted on what we think is going on, some interesting ideas about Matthew.
But do we want to start off by just recognizing, I think it's important to say that it sounds like Bart said multiple things.
And let's give some credit where credit's due. Inspiring philosophy, Michael Jones, who's been engaging us back and forth, coming from the apologist side, is hearing Bart kind of say two things.
It sounds like he could be saying that there's a mistake. It doesn't seem he's taken it too seriously and we are. We're taking it more seriously than he is in this respect.
And then the other side with my interview is that he's saying, well, I think Matthew was too smart and is doing something unique and different.
But there's details that we want to get Dr. Allison on to get into some of the rabbit trail issues of Septuagint, what's going on.
And I think it's important you go ahead and dive into a question and let Dr. Allison kind of tackle it with us.
And before that, I want to chime in and just echo what Derek said, like my hat is off to Michael Jones, inspiring philosophy for slam dunking on Bart Ehrman.
I mean, he really got Bart Ehrman, who has built his career on a lot of very popular literature, you know, some of it on the scholarly side, some of it on the pop market side, where I don't, I don't recall exactly which book it's from,
but he really takes a dig at this particular passage. We're going to get into seemingly unfairly, you know, poking fun at Matthew and insinuating that Matthew just didn't know what he was doing.
And this is like ridiculous and Jesus is writing to donkeys and how he gets a laugh out of it.
And, and this whole back and forth really cornered him and he just admitted, yeah, you know what personally, my beliefs have changed.
I don't remember exactly how he phrased it, but he's pivoted on this.
You know, you could say he's backpedaled.
And obviously, Michael also respectfully backpedaled some of his hyperbole, you know, that he was, he was woefully ignorant and all of that.
But, but let's face it, like, you know, Ehrman has put out a public position that Matthew was just woefully ignorant of Hebrew parallelism.
And now he has retreated and, and, and I think Michael just, it just scored a touchdown there like Bravo.
Like you guys, you guys got a real good point coming from, you know, a non scholar, a non professional researcher, which I fall into that category as well.
And I'm going to defer to the experts from here on out.
But I mean, that's inspiring to me that like he could do that much homework and put all of it up there on screen.
And I will quibble with a few details for sure.
But, but hats off brother.
Like that's, that's great.
You know, like congratulations.
And so that, you know, it's commendable.
No objections.
Is that?
No, that's it.
That's it.
That was all I wanted to say.
Just wanted to give props.
All right.
Have a nice day, everybody.
No, I'm just kidding.
So, yeah, go ahead.
So I think, I mean, I think there's, there's, there's several critical questions that we can get into.
Certainly ones that I have interest in.
What is primarily, what is Matthew doing with this story from the gospel of Mark and why?
What does this story indicate to us, if anything, about about Matthew's usage of scripture and the text that he was, he was drawing from?
And why?
And what can we learn from this?
And I'd love to hear Dr. Ellison way on this from a, from a more, from a broader appraisal of all of, all of Matthew's writing.
What do we know about, about the writer of this gospel and his, his familiarity with the Hebrew Bible and his, his usage of it and, and his sources, I guess, when it comes to reading.
And, and, and interpreting scripture, as he's telling a story about Jesus.
So, I don't know, Dr. Ellison, maybe you could, you could start by with, with that, that first question.
What is going on in this text of Matthew chapter 21?
What is Matthew doing with Mark and why?
Okay, so first of all, God only knows that that's the honest answer, but I do have ideas as to what's going on here.
So if we want to, we could come back to, to the question of did Matthew know Hebrew?
So first of all, I am convinced that he did know Hebrew.
I may be wrong, but I'm convinced he did.
I'm also convinced that he has something like, or akin to a proto rabbinic training of some sort, or at least at points, he shows contact with a sort of Judaism that we know elsewhere only through the rabbis.
So we can come back to that.
It seems to me that when you're looking at Matthew compared to Mark, once in a while the changes are stylistic and they just reflect a preference for this word or that, that phrase.
But there are other times when Matthew is changing things for what I would call theological reasons.
And I am sure, even if we're not sure of the explanation, that he has a motive here.
I don't myself think he has any extra historical information like he's reading Mark, but he also knows because Fred told him that there were actually two donkeys.
Even if there were two donkeys, why would you mention it? Who cares? There are so many details that are left out.
So what you have to do in my judgment is you have to go exploring for a reason that Matthew would have changed this.
Now, we'll come back to this maybe in a bit with regard to Hebrew parallelism, but it's simply the case that you can find all over rabbinic literature, people who are not interpreting synonymous parallelism the way we do.
Just absolutely not. In fact, there was a book written a few years ago on early rabbinic exegetical techniques that said something like interpreting synonymous parallelism in the early rabbinic sources is actually very rare.
That is, they don't interpret it the way we do. They don't see synonymous parallelism. Their goal is actually to see two different things when you have what we think of as synonymous parallelism.
So Matthew can, I think, given his hermeneutical world, look at Zachariah. He's moved from Mark to Zachariah. Mark is probably implicitly eluding to Zachariah.
Matthew has gone to this text and Matthew sees that there are possibly here two donkeys. So why does he want to make sure there are two donkeys?
In an earlier work, and I think in the commentary still, what I argued is that maybe he's thinking about Moses because there's a scene in Exodus where Moses is associated with asses plural, not with a singular donkey.
But I've decided that I was probably wrong about this. I've been persuaded recently that the explanation is actually in the book of Genesis. So I have a Bible open here and I'd like to read Genesis 49-11.
So this is about the scepter not departing from Judah, and this is a messianic oracle in ancient Judaism. It certainly is for the rabbis. And it says, binding his fall to the vine and his donkeys cult to the choice vine.
Now what's so interesting about this is you can get two donkeys out of this, and if you want to, you can actually get a male and female donkey out of the Hebrew. Now that gets really complicated, but you can get a male and female.
And that's actually what Matthew has. He doesn't just have two donkeys. He's got a male and female donkey. If you look at verse two carefully, he's got the donkey and then the cult with her outtaste.
So he's got two sexes here. The only place I know of where you can find two donkeys, right? Two donkeys in scripture, in some significant text where you can find if you want two sexes is here.
Now what's so interesting to me is that Matthew and Mark both talk about the donkey being tethered or being tied. And again, it's one of those things. Why on earth mentioned this?
And the commentators down through the centuries say, well, this is a Messianic Oracle back here. This is about Judah. This is about the line of the rulers. And what's happening here is that this is the Messianic donkey.
And we're fulfilling scripture here. So if you look at the modern commentators on Mark and you look at some of the early commentators, they are going not only to Zachariah, but to Genesis 4911.
And I think Matthew is reading Mark and he's thinking, oh, this is Zachariah, but it's also Genesis 4911. And he is reading two donkeys there. So I suspect that's what he's doing.
Now, I don't think he's using the Septuagint here in 4911, but he can think this because there's a Messianic Oracle that says for him, this is the case. Let me reiterate again that this is not our hermeneutic.
All right, we don't do this with text. This is not what modern critical scholars do. And this is not even what modern apologists do. But Matthew is living in a world where you can mingle scriptures and put things together.
And even if you will create events, there are other places in Matthew where he is frightfully creative with scripture in a way that reminds you of the rabbis.
So that's my take on things. You can find stories in Jewish literature where somebody has created an event out of what to us seems like a preposterous reading of the Hebrew.
One of my favorites is that in Genesis 19, there's the story of Abraham offering curds and milk and a calf to the three strangers. And the text says that he set this before him, before them, he set the calf before them, him.
And then it says, and then he stood up. Now, obviously, the guy who stands up is Abraham. But there was a legend that it was the calf that stood up. So you actually have in a first century text, a story about the calf coming back to life.
It was the calf that was fed to the three people and then it stands up and raises from the dead. It comes back to life. Nobody in the modern world would look at this text and say, oh yeah, the calf came back to life.
But somebody back then thought, oh, this is neat. I can read it this way. And I think Matthew does things like that from time to time, which again for me is sort of proto rabbinic.
I kind of want to ask and just point out along the way if we can throw some ideas in there, Kip, because I don't want to step on your toes. I know that you want to present something at least this idea of Septuagint gearing closer towards Masoretic.
And there's definitely a gear toward that. But I don't want to lose track on that. Maybe get Allison's thoughts.
And then Stephen, of course, I know you want to chime in with visuals. Just one comment I want to make. And I'd love to see people be less dogmatic about having to have the events described in this literature as if they have to have happened as they're being written here.
If you want to play with memory or assume memory in some of this, go for it. I know that scholars do that. But there is a freedom, in a sense, a liberty in crafting narrative.
And it sounds like this author is capable of doing that with a potential historical memory of Jesus entering into Jerusalem on a donkey, potentially, or it could be completely literary.
The point is, is he has the freedom to kind of make the events conform to a literary model he finds within sacred scripture to fulfill those things.
And I want to help people get out of the bubble of literalism in that sense that it has to be exactly like it's being written here. Can you comment on that briefly?
You're asking me to comment on it?
Yeah, if you don't mind.
So from my point of view, as I guess I'm a scholar, so from my point of view, this sort of harmonization, over literal harmonization that people are accustomed to was simply demolished in the middle of the 19th century.
So there was a great German scholar named David Friedrich Strauss who wrote this great large book on the critical life of Jesus.
And one of the things he does throughout this is he looks at people trying to harmonize texts, right?
So when Jesus heals a blind man in Mark, well, he heals two blind men in Matthew.
And if you look at it in one of the texts, maybe it's two of the texts, he's doing this while he approaches the city and another while he's exiting the city.
There are little things like this everywhere in the Gospels.
And so what this means is however you want to explain it or whatever you want to do with it theologically is that these writers cannot be harmonized in detail, right?
Maybe you want to say you can harmonize the gist of the stories together, but they are disagreeing in little details at every turn.
And that's why the genealogy that I belong to just doesn't engage in harmonization anymore.
We just say people once upon a time they did that and that's not what we're doing anymore.
When I worked through Matthew and wrote a commentary on Matthew, I was able to go word by word through Matthew and Mark.
And sometimes, as I said, Matthew is changing things stylistically, but he's often changing tiny little things for theological reasons, right?
He just is. He has Matthew, he has Jesus go up on a mountain to deliver the Sermon on the Mount.
There's no mountain in Luke, there's no mountain in Q, there's no mountain right there in Mark.
He wants Jesus to be his mosaic figure and there was a tradition about Moses sitting on Sinai.
So I'm sure that's what's going on here. And he doesn't mind doing this. He just does it, right?
Thank you so much.
One of the things that I find kind of interesting, and this is maybe this is just me, but when I look at Matthew's quotation of Zechariah 9.9,
and it's pretty complex and it's involved, just sort of to lay this out there for the audience.
He starts with a conflation, right? It's Isaiah 61, I believe, that he begins with.
62.11.
62.11. Thank you, Stephen.
Yeah, I'm terrible with the numbers. I get them mixed up all the time.
Me too, I just have it in front of me.
Nice. So he starts with that, and then what I see is a strictly verbatim quotation from the Septuagint text, the one that we have, right?
And then it's that last line that looks just completely different.
Something that strikes me when I look at the Hebrew version compared to the Greek version of this particular passage is that when I read the Greek,
that sounds more, from my perspective, the way the Greek translator has rendered the last line, the last of the colon, the parallelisms,
seems to me that that could lend itself maybe even a little more naturally to the presence of there being two donkeys as opposed to the parallel.
And I don't know, I think some of that might just be with my overt sensitivity to seeing parallelisms within Hebrew poetic texts like that.
But yeah, I don't know if you have any thoughts on that.
So my way to approach this is not to view this text in isolation. So a long time ago, many years ago, and I couldn't give you any of the details now,
is that I went through all of the quotations in Matthew, all of them, and all of the clear allusions, all of the clear allusions and the citations and quotations.
And I compared them all to the Masoretic texts, our standard Hebrew, and to the standard Septuagint, and also to the Targums, to the Targumim.
And what I found is, well, of course, it's a Greek text that there's an awful lot of agreement with the Septuagint,
but maybe more often than you might think there is agreement with the so-called Masoretic texts against the Septuagint.
And there are some occasions where Matthew agrees with the Targums and not the Septuagint or the Masoretic texts.
Now, there are a couple of ways of thinking about this. One is simply to say, well, the Septuagint that we have obviously wasn't the only Greek text circulating in antiquity.
And there were Greek texts, as we know from the scrolls, as you know, you know better than I do.
Hebrew texts that agree with the Septuagint against the Masoretic texts, right?
So maybe, maybe what's going on in Matthew is he simply has a very different Greek text, and it happens at many points to agree with the Masoretic texts,
against the Arseptuagint.
I'm not sure how that helps you with the Targums, which, you know, they're Aramaic and they're a little later and so on.
But what happened to me is I decided, well, I've got two options here.
Matthew knows more than one textual tradition.
He's bilingual, or maybe even trilingual, or he's just got a Greek text that's very different from ours.
And what I finally decided is that Matthew was like the author of Revelation.
So if you know Greek well, and if you know Hebrew, and if you read Revelation, I think it's obvious that the author is writing horrible Greek.
And it's because he's thinking in another language.
He's thinking in Hebrew.
There's just so many places where you can see Hebrew or Aramaic behind the Greek of Revelation.
So he's a terrible writer.
He doesn't know Greek.
It's got to be a second language.
I think, well, if there's somebody else in the first century belonging to the so-called Christian community who is bilingual, right?
Well, then Matthew could be bilingual.
It's just that his Greek is better than the, it's not great, but it's certainly better than the guy who wrote Revelation, who really had had trouble writing Greek.
And then I moved from there to think, well, there are these really interesting striking parallels between Matthew and the rabbis.
You know, Matthew is the one who has kingdom of heaven.
That's not anywhere else in the earliest Christian texts, but it's a very common rabbinic phrase, you know, at the kingdom of the heavens.
Or Matthew likes the father who is in the heavens.
Again, a phrase that the rabbis like, which you can find in many rabbinic texts, but it's not so common in the early Christian literature.
What really does it for me is that if you look at the parallelism in sayings of Jesus in Mark and compare them to Matthew,
to Mark and Luke, Matthew again and again and again has a statement which is in perfect antithetical parallelism.
Don't store your treasure up on earthware, but store your treasure up in heavenware.
And word for word, the same with negations stuck in them.
This is not a Greek way of writing.
In fact, the closest parallels to this, to my knowledge, are in rabbinic literature.
In Mishnah Vot, you've got lots of these sentences which are just like these sentences in Matthew.
Perfect parallelism with negation stuck in.
So, you know, there's no slam dunk argument here, but I keep adding things up and I finally think, okay, this guy probably did know Hebrew.
And then I paid no attention to any of this that you guys have been paying attention to.
I don't know anything about this debate.
I don't know how I'm being used.
I don't know anything.
But I do know that the rabbis just didn't care about synonymous parallelism or at least the earliest rabbis.
They just don't.
And I've come to the conclusion independently that Matthew has some context with some kind of proto rabbinic something or other.
So, it makes me think he didn't care about parallelism either.
Can I ask for a clarification?
If they don't care about it, does that mean they're not aware of it?
Well, I wrote down a couple of things here.
You tell me what the answer is.
I don't know.
So, how about this?
This is actually Genesis 49.
So, he washes his garments in wine and his robe in the blood of grapes.
Now, we all say, okay, that's beautiful poetics and synonymous parallelism.
Here's Genesis Rabaugh.
This is a late rabbinic text.
The first clause means wine will abound in his territory.
The second clause means if they err on the law, it will be rectified in his territory.
There's nothing to do with each other.
Is it totally different?
So, are you asking me, did they know this?
If I had to guess, I would guess that these people really thought that the Hebrew text was God-breathed.
It was given by God and you had to find meaning in everything.
And why would God be redundant?
Why would God be redundant?
Why would God say the same thing twice?
So, there must be meaning here.
I also found this lovely thing.
This is Psalm 2-3.
I found this yesterday thinking about what I might talk about today.
Let us break their chains and cast away their cords.
Let us break their chains and cast away their cords.
This is a rabbinic interpretation.
Let us break their chains.
Those are the Tefalim on the hand.
And cast away their cords.
These are the Tefalim on the head.
Come on.
Go ahead, Kate.
I was going to say, I think maybe one of the more illustrative situations of how Jewish writers were handling this question
can be found in the Dead Sea Scrolls where we have Peshireem that are unpacking,
minding the scriptures in this sense and doing exactly the same thing
where every single word, every single phrase, every sentence is pregnant with meaning.
So, in this context, you ignore the parallels in favor of isolating them to mean different things.
But then you have a whole bunch of other texts.
Poetic texts, presumably written, collected by the same people
where they're also engaging in continuing the same style of Hebrew poetry.
So, obviously, they understand how this works, right?
They're operating on another level.
They're operating on multiple levels when it comes to reading these texts.
If I may chime in on this, Kate, this is an important point that Katel Berthelow highlights in her book,
Jews and the Roman Rivals, which got like a really, it was nominated for an award.
It was really, really well written.
And she highlights pagan Rome and its influence on Jews.
And she documents this and goes through a little history leading up to the point.
And me and Steven went down this nerdy path of trying to discover who are the Goyim, the Gentiles, the Ethne.
What is this ethnos, ethne, like diving into the identity?
And noticing how Paul uses scripture.
And we talked to Christopher D. Stanley.
We dove deep into his book.
I mean, we went down this rabbit trail.
It's like a two-year research project, just nerding out.
Exactly.
And I'm so thankful that I nerded out in this what would be an obscure and not even interesting topic
because it really helps me understand what's going on.
When Paul says, you know, it is written, you shouldn't muzzle an ox.
And it's like, we know that's an actual ox.
But he does not mean an ox.
He's talking about himself.
And notice that the living scripture to them gets reapplied to the contextual situation they're going through,
at least what they're trying to paint in their contemporary times.
It seems this is what Matthew might be doing, what many of the rabbis are doing.
And they talk about Tephilim or they're talking about what's in front of them.
What's their world look like?
The scriptures are alive for them then.
So they're reinterpreting, recontextualizing it for that.
And so, you know, whether or not I don't know if we can say Matthew knew the actual original context and its purpose
and its real meaning in these literary examples or, you know, parallelisms and stuff.
I don't think it mattered is the point.
I think it's more about this living scripture and how they're applying it to their contemporary situation in their audience.
It's really hard to get back to this mentality that isn't our mentality.
But, you know, sometimes when I'm thinking about origin and looking at things origin did,
origin did know, you know, the Hebrew text and he knew several Greek texts and, you know, he produced this great book with parallel columns.
I think he may have thought that all of the different translations were somehow inspired and that God was speaking through multiple texts,
even if, even if they're not saying the same thing.
So, you know, that would never occur to me, but I've been reading origin at times and thought,
is he really thinking this?
That, you know, the Greek is inspired and the Hebrews inspired and they're saying different things.
So they're both true in their own way.
That's just really strange for me.
But if origin, who's such a, he's a genius, right?
And so learn it.
And by the way, get steady with some rabbis at one point so he could learn Hebrew.
If he could do this, then things are just so different back then, just really different.
Yeah, and Derek, so if you could pull up the last image I sent you of the timeline.
I have a question that I'd like to pose to both, you know, Dr. Alisson regarding the Septuagint and the comet that was made.
I don't think, hopefully this is somewhat legible and shameless plug.
This is on my Bible study website that I'm developing called crossbible.com.
So you can explore this. It's a work in progress. I've been gathering feedback.
I got some feedback from Kip on the Dead Sea Scrolls aspect of it.
This is the, thank you.
I'm excited about this, Stephen.
I gotta throw that out there.
Yeah, just go play with it and, you know, get in touch with me if you find anything wrong with it.
But the timeline of the Bible spans the whole history of the transmission of the text in the Old Testament and the New Testament.
This is just the top right corner snapshot of this huge timeline that I've been working on for like a decade.
Top left, but yeah.
Yeah, so top left.
So the purpose here is to show, based on my study of Immanuel Tove mainly for textual Christmas of the Hebrew Bible,
that there are really parallel traditions going on in, you know, early, you know, Second Temple Judaism and in the early church,
where there was originally a vorlag, or however you're going to pronounce it,
of the Septuagint that was in Hebrew that is mostly lost and was partially recovered in some manuscripts in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And you can see here that, you know, there's represented here is the Old Greek Septuagint expansion, where they got more than just the Septuagint,
more than just the Pentateuch.
And this is, you know, Second Century BC.
And by the first century, as the protomacoretic text begins to become the dominant form, at least in the pre-rebinacle, phariseic tradition,
you start getting revisions that are called the Kaigei Theodosian revision, which are two separate sort of deflated traditions that we only have fragments of.
We only have hints that this existed.
We don't have like an actual copy of it.
But Kaigei Theodosian, thank you.
Aquila Simicus, and the list goes on if you expand the timeline.
But I'm just focused here on the first, like the first century BC, first century AD.
It was in this back and forth, you know, I think Stephen Boyce mentioned this, that reaching for the hypothesis that Matthew may have had a Greek version that differed from the Greek versions that have come to us today,
the critical editions of the Septuagint, as Dr. Allison affirmed, that that is somehow very implausible.
Like you're reaching really far for that hypothesis because we have, I think, quote unquote, I don't know if this was the exact quote, we have no evidence for that.
There's no evidence that in the first century or the second century AD, that the author of Matthew would have had access to some now lost version of the Greek.
And I just want to illustrate with this timeline that clearly there were at least four, if not more, emerging standards of Greek revisions,
resensions of the Greek Septuagint that were already making adjustments to agree with the proto-Masoretic texts, the Masoretic texts family.
And my question is, if we find a quotation in the New Testament anywhere, not just in Matthew, is Immanuel Tov correct in postulating that we have no way to determine if the author was actually directly translating from Hebrew,
or if it's just going through some Greek intermediary translation that was already aligned with the Hebrew text.
Can we really identify these two categories where it's like, that's a Masoretic quotation, and that's a Septuagint translation, and it's like a really clear line.
I don't think so, but I'm open to my mind being changed because I think other than the author of Revelation, I think all these other authors are very Hellenized, very well-versed in Greek.
And so I'm just wondering like, what would convince me that they're just straight up translating from Hebrew?
That was really at the heart of the debate for me and the reason I was chiming in and participating in this discussion because it is the topic that has inspired me to start this Bible reading website.
Maybe I can supplement that a little bit, and I don't know what you want to do with this in terms of your chart, Stephen, but one of the things that was discovered in the Judean were not just Hebrew texts.
There are Greek translations, not many, but there are a handful of Greek translations of Scripture in the Kumron Caves.
There is also a pretty extensive Greek translation of the Minor Prophets that was discovered at Nachokhever.
One of the things, it's quite interesting, and this sort of frustrated me earlier in my work in the Dead Sea Scrolls as I was investigating text types.
The term Septigent or Septigent-like, when it's applied to the manuscripts of the Judean desert, tends to get used in two different ways.
One way is to identify texts that look close to what we find in the Septigent as like a forlaga, or forlogan.
These would be like we have Hebrew manuscripts of Jeremiah or Exodus or for Samuel, for example, that appear definitely much closer to versions of those texts that were translated and incorporated into our collection as the Septigent.
But then the other thing that the original editors of the Scrolls did was whenever they encountered a Greek translation of Scripture, they also identified that as Septigent.
Now, problematically, is that when you investigate these texts, what you do discover is a high number of them are quite different from the Greek Septigent texts that we have,
and actually range a lot closer to a more literal translation of the Masoretic texts, the Hebrew Masoretic texts that we have.
And I was there when I saw Stephen Boyce make this claim, this comment about how we don't...
And his specific point was with regards to this particular text from Zechariah 9 verse 9, we don't have an extant Greek translation that matches the Hebrew text, and he's right about that.
I was going to add just a point to how he tried to explain the problem where he thought he had a Greek text here, and he's speaking to a certain audience, and then he's almost like pulling out the Hebrew text, and then he's speaking to the audience, and it was like too much, I think, going on there.
And he's said a few things since then. I know that Stephen posits that Matthew was originally writing in Hebrew, and that he had all of his texts, all of his Scriptures, were Hebrew texts originally.
I think he said that if there was a Q, it was that Hebrew document. I think he went as far as that. I could be misremembering.
So we're getting a bit far afield here, but the point I wanted to make was while we don't have Zechariah, we don't have this version of Zechariah in Greek, what we do have are these numerous other fragments from the period which exhibit a much more literal translation of the Masoretic text.
I know Tove has made this point that there seems to be a movement in 1st century Judaism towards trying to bring a bunch of these Greek translations closer to something that was looking more and more like a standardized version of the Hebrew text.
So that's all I got on that. Dr. Allison, I'm dying here, we have to say.
Well, look, I'm just being cautious here. So what I said earlier was when I went through and I noticed that lots of texts in Matthew match the Masoretic text and some match the Septuagint and some match the Targums.
I didn't conclude from that alone that Matthew knew Hebrew. This just raises the possibility because I don't know. Nobody knows in detail the textual tradition from the 1st century. We just don't have access to these sorts of things.
That's why I said that it's important to me that I can infer the likelihood that Matthew knew Hebrew on other grounds for other reasons and I think I can do that. So yeah, I'm trying to be cautious here.
I read in the commentary also, I went through the pertinent sections and it seemed like, correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like some of the arguments for Matthews potentially being fluent in Hebrew is the sort of Semitic flavor of his Greek.
And that just makes me wonder, you know, because there are examples in modern day Jewish communities where people use Yiddish terms like, oh, I was schlepping this heavy bag and I was schvitzing and they may not actually be fluent in Yiddish or be able to be able to translate from Yiddish, but it's just in their milieu, it's in their environment.
Well, this is just an old problem. What do you do with the Semitisms, so-called, of Mark? What do you do with the Semitisms of Luke? Some people have thought, well, Luke might have been bilingual or Mark's getting traditions that had been translated before him and so on.
So, yeah, look, you have to be humble here. You have to be modest. And look, look, there are multiple things. I shared several things. Also, it's important to me that I, in my view, Matthew actually begins the gospel with what the rabbis called Imatria.
So, the name David, according to one way of writing it in Hebrew, is 14. That is the numerical value. There are two ways of writing David, but one of them is 14. And David is mentioned at the beginning and the middle and the end of this genealogy, and he's in 14th place.
I could go on, but I am pretty sure that Matthew is playing with the Hebrew value of the name David.
Now, we have Greek texts where authors use Gamatria, like the sibling oracles, but it's Greek Gamatria. This is a Greek text which is like Revelation and it's 6-6-6, which is Kaiser Nero in Hebrew. I have no doubt about this at all.
I mean, neither.
Amazing.
And Matthew is writing a Greek text, but it's got some Hebrew Gamatria, I think, in it. So, again, that's the sort of thing.
That's much stronger.
But when I add them up, and I think, yeah, this guy is like John the Seer, you know, the Apocalypse writer.
I did want to make one comment, and then we can get to an interesting synopsis plug-in cross-bible again, and that is the doublets.
Like, over and over, you got two donkeys, two demoniacs, and I love the commentary in the section. Just for those who haven't got your commentary, they really should.
On Matthew, it's three volumes. So, you know, if you need a doorstop or two, it's good. It's huge.
Unlike Gary Habermas' book, it works for more than just a doorstop.
Sorry.
Sorry, we had to. Forgive us.
Now, the double Jesuses in the manuscript tradition, I had Stephen do a little deep dive. This was poetic and interesting to me.
It's called Matthew has Jesus Barabbas, and it seems there's no textual tradition that we've discovered outside of Matthew that has Jesus Barabbas, which is, like you say,
Bar-A-Boss.
Son of the Father.
Yeah.
And then you have Jesus, the Son of God, right? So, this is very poetic, sounds crafted in a literary text, which seems common sense to you.
But that over and over dual, doubling up things, going out of your way to make two Jesuses, when it was just Barabbas and Mark, sounds like a purposeful action.
And is there a good reason to think this is what rabbis are doing, or is this a literary motif that we could find that's prevalent?
Yeah. So, I have notes. I was taking notes for years on multiplying by two. I was going to write an article called Multiplying by Two.
And you're right. Matthew does this several times, but I've never figured out what exactly is going on. So, I gave up and I quit keeping notes.
So, I don't know.
Boltmon thought it was a, he called it a folklore motif. He just says folklore likes to double things. Well, he didn't give many examples. I have no idea.
This is probably a subject somebody should look into, but I gave it up years ago. I just couldn't figure it out.
Thank you for that answer. Steven, what do you want me to do here?
If you could pull up the synopsis, it's another shameful plug for crossbible.com. This is a mock-up. It's a feature I'm working on that will allow users to sort of interact with the Gospels in parallels,
trying to implement some kind of color coding for it in any language, any version. This is a custom translation. And I previously, just the first image, first image.
So, I gave Kip a prior draft of this. If you could go down to the bottom and just show the verses. So, the version I gave to Kip, as he pointed out, yeah, just, there you go.
So, a little higher. So, Kip, the version I gave you before had some errors. So, there may be some errors in this too, because I was like doing it very fast.
But I'm comparing it to the Greek. And the reason I use my custom translation is because if I use any standard translation, it just doesn't get the right word order to line up so I can illustrate this point here.
But the point that Kip made, based on my previous example that was more error-prone, is that if you accept that, like, Matthew is using Mark as a source here,
and he's starting with Mark as his basis, and Mark has just one donkey, and it's just one, one, one, one, one. And you can see here in the color coding, and I'm like, I'm bolding things and underlining,
Matthew is not only getting the second donkey in there, he is specifically saying, and black, the black formatting means that it's unique to this gospel,
he's saying this took place, they got both of these donkeys, to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, that, you know, behold, your king is coming to you humble and mounted on a donkey and on a colt.
He's mounted on both of them. Now, what that means exactly, the mechanics of it, I know this really bothers some people, and it's been the subject of this whole debate that Mike Jones said he's calling donkey gate, and it's hilarious.
I'm pretty sure, I actually think Derek came up with that term.
No, Stephen, me and the guy behind the scene kind of brushed shoulders.
Well, my point is that I think it's very short-sighted to fall back on the apologetic that I've been hearing across the board on, you know, in that camp, is that Jesus obviously sat on the cloaks, right?
Because if you look at Mark, I mean, the cloaks are on two animals, that was Airman's retort.
But if you look at Mark, the closest antecedent is still the cloaks, so he sat down on it.
So grammatically, you have to trace that it, you can see it at the bottom there, over the cloaks to say it, it, it.
And all Matthew is doing in the Greek here is he's saying, he's changing it to afton then.
So he sat on them. In my mind, just grammatically having like gone cross-eyed looking at this in the Greek, I just don't see any other way for him to sit on the cloaks.
He's, he's, he's mounting the donkeys to fulfill what was written that, that, that the Messiah would be mounted on, on both the, the, the donkey and the cult.
How mechanically that works, whether or not he was sort of side-saddled and maybe leaning on one or had his feet on the other.
I don't think the author particularly cared too much about how it happened.
I don't think he's straddling two donkeys. I don't think it's inherently ridiculous.
And the fallback has been, they've, they've been reaching for examples from Homer with, with that involved chariots, where they mount horses and they're actually getting on a chariot.
I think it's conceivable, just based on this analysis that I put here, that he, he, he is mounting, he is sitting, not necessarily writing, but you can infer that.
He's sitting on them, the donkeys that are covered in the cloaks.
It's all plural, the, the, the antecedent is plural.
And that may be a figure of speech to mean that he's just, he's, he's somehow situating himself on one, but there's the other one there.
And I just don't think that it's necessarily like a, a full, like it has to be the cloaks, like that common sense demands that it be the cloaks.
I don't think he was too concerned about common sense.
That's, that's, that's my, my spiel on that.
What do you think though?
So, so my response to that is that he wants, if I'm right, he wants to pull this messianic oracle in from Genesis 49.
And he's thinking textually.
He's not thinking visually.
All right.
He's thinking textually.
He's not thinking visually.
You end up with these questions because of the way he wrote his texts that, you know, is Jesus a trick writer or, you know, what's going on?
But I don't think, I just don't think it occurs to him that he's created a problem here.
By the way, I should add, I, I, I earlier thought that maybe there was a connection with Moses.
And then I suggested today, Genesis 49, I said I had been convinced of this.
I should call attention to the name of the person who convinced me of this.
So there's a New Testament scholar named Tucker Ferda, F-E-R-D-A.
And he wrote an article a number of years ago and I read it.
And his argument was among other things.
Allison's wrong about this and here's a better solution.
And I read it and I thought, yeah, he's right.
This is probably as close as we're ever going to come.
You mean you actually change your mind based on new evidence?
Like, wow.
Brilliant.
Yeah.
Love you.
Anyway, I just wanted to give him credit, credit for that.
Okay.
Because it's not, I don't want to leave the impression that's something I just thought of.
And, okay.
Stephen, we are at the end of the hour here and I've got a few more minutes.
I'd like to see if we can get through some of these super chats because people pay good money.
Yeah, I can stick around.
Yeah, we can stick around after Dale's gone if that's fine.
I just really want to make sure some of the ones that have Dale's name on them are there.
And these are super chats between my channel and Kip.
So, Autumn Joy, thank you for becoming a member.
And Jesus on trial as well.
Thank you both for being members.
Gnostic Performance says, Stephen F, what would you say is the most misleading position that English-speaking laymen make when assessing Greek passages in the New Testament and why?
Just that everything cleanly maps on to English.
I mean, I don't know.
If you don't know the Greek, you kind of just got to, like, get some help.
But I would just say one thing.
Kip mentioned in his previous stream, I think there's a little hyperbole about the pain involved in learning the original languages and you have to struggle for years.
I get it.
You know, I've also suffered some pain, but I just want to reassure everyone.
If you do want to learn the biblical languages, it's pretty, you know, there is a painless process you can go through.
Biblingo is a great platform you can use.
Don't be afraid.
Don't let Kip scare you.
You know, it's it, you know, you could a little goes a long way.
And I would encourage as many people that are interested, like I'm going to be launching Greek courses on my platform on cross by will.com.
So and and I've been giving Greek lessons to both Derek and to to Neil, Gnostic Performance.
So I'm happy to get in touch with me if you want some some Greek lessons or at least some advice because it's a it's a passion of mine.
Thank you.
Hard work says Dr. Allison, you are a legend.
Thank you for giving us your time.
Thank you.
Thank you all for digging into these details.
And of course, the legend is not going to say that about himself.
It's us who create the apotheosis.
Thank you, Del, for being here.
Dr. Pluromonat says could papias be referring to a law source for his assumed aromatic predecessor for Matt.
Matthew, perhaps his logon was more like a testimonium or prophetic proof text that was integrated thoughts on these oracles.
Well, that's a big question.
I don't have a lot of time left.
The truth is that some scholars have thought this.
So Helmut Kester thought this T. W. Manson, very different scholar thought, thought this.
So papias refers to the logia.
And usually that does refer to sayings more often than not.
And so the, the idea is that maybe, by the way, this goes back to Schleiermacher of all things.
The idea is that one of Matthew's sources, maybe Q or some part of Q comes back to Matthew.
And I thought if this is true, it would explain the title.
So the analogy for this is always the book of Isaiah.
So first, Isaiah has some oracles that go back to the prophet Isaiah, but it's been expanded, right?
And then second, Isaiah has been stuck on and third, Isaiah has been stuck on.
But the title of the book is not Isaiah and a bunch of other people.
That is, you keep the title, even though people keep adding to the original.
So that would be a parallel to this.
You can't prove it, but it's a rather neat hypothesis.
And it's a way of getting, of explaining papias.
And once Q's disappeared, it's just going to be understood as referring to, to, to Matthew, maybe papias understood it that way.
But there are, there are parts of Q, I once did the nerdy work on this.
There are parts of Q that pass the translation threshold.
That is, if you run them through the old books, I forget his name right now,
wrote with these books on submitting interference in Greek texts.
It's, there are portions that, that satisfy the Greek translation criteria.
So it's possible. It's a neat idea. I wish I knew.
Okay, I've got to go to different superchats that dress you and then is it okay to get the, like there's only a couple more?
Is that something we could do, Dale? I know you have to be someone.
Okay, okay.
If you're okay with it, if not, everybody.
I can go pick up a gown on here in a few minutes and run for somebody's big celebration.
Anyway, okay.
Fast, fast here.
Stop scamming and I'm just addressing ones to you.
Do you think the Epistle of James borrows from Matthew or vice versa?
I'm one of the only people on the planet who thinks that James was written in the early second century and knows Matthew.
I think James is borrowing from Matthew.
Thank you.
Cool.
Dr. Allison, I respect your gangster, more than you know.
What is your thoughts on Eusebius using Gentile sources to argue they point to Jesus in prep, Ev?
Yeah, preparation for the gospel.
Oh yeah.
Well, if you're asking me theologically, no, I don't think so, but I think it's really fun and interesting.
So, I mean, if you're asking me metaphysically, are the pagans somehow prophesying Jesus in the way C.S. Lewis thought?
Probably not, but that's a fantastic collection of stuff worth looking at.
The more interesting part of that to me is the stuff with the Jewish scriptures.
But it's four o'clock.
I need to take off.
Okay.
This is...
Dr. Allison, last one, and then we'll let you go and we're going to hang out.
Jondo, Dr. Allison, thoughts on Matthew, Galilee narrative versus Luke's Jerusalem narrative in the resurrection account.
Contradiction, harmony, different theology?
Contradiction and different theology.
They're both.
So, my own guess is that the original appearances were in Galilee, and then the disciples went back to Jerusalem, and there were probably additional appearances there.
And Luke wants everything in Jerusalem.
That's just the way he wants to work things.
His gospel starts there, it ends there, acts starts in Jerusalem.
He wants it there.
Galilee doesn't fit his scheme.
So, I think Luke is secondary there.
I think Matthew, who is in line with what's implied in Mark, is original.
Dr. Allison, the legend.
Ladies and gentlemen, get the commentary.
Thank you very much.
Hey, we should do a follow-up.
All right.
Take care.
Bye-bye.
You too.
Bye.
All right.
He's awesome.
I really knew before we started the stream, guys, just so you know, he was telling me I had a strict, strong cut off, and I did not want to disrespect his time.
So, I had to skip super chats.
Forgive me.
I usually go in chronological order.
We'll get them, though.
We want to chip these away and then have our free conversation.
Yeah, sure.
Okay.
I'm really looking forward to it.
I hope people viewing will check out CrossBible as well.
You can also help Steven out if you're really wanting to get into the facts, what the data is, what the sources say, and play around in the Bible to really get...
I'm telling you, this is new and unique.
There's nothing out there like it.
It's your super chat here.
Woo!
Yeah.
Keville Blob.
Thank you for the stream.
We'll catch up on it after.
Thanks so much for the Swedish Croners.
Much appreciated.
I'll just, whenever it's yours, I'll let you read them, too.
Okay.
All right.
I think this one is mine, too, isn't it?
Yeah.
How fluid is the Dead Sea Scrolls text and Old Testament text in the past?
Do you all agree it's major fluid, only biblical text?
How fluid is the text?
Is the Septigen also fluid and corrupted?
How crazy the fluidity of the Dead Sea Scrolls Bible text.
I mean, yeah.
So there is a lot there.
I've talked about this a few times.
I've addressed some of this in my Dead Sea Scrolls Unapologetically series here on YouTube.
And I have continuing evolving thoughts about this as well.
One of the problems that we encounter when attempting to assess the quote-unquote biblical
text, the text of Scripture, in the first century is the ways in which scholars have
in the past classified the documents.
And part of this is just a matter of practicality.
Scholars were sorting through hundreds and hundreds of fragments from the Dead Sea Scrolls
and just trying to figure out what these are and where they belong.
So anything that they recognized as quote-unquote Bible, they just designated it as Bible.
This started to become a problem when they encountered an increasing number of fragments
that looked an awful lot like Bible, but were pretty different from what survives in our
text.
So what we really have here in the first century is like a spectrum of texts where you have
a number of texts that look very, very close to the versions that have survived, those
being the Septigent, the Masoretic texts, the Samaritan Pentateuch.
Then you've got a whole bunch of other fragments, other manuscripts that vary from these three
in a few places and then vary dramatically to the point where you're looking at an entirely
different text altogether.
This has prompted a number of scholars, such as myself, to suggest pretty strongly that
in the first century, you've got a highly fluid text of Scripture.
You've got various competing versions of Scripture which are being collected by individual Jewish
communities and what we end up with in the post-temple period and then leading into the
medieval period is really more an accident of history than it is a promotion of authority
or stability of the text from an earlier period.
But thank you very much for the generous super chat.
I hope that helps to address some of your questions.
Thank you so much.
I also have another shameless plug.
If Derek links my website and the YouTube channel, the Cross-Bible YouTube channel in the description,
my next video that I'm working on, which Kip also weighed in and invented the information on,
is going to be very heavily focused on the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Septigent.
That very question is going to be discussed in that next video.
Like and subscribe for more on my end, on my YouTube channel, just starting now.
I will definitely link that.
I didn't add it to the description yet, but we will make that happen.
Thank you so much for that.
Stopsgamingman says, ironic, Matthew says things like,
if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your code as well.
Yet also, cast not pearls before swine.
Thank you, Stopsgamingman.
Then that was the next super chat, which we talked about.
He thinks James is second century.
Gnostic informant, Dr. Kip, what is your, what is your thoughts on the use of the name?
The name.
The name.
Okay.
Yeah.
Oh, and Dead Sea Scrolls manuscripts.
And do you think it could be, could have been removed from Christian Bibles for theological reasons?
I've not really thought through the second part of that question, Neil.
I think this is a, this is a reflection.
And I also need to go back and look and say, I know there's, there's a number of, of, of Greek fragments where the name is preserved.
For those who don't know, is the, is the form of the tetragrammaton of the name Yahweh as it appears in the, in the Hebrew Bible.
That survives in, in a number of the Greek translations of the Hebrew Bible from, from the, the mid to late second temple period.
I have to go back and look at, at how it appears in a number of these specifically Greek fragments from Qumran.
I'm off the top of my head.
I don't remember, but I'll take a look at that.
So I think that this is, this is a reflection of a very common and a probably quite an ancient way of vocalizing the divine name Yahweh.
I'm not, I'm not necessarily sold on this being the, the oldest way of vocalizing the name.
But, but I would say that this is, this is, this is prominent in the period.
And I, I, I have no, I have no thoughts on whether or not it was removed from Christian Bibles for theological reasons.
The, we do have, yeah, I have to be careful about that because I don't know the manuscript evidence well enough really to comment on, on what that looks like clearly enough, far enough back.
I think to, to make any comments on what, what Christians were doing or not doing.
And if I recall Neal's interest in this is, is that it also is an epithet of Dionysus, this conflation of Savaoth and the Phrygian, Phrygian gods, the Savasios.
So there's interest there because it just, it happens to be the exact same three letters that refer.
So if there were theological reasons to remove it, it may have been a recognition of the fact that some Greek speakers may think this is too close to Dionysus.
We need to see it.
It certainly makes sense in that, in that direction, right?
But we, we have the, the sad thing about, about Septuagint studies is the fact that our manuscript evidence tends to be pretty poor.
It, you know, we don't have, we have very little that actually goes back into the, the, certainly the Roman period.
All we have are bits and pieces and little fragments.
Hopefully, I mean, I mean, the, the more that gets published from the Oxyrhynchus collection, the better we'll, we'll definitely see, see this, this library, you know, increasing in, in size, there will be more, more data to draw from.
But, yeah, it, it, it's one of those things I actually, so a good friend of mine and Neil, if you haven't already, I suspect you probably have, but if you haven't already, you should look up the work of, of Anthony Meyer, he's a good friend of mine.
He did his PhD dissertation on this question of the, the usage of Iao in, in, in the, the manuscript tradition of, of, I'll say the Septuagint as shorthand for the, the Greek translations of the Hebrew Bible.
But yeah, if you haven't already, you should, you should check out what Anthony's written about this.
Thank you. Thank you.
Stop scamming man says I'm sure the main weakness for many aspiring scholars is the lack of knowledge of the languages.
Have you any tips for these people?
For aspiring scholars.
Well, I guess if, if you're an aspiring scholar, then, then yeah, you need to, you need to keep learning the languages and you need to set a strong focus there.
One of the things that I, I guess I would, I would also say is that when delving into the question of, of the languages and the usage, if you're not, if, if you're, if you don't know them relatively well, just be careful with, with the, the, the arguments that you're employing.
Or the ideas that you're latching on to in terms of, of what's happening.
Strongest in coordinates. I don't have to do that.
Yeah.
So can I just, I'll just tell you guys a story before I, before I started taking biblical languages, I was actually training for, for pastoral ministries.
So I was already preaching sermons before I knew a, a word of Hebrew or Greek.
And in those early days, I always had a fascination with the languages and hadn't got around to learning them yet.
But this is, I, I preached some fiery sermons using my strong's concordance.
And without having any sense or understanding of how the language is actually worked, what conjugations even meant with regards to verbal forms and how that can dramatically affect the meanings of words.
I preached some pretty creative sermons, some totally wrong sermons, but very creative.
Thank you so much, man.
Okay, the next one I think is this one stops gaming man, unlike Mark and Luke, which says, which say the women went to Jesus's tomb with spices.
Matthew simply says they went to visit the tomb.
Is the idea of women going to anoint a body with spice after days fishy?
Like, I guess this would be a question of like, what are the burial practices?
Jewish burial practices.
Right.
Or what, or what was the motivation to change it?
Right.
Yeah.
That's an interesting question.
Mark and Luke.
Hmm.
Hmm.
Yeah, I, in terms of the theological motivation for the change, or I, I just, I, I, by default, I have a tendency to assume, um,
theological changes when I see them, uh, within, within lots of the gospel.
So that, yeah, but whatever the change is, um, there's probably something underneath.
I don't, I don't know.
Um, but yeah.
Sorry.
Interesting question.
No, I may, you know, maybe we can.
The idea of women going to anoint the body with spice after days fishy.
This might have been one while Allison was literally about to leave too.
And I'm sure he had something to say about it, but I'm not going to call him on the phone right now.
He'd like, are you, are you not ignorant?
Like one of the things here too, I think, I think maybe, maybe it's, this is helpful clarification is it's not, it's not days after, right?
Like the, uh, the, the removal of the body.
If you're going with the classic timeline, the removal of the body from the cross would have happened, um, uh, on Friday right before, uh, right before Sabbath starts.
And, uh, the women, um, would have waited until the, uh, until the, the end of the Sabbath before going to the tomb anyways, you know, on the basis of, of what's the accepted timeline.
And, you know, what, what Jewish burial customs would have been.
So, uh, I, I don't think, I don't think that's fishy.
It would have been, you know, probably if this is something that actually happened, it would have been, um, you know, like, uh, like, like maybe just a little bit more than a 24 hour period.
So it's, it's, I don't, I don't, I don't know enough about, about, um, dead bodies to comment on the feasibility of this, but it, this doesn't strike me as, as a particularly vexing problem.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Well, hard work has popped up in two places like those dual donkeys.
And so I need to, uh, emphasize both super chats here.
Stephen, can you give an ETA on when offer the Greek classes you talked about?
Hold on.
I, I would.
Oh, do you have an ETA more or less?
You can give when you offer the Greek classes.
Well, if, if you reach out at stevenacrossbible.com, we can schedule something.
If you want one on ones before I release the classes, uh, because I'm always open to that.
I love doing that.
I love meeting people who have potential like early adopters and people who share, you know, a passion for the Bible.
But I would say that, um, you know, join, get on the mailing list.
Uh, the more I can build that up, the more I can show it to like potential investors and people who might be able to get on board and help me.
Um, just build the platform, um, because I intend on using the platform for the Greek classes.
So it's kind of like a chicken or the egg thing.
So I would say by the end of this year, I'm working on the, the, the format and the structure of how I'm going to do the classes.
They're going to be video explainers.
And then I want to integrate into that, you know, some, some one on one sessions that I can book with people or maybe group classes, reading classes.
I have a unique approach.
Uh, I, I lean very heavily into modern Greek and I use modern Greek to teach biblical Greek as a platform, which is very uncommon.
Basically, nobody does it.
Um, but it's, uh, I'm pioneering a new thing here with my Bible study platform.
So, so reach out directly, Stephen, across Bible.com, get on the mailing list.
Um, and if you, if you want to support me, I got a button there that just goes, uh, you know, right towards all the development costs and working with some amazing programmers.
And we're really rethinking the Bible and Bible software, uh, studying the Bible and digital way from the ground up.
So if you want to, you know, jump on this bandwagon, get on this movement, um, you know, reach out and support us real quick.
I think this is an important point because Stephen is literally rarely popping up when it comes to doing these kinds of things.
And he's gone out of his way to do this, but like I want to be a donkey kisser right now.
And, uh, just be ass kisser for those.
A cold, a cold kisser.
A cold kisser.
Um, and I want to say how much work Stephen has done, but I want to have it not only from my mouth because everyone knows I love to brag on the scholars and friends and things like that.
But like, Kip, you know how organized and ridiculous and Stephen goes like, I just want to brag and thank you Stephen for the work you've done helping me so far.
And just trying to explore the Bible and the languages and getting into the Greek and asking really, really precise and good questions.
But I encourage others to latch on to what you're trying to do and help in any way possible, uh, because this is really fun stuff.
Thank you.
Well, not, and I'm throwing in on the YouTube game.
So I'm going to get in on the back and forth.
I just don't want to like, I want to be friendly with everyone.
I really don't want toxicity.
I want a learning experience and I want, you know, my platform would be very focused on sort of an unbiased view of the text and the textual tradition and sort of in early Christianity and early, you know, Second Temple Judaism context.
That's, that's, that's really my core interest and with a strong focus on the language.
So hopefully I can sort of coexist with everyone in the ecosystem and not, not ruffle any feathers.
I'm not into like, you know, flame wars on the internet.
Thank you.
Uh, Trab Matthews 199.
Thank you, Trab.
Eric, best in the hizzy.
This is yours.
Oh, this is mine.
Phew.
Glad I didn't ask that Allison guy a question.
He deserted us all.
I don't want anything.
I just promised Kip.
I will watch on this channel.
Thank you, sir.
Yeah.
Eric's a good close friend of ours and he chose you over me and, um, it's, uh, it was bound to happen.
It was bound to happen at some point.
So, uh, Jason Caculo, that's on yours as well.
Is it on mine?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, means Jews worshiped a Dionysus derivative.
I would say no.
It, uh, it does not mean that.
Uh, yeah.
Oh, is a transliteration of, uh, yahoo, which is, uh, which is a form of the, uh, the,
the divine name, the Tetragrammaton Yahweh, that you see already within the Hebrew Bible text.
Uh, it's also, uh, attested in some very early, uh, Semitic inscriptions dating back to, um, you, you see it in the, in the eighth, ninth century.
Uh, and I believe even in some of the earliest ones, I, I might get this wrong.
It, it, it, you certainly see it back in the eighth, ninth century, but you might even see it earlier in the, uh, in, in as early as the 12th.
I might be wrong about that, but it appears that this was a very early, uh, form of, of, of the name of, of the divine name.
Uh, it is not a Dionysus derivative.
I would like to add.
So far as the, the, the, the, the Hebrew Bible is concerned or the Israelite, the ancient Israelite religious picture is concerned.
Yeah. Cause I was going to say, like, I think there's a lot more to the picture of how Jews under Hellenism, which is simply imitating and mimicking and finding a way to kind of collab.
Oftentimes Greek authors would say they call her this, but we know her as, and then Athena or whoever the goddess is or God in there.
And there's this blend going on.
We see in the Maccabees where they're literally making up genealogical traces to the Spartans with Jews.
And so this Hellenist project, they found inscriptions where like Zeus and Yahweh are the same God.
So it, and if you see how Greeks in a lot of their mythic tropes and stuff are actually pulling from Venetian, ancient, Mesopotamian stuff to kind of crap their myths.
It's almost like sister religions or sister cultures in a way that are adopting similar motifs.
And by Hellenism, some Jews, obviously you just read the Maccabees, you can find we're totally on the project of blending these deities and practices.
And I imagine some Jews were really worshiping Yahweh Dionysus in some way.
Whereas some were like, eh, we're pushing against this, our national identity, you know, whatever their motivation may be to go in opposition to what's going on with the Hellenistic project.
And we also see that with like Rome and things like that.
So it's like, it's a messy picture, but I could see this being adopted.
Yeah, I could see this being adopted, though, this name and finding a way to like, utilize that in a way to syncretize what's going on in certain Hellenized Jews projects.
So just to comment on that, as a point, you're saying its origins aren't necessarily at all related in that way, but the project may later have become something like that in certain contexts.
And I mean, important to point out that our sources for that later development continue to remain pretty speculative.
I mean, well, we have sources where it's clear that they are calling like Zeus and Yahweh the same.
As far as Dionysus though, I don't know a specific example I can give.
I don't know off the top of my head, but like it wouldn't shock me is all I'm saying, yeah.
Sylph.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Eric Best is back again.
This is yours.
Oh, yeah.
Thanks for answering my obnoxiously unsolicited questions about Greek over the past couple of years.
Appreciate you more money for kept.
Sweet.
Thanks, Eric.
Tenacious art girl.
What's the apologetic response for why no account of Jesus is big parade down Jerusalem Avenue when the city has over 200,000 people, many who can read and write.
Well, I would imagine if I'm going to put on my my my apologetics hat here, which doesn't fit as well as it once did.
But I would imagine the apologetic response for that is that I mean, we just don't have a lot of documentation of the period anyways.
So it shouldn't be a surprise if if if it's missing.
And then, you know, if if there ever was documentation of an event like this, one of the reasons why we don't have a lot of stuff from that, this particular period in the, you know, the the the second temple, the second
temple, the first century, I guess, specifically, is is because of the Jewish war.
And, you know, what that had, you know, the kind of impact that that had on the city of Jerusalem would certainly would would would certainly have have caused created a hole, right, in any sort of written documentation
that we would have in this sort of thing. So that's with my apologetic hat on. I don't, you know, whether whether or not this is something that happened.
I don't particularly think it's significant that that it's not mentioned anywhere.
So it's kind of odd, though, I mean, it's it's a good question to ask, even if we don't have sources, because Josephus mentions Judas the Galilean, for example,
Yep.
With with cleansing temples and stuff. And why is he not mentioning Jesus with cleansing now, you know what I mean, see I and my response to that is that if this is an event that happened, I think that probably just indicates to you.
You know, that it was, it was probably a much smaller event could be then than what Josephus has posited. I do know that and this is not a this is this is not just Christian apologists, I do know that some archaeologists and historians
of the region and the period will will connect dots between there. If I if I have this, if I remember this correctly, there is a there is an increase of a Roman presence in Jerusalem, which is, which is quite large, like a
Roman, Roman legions that specifically takes place right around 34 CE 34 AD. And I do know that there, there are archaeologists, Greek historians who will connect that to, you know, some of the things that are that are mentioned
in the gospel in terms of of the sort of unrest and the tumult that was that was common at the time.
Interesting. Thank you.
Travis Matthews, could Arimathea be Ramatheum, Zofim, translated into Greek.
I'm not the language guy.
Ramatheum, Zofim.
I mean, there's the argument that it's totally Greek that it's Arimathea like that it's good learning, you know, that that's a Greek derivative that's the, that's the counterpoint to that.
Yeah.
I don't know. Thank you.
Nuri Suna. And I'm not going to know this language game here. So you might want to read this here, kid.
Oh, I don't, I don't do Arabic either. So the Arabic word for sign is ayah.
And the Hebrew equivalent of which is out. The former can be used to denote an entity's physical body. Can the latter be used similarly or no?
I don't know of that being the case offhand. Let me just look it up quickly here. And I can give you an answer.
Most of the time, let's see.
I play Stephen's website again for those who are asking, we got a super chat coming about that just ahead of time.
Cross Bible. It's simple.
I hope it doesn't crash.
I know, right?
Swap it.
It's new. It's all super new. It's rough. I just had to get it out there, people. So we're working on it. We're working hard on it.
Day in and day out.
But go check them out.
So I'm just, I'm just looking in here in my lexicon and it does not appear to function as an indication of a person, at least not in the Hebrew Bible and not in the in the Dead Sea Scrolls either.
I would have to go over there and grab my, my, my rabbinic Hebrew dictionary to check on the, on the later literature.
Thank you. Thank you for jabbing at that one.
Stouse25.
Kip.
Have Josh McDowell or his associates reach out after your video? Curious about the feedback?
Yeah.
So I think no, I have, I have, I've heard nothing in response from the McDowell camp directly about it.
I do know that, that the McDowells were made aware of it. And I, I believe that they have watched it.
I also get the sense that, that there is some reluctance on, on, on their side just to, to even make any sort of public acknowledgement of the documentary.
I don't, I think they're probably mad that I wasn't very nice.
And I also didn't, I didn't, I did not consult them beforehand on, on the content that I was, that I was making. So.
Bad boy. Bad, bad boy. Oh my gosh, Eric Betz.
Derek, you knew I was going to love my boy. Thank you all. First time I've caught alive.
By the way, the, the air Eric just texted me and said that the last, the last super chat that he sent to my channel was, was actually specifically for Stephen. Sorry, Stephen.
No, I, I, I addressed it.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you. Thank you, Eric. Appreciate it. Question every claim. Wow. Big old super chat. Holy smokes. Great job, Derek. Incredible guests and show. Have a book on me. Thank you for that.
Very nice.
I just purchased a couple of books here and yeah, thank you for that. Also, subscribe to kit. You know, we're dual streaming this right now and subscribe to Stephen. He's got the new cross Bible website.
I'm curious. I got 13 subscribers and 12 views on my one video. That's the first three part series. So let's see when we get off, maybe I can and get 100 man. I don't know. Throw me a bone guys.
Yeah, throw all the bones at Stephen.
Bones.
Lost fan says, what is Stephen's website? I want to sign up.
Cross Bible.com. It's, it's, it originally was a tool, you know, I've been working on it for like a decade now and it was originally cross reference Bible, but that's long and cross Bible is a little catchier. So yeah, hopefully you can
I like that.
I remember it. It is built around cross references. So it's aligning the New Testament with the Old Testament, but giving it to you with the option of viewing it in he been in in Greek or in English translation of the Greek, because those are the way that's the way it lines up as opposed to, you know, the good old like
I love it, but you know, all this stuff is just relegated to like footnotes and it's, it's, I think we, we as a community of Bible students need to do better and provide in I'm aiming to build better digital Bible study resources because the ones that are out there just are disappointing.
Kip, we have so much that we could say, Stephen, we have so much we could say, and if you want, I guess we should go ahead and start rounding out this live stream together and like comments, observations, mind changing where you're at in this like what you
think's going on. Are you convinced at least or nudging toward Matthew knowing Hebrew at this point based on this conversation. And I'm going to use the restroom real quick. That's cool.
Okay.
Before you go, Derek, can you pull up the third image in the PDF so Kip and I can go over it while you're while you're gone.
Yeah, let's let's talk about that.
Because I mentioned that there were some things that even though you know like totally commend. Yeah, so the fat. Yeah, that one. I don't know if you can zoom in on it make a little bigger.
And I can. I just peed my pants. Thanks to you guys.
So, yeah, this was this was what we were going over which obviously the slide that that Dr. Kip prepared on his stream was had the Hebrew integrated so I didn't integrate integrate the Hebrew in this I was just focusing on the Greek, because I'm just trying to figure
out okay if Matthew has a Greek source that is, you know, adjusted and rescinded towards the the proto Masoretic text. The thing I wanted to clarify was regarding the genders because everything is like it's at least the way that that Mike Jones phrased his argument was really based on the
genders because they don't match up right. So what you have in in our version of the Greek Septuagint in in Zachariah 99 is a position what the way I say who pose you on for some people.
That's how I say it.
But it's neuter. Right. So it's not feminine. It's not masculine. It's neuter. So it's neutral. And what Matthew, or his source trend, then whoever translated this from the Hebrew is changing that to onus, which is either masculine
or Hebrew, it can go both ways. It just whatever article you put in front of it is the gender that you've decided to use it as and he uses it definitively as as feminine. So what he's doing here is he's taking a neuter noun, and he's making it feminine.
And I think the argument is, OK, I don't understand the argument, to be honest. If there if both if the Hebrew has both animals as masculine, then then then it doesn't follow that he must be translating from the Hebrew, because it's feminine.
Right. Like, I, you know, that the thing is so so the changes here for the record is neuter to feminine and position to onus, and then polos is already masculine. Right. So then that's just that's masculine all the way through.
So I don't see that change as like a significant indicator that, oh boy, he just he had he had no, he was not reading the Greek here. He was translating from the Hebrew.
And then the only clue that he may have been translating from the Hebrew or that his source text is a more faithful translation of the Hebrew, Masoretic text or proto Masoretic text is because is this final phrase that I want you to talk about again. Yeah.
Epipollon, yon i posihiu. So now it's like the sun or the offspring, the donkey, the son of the offspring of the donkey. So that little noun phrase, son of the donkey, or child of the donkey, that's the thing that's interesting in terms of like answering the addressing the question of whether or not Matthew knew Hebrew or just use the source that was based on the Hebrew.
Yep. I'm actually just pulling it up here.
I'm actually. So I'm just pulling it up here in the Hebrew. And it is a it is a translation of the Al Ayir ben Atonot, which is literally translated on basically on a cult, the son of draft animals. And that's the other thing that that that is having a very strong connection with the
happening there, which makes me think that that if which makes me think that that Matthew is not drawing directly from the Hebrew either is that that last word is plural.
Draft animals, right? He posihion would be plural. Yes. Yeah, if he was literally translating from the Greek, which isn't happening there. And like, I mean, people can go back and look at the stream that I did the very long stream response that I made
to Michael Jones about what's happening in this text. And I keep coming back to a few things which make me think on this question. And I, you know, so I'll just say this.
I have probably moved a little bit in terms of my feelings about about who the author Matthew was and his familiarity with, you know, Jewish tradition. I would I would say early early rabbinic tradition I'm using square scare quotes are a lot just because
you have to you have to extrapolate backwards from the medieval period into the first century when when we're talking about
you know what's going on in the in the Mishnah and in the the Talmud and the Midrashim. So I, I, I am more persuaded now, especially after having spent more time with with Dale's commentary and talking to him that that Matthew is undeniably Jewish.
And has roots within a strong Jewish community. What that looks like in terms of his familiarity with the Hebrew language, and with with the Hebrew text of the Bible, I think is a is a much more difficult question to answer.
But on this. So, but on this particular text on Zechariah 99, I don't think that that you can you can make a strong argument on his dependency of a Hebrew text at any stage. And the reason for that is taking the whole thing into consideration.
And for me, the fact that Matthew is quoting verbatim from the Septuagint in those in in those is it two or three stikos there.
The, the Kurasi Thugater Yerushalayim is directly from the Septuagint Idulho Basileos Suh Erkutai Suh directly out of the Septuagint.
Well, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, oh, yeah, if you're if you're crossing over with Isaiah 62, then yes, that match is perfect. Yeah, exactly. He has a lot of like, yeah, I it's, it's hard to imagine that he had, you know, just so happened to translate it in a way that aligned perfectly, unless he just knew that text by heart, or knew that.
And it's possible to that he's that he he's drawing from what he's what he's he's heard in synagogue. But I think it's just as likely that that he's got a Greek version of a Hebrew text that looks closer to, you know, potentially closer, I guess, and I guess the on that last line.
Yeah. And the other point here is that the just and salvific he is right in Greek, it's so zone.
That's the like, yeah.
That sounds like in Hebrew.
Like, it's, it's, it's, it's a.
So it's the passive part is very much the same. Right. Yeah, it's, it's saved in Hebrew and not saving. Yeah, like in shape. So the theory is, if he had the Greek version in front of us that looked like that and he had that line.
And it said saving in the Greek, logically, Matthew just would have put that there because Jesus is saving.
And so that's another that that weighs in the direction of Hebrew, because then it's like, well, maybe maybe he was reading the Hebrew because the Hebrew says saved and he didn't want to put that Jesus was saved, you know, I don't know, that's that's my interpretation.
Yeah. And there's there's complications with with the Hebrew there too, because that particular verb only appears in in the in the two declensions in Hebrew.
And, and can can, you know, it can be it makes the translation a little bit more malleable there but the big one for me is the the the repetition by Matthew of that that word prowess.
For, I believe it's a knee in the Hebrew, the word humble.
It's a very strange way of translating that word.
And when you look through it occurs frequently throughout the Hebrew Bible.
When you look through all the instances where where the Septuagint translates that word, they almost never use prose for that one.
There's a different word that that they use that I'm that that, you know, I'm I am not I'm not remembering off the top of my head.
But to me, that's kind of a that's that's quite a strong indicator that that he's got a Greek text in front of him, and that he's not translating that out of the Hebrew because it's it's strange.
It's odd. Why would you do that?
So, um, yeah, so that was that was as deep as I wanted to get into the weeds of this.
Okay, we've lost a lot of people.
It's all good. It's all good.
No doubt. No doubt.
So the one thing that I the one thing that I wish we had had a little bit more time to talk about with Dale, which, in my opinion, I keep coming back to this as sort of the the critical hinge of this argument is the fact that Matthew needs to get two donkeys into the story.
And the fact that Matthew has Jesus sitting on two donkeys in this story, like we can go through, you know, some of the apologetics, Stephen mentioned this idea that Jesus is not sitting on two donkeys he's sitting on the cloaks,
right, doesn't work from a source critical appraisal of the text, because Matthew is following so closely Mark's version, and making these very deliberate changes that we can track right.
Like we see exactly where the record.
It's not riding the donkeys is not he's going and like, you know, getting into donkey. Yes, he just sits down and like he mounts them.
But as the extension description, while we didn't get to get him to really like dwell on it, he did answer the question.
Yeah, when you bring it up and he said, Matthew does not have the visuals of what's happening with Jesus and the donkeys in mind, he has the text.
He is thinking in text and not in reality of what is actually occurring. In fact, you could use the argument and Matthew's birth narrative.
See, Bart just did a course before it launched public where people could purchase on the Gospel of Matthew.
He talks about the star, they follow the star, and it just rests above the place where Jesus is born.
And it's like, then what Bart did in the course, which was interesting in highlighting Allison's points, he says, what, what does this look like?
How do we visualize a star, you know, and it's an acronym stick to assume what we know what stars are compared to what they would have found of stars.
But like, how would that have looked and and what was the point?
He goes, it doesn't make any sense in the literal what had actually happened.
Matthew's goal is not what happened in the literal sense as like, in his writing of it, he's not trying to like actually give you the vivid here's what it would look like in a photograph.
It's more narrative its story and, you know, I'm personally persuaded what Matthew's doing is not only going from the Hebrew scriptures clearly to rewrite Moses to deal with.
He's doing a midrash of a lot of this material.
But I also think Richard C Miller has an interesting parallel between the birth of Alexander the Great, and where Persian magi come to the birth of this God man, this man who becomes a God.
And he's done interesting parallels between that.
So birth narratives.
I love catching them.
Suetonius does this for the Caesars.
The list goes on and on.
But I just want to highlight.
I don't think his goal is I'm writing something that makes perfect sense.
And it's just obvious.
It's story.
You know, one thing I found interesting is I can I consulted a few different modern Greek translations of this passage to see because these are modern Greek translations that are sanctioned by the Greek Orthodox Church.
The official position of the Greek Orthodox Church.
What is it?
Is it equally ambiguous when it gets rendered in modern Greek, which is close to the Bible?
And these translations were all over the map, but it clearly is their official position that he sat on one donkey.
And like in one of the translations that's normally normally follows along the ancient Greek pretty literally and just renders it like line by line.
And when it gets to that passage, it's like the disciples couldn't tell the could couldn't decide which they put the cloaks on on one animal and then the other animal because they didn't know on which one Jesus was going to sit.
And then he sat on the mother donkey fire if I recall.
And so it's like they're obviously doing some backflips because they don't like this whole like sitting on two donkeys thing.
It is admittedly counterintuitive and weird.
Obviously creates this tension.
Obviously it spawned this whole like, you know, series of video discussions.
And I just, you know, I share Dr. Allison sentiment that it's just not that important at the end of the day.
I agree.
Yeah, I agree.
But I so one of the things that I I I wanted to mention, I didn't when I did my stream, when I did my response to Michael, I hadn't had the chance to read this particular essay yet.
And it's one that he references with quite a high frequency.
It's this.
It's an article written by Bernard battle, who is an ancient Near Eastern scholar.
And he he wrote this this little article for for a festrift that was published for for a friend of his.
It's it's called enthroned upon.
Let me just grab the exact title here.
It's called enthroned upon donkey is the entry of divine Jesus into Jerusalem, according to Matthew.
So when and and this particular article, when I when I, Michael Jones likes to draw on this one quite a bit in in the in making the point that what Matthew is trying to do in this story is is to illustrate Jesus.
Illustrate Jesus's divinity as enthroned upon two living creatures as he's entering into the city of Jerusalem.
And then he kind of conflates that a little bit with I believe it's Robert Gundry in discussing this particular passage suggests that the cloaks.
Over top of the two animals are representative of like, like a chariot thrown like a divine, a divine chariot thrown right battle doesn't actually make that particular
point. He just says that the placement of these these two animals possibly draws on some some active ritual imagery that survives from from Syria, which is where many scholars think that Matthew was was writing from in the first place.
But I found this, I'm going to quote this right in in the in the in the conclusion of his paper here, which I found really interesting.
Just sorry, I'm going to need to.
It's really an elaborate explanation for the tweaking of a couple of pronouns like to be honest.
It is.
It really is.
But this is interesting.
This is.
Yeah, it's great.
It's interesting.
The thing about this, though, is where battle actually ends up in this article is not a place that I don't think any Christian apologist actually wants to be.
So here's what he says.
Let me just get my placement right here.
So in scene after scene throughout the gospel, the evangelist affirms the divinity of Jesus continually reminding the reader that Jesus is the Son of God from heaven.
Is that the right spot?
Or is it over here?
Sorry.
I should have.
I didn't.
I didn't plan on doing this.
But maybe I can.
Maybe it might be better for me to just paraphrase this.
I guess for the record, the argument's more elaborate than than than I characterized and I should be fair.
A little bit.
So I'll just say, yeah, I can't find it specifically within this article.
But what battle basically says is that the way in which Matthew has Jesus sitting on two animals, and he clearly thinks that Jesus is sitting on two animals in his article.
But then he suggests actually that there's the usage of the preposition that Matthew uses to show Jesus sitting.
He continuously translates that as sitting over the donkeys, right?
The prepositions involved are Epi, which is like on, and Epano, which is a combination of Epiano, so it's like on top of versus on, which in English has no real distinction.
Exactly.
So but for battle, he seems to think that this is somehow significant of portraying Jesus.
If I'm reading battle correctly, he seems to think this is significant of portraying Jesus, maybe not even like like sitting on the donkey so much as sitting above them.
So it's almost like a suspended Jesus over the donkeys entering the city of Jerusalem, which is even weirder than anything that.
If we're going to get imaginative here, Kip, let's get a little imaginative for a second.
I'm going to take you a little bit on a little bit of a trail here.
There is so much art and antiquity.
We can go into way ancient, you know, ancient Near Eastern examples where this stuff is showing up in Egyptian gods with the heads of donkeys.
Okay, they are donkey looking.
One of them was an evil God, in fact, and David Litwa gets in the evil creator origins of an early Christian idea.
He goes in and talks about this donkey and even we have an inscription of a crucified man donkey with a donkey head that they didn't know what that was, which is actually a mockery of Jesus.
But Dionysus himself in stone and on coins and everything is riding donkeys, demigod heroes.
These are these are divine figures that were men.
And I mean, if we want to get a bit speculative, right, we can throw the blanket out there and talk about enthroned demigods riding on donkeys.
Okay, cool.
Dionysus did this too.
But also how there's a polemic against Yahweh and they believed there's Jewish, not Jewish, there's Roman and Greek sources that hint at this God in the temple that they don't show everybody is actually a donkey headed deity.
They won't show you.
And so like there's this, there's this like donkey imagery and donkey stuff happening a lot with Yahweh from its polemical, you know, people who are not fans of Judaism from the Roman and Greek sources.
And so I just figured I'd throw a little curveball in there and we could share images if we wanted to just give an example.
You know, here's a coin, for example, of Dionysus riding on a donkey.
There's a visual.
He's laying on it.
I mean, that's pretty heavy stuff.
The other example I wanted to show and it's better to just do it from Google and you can go and look this up yourself.
If you think I'm full of it, feel free to.
I'm all about doing that kind of stuff and having people check it out.
But this is the other one, right?
This is a second century AD.
They borrowed from Jesus.
I mean, it's a long sentence.
Donkeys play a significant mythological trope in so many cultures, but in this region, you'll find it in Egypt.
You'll find it in Greek material, Roman with the Dimesan cults as well.
And then here you have Jesus riding on a donkey, which might just be simple.
Let's just look at scripture and we can answer our questions that way.
Cool.
But it might work in light of Gentiles inclusion, especially with the Great Commission, which is geared toward, look, we gave the Jews a chance.
You went through the cities of Jerusalem and Israel.
You went to the Jew first.
And now we're going to the Gentile.
You're laying out the red carpet potentially.
I'm just, there's a bit of speculation.
How about that?
It's a massive fun.
It is.
And I think I think the point to be drawn out of this is that.
So the common apologetic response to reading this text is to use your common sense, right?
Use your common sense.
That looks stupid.
Of course, this isn't what Matthew was thinking because this looks stupid.
I would say that an appropriate response as a scholar of literature or as someone who's interested in the mythology and the literature of the period is to just say, hold on a minute.
Some of this stuff really does look stranger than what we think it should.
Well, because your common sense is modern common sense and they may not be the same sensibilities.
Exactly.
The contradiction is that common sense demands.
So, you know, according to this argument, common sense demands that he sat on the cloaks that were on one donkey or there are two donkeys, but he favored the one.
But I don't, I just don't buy it because again, even if you're, you're reaching for these like, okay, well, it was, they were on both animals and it was an elevated altar that he was writing.
It's like, well, you're still, you're still faced with this problem and common sense can't bail you out of it.
And that, yeah, and when you get, when you get to that point, when you're starting to encroach on the territory of Bernard Battle, then it looks even weirder than what you imagined, right?
So, I know Dale said, I think he said that Matthew created a problem for himself in his rendition.
Or he wasn't aware that he created the problem.
Or he wasn't aware that he created a problem.
Maybe that's it.
See, and I think when, when I've discussed this, I think I've said a few times that I just don't think Matthew particularly cared to think about the, what we would consider a pragmatic, realistic situation.
Because he's not, that's not what he's doing, right?
Like he's not, he's not crafting a historical narrative.
He is, he's writing theology.
He's writing good.
What's ironic though, is if, and part of this is the fault of like English Bible translators, because I was looking for a good English Bible translation to put in that synopsis, so I didn't have to make up my own.
That would reflect this word order.
And to my recollection, none of them did.
They all say they put the cloaks on the donkeys and he sat on them.
And it's like, so, so the closest antecedent in English is the donkeys.
And so it's only when you go back, you mean the cloaks, cloaks.
Well, when you go back to the Greek, the sentence order is shifted.
So the cloaks are the closest antecedent.
And that's what, you know, Jonathan McClatchy and Tim McGriffin, like this is what all these people are reaching for this.
Well, if you look at the Greek, the antecedents are switched.
So this is, you know, like this breaks our issue, you know, this solves the problem that the English translations have created by switching the syntax.
But the word order is the same in Mark.
Like you still the closest antecedent is still the cloaks in Mark and he's sitting on it.
So that that was what I was trying to point out with this synopsis that I had to customize because all the English translation swap the word order because it just sounds better in English, I guess.
Because in English, it sounds weird to say he put the, the, the, he put on the donkeys, the cloaks, and then he sat on them.
That is not natural word order in English.
So it just doesn't work.
Yep.
Have we made asses out of ourselves yet with these donkeys?
This is the last time, right?
No, because you know, we're going to get a three hour response to this, right?
Oh, probably.
I hope so.
I mean, at least one that we found more common ground.
But for the record, like, I'm totally on the other side on this one.
Like, you know, I, I, I opened this thing by giving kudos to Michael.
So if he's still listening to this, like, let's get on a call, man.
Like, I want to talk about this.
I, yeah.
And, and I, I too.
So I've, I've had some exchanges with Michael about, about this idea.
It, it's, it's, it does seem to be.
It's an, it's an unfortunate, I think it's an unfortunate sticking point for,
for, for a lot of people who, who, who have to have the texts come together
into, into this, this, this alignment, right?
We have to, we have to make sure that they're all both saying the same thing.
My observation.
And that's, and that's troubling.
Well, that was the, that was the thing.
My, my prickly point wasn't so much is Matthew aware of Hebrew.
Honestly, I never really gave a crap if he knew Hebrew or didn't.
In fact, based on the conversations with Dell,
he sways me with a cumulative case to think he at least has some component of
knowledge of Hebrew, even if it is just playing Gamatria, like,
you know, letter, alphabetic stuff and finding ways to piece something there.
That could be the case.
He seems to know something here.
That never bothered me.
And you guys were nerding out on the language and the details here.
And that's important to what my goal was to show is that this is a literary
work crafting a significant narrative to the group that identifies as Christian,
as followers of this Christ, but that we're not dealing with historical
reportage as is.
And if we can get more apologists, not just Christians, but like apologists to
start going down the route of, man, I don't have to force this to be.
They sat on a cloaks because that would then contradict the situation
between Mark and Matthew and have it be to donkeys and Matthew.
Stephen was, I was actually smiling from ear to ear when I was watching him
and Michael Jones, and he was willing to confess that with my comment in the
chat going, you know, it could be that there was no historical to donkeys.
I'm going.
I mean, for me, it's like Stephen Boyce.
Stephen Boyce.
Stephen Boyce.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because we haven't even addressed the question like, was there one or was there
two?
If you had a camcorder back then, what would it be?
And the typical argument is that there were always two.
There was two in Mark.
There's two in like they just, Matthew's the only one that mentions the mother.
That's the sort of, I believe that the standard.
I think that's the way it goes.
That's how they would understand it.
Yeah.
And they do it the other way around.
It just doesn't work.
Yeah.
It's like, okay.
So they just didn't mention it.
But my problem, my problem was saying that like, okay, the, the, the argument
that if Matthew was referencing the Greek, that is somehow negative, but that's
like wrong.
Like we got to push back on that.
I don't know.
Matthew is translating Hebrew.
Like I don't think that's the case.
I think he could have been a very, he could have just been like Philo of Alexandria,
like super intelligent, well trained, you know, in the rabbinical school just
happened to speak Greek as a native language.
And you relied on Greek translations because that was what, that was what pretty
much most of the New Testament authors are doing most of the time.
And that is the whole premise of like, why build cross Bible?
Because I want that Greek text to be front and center in those cross references.
And modern, you know, the Bible software just doesn't do that.
They just, there's an institutional preference for the Hebrew Masoretic text that needs
to be kind of like counterbalanced with a good, with exposure to the Septuagint.
Cause you get that in commentaries.
Why can't I get that in my Bible study?
We have a really, really interesting one that came up.
Isn't the most reasonable explanation that Jesus sat on the little donkey, which sat
on the big donkey?
Yeah.
Now we're getting somewhere.
That's the, and, and, and, you know, like, there's another reading there for you,
right?
Gia had that image up and like, this is the whole pro, you know, like it's, it's, it's
fun to like laugh about it, but like it, it really, it's understandable why that drives
the, you know, Mike Jones and, and everybody, you know, and they're justified.
And, you know, my favorite moment was in the last stream when, when, when Michael like
pulled up the commentary from, from Allison to point and like, this is what I'm citing
guys.
Like what more do you want from me?
Like, like I'm doing my, my homework here, like I'm citing my sources.
You got to get started.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I'm glad you did.
And Kip, look, me, Kip, you know, we're always clashing, but look, we, if we think we're wrong
or we're not sure or persuaded by something or even nudged in a direction, sure, we hope
that the other side will compromise as well and try to meet somewhere where it seems the
evidence points to.
I don't think it's a coincidence.
And I want your comments on this, that Mike Lacona, you know, ended up taking kind of
a controversial evangelical stance on Matthew, the end of Matthew with the, the saints rising
from the graves and saying, I don't think this is history.
I think this is an allegory.
He found a different kind of category to put it in, but it didn't happen as a special
effects or something like that.
Right.
And he gets fired from wherever he was working at the time for this.
This is a big deal, but I don't want to get lost into that.
The whole drama of what it caused.
But to find someone like him, make a stand like that, even though it cost him so much
and I'm sure it was a struggle, I'm impressed and proud because I know how difficult it
is to let go of the historical reportage.
This had to happen as the text says kind of model that we in the post enlightenment era
have to have to make sense of this stuff.
It's anachronistic.
And I just, I don't think Christians, maybe they did struggle with it at times, but I
don't think that was their biggest thing when they walked away with Matthew.
This had to happen exactly as it is.
Maybe it was just poetic.
Maybe it had a meaning in the story and not so much exact verbatim.
Well, that's, I mean, that's just it, right?
Like the, the history of biblical scholarship and then the, the reactions to it are really
just a reflection of the history of the enlightenment and like the scientific revolution where modern
critical biblical scholarship was born out of, out of, out of the, this strong commitment
to naturalism.
And the ironic thing about this is that, so this, you know, this happened in the, in,
in the 17th, 18th, 19th centuries by the end of the 19th century and the, and the beginning
of the 20th century, you start to get some pushback from what came to be known as the
fundamentalists who drew their name from the publication of a series of books or pamphlets
called The Fundamentals.
These are a series of, of articles that were written by, by pastors and scholars attempting
to counter this rapidly expanding program of historical critical scholarship that was,
that had developed over the last 100, 150 years, right?
The, the amazing thing about it is that it's now going in another direction where instead
of returning to a pre-critical period and insisting on, well, you know, we, we, we follow
these traditional approaches to reading and interpreting the text that, that emphasize
the allegorical and the symbolic as well as, you know, the historical kernels in there.
No, we're, we're going to ditch all that and invent a new program of reading the Bible
that promotes naturalism and historicity as best as we can understand it.
At the heart of it, fundamentalism, these, these ideas about quote, unquote, taking the
Bible seriously, reading the text plainly, understanding everything that's in there as
something that had to have happened is very much a naturalistic program, right?
It's, it's centered on this idea that we somehow prioritize history over everything else in our
attempts to ascertain meaning. And, you know, I, like as an historical critical scholar,
I'm keenly interested in history, right? That's, that's a big part of my, my whole
project when it comes to reading and interpreting the Bible. But part of my recognition, part of
that though, is recognizing that in antiquity, there was not this drive towards, you know,
these, these, these camera ready copies of real events or, or real quote unquote, real life
in the same sense that we understand it today. So the genres just weren't defined then they were
starting to get defined, but it was, there were still deviations. Yeah, for sure. So I love it.
Any final words from you gentlemen? No, I'm good. It's fun to hang out with you guys on a,
on a Thursday afternoon. Thank you so much for having me and I think I got like a 10 subscribers
since we started. Awesome. Yeah, that's awesome. You will get more and I do want to just, of course,
announce tomorrow. Stay tuned. Kip is streaming. We're dealing with slavery in the Bible again.
I guess, again, it's things keep, it's almost like, you know, they keep being said. Listen,
it's, it's frustrating just because after, you know, two, three, four, five years on this platform,
you know, it feels like we continue to retread the same ground and people continue to, to make
the same bad arguments about biblical slavery. And the thing I think I get most frustrated by
is the fact that our good friend, Dr. Joshua Bowen has now written and revised and massively
updated an excellent accessible book on the topic of biblical slavery, which I think like,
you know, and this is, yeah, it's, it's not a peer reviewed text, but it's a serious text
that is being read and grappled with by actual scholars. Right. And for some reason,
Josh's work, important work on this topic just continues to be ignored
by Christian apologists. And I'm, I'm, I'm quite frankly fed up with it. I'm getting
frustrated at the fact that, uh, that we have to keep retreading the same ground. So here we are
again. We'll be back tomorrow. Yeah, we'll have plenty to say tomorrow about that. I hope people
will go to CrossBible.com, subscribe to Kip, obviously subscribe to MythVision. We're a family
here trying to, you know, keep educating and bringing this stuff to you. And, uh, we did have
a few super chats before we go. Lost fan asked Derek, did you already answer this burning question?
We all need to know and only you can resolve this issue. Are we, or are we not MythVision?
We are MythVision, right? I think that's what you, what you always say.
We are MythVision. Yes. Another one, get Jay Smith on to talk about changes to Quran.
I take a deep breath because it's like, I just, I could go to academics who I don't
think are a polemicist against Islam to do that. He might bring some valuable insights
and maybe write about a lot of stuff, but it's like me going and getting David Wood
to collab on, you know, Islam. And I see him do so many things with his own religion
in a hypocritical way that also apply to Christianity to Islam. So it's like,
I emailed him a long time ago and he never responded. So Jay Smith may know who I am,
but I have not tried again. And I'm not so sure I'd even be interested when I have,
I have actual like PhDs in the field of early Islam,
Quranic studies. They know the Arabic inside and out can speak it, read it fluidly and all that.
I just don't, I don't see the point. Stop Scamming Man says some say the women wouldn't have anointed
several day old corpse in the culture. Maybe, but there was seemingly some variety on this.
Second Kings 13 has Elisha's remains doing miracles when touched. No, that's true.
I don't want to leave anyone hanging. But again, I think, I don't think we have to,
yeah, it's, it's not, it's probably not several days in the Gospels.
Thank you. Thank you. All right. Well, have a nice day, everybody.
All right. Thanks guys. All right. Thanks. Bye. Thanks. Have a good one.
