Dr. Richard Carrier, I have a really good fan, Anthony Guthrie, and he has a question for you.
All right. He says, apologist often try to handle for the problem of slavery being in the Bible.
How similar are the biblical principles of slavery for non-Israelites as compared to the
principles of slavery in America during the transatlantic slave trade? Did American slave
owners and anti-abolitionists try to use the Bible to justify that slavery should be continued
because it was in line with God's will? Why would an existing omnipotent loving being choose a
method of revelation that would be at least, at the very least, be interpreted in support of such
an abusive system? Right. Why would that God not make very clear that slavery should be outlawed
when it took the time to tell us that we shouldn't wear mixed fabrics or eat shellfish?
Yeah. I mean, that's a spot on question, of course. A God who actually believed in liberty and
human rights and things like that would not make that mistake. It would be fundamental that you
shall not own slaves. It would probably even say you should free all slaves that you can find
from your people that you conquer or whatever. It would have an actual declaration of human
rights and principles of freedom. The Bible doesn't have that because it didn't believe in those things
back then. If you're going to compare it to antebellum slavery, which is probably the most
brutal system of slavery ever developed by the human race, you look at the ancient context.
Now Hector Avalos wrote several books on this, so it's worth looking if you want to look into
slavery and the comparison of slave systems around the Israelites at the time and the Israelite slave
code and how they compare, they're pretty lined up. In fact, some of the other cultures have more
enlightened slave laws than we find in the Bible. The Bible is very simplistic stripped down legal
system. There's much more sophisticated legal systems that it's copying bits of around them.
I think that's probably one of the strongest and most secure moral combinations of the Bible,
and definitely guarantees that the Bible could not and was not written by any kind of God.
The fact that a book could be so easily used to promote antebellum's
South slavery is a huge red flag, I would think.
Oh yeah, absolutely. It should be impossible. It should be as impossible as using the 13th
and 14th Amendments to justify slavery. That's even granting the fact that the 13th Amendment
actually does allow still slavery as long as you're a convicted criminal. We still have slave
trading in the US today. Even our Constitution now amended is not the perfectly moral document
that it could have been. But it is still far superior in its morality and in its prescience
and understanding of human liberty and the need for human welfare, certain rights and principles
for human welfare. You don't find this in the Bible. I have an article on that Christian nation
nonsense that I have. Then I have other articles on my blog about pagan origins of things like human
rights and other aspects of constitutional government and things of that nature. If you
want to go and check, the Greeks and Romans came up with much more enlightened stuff,
and even they were far backward compared to where we are today.
Yeah, often I hear Christians try to justify that it wasn't what we think. Maybe there's
some truth to the fact that it wasn't as cruel as antebellum South slavery. I spoke with Dr. Joshua
Bowen and he was mentioning that there are some of the court systems in the South where they had
laws just like the Bible where you can beat them in the inch of their life, but don't kill them
because if you kill them, it's the same thing. And if you took that, why is that even in the Bible?
Were people beating their slaves to death? Well, yeah, of course.
So it makes me think like... I mean, that's what happened to the antebellum South.
Brutal torture and abuse was standard. And you've got to remember, the Bible doesn't
just endorse slavery. It endorses sex slavery as well, which is also a component of antebellum
slavery. And it is the chattel form of slavery too. You often hear people say, no, it's just
indentured servitude. It's not. There's a special rule for the master race, right? So if you've got
the Israelites and they can sell themselves for limited periods like seven years and then
they have to be freed or whatever. But that's just for Israelites. But this is what the actual
Bible says. This is Leviticus 25. As for your male and female slaves whom you may have,
you may acquire male and female slaves from the pagan nations that are around you.
Then too, it is out of the sons of the sojourners who live as aliens among you, in other words,
other non-Israelites, that you may gain acquisition. In other words, turn them into slaves. And out of
their families who are with you, whom they will have produced in your land, they also may become
your possession. You may even bequeath them to your sons after you to receive as a possession.
You can use them as permanent slaves. So that's antebellum slavery right there.
And even like the system that we use was fundamentally racist. This is also racist in the
sense that Israelites are not subject to this slave law. It has to be outsiders. But it's not
color-based racism, right? So this isn't like white people or free colored people are slaves.
The antebellum system definitely was built off of the backs of the Age of Exploration,
which decided we're going to raid Africa for slaves and create this system, this race-based
system. In fact, W. E. B. Du Bois said like, before the Age of Exploration, there were no white
people, meaning that the concept of whiteness as a racial identification didn't exist. You had
Germans, you had Portuguese, you had Italians, you had Ethiopians. You didn't have color-based
race. It did not exist. It was only the slave owners and the slavers of the Age of Exploration,
when the great empire started raiding continents, mostly the continent of Africa for slaves,
even Native Americans when they were enslaved. It was always a color-based slave system.
Even that you might have some white people in indentured servitude in some of the colonies,
that was not the system of slavery that we're talking about that was going on in parallel.
It's just like the Bible. You have white people, you could have indentured servitude,
and even that died out pretty quickly. But black people were going to be permanent slaves that
you can sell and own. The Bible has several passages in it about how you can have sex with
your slaves. You can even take war captors, go capture someone, take a woman and turn her into
a sex slave. That's completely authorized and allowed, so much for the sexual morality of the
Bible. It's almost like promoting, not just that you can't, but it's encouraged. It actually is
kind of like ordering you to. It's definitely encouraged. It's actually one of the incentives
God is giving for them to go conquer other peoples, rather than giving them the incentive that you
can go free other nations and free their slaves. No, you can go invade other nations so you can
up your slave count and have more sex with slaves. Basically, systematic rape is what
we're talking about here. Look, we know a lot of these narratives are myth. But even in the
narrative, like Abraham with Sarah and Sarah says, go ahead, sleep with my slave. He gets her knocked
up. She gets pissed. Now the slave that's already your property is getting booted. Her survival
is at stake at this point too. You're already just property. Now you're booted and your son is
cursed as not a chosen one. Well, there's blessings supposedly that come from, but it's like, yeah,
you're not my firstborn. No, yeah, thrown away like trash, basically. This is the idea. And this
is a myth that they promoted this narrative. Promoting these values. This is an immoral myth,
is what you would say. Yeah, definitely. No, this is not a defensible system. It's one of the
clearest markers in the Bible that it is a human document written by primitive savages and not by
civilized beings, supernatural or otherwise. So if you can get a Christian to see the reality
of what the slavery was in the Bible, what would you recommend to them?
Just read it. Yeah. I mean, what do they do from there, right? Like, what would you think? Well,
if you really want to get into the history of it, get Hector Atlas's book. Slavery,
abolitionism, and the ethics of biblical scholarship. And it is a very thorough book
by Hector Avalos, and it covers all kinds of aspects of this question.
It is the definitive starting point for this kind of argument and debate.
Mm. Thank you.
