Far from raising the bar or the epistemic standard that Christianity must meet to be
believed, I lower it. I lower it. I lower it.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back. I'm going to be discussing this issue of the assurance
of the Holy Spirit with Dr. William Lynn Craig. And the very first video I did,
this is one of the places I really wanted to emphasize. I think it's important to take a
magnifying glass and think about what he sang carefully. So I started at the beginning, of
course, where he lowers the standard, but he explains why. And we're going to hear that again
from the initial recording he did in responding to Kyle. See, we at MythVision had a conversation
with Kyle, me apologia. And Kyle's still a Christian, even though it seems like Kyle,
and I've seen a few of his Facebook posts, has gone like four or five times on really wondering
if it's true or not, but he keeps doubling down on Christianity because for whatever reason,
he keeps coming back and is being convinced even when he's doubting again. And in this
particular video, I want you to pay attention to my super chat that was sent in to capturing
Christianity while he was interviewing William Lynn Craig. And so I want to pick this apart a
little bit and have everybody pay attention. I think that this is a message which is so wonderful,
so fantastic, that if there's any evidence that it's true, then it's worth believing in.
So honestly, if we were to look at Mormonism, is there any evidence to believe there may be some
truth to Joseph Smith, what he said? Are there eyewitnesses? Are there witnesses to the supposed
golden plates or to his supposed visions? Were there anyone else in the church who had visions
in the Mormon church? There are, and there are accounts of these. Now, whether you believe
those testimonies or not, that's a different question, but Mormons come to the same conclusions
Christians do in many of the same ways. They just have Joseph Smith as one of their prophets.
There are forms of Christianity that don't accept Paul. Now, it's not as common, but the Orthodox
version includes Paul and tries to make all of them harmonize in some way according to the
church's history. These heresiologists and such paint the way. But if you look at Mormonism,
you'll find there are some pieces of evidence. If we take the same kind of criteria that we do
for Christianity that would convince someone that maybe Joseph Smith and the Mormon church
is the true church. If Kyle really knows what it's like to experience the love of God
and to have this hope in eternal life and forgiveness of sins, then it seems to me that
he will gravitate toward that alternative. It would be so attractive and that it would take
really, really decisive disproves to make him give up his Christian faith.
Craig keeps going and he goes on and on. Could those disproves be the felled near expectation
of the apocalypse in the New Testament? Could those disproves be contradictory narratives about
Jesus where gospel authors are literally trying to one up each other? Could these be what you
call later on defeaters or at least evidence that might help be a defeater? What is a defeater?
A defeater is a piece of evidence that counts against or defeats a belief. So defeaters make
beliefs lose some kind of positive epistemic status that they have.
For someone who's investigating the Christian religion, could it be comparing the witness or
experiences that people have had of resurrected Elvis or others like Tupac Shakur and Jesus
be reasons to go, well, I don't believe Elvis literally is alive and actually came back to
these people in a day and age where they didn't know the science we do and aren't aware of hallucinations
like we are. Why should we believe in the supposed experience of only one person that we have in the
New Testament who's an eyewitness who's actually a trustworthy supposed eyewitness account?
That's Paul. The gospels are not eyewitness accounts. Now if one wants to argue supposedly
they got their oral traditions or supposedly they got the material from someone who is claiming to
be an eyewitness, the text does not say that. The gospels do not tell us that they are eyewitness
testimonies. So either way, even if they did, should we trust that? Is that sufficient?
According to Craig, if you've experienced the love of God, the forgiveness of God,
and what it feels like to have eternal life, you should. Let's see what Craig continues to say.
Now when I talk about the witness of the Holy Spirit, I don't mean God speaking to me directly
in the way Kyle describes. God doesn't speak to me directly either in that sort of way as an inner
voice, but I just mean a kind of fundamental assurance that one's faith is true. People often
talk about this as the assurance of salvation and I think that is the privilege of every born-again
Christian. Here's the deal. You're talking or you're listening to somebody who was a Christian.
I had all of these descriptions that he is discussing. I had all of these experiences.
I felt those words that he's describing. I really thought this is true. I experienced what I thought
was the love of God and I actually believed that this was evidence, this experience. This was enough
to give me that edge epistemologically that I don't need that high bar in order to believe in
Christianity. In fact, that communication, that personal experience relationship with what I called
the Holy Spirit is what drove me and continued to make me stay a Christian. In fact, it's what kept
me from considering critical doubting arguments against Christianity. I hope that Kyle is more
than just a nominal Christian that he's really come to experience the regenerating power of the
Holy Spirit and that he's indwelt and filled with the Holy Spirit. It's extremely important
that you are indwelt and filled with the Holy Spirit. I imagine there's a good chance someone
like Craig would think that I'm not. I'll tell you, all the things he says and all the things he's
talking about, I experienced when I was a Christian. For those once-saved, always-saved people, I guess
I'm still saved or I never really was. As far as what Craig's saying though, it leads up to my
super chat that I send in to capturing Christianity. Because I think then that that removes the huge
epistemic bar that he thinks you need to get over in order to become a Christian.
Did you hear that? The point is that that experience with the Holy Spirit, that assurance
with the Holy Spirit, removes that epistemic bar of doubt that you would need in order to become a
Christian. It's really about that experience. That's enough to get you in the door to believe
this message. In fact, even if there isn't really any evidence, any evidence, like one in a million
chance he talks about, then if you've had this assurance of the Holy Spirit, that's enough to
get you in the door. The huge epistemic bar that he thinks you need to get over in order to become
a Christian. Here's the next question from again, another question from MythVision. He says,
when you say assurance of the Holy Spirit, do you mean something different than the
assurance that Mormons experience in their belief in Mormonism?
I have to laugh a little. When I said it, he got excited as like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, like he really is in tune with his experience and how much it affirms his belief
in his religion, in his particular understanding of Christianity, of course.
What I said was the assurance of salvation. And this is a very common Christian experience
that persons who have come to know Christ and experienced his life-changing power
have an assurance deep down that their sins are forgiven, that they have eternal life,
that they are quote unquote saved and going to be with God in heaven for eternity.
I had all of that. I felt all of those things. And I don't believe that Christianity is true
anymore. In fact, he's going to go into defeaters. That doesn't mean they don't have doubts,
but they do in this deep-seated fundamental assurance. And I think that that is born by
the witness of the Holy Spirit to you. Now, certainly Mormons will speak of something
similar, a burning in the bosom when the book of Mormon is read. But I would say that whereas
we do not have defeaters for the witness of the Holy Spirit in the New Testament sense, we have
overwhelming defeaters for the truth of Mormon belief. And anyone who is interested in that
just read a book on Mormonism, its history and doctrine and Joseph Smith, I think that there's
just no chance that Mormonism could be true. I want to throw a few defeaters that I think
are evidences that will at least cast doubt on what the New Testament teaches is true.
And one of those I mention all the time is that the apocalypse fell. Jesus in the words of Jesus
in the Gospels expects the end of the world to happen soon. There's supposed to be a cataclysmic
or a cosmic transformation where the kingdom of God is supposed to come in and actually change.
Now that evolution takes place in the New Testament where the kingdom of God is no
longer what the Jews thought of, the kingdom of God would come in destroy the Romans. And I think
this is what Jesus would have had in mind as a Jew. However, cognitive dissonance
felt apocalypse and the changing of while a day is like a thousand years, we have this felt apocalypse
idea that ends up stretching time. So God will come, but he comes when he decides to come,
even though over and over the texts say he will not tarry. Number two is how I talked about
contradictions and issues between texts, Paul contradicting acts, Gospels contradicting each
other telling different narratives of Jesus. One, you have Jesus like a Superman in the Gospel of
Luke, where at his final words, he's just saying, into your hands, I commend my spirit. He doesn't
show much emotion at all. In fact, the one place that he actually showing some type of fear or
emotion when he sweats drops of blood in Luke, many academics think that wasn't even original
in Luke, that that may have been inserted combating many of the dorsetic beliefs that Jesus was a
phantom or not really flesh and blood. And we see these resurrection accounts that seem oddly
there. He is not a ghost. He is flesh and bone. So taking a critical approach when you actually
examine these texts and you're not looking at them with the assurance of the Holy Ghost as your
ticket to understanding what they're saying, you're going to see them like you would any other piece
of literature. But if you put the assurance of the Holy Ghost on or let's just call it the assurance
of double standards and bias being cognitively bias toward this literature, then you can find
ways to pave right over those hardcore speed bumps that cause people to doubt. And of course,
he even said at the end of it, he's like, if you had this assurance, well, I think that's enough
to remove that epistemic bar requiring you to believe. Because I think then that that removes
the huge epistemic bar that he thinks you need to get over in order to become a Christian.
And in this, I'm bringing up a couple of the feeders. There are many more examples of just
here's supposed testimony or how oral traditions and how people supposedly have memory of things.
This has been done by Bart Ehrman and others. Like even if there were memories that go back,
there's no way of knowing these are true. When I look at Mormonism, I think, wow, at least we
have some evidence that is like really out there that we can verify because it's not too long ago.
But in the New Testament, all the literature we have is by those who believe we don't really have
anything from those naysayers or surrounding people. So it's a lot easier or better yet,
it's it's more unfalsifiable in a different way. The other problem is in the New Testament,
we have strife that is happening. Paul is pissed off in Galatians one, where he is talking about
people who are teaching another gospel than the one that he was proclaiming. Let them be anathema
accursed. What's going on? I am of Paul, I am of Apollos, I am of Christ. What is going on?
Christianity was the wild, wild West. And if this Holy Spirit was so sure and confident,
there wouldn't have been so many sects and factions of the versions of Christianity
right out of the gate. It seems like if there's any truth to there being some Holy Spirit,
it would be the author of confusion. And it's making everybody have different messages about
Christianity. This is an odd thing to say when you claim yours is true and there are no defeaters.
I think we just got to put our blindfolds on and then just look at the Bible with blindfolds on and
then say there are no defeaters. And therefore it follows that this emotional experience of the
burning and the bosom is not of a radical experience. It has defeaters. Remember what we
said a moment ago, that the way something seems to you can justify you in believing it if there
are no defeaters of that seeming. I'm on board. If there were no defeaters, both Mormonism and
Christianity have defeaters. I'll put them in the same pile. So in the case of Mormonism and I would
say Islam as well, there are very powerful defeaters. But I don't think there are in the case of the
witness of the Holy Spirit. Okay. He added in Islam. I would agree. Let's add Islam in.
Let's add Judaism. Let's add Islam. Let's add any of these religions in and you will find that I
think, yeah, there are plenty of defeaters. But you know what? We've been picking on
William Lynn Craig too much. I think it's fair that we allow the Mormons to speak,
because I think they sound much like William Lynn Craig in their confidence.
Through the unity of all the people who are there exercising their faith in the Savior,
which invites the Holy Ghost and he's taught things that no person on this planet could teach
him because it's coming from the Holy Ghost. Exactly. The Holy Ghost is the teacher. Exactly.
The Holy Ghost is the teacher. These Mormons are 100% confident they're being taught by the
Holy Spirit and that they're on the right path. It's amazing because I know that William Lynn
Craig sees no issue with that. It doesn't even phase him that Christians have this spirit that
they call the Holy Spirit, which is really this divisive spirit in the sense that nobody's agreeing
on what is true and what isn't true completely on these matters, but they're speaking in very
similar language. Mormons use this. Others use these ideas and they have experiences that lead
them to believe their particular worldview is true. I mean, look, I'm not sitting here trying to
act like there isn't some case that can be made here, but I really think that this Holy Spirit
language that keeps getting used is a way of saying, remember how you felt, remember how
you felt that confidence in your stomach or that warm, fuzzy feeling, or you felt some type of just
confidence and assurance that this is true after you heard that message. If it was true,
if it even was true, I would believe it. That's what William Lynn Craig sounds like to me.
And I think what I'm going to do is go to the local Latter-day Saints Mormon church and interview
some of these Mormon elders, some of these people who are leaders there politely without being engaging
at all. That's not my goal. I'm not that kind of guy, but I want to politely ask them why they
believe what they believe is true and how do they know and what they say. And it'll be interesting
to hear what they say because I'm pretty confident we'll hear some overlap between how William Lynn
Craig speaks about his belief in Christianity and how these others do. The problem with what
I'm saying in all of this today is that what I see, what might end up happening for some Christians
who don't take the path of the Holy Spirit, my experience led me to Christianity or keeps me
grounded in Christianity because you should know salvation and eternal life and forgiveness of
sins and that feeling of I am free in Christ, right? His yoke is light and burden is easy.
When you look at this, I hope that more people will recognize this emotional aspect,
but Christians might try to sound like these more apologetic Christians, like it's only a
sophisticated journey that's led me to Christianity and it's not really all the things that I think
William Lynn Craig honestly is portraying in his presentations here. When he says the Holy Spirit,
Holy Spirit is what makes him believe, is what causes him to want this message to be true
and it made him just buy it, I think that goes for most Christians in the world,
unless they were born Christians or as William Lynn Craig says, they're just nominal Christians.
