music
I
Stop you guys gonna make anybody mad no one at all
welcome one and all to
my channel to
Derek's channel and meth vision podcast and to Josh's channel a digital Hammurabi
It's Friday April the 12th
May oh, it's Megan's channel. Sorry, but I mean she lets you she lets you play with it sometimes, right?
Sometimes sometimes so this is this is one of those times gentlemen
It is it's it's just after five
Pacific time the right time
and we have
Special treat for everyone this evening. So how you guys doing?
Josh yeah doing well doing well nice
Who's introducing this thing I I guess that's true. I guess we I thought maybe we did say
Derek should introduce it didn't we yes
Now
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to myth vision and today. Yeah, no serious Josh everybody get Josh's slavery book
This is the introduction. I wanted to say subscribe to kip Davis. He has turned into the actual animal with a capital a
And then of course, can you say kip? Can you say who want that smoke? Can you say that for me?
Hi, I'm a Canadian. I actually can't so I'm who at that smoke. Hey, sorry
Absolutely, there we go
I'm gonna take a nap and you guys have fun
Yeah, right you have hey you have to deal with this stuff as much as we do so you're in this fight just as much as we are
It's true. It's true
I kind of feel like I got pulled into it. Well, yeah, so I
Don't know so Derek you throw in as much as you want
But I guess man, what was it a month ago now we all started getting emails or tweets or
Well, you know where where it started was Josh and I are actually on a we're one of the group chats
We're on is with
Zach Miller over at your pastor what your pastor doesn't
Doesn't tell you or what your pastor didn't tell you. Sorry Zach. I butchered that and he's the one
Who threw the link in there to this video, right? That's where I saw it the first time and then
It got like 20,000 views and like a couple of days, right?
Yeah, and so
This video is by Gavin Ortland
PhD is
It in philosophy that's terrible. I should know I think it's philosophy and I believe I know he wrote his dissertation on like the theology of
Anselm or something
That's terrible that I don't have that memorized that sounds right
Yeah, but we said, you know from Fuller or Wycliffe. It's one of those places, right?
Yeah, man, I can't remember
But you know seems like a really nice guy, I think he's you know articulate
But he put out this video on slavery and essentially, you know
What we've seen for the last five years now
You know, he maybe came at it in a couple of ways that were slightly different than what normally happens
But I mean overall it's it's just it's it's
It's the argument that we have come to anticipate, I guess is the way to say it
But it got a lot of traction which hey, you know like good for him. That's good. That's great
But
Like I in particular started getting emails from friend and foe alike saying you have to review this, right?
some people are saying you have to review this so that
You know, you can change your position because he utterly destroyed you others. Well, that's fun
Yeah, not that I really destroyed all the time. Yeah. Yeah, that's how I roll, you know, so
But here we are so what what we have done
And Derek, I'm sorry. I'm just feel like I'm stepping all over your toes here, man
You're not stepping on anything, please
What we have done is that the video was like an hour what an hour and 15 minutes something like that
There's like the first 11 10 or 11 minutes are sort of an introduction
That talk about like he doesn't like the word indoors
He has like he's trying to do a balanced approach to this which I appreciated
Um
But I feel like in kip you said something to me about this
It was sort of funny that like in the beginning it was like
This is kind of what we see from apologists and you know, we we don't want to do that guys
You know, we need to do it differently, but then
Sort of ended up doing it. Um in a lot of ways
So, you know when I first saw the video when I started watching the video
I think it was in that first three four five minutes. I was actually kind of like
Oh
Because of some of the things that he had said to start with right and gavin's looks like just a super
Approachable
Soft-spoken thoughtful kind of guy right that it it was very disarming
Uh right in the beginning and and a lot of what he said like he said, you know
He he one of the things that that he points out in the introduction of his video
Is that there's been a lot of misplaced christian rhetoric?
Apologetic rhetoric around this issue of slavery and I'm like, thank you
Yeah, thank you for that, right?
And then it kind of went down
Yeah, and my only role in this so everybody knows why josh isn't stepping on my toes
We're in a secret society that we get paid from it's another one on top of the Illuminati where we have our private conversations
And they were like look at this video
Um, you know, this guy never mentions anything by josh wabon in this in this
What's going on in this video almost like josh?
You don't exist and you're you're not the public face of
slavery in the ancient near east in the biblical context
The go-to goat when it comes to this topic
And you just don't exist in anywhere in this critique or anywhere in
Assessing this topic which in the public face of things. I think
It speaks volumes and there seems to be awareness of your work as we talked about but so I just said let me go on twitter
Let me invite because you know, I will talk to anyone
Like i'm willing to
um
And there's some people I just i'm gonna say anyone there's some people I purposely avoid
Like I just don't think there's any good faith dialogue in some cases
But this guy seemed very kind like you guys described I sent the invite and uh, I don't know. I don't know Derek
I keep hearing sorry. I I keep hearing that the only people you ever talked to are all those
cherry-picked atheist scholars, right and that's it so
I'm being paid to keep saying this thing that i'm saying right now and if I say otherwise
You know how that like they'll cut my check in half. I can't and before anybody
But before anyone starts freaking out, don't worry. We're all still cashing the Illuminati checks as well
That's not gonna change. Those haven't stopped
Um, yeah, we're still
We're still flush guys
Sorry, Derek. Well continue. Well what what I have done is I've I've we're not we're not gonna look at the first 11 minutes
I made like a I I cut off the first 11 minutes and I cut off of perfect. Thank you very much
Thank you. God send me in
Excellent. Yep from four you got it
Um, oh good and I remember they had something that's good
So that we're we're gonna skip over the first 11 minutes and around the like 45 minute mark
Somewhere around there. He goes to the new testament now
None of us here are new testament scholars
We all have new testament training, but I think it's I think it's better
for us to leave
Given sort of the gravity of this video
As it's been sort of hoisted upon us
Um, I would like to see a new testament scholar
Handle the new testament early christianity side. So maybe we can help organize that
Derek, do you know some new testament? I don't know, you know, one or two
But probably just just the rotten atheist ones though. I know
No, no the christian scholar that you introduced me to josh
and that is jennifer
um
Not jennifer graver yet jennifer glancy. I think it was or it's the other jennifer. There's two jennifers. I think
I mean jennifer glancy has
Literally written the book on yes
This is jennifer glancy's new book the second edition. It's a lot bigger and I'm like, I don't know 60 pages in and my god. It's just
She knows what she's talking about like I'm like swimming in her analysis of epictetus, which is anyway
um
So anyway, so I'd like to leave that
To uh, jennifer glancy or ronald charles, you know, somebody like that anyway, um, jennifer bird, you know
And so what we're going to do is we're going to do about a 34 minute video. It's like the meat
It's going to take his
Let's see. It's like four of his six points
um
And it's going to basically what we're going to be focusing on is the old testament material and its comparison to the ancient neary's because I think
For me, we'll talk about some other stuff
But that's the meat for me that I think he gets wrong
Um, and I think it's it's like the lynch pin in his argument
And it's not just his argument, right? But this argument about like progressive incremental
um
In a revelation or god condescending and dealing with mankind where they are to bring them along that sort of thing
So we're gonna we're gonna kind of poke holes in that uh, best that we can so
Uh, so I have this edited video. It has little stopping points that I've put in the middle
But um, yeah, so there are places to stop but you guys feel free to stop me whenever you want
Um, and Derek, this is just as much your stream as ours, man. So like you jump in
I might jump in here and there, but I really really do want to let you guys
run the show
All right, so I'll be back. All right. Well, I'm just kidding
Whenever you're ready, you can share the screen. Oh, yeah, let's do that and we will get rolling
All right
I have six points. I want to make number one slavery was taken for granted nearly everywhere in the ancient world
number two
Genesis one made a huge contribution to human equality
Through its doctrine of the image of god
I'm going to call that the amago dei number three the old testament law was never designed as a timeless ideal
Number four the old testament law made significant improvements upon slavery in the ancient east
Number five slavery is inconsistent with the new testament's portrayal of the gospel and number six
The uh abolition of slavery in the modern world has a huge debt to christian influence
Okay, so you can see where he's going right this is his roadmap. I think he laid this out very well
um
But like these are these are his six points, right? So these first two
They they're they're pretty big chunks like three four minutes a piece
So we'll we'll we'll play them through with the goal of just playing each one through
And then commenting on it
Uh, of course kip or derek if you guys want to stop at any point in it. Just let me know and I'll pause it
But this is where he's going
These two in my opinion as we get there the first two are
Uh red herrings. Okay. That's my critique of this
right, there is this
there is this, um
strategy
in dealing with problematic texts in the heber bible
of
Zooming out
And trying to say whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, let's look at the big picture here
And that's what I think um
Sort of characterizes
this video
Right, it's there's a lot of time spent in the beginning
Saying we got to think big got a big picture big picture theology theology theology
Right, and only then do we kind of zoom in here and then come back out
Zoom in there and come back out. There is no serious engagement with the text
That's my critique here, and that's the real problem
Right, and we'll get into more detail, but just big picture here. This is my issue
There's no real serious engagement with the text and the scholarship that he cites
is either very
um
Theologically motivated and not from subject matter experts or is incredibly dated
And really doesn't take into account in some cases the full scope of what those sources are saying
So but we'll get into that but that's where we're going
um
So kip, did you have anything that you wanted to add to that before we get into the first point?
No, I think we can just
Yeah, that was good. Let's uh, let's just roll it
all right
I'll leave a couple seconds for the screen each time
Number one slavery was basically taken for granted everywhere in the ancient world
It's a universal part of pre-modern humanity glissen archer says slavery was practiced by every ancient people of which we have any historical record
He says it was an integral part of ancient culture as commerce
taxation or temple service
But the what I want to emphasize is it's not just that slavery existed everywhere
It's that it was assumed everywhere
So it's just taken for granted people like Plato and Aristotle. For example, they just think it's obvious
People are not equal. Some people are born to be slaves
And that's the general way of thinking a few exceptions
But for the most part slavery was seen throughout ancient human history and really pre-modern human history as
like poverty
regrettable
But inevitable
Okay, now today it's pretty much the opposite in much of the western world
Slavery still exists and it's growing in certain parts of the world
But most of us in the developed world agree that slavery is wrong and we see that as kind of obvious
So we're living on the far end of this massive turn
In the basic intuitions with which we approach an issue like this
And that's just really helpful to set some context because it's not as though human beings start off as a blank slate
And then here comes the bible and it's introducing slavery or something like that remember that verb endorse
Well, this is going to get really complicated really quick because
Slavery is already there the bible is coming along and it's starting a process that gets us to today
When I hear atheists railing against slavery in the bible
Sometimes it comes across as though they're sort of assuming that there was some secular alternative that should have been chosen instead
And I think it's a fair question to ask
Where do we even get the idea that slavery is wrong?
Uh, that's an intuition if you if you say for example, well, it's just obvious
You know, I just saw sometimes people respond. They say it's just obvious. Of course
We can see that slavery is a bad thing
But I think that's naive about the problem here that wasn't obvious to the vast majority of human culture throughout history
Most we only see that as obvious today because of a very specific process of evolution in human civilization
And that process differentiates us from most of pre-modern humanity and certainly from the animal kingdom
I mean, this is the challenge for the atheist is
In our long evolutionary history, where did this idea of like universal human rights? That was never a thing
Where did that suddenly come in? Where do you get that from? I'm gonna come back to that at the end
Not necessarily trying to resolve that point
Or I'm trying to kind of flag that because what I want to start arguing now is that
Christianity has played a catalytic role in the process of us coming to see slavery is obviously wrong
Especially through its doctrine of the image of god and also through its understanding of the gospel
What it says is the good news of jesus christ
And so the the concern just to make visible here is if you don't believe in that
You do that have to give some other alternative
For what do you?
Ground this belief in human equality in and I'll come back to that at the end
I just kind of want to flag that at the beginning here in other words
Another way to say this is you know, it's a fair question to ask
How could the bible tolerate slavery? That's what I'm going to try to address now
But it's also fair to ask
How did it ever come to be that there's a society that doesn't tolerate it?
That's a bit of the story I want to tell in this video
so
um
Is it just me?
Or was that and I didn't catch this the first time around or the second or the third time around but is it just me?
Or is it kind of a strange point to make that one of the things
That separates humans from the animal kingdom?
Is slavery
uh
Like that's a good thing or something like well like the way he had the way he had had uh
Yeah, so the way he was he was um
uh
Couching that it sure sounded like uh like the uh, you know
The animals one of the things that separates us from animals is that we don't we don't pursue slavery
So but I don't know it was weird. I thought that was weird and uh
Everyone should know anytime you're starting your argument with
Gleason Archer
So listen listen no no shade
on uh on on Gleason Archer he was a he was a
a
You know a fine old testament scholar
Uh did his work at harvard
Uh, but guys this was back in the 19 the 1940s
There a lot has happened
Since the 1940s josh. I mean a lot you've published two books on slavery since since 19
since 1942
Yes, well
So
Yeah, I I I agree and you're gonna see in this video. We're gonna point out in a couple of different places
um
Actually with some animation
Some of the issues that we have
Oh with some of the sources
But I want to try to steal man at least this this I mean obviously the whole thing
I want to steal man
But I think we need to kind of do it these first two points, right?
So if I can and you guys push back on me if you think I've missed something
Essentially what it seems like he's trying to argue here is that it's it's it's everywhere in other words
um
You know ancient israel under his perception. I imagine
um is that you know god
God brings the nation of israel out of bondage in egypt into the into the land of canaan
um with these laws
Uh given on sinai
and these laws
Are not stepping into a vacuum
in other words, uh, it's it's not stepping into uh
You know this this situation where there aren't any laws there aren't any
You know and and god is just handing laws down or there aren't any pre-existing pat, you know
practices
And so
This is why uh, I struggled with one of the things here. He said it's starting a process to get us to today
I'm gonna I'm gonna hammer home that how much I disagree with that
um
But secondly the bible didn't come along and introduce slavery and when I heard that so sorry
I want to steal man here
So the bible doesn't come along and say hey slavery's great. Let's do that when no one else was doing it
Everybody else was doing it, right? So the bible is starting on that foot. It's it's it god is coming into that world with his law
And so the argument that gavin is going to make here and again
It's it's not dissimilar from what others have made david web very recently
or more recently
And and others like him that
God is condescending
to humanity specifically to israel here and saying look I want to
Slowly
Get you out of this. I can't do it all at once
um
And so I'm gonna incrementally or bit by bit slowly move you in the direction of slavery bad
Okay
That's what his argument is as I understand it. Um
So then the second part and then guys shut me up and
You know
But the second part then is when he says it's a fair question to ask
How did the bible?
um
Like how is it?
First of all that we know or we think we believe that slavery is wrong as a people today
um and
And uh, it's a fair question to ask like what do you base that morality on right and why is it that we're we we moved out of slavery at all
Right and there are two things built in here that I see one
I think it sounds like this is somewhat presuppositional apologetics, right or at least it may be not presuppositional, but it's certainly
um
Sounds like uh, you know, this is an argument obviously from objective morality
Uh, maybe denying command theory based in you know, god's commands that are coming out of his moral nature or whatever
I don't know not my field. Um, but then turning it back on the atheists or the skeptic and saying well, how do you
Why do you how can you even say that slavery is wrong, right?
This is why and this is my critique here. First of all, this is a straw man
But nobody is arguing that the word endorse in this content
Nobody of repute is arguing certainly not us arguing that the word endorse means that the bible came along and created slavery
Like nobody that I know makes that argument
um
secondly, uh
I wanted everybody to notice how quickly from the beginning it moved off of the topic of slavery if it even got onto it
To well, how do you know that anything is wrong anyway? What's your moral grounding? Right, right? This is to me
Whether he means it or not is insidious
right, it's this like
Stick to the goddamn topic is what I wanted to say over and over again to this video
Gavin like you seem like a super nice guy, but like I'm saying to the video like oh my god
Just do slavery stop saying well, how do you know? I mean it isn't like anyway
um, this these are internal critiques that um that atheists are doing right or skeptics are doing all right last thing that I'll say here
um
It's not debated that everybody took slavery for granted everybody knows that slavery was was taken for granted in the ancient world
It's it's part of it's going on where we're going to push back hard. This is where I land
um is that it's starting this process to get people out uh to where we are today first of all, I think that's
I don't know that's going to be the thing that he's going to have to defend here and his major
Uh lynchpin in this video is that the heber bible is presenting laws that are so much better than the rest of the ancient
News is going to fall apart. Yeah, it is sorry guys
I can't wait to see the evidence of course that you're going to present that's comparable
Which you've done in your book, but it's like in our discussion today
You can give examples or cover some of this, but I'm literally recording today. My brain is mush
That's why I'm thankful for you guys
uh
This video on like does yaway exist and some of these philosophical and biblical critical
ideas that kiss in this documentary that i'm producing
Is an argument called the polymorphic projection
Ultimately and he goes through so many. I mean the socio political setup
Is it not ironic that yaways?
Even the language of yaways temple yaways political setup in heaven and the council looks so much like the other in ancient neary strandedies and
Those setups look a lot like the human constructs
We go through everything cosmography cosmology
In every aspect it seems that the deity even speaking from the biblical text
does not see
the
The limitation of the deity's knowledge and understanding is limited to the authorial
pin and and it can't see beyond that
Well, what does god have going on in heaven instruments that just so happen to be first millennium bce instruments
Why is he not rocking a guitar? He's flying on on on chariots with horses
Why is he not running a jet?
Why are they why is everything kind of dated to these kind of concepts and slavery is no different?
And so my observation is just saying when you look at every category
mythology syncretism the list goes on and on you see
slavery also
In the same avenue is what the bible is doing similar to what we see in the rest of the ancient neary east
And so it's special pleading to me up front right out the gate with my flavor of religion and foundation is true
Scratch every other society and culture that has morality that predated
That coexisted and post-dates biblical
Text anyway, there's my role
No, I think we should uh, we should we should continue on with uh with the next point
But before we do I thought I'd share a couple of things
um
Jennifer sills has said I think uh, dr. Killen dr. Josh should start wearing clown noses when doing these
We love to hear slavery is bad. So keep it up. But these guys are responding to our clowns
I I can't say I disagree
But I don't know if I'm I'm ready to go out and buy myself a clown nose either
So I I don't I don't have one and my my my david folk fat face stick is too far away to grab right now. So, um
Ralph Thompson has said that the bible does not condone the transatlantic slave trade because how could it?
You know, that was hundreds of years later, right?
That was man stealing or human trafficking, which is not
Approved of in the bible, uh, Ralph. We are going to certainly get to
Um, stick around to this stick around exactly
But for now, I think uh, I think josh, I'm just gonna I'm gonna bring
Uh, the video back and uh, we can continue with that
Point number two genesis one made a huge contribution to human equality through his doctrine of the image of god
And it's legitimate to prioritize genesis one and two
Because when you're trying to understand the bible, uh, you want to see what is god's ideal at the very outset
Even if you don't think these chapters are historical, this is what the text is putting forward as the original plan
Before evil comes into the world in genesis three and in genesis one and two
There's no thought or possibility of slavery. I think sometimes people fail to appreciate how much of a step forward
Genesis one through two was relative to other ancient Near Eastern understandings of human beings
I'll say to say succinctly here. It's very common in other ancient Near Eastern creation texts for the royal figure
Of a particular culture to be seen as in the image of a deity or the image of the deity or
The offspring of a deity one of my I wrote an article about this 10 years ago that i'll link to what i'm trying to
That's kind of what i'm saying. I'm saying basically there's interplay between the idea of image and offspring
But that's a separate point right now. I just want to document this a little bit that the idea of genesis one was very
Rather
Just sorry. I am not quick on the draw. You're good
I'll raise my hand to kind of signal my question is um, what why was adam created?
Wasn't he created until the the ground? Yeah, I
Yeah, I mean anyway, I mean what the hell's going on here already. Anyway, sorry
Tated up for you kill
You certainly did should I get into this basically or you want to finish the clip first?
Yeah, let's just finish the clip and then I can
No, no, no, dude. You're you're you're you're a bright guy derrick and I mean you're tracking with with
how people should be
Reading the text, right? So we'll get there
Uh, but let's just finish the clip and we'll talk just one of saying everybody is made in the image of god
And that was a that was a step forward
Uh, just to give a few examples
I think seeing some of the context in the ancient east helps us because uh, it helps us not just read
The bible against modern western democratic values, but to see it in its own time how radical it was
So for example, I'll put up four examples from egyptian texts and inscriptions
Where you can see various pharaohs spoken of as the image of a deity
If you want to go into more of those you can read my article
And in each case is talking about a royal figure by the way, if you another book that goes through this
That's really good that I derived a lot from and my own work on this is this great book by j
Richard middleton called the liberating image amazing book. You can see pages 93 to 145 of that book
He goes through all these egyptian examples
I think he goes through like 18 different examples and he mentions there are some others
Where the pharaoh figure is portrayed as the image of the deity
And I could only find one text where it's applied a little more broadly than that
In the babelonian creation myth and numah elish you find this idea of creation in the image of a deity
But again, it's only applied to other deities
So here's an example from very early on in the first tablet there
The human beings are not the image bearers of god here. They're created to do the menial labor
They're like underneath the gods
Doing the grunt work, you know, that's human beings in this text
And so people love to talk about parallels between genesis and these other ancient irresistible texts
But there's differences and one of the differences is
Genesis one gives this more exalted view of human beings
I'll put up just a few other examples from a an ancient assyrian epic called the
Ticulti ninerta epic where you can find I I'll just quote from my article here
I won't read through this but you can find two assyrian kings talked about as the image of a particular deity
And again, it's just the king and I in the article I go through a few other mesopotamian documents to but the point is
The bible takes this idea, which was kind of a common thought in the ancient iris and democratizes it
It's not just the royalty that's in the image of god everybody bears god's image. In other words metaphorically speaking
Everybody is royal
That's our radical idea. We often take that for granted today
Historically that was not self-evident and and throughout christian history and and jewish history
You can see that idea that radical new idea coming into clash with alternative ideas
um
For example celsus the critic of christianity in the second century one of his criticisms is
You guys elevate human beings too highly
He said the radical error in jewish and christian thinking is that it is anthropocentric
They say god made all things for man
But this is not at all evident and his own view is
Perspective is evident in these words. He says in no way is man better in god's sight than ants and bees
That's a very common ancient way of thinking about human beings. We're like bugs
We're uh, we're like insects, you know, not particularly valuable or exalted
The idea of creation in the image of god was this lightning step forward and i'm not the one who's you know
I'm sure i'm sure you're aware. This is an argument
This was the doctrine that it was like a hammer in the hand of the abolitionists in the 18th century
They just i'll come back to that at the end of this and i'm sure you're familiar with people like tom holland and his amazing book dominion
He he i'm not trying to say he's would agree with everything i'm going through right here
But he does talk about this this this modern value of equality and he says the ultimate seed bed of this idea
Was the book of genesis
More on that later. So
Okay, um
Yeah, genesis
Genesis one and two this idea of of man
Being created in the image of god
um, so I I happen to have been doing some
Some writing on uh on these topics, uh, particularly recently. So I i've spent uh
devoted individual whole chapters in in the book that i'm currently writing on
Individually just the first and the second creation stories in genesis chapter one and two and like on the face of it
I think this sounds like a convincing argument and in large part
on the basis of how
Uh this idea of the image of god. I think probably developed into
the christian period
right following the
After the uh the the the writing of the new testament and into the church fathers
And I think I think this is this is probably very much the same
Uh for for uh the the early jewish
Uh, but now sorry, I should say the early rabbinic
Uh jewish commenters on these texts as well
But what is important to point out
Is within their original context genesis chapter one and two don't
Don't fit cleanly
Into this idea
into how uh gavin orton wants to read these texts and I thought
Maybe the best way to just kind of unpack some of the problems
With his reading of genesis one to two is just read a little bit
of what i've written
On on this uh on on these these passages if if that's okay
Am I good to do that guys? Yeah, definitely, please. Yeah
Okay, so uh, this is in my chapter about uh the first creation account when I start to talk
Uh specifically when I shared about green so they could do that too. Yeah
Let's maybe uh, let me do that. So I think I have to take that off. Um, yeah
I think I have to share the entire screen for this
Okay, all right
So, uh, this is where I I specifically start start in my section
On oh, no, that's the wrong chapter. Let's go to uh, let's go to chapter
Uh seven first
This is in my section
on
The amago day there and I'm not going to read from the beginning
Uh, I'm I'm going to start here. What is the image of god?
What are
Images in the heber bible and in other ancient eastern literature in order to answer these questions
We need to spend some time looking at how these words
That I've translated form an image are used more generally
So first in verse 26 god proposes that they
Make man in their
Salem and you read that right but at this point it shouldn't bother you to see that god is not alone here
This is a proposition that takes place in the divine council
The word
Salem is used elsewhere for figurines and statues of other gods
What we would describe as idols the form of god then is a representation of god's being
But importantly, this is a physically embodied god
For example in second kings 11 18
This is how the destruction of statues to the gods are described when the people of the land
Conducted a raid on the temple of ba'al all the people of the land went to the house of ba'al
They pulled down its images and its selamin
The the selam in plural they smashed to bits
It's pretty clear what's being described here a selam in this passage is an idol a figurine or a statue
This is in line with the instruction by yahua to moses in numbers
33 52 i won't bother reading that
I'm just going to skip ahead here to the other word the second word demute
Which i've translated as image this word is used in a number of passages with reference to a model or a drawing
For example in second kings 16 verse 10
It says the king a has went to meet tiglath pelizer king of assyria in Damascus
And he saw the altar which was in Damascus king a has sent to yoria the priest a demute
Of the altar and its plan for its work
In what follows we read that the priest in jerusalem builds a copy of the altar that he had seen in the plans for it
And the king that the king had sent to him from Damascus
So the word here is like a detailed sketch or a drawing
Elsewhere in particular in the book of ezekiel it's used literally for the the faces
Of the of the divine creatures and I think that's probably more in keeping with with what's being communicated in genesis one
I actually think this is like the visage the face
and the the form
Of god in which uh in which man was created
These words used together selam and demute the form and the visage of god are more akin
To a combined depiction of his actual being similar to idols and images of the gods
Which were common throughout the ancient new east
We understand that statues of gods in the temples or the small figurines hundreds of which have been discovered in archaeological
excavations throughout palestine and israel are not the gods themselves
But they are representative of who the gods are or for our purposes more precisely
what they do
On earth the gods live only in images as
In the king the king in as an image of god
In cult images in the temple and in sacred animals plants and objects
So the gods were part of the world but very distant and capable of presencing that is to say that they
specially derived images were conduits through which the gods were capable of
Manifesting even from such great distances as my friend
Democlon has put it these societies understood deities to be in some way
Uh able to inhabit material media and reify their presence through that media
While the primary locus of their presence was understood to be located elsewhere
So in this respect when a man is imagined as quite literally the statue and the face of god
This is not metaphoric
These words signal that the mortal man is
Presencing god for the purpose of enacting god's function. So what do we do with this expression?
To let us make man in our image
It's quite similar to those used with some frequency in a selection of writings that were inscribed on stele
In the early to mid first millennium bce
Niyu as syrian victory stele were pillars
erected by kings
After successful campaigns and conquests in foreign regions and cities
So these columns were set up over a ruler's nular conquered territories as expressions of
Royal power and to declare might and dominion to those among the conquered who question it
There's a couple of nice examples of this from ash or nasir pal the second
Who is an assyrian king from the nice century bce?
I'll just read one of them to you at this time
I fashioned an image of my own likeness the glory of my power
I inscribed there on and in the mountain of eddy in the city of ash or nasir pal at the source
I set it up
There's a few more. I've got listed there. I won't bother reading them
So here's the point
There is a strong relationship between the erection of these monuments. It's fun to say erection guys
The erection of these monuments bearing the image of king ash or nasir pal
His enduring presence and his subjugation of those places where his visage chiseled stele stood
These columns are visible expressions of victory
And the image and form of the conquering king stands over its subdued region as a constant reminder of his presence and his dominion
It's menace. It's propaganda
God's charge to the man in genesis 128 makes it abundantly clear that his role as god's form
And visage is to enact his supremacy bring the earth to heal
The english translation of this word subdued
Uh does not vividly capture what god is demanding most often it's used for submission of a conquered people people into humiliation
and slavery
More disturbingly an ester the word appears to describe
What king has you where as thinks to be a sexual assault on his queen?
Would he dare to rape the queen with me still in the house?
So here god instructs the man to put the natural world in its place
On the heels of resounding conquest which resulted in the order and structure of creation
It's a violent rapacious picture of a domineering god
Lording his victory over the captive adversary. So that's genesis chapter one
Um, and I think this is an important point to make even though this is an idea that
Developed much later into something else. This isn't where it started
so
If this is god's ideal for humankind
We need to think and we need to carefully consider
Where this was first stuttered and why it was first stuttered
So it's not a it's it's not a happy picture of of equality and freedom for everyone. This is
this is about uh
Doing the domineering god's bidding
and in uh in as I said
Putting the natural world under your heels
As it is safe to say to guys
I mean
It sounds like what you're describing is historical cultural milieu
What the zeitgeist of of the actual context is and that's what I love to do as you know
But we've got theology versus
what we're dealing with the actual context and
Even in the original context when i'm reading this text, I'm still seeing while adam represents the first man in this mythos
There's still a sense in which while it may be this man represents universally mankind in some way
Notice immediately. There's a tracked genealogy that directly lines up to a certain national people
a special chosen people
in the narrative function
and ar
uniquely called out among everybody right so
There is a what you mentioned in your book. I saw propaganda the word there. I'm thinking there's like a propaganda
Propagandistic function on
narrating this origin story that just so happens to make your people
Be the ones and if we were to consider their post-exilic or even
Exilic context for the origin of this myth
They're not in a place to be kings
So I imagine they were in power much different what this story had been
It wouldn't look like these neo-assyrian
understandings probably more so
Then being the subdued ones underneath
Who have to kind of have this imagination?
If that makes any sense, you know, I think that's a very good point actually
um in terms of of helping us to locate this this text
historically and attempt, you know trying then to to unpack why
It might it might uh
Um couch this image in the way that it does
So see you're good at this derrick. I just listened to you guys enough and then I think about things. I'm like
Did I say something quickly about genesis 2 the the bit that I wrote on on genesis 2 and 3 is a lot shorter
But I think I think so and the point you made the point. Well derrick
Uh, I noticed a couple of people picked up on this in the chat as well
um
humankind was created
specifically for for work for enslavement
In the garden of god, which is in eden uh bruce wells
Is writing on this topic as we speak like this is his his his his
focus as I understand a lot of his research going into his new book is in the direction of
you know
The atom and his woman are like all blades
In a like a temple garden or an urban garden. So I will uh, I'll I'll do this one
And then we can uh, we can get back to the video unless josh
Maybe has some some other things to to share just uh, just to finish up this point here
Uh, so this is from my my chapter on genesis 2 and 3
Says in verse 15 the adams purpose is made explicit. He has been taken
By all way and settled in the garden to work and to watch
One of my favorite english translations jewish publication societies edition
Of the tenok renders this to till and to tend
Uh, and the pictures of a man farming the land
But there is an added significance to the usage of these two words together
The first word is frequently used with the plain meaning of work
And the second to keep or to guard
But both words also carry with them cultic connotations
Both words are used often of the israelite priestly group known as the levites to describe
Their service to yahweh specifically in the tent sanctuary in the nomadic tribes
Long before the permanent dwelling of yahweh in the jerusalem temple had been constructed
It appears in numbers three seven to eight
Uh on another interesting translational note the word
In both places that we commonly see as work in our english bibles is the heber word avad
From which the noun evad is derived meaning slave
Genesis 2 5 and verse 15 are quite clear about this the adams purpose is to serve the ground
The adama is literally the word from which he was formed
There was no man to work the soil
This purpose is accomplished by his service in the garden of god
He always settled the adam in the garden of eden to work and to watch it in an implied sense
The man is a slave to the earth
This is a theme that was picked up later in the story
But for now his enslavement is confined to the limits of god's garden the garden of eden and I you know
I I I I talk a little bit about this as I go on but
oftentimes we we
Get this sense that when god created when god planted eden it literally says that this was
for people
But no
This was god's garden isikyo actually makes that explicit by calling it the garden of god in eden
And you know as his garden as his uh place for repose
The the humans were placed in there for the specific purpose to look after it
To keep it to make sure that yawai didn't have to work too hard
What else should we call that?
Josh doesn't this bring like a different meaning to the whole ashes to ashes dust the dust kind of thing in a way
It makes you think like I am a slave to the earth as as a man in this myth, right?
Uh
Because he's actually tilling and and that was the duty or the role of the guy in agricultural situation
But everyone gets buried or at least they have the the idea of shale going into the earth and so
There's this like built into the whole the way they probably view things is the slave concept to the earth
His actual duties as a slave in the garden to the deity
Uh, but just the idea of going returning back to the earth. I am trapped to return back to the earth period
So guys we have a decision to make here
Oh point three
Is uh, I think it's like six minutes
The clip is like six minutes long
It still doesn't have anything to do with slavery. It's the matthew 19 section
Folks, I'm not kidding. I think in the actual video
26 minutes go by
Before you talk about slavery in an edited video
That's not great. If it's a video about slavery. Just want to put that out there. So
I'm thinking that maybe we skip that section just because we're almost at the hour mark
What do you think?
And I can summarize it. I'm totally on board with that and I think it's it's worthwhile just just
Summarizing this idea. So I did like uh, this comes up a lot
this this idea the the matthew 19
um, ethic is is that uh, you know on on the teaching in jesus's teaching of divorce
He makes this point that the law for divorce
um
Was you know made because of the hardness of the people's hearts and he has a better ethic to replace it
The this gets a ton of traction among evangelical apologists and they apply it
To everything that they do not like hyperbole. It's like hyperbole. Yes. It's like hyperbole
I did a whole I did a a lengthy stream on tidler valus channel over at the free thinker podcast about
Uh, a biblical violence genocide and atrocities in the old testament responding to a video that started by making this exact same point
that because of
matthew 19
We can see um, what what's called a redemptive movement
out of uh, yeah, it's not all happening at once right, but
Things are progressively getting better. So even if it looks bad
In the old testament, don't worry
Uh, god's fixed it in the new testament
And if anyone's interested in a video specifically on that marriage section
I did a live stream with uh, jennifer grace bird
And she goes in on this because it's in her new book. Jen. Yeah
Jen's good at killing things
big time
So let let me say this because I think it's a good segue and you can put the video back up and I'll skip through
real quick, but um, here's the thing about the matthew 19 principle. Okay
um
It's about divorce
right
It's fine
If somebody wants to try to say look, this is a principle. Maybe we can look for it to be applied elsewhere
in the law
The problem is you either have to show that connection to slavery
You can't
or
and probably more importantly
You want to show how it's actually
happening
Right
It doesn't really mean a lot and this is where I think this video and this argument again, not just gavin, right?
Because this is not gavin's argument
Gavin is presenting an argument. So like i'm not coming after him right in that regard
You have to show
That the heber bible is taking a step forward
And then you have to show
Principally that the new testament the early church are taking a step forward because that's where this principle is supposed to be applied
But it doesn't and if you have any doubts about that
Please pick up jennifer glancy's book
Talk to pat lounger who was in the uh the chat earlier. I don't know if he's still here earlier
Yeah, he might have suffered
aneurysm from
From seeing what what was on the screen already. Yeah, if he's still there
Yeah, so that's what we're going to be
That's what we're going to be attacking here, right? We're not going to get into the new testament stuff
We'll mention it a little bit
But we'll leave that to new testament scholars
What we're going to be pushing back on hard
Is that the heber bible is making some huge progressive leaps when it comes to slavery?
It's just not so if if you want
It's not spoilers
Uh, let me but just one step it
I've I've put little mark of gel fish or something like this
I did very good. I can I can mute it while you're uh while you're finding your spot. Let's do that
So, uh, just a note to everyone, uh, thank you so much for uh for throwing your super chats in there
We will get to those at the end and i'm committed to sticking around uh to answer questions if if uh if people want so
Yeah, are we good?
Okay
So hopefully that's clear. Okay now let's dive in four section of the nice transition josh the old testament made
significant improvements upon slavery in the ancient near east and i'm actually going to call it
Generally servanthood. I'm not saying we can never use the word slave. This gets really complicated
How do you even translate that you know in english? We have slave servant bond servant
In different translations this really helpful lecture by peter williams goes into this and he basically he gets in
I'll link to it as well
He gets into the lexical issues of and how much the translations have changed over the years toward the beginning of his lecture
It's really helpful
But the important thing to note is just how much variation there is
In how slavery has functioned or servanthood has functioned throughout different cultures
And so the vocabulary becomes really important here when we hear the word slavery
Okay
How do we decide how to translate a word from hebrew or greek?
kip
well
Usually context helps a lot
And not just like not just the the the biblical context the way lexicographers work the way that we
Decide or or the way they they they come to decisions about what a word means
is by basically
exhaustively
Examining word usage across
the ancient world
In that specific language every text that they can get their hands on in order to see how this word is used in this specific context
with these particular
Prepositions or or conjunctions included it in this particular clause or phrase. That's how we decide
How to translate a word did I miss anything josh?
No, and here's the thing folks specifically when it comes to the word slave
Here's the problem. It's like the word run
Okay, it's very
easy
To equivocate. I want everybody to let's all say it together
Equiv it. Oh, oh just equivocate equivocation. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry
one
equivocate
We practice that now. We're so good at this guys
So look you should start a band
If you look at any and this this is the other critique that I have right
I just and I'm not faulting him in a sense for this because it's not his field
right, but but
He's not engaging with scholarship
Uh on this topic
Written by subject matter experts. He's just not
Right at least as far as what I've seen
um
So if you read like laura culbertson has an edited volume that I keep bringing up all the time because she has an introduction
Uh, this great little footnote that talks about like this all the scholars that lament about defining
slavery
What she means by this is that the word evad or the Semitic War do or like this Semitic word
That is used uh for like a male slave
Has it's polysemus just like so many other words, right? It has multiple
Meanings it can be used in a wide variety of contexts
Like the word boss, right? Hey man as michael scott would say that's my boss
That perm is boss. Those shoulder pads are really boss, right? Um
So it can mean like the guy that or the woman that's actually in charge of me
Uh, or it can mean like hey, what's up boss? You know like your friend or
Uh, it can be something that's really cool
The word slave
Is used in a wide variety of contexts in the in the ancient Near East
In general and in the Hebrew bible so it can it can you you'll hear people say this all the time
So moses is a chattel slave. So joshua was a chattel slave. So so god
You know, so jesus and isaiah 53 is a chattel slave
You know miss me with that shit, right? Like tell me you don't understand how lexicography works without telling me
You don't understand how lexicography works. So the way that we determine what a goddamn word means is the fucking context
The context people
The context
It i like i've said this so many times. Please stop coming back at me with this bullshit
I'm sorry. I'd like I just this riles me up because people want to soften slavery
And the way that they do it so often is to say well, I mean, you know
They did it this morning in a discussion. I was listening to well, I mean like, you know
Kings could be slaves every you a howling a credit card is like having a slave
God like
So what we're going to do is this
Yeah, I mean what we're going to do in this video is we're going to look at the context
We're going to look at these passages that have this word and we're going to say what is being
Described we do not come to this backwards and say okay. What are all the different ways that evid can be used?
What's like the common notion? Well like being sort of like under somebody or something and then apply that to these passages
It doesn't work that way
It doesn't work that way
I'm sorry
No, no, you have to get it out man. Me and kip. There's a reason we're doing the video again. I mean
for those who don't know
Josh you've been fighting this for years now. This is your thing and me and kip
We have our different interests, but like we can get in the fight with you and put on the gloves, brother
So notice I called you brother. You're not my biological brother. That's right
I mean, how dare I use a word
Because not I equivocated there
You equivocated. That's right. Yeah
All right
Hallelujah at what you just said
Uh, we often think of what we've seen in our context for me as a someone in the united states
We think of the transatlantic slave trade from the 15th to the 19th centuries
We think of slavery in the american south prior to the civil war and with that's what comes into our mind
Because that's what we know of and this is one of the most despicable
forms of slavery to ever exist
In its scale and its brutality and in its nature it was race-based chattel slavery
So chattel slavery means the slave is the legal property of the master
And it was explicitly race-based the way people defended it was by arguing that one race is superior to another
So this is a particularly egregious form of slavery though
I'm going to say all slavery is bad all slavery reflects the fact that we're in a fallen world
But this is like one of the worst forms ever
That's that's not the same despite what people will claim and I'll address the pushback in a second
That's not the same as what we have in the bible in the old testament the general basis for slavery was economic
Okay, you have a subsistence for a second josh. There's not
I
Feel like this gets brought up and it's a red herring the amount of attention that christian apologist want to
uh put on this idea that in the old testament it wasn't race-based
slavery
So much better because it's not race-based you guys
It's way better because they weren't racists
back then
Are they not xenophobic tribally?
I mean, it's because they're foreigners
Yeah, anyone who who's not part of the covenant is free game you guys
It wasn't based on this thing that hadn't been invented yet. Yeah
Sorry
Okay, we should continue
Not a lot of safety nets if you can't pay off your debts. This is one way you can survive
All right. Oh look
You anticipated this
Therefore what?
Memorize it when you when you in i'm obviously talking to the audience here
When you encounter someone that says this ask them a question
Therefore what?
Because what would he say?
It's okay
Because it wasn't race-based
I hope not. I mean he said earlier, right?
and
This is this is nothing more than trying to wash down so it's a whitewash to soften up
Coming into the text right coming into these passages. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. We can't make these connections to the end
It's about them south
Yeah
You can
And in fact they did that I tried it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean they did it, right? I mean like look at the laws
How do you think they did that?
Yeah, I mean
And we'll talk about it, but I mean like sure
Yeah, I like
So I I write about it in the book
um
But please everybody go pick up thomas morris's book on slave laws in the antebellum south
He goes through the colonial period he goes through the post-revolution goes to the antebellum south
And look at the laws about slavery
They'll say things like no good christian would
and then they'll say
Abuse or murder their slave, but
For moderate correction the rights to beat the slave must be maintained by the master
Sound familiar
By
Yeah, I mean
I will say this
I really appreciate about people like gavin
um
And people like that were uh doing theology in the abolitionist movement
They're starting at least from the position that slavery is bad. Thank you gavin. Yes, you would not believe gavin
How many people do not begin there today? How many christians? Yeah, how many christians? Yeah
Um, so thank you. I would much rather somebody be liberal with the text progressive with the text
Uh and say, you know what let's let's let's zoom out. Let's not focus in on these these other pet
Let's let's read them in light of
Passages about freedom in that respect if I've got to make the choice, please do that so
Yeah, I do want to I do want to say that
Can I add one little observation about god and it's only like a few sentences?
It it's something I'd noticed today when I did my script is that
You have people who believe god loves everybody and they have such a loving god and I think it's a reflection of them
I think it's a mirror of a good people. They're good people and they want a god
That reflects that good nature that they aspire to even greater goodness of themselves
But textually
God hates
God causes evil
I mean like I can make the case calvinist have swallowed this pill
So when you have calvinists who aren't shying away from the problem of evil because god created evil god does evil
Yeah, he causes evil whoop they do
They accept the ugliness of the text
I like the christian who's willing to wrestle with his theology
Wrestle with the tradition and even if if he has to confront it or she has to confront it and say
I reject that notion. That's not my god. I don't care if the bible says it
I don't accept it jennifer bird's book when she talks about permission granted
you know to to say, you know
God of whore's workers of iniquity saw him five five
That's not my god or god hates jacob loves esau. That's not my god. God hates people causes evil
That isn't my god is good if they're gonna take a path. That's the better one
Pertaining a slavery
You know, there's some ugly stuff and there's ways I figure theologically they can get their head around
But at least acknowledging that ugliness and not trying to whitewash it pretend. It's not there
Let's be honest with what's going on
That's right
Here's uh, this is uh, how jay sclar puts it
He says in the ancient near east in general and in the bible in particular debt was commonly the reason for entering into servitude
By the way, if you want a good commentary on leviticus, he has an older one that's smaller
And then he has this uh more recent one I'll link to this in the video description too. I just try to
Recommend helpful resources. He's my favorite commentator on the book of leviticus
And he has some helpful treatment of this topic too. So to try to give one example of some of the differences here
We shouldn't think of ancient hebrew servants as doing the grunt labor
Rather than the master on the contrary both would be working. That's the kind of world you're in in the ancient world
I just want to pause it here for a second. Everybody should go read seth richardson's work
Um on slavery in the old Babylonian period
He's got an article a lengthy article. You can get it free on
academia
I can't remember the title. Sorry, but it essentially shows that slaves were used as fungible assets
Right, and this is something that it carries over. I think pretty clearly in the rest of the ancient near east
But uh, so they're used as like credit
movable credit, right?
um, so
It this isn't this isn't again. Therefore what?
Gavin ask yourself that therefore what so they're they're made to work
And the owner of the household also has to work
again
therefore what
There's still slaves
Right and the biblical texts are pretty clear, right?
Read through the Proverbs read through Job the life of a slave ain't all that great
Right and what we'll we'll and that's obviously
Saying that very very very very mildly
right
Anyway, I just
This this bothers me, but yes, please read that because
um
The reason that I brought up seth richardson's work is he's making the argument that the slaves real value was not in their labor
We're not talking about like plantations here, right? These are household slaves. They're real value. He argues
um, and actually we see this elsewhere in the antebellum south
As it turns out, uh, at least it's argued
not my area of expertise, but um
That there's a there's a certain amount of
Like liquidity
It's probably not the right way to describe it, but uh, if somebody we're going to to give you a loan
um
Property was not alienable in the same way that a slave was so you'll see slaves pledged all the time
Right, it's probably what we're looking at an exodus 21 20 to 21 20 6 to 27
These are probably dead slaves that are pledged
Right or people that are pledged
And those people can be converted to chattel slavery if the if the the debt is not repaid within a certain period of time
Right throughout the ancient world and that that you know, anyway, that probably factors in here
But the point is that their real value was not necessarily seen in their their labor
But the fact that they could be credit
So anyway, just something to bear in mind here
This is not this is not the flex that I think haven't thinks it is
Chris Wright says old testament servants were residential domestic workers
Complimenting but not a substitute for the labor of free members of the household
In other words slave labor was not a means by which free israelites were released from physical labor
As was the case in classical Greece, for example
Slaves also were treated with rights and with dignity
More so I'll show in a second than other places in the ancient Near East
So for example, here's how it's put in the anchor bible dictionary's essay on slavery
We have in the bible the first appeals in world literature to treat slaves as human beings for their own sake
And not just in the interest of their masters
So I wanted to put this up on the screen this he's he's citing dandamayev
Muhammad dandamayev. It's a wonderful article. I would recommend everybody go read it
This is one of the few things in the article that I disagree with right and of course the this is a 1993
Uh, it's around 93. I don't remember which volume, you know what here this particular volume was published
But I just wanted to put the whole context here
Um on the screen so not this is something that I don't know that Gavin would want to read
Live on his or on his video
Non-israelite slaves were legally considered movable property of their masters who could dispose of them as they wished
Slaves were supposed to be in fear of their masters malachi 1 6 in a number of biblical passages
Slaves are listed as part of valuable property alongside with cattle gold silver, etc
A number of proverbs and aphorisms have been preserved which show a contemptuous attitude towards slaves
A slave ruling over princes is out of place
Mirror words will not discipline a slave since he does not respond even if he understands
A slave pampered from boyhood will become ungrateful in the end
The case when a slave becomes king is listed among things which the earth cannot bear
A similar case is when slaves are on horseback and nobles go on foot
Nonetheless slaves were not only the object of law
Thus the fourth commandment contains an interdiction against forcing the slaves to work on the Sabbath
So you could force them to work
Just not on the Sabbath
It seems however that these instructions were often violated since some biblical sources condemn
The breach of the Sabbath
We have in the bible here's the quote
The first appeals in world literature to treat slaves as human beings for their own sake
And not just in the interests of their masters. I don't actually know
Specifically what he's referring to I think it's probably exodus 21 20 21
But thus slaves both born in the household and those bought with money
Just like the free Israelites were to be circumcised in order
To share cultic life and eat the Passover. Maybe that's just what he's referencing
Um, the Hebrew law also restricted the master's power over his slaves
Premeditated killing was considered a crime of punishable by law in cases where the slave died immediately from the beating
We're going to show that this is the same in the rest of the ancient theories or in other places in the ancient areas
So, um, yeah, anyway, I just wanted you guys to see that in its context and obviously that's not the whole article
Again, this is section D. I highly recommend that dynamize article is fantastic
Did you guys want to say anything about that?
I just my ears perked up when I heard him say that little section and I'm like
Like let's find the prettiest part. I can pull that out
We have in the bible the first appeals in world literature to treat slaves as human beings for their own sake
And not just in the interest of their masters
Yeah, and I just agree with this right like right
Yeah, I mean, it's not just Israelites, but the same the first I wonder
If any of these ancient Near Eastern
law codes better yet
Um, emphasize or at least narratives about slaves where they're treated in a certain fashion
That seems like they have some
even some dignity
Or some personality
In those contexts that's it almost sounds like that because I don't really get what that means
As human beings for their own sake like what what are they trying to say in this?
Yeah, I just you like this thing about being circumcised or sharing a cultic library in the Passover
It means they're part of the master's household, right? And and and like
So these were yeah
I just
Even even if we were to interpret this as
Hey, go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry. You've been no, no, no, no. Sorry
I was just going to say like the I think the thing that
Uh, the the problem I have with uh with what denda may have says
In this sentence is that it it makes a presumption of what constitutes a human being
That I think he is overreaching
For the ancient world, right? Because I think
uh
Nobody was
I think there's a point that that continually needs to be made is that
like in terms substantively
Uh qualitatively in some respects
I don't think there was there was a sense like like within the ancient world
There wasn't this idea that people were subhuman like somehow
um
Like metaphysically or biologically
Worse and lower
just
as a result of of of
Like biology
um that everybody
All people were human beings
Uh and really all that meant was that no matter who you were if you fell into
dire straits you were in danger of the same sort of uh
oppression and manipulation that uh
Everyone else was subject to unless you were rich and ruling right like it just it feels
It feels like a uh an overreach to me a conceptual overreach and overreach of the language. It's it's like
It feels like it's a bit of a projection back
Yeah from a a more modern concept of of human
And again, it's in 90 like the early 90s. So I mean like we just yeah
And we'll get into some more specifics here as we go through
Oh, yeah, that's my era people
I'll give a few examples of this in just a moment from the Old Testament law
One of my favorite verses about this topic actually is in the book of Job
He's listing possible sins. He could have committed, you know
If I if I had committed adultery if I had mistreated my neighbor
And then he says if I had rejected the cause of my man servant or my maid servant
When they brought a complaint against me what then shall I do when God rises up?
You know, there's an awareness. You can't just treat your servant any old way you want. They're not
They're not chattel property. Yeah, it's not like that
Yeah, that last line they're not chattel property
Yeah, like
It doesn't follow
And certainly the evidence does not bear out
um
That just because someone is a chattel slave that the master can do anything that they want to them
Right, and that's not just in the Hebrew Bible. That's elsewhere
in the ancient Near East, but
Let's take this Job 31
passage, right
There's something that's like
uh
The elephant in the room here and that is
They're his slaves
Right, I said you I mean just because
He's saying if they have a legal complaint a rieve
Uh against him that he does justice
For them, right? He listens to it because God will call him to account if he doesn't answer the legal complaint
That that the just legal complaint by the way you see this elsewhere in the ancient Near East, right?
like slaves could uh
in the laws of hamarabi you see um
Oh, and I I I I don't remember the
Specific line maybe or maybe it's to 78. I can't remember which law
Um, but like a slave can it might be 282
Uh, but if a slave says like declares i'm not
your slave
Right, the master has to
establish the case
Right, and we see this in the documentation from the ancient Near East like I go through it in my book
but the point is that
This isn't the flex that he thinks it is
No, so here's what I wrote so in job's best case scenario where he does not deny them justice in their legal complaint
He still maintains that they are slaves
This seems to work directly against the notion that since we are created in the image of god or formed in the same way in the womb as job
um
That uh that there is no slavery, right or that that that like I don't even know what the therefore is there honestly
Yeah, um
At least in this case with job
Is it just that it's not as bad as it could be? I don't know go ahead. Sorry kid
He's making he's making the same mistake here as as what I think denda maya was doing when he's when he's equivocating on human being, right?
Uh
Justice for a slave. I think what's happening is you look at that word
justice and we've got an idea
in our modern
world a concept of what that looks like
And this is this is the way in which a lot of these apologetic arguments sort of work
They look at a lot a number of these texts which talk about you know loving
Uh loving one another and treating your your neighbor or your friend with respect and dignity
um
Looking after the sojourner in your land. They look at these
Terms that appear in the text which are
You know for for lack of a better word the better word. These are technical terms
Justice is a technical term
within this ancient hebraic context of this ancient israeli context
And it means it has specific limitations to it, right? But they're not the same
Limitations that we would necessarily put on that word. So modern
21st century justice for a slave is not the same thing
as
you know iron age justice
for a slave and
I I think I made the point in the notes when when we started putting them together for this video that
like Job's
what Job is talking about here
uh is
Following the law basically
So where the law says you can beat your slave and if he dies after you know
Uh four days, let's say job beats up his slave and kills him after four days
But because it didn't happen in inside of one or two days
He's good
That's justice
Yep, I think that's uh understanding where people's station was right
Yeah, is is is something that I think it's missed here
that's
Our our definitions are not theirs
But here I just want to push back against this claim that the transatlantic slave trade is the same as slavery in the old testament to a T
No, it wasn't I think any honest historian would admit that first of all just in its scale and brutality
it was
Sort of unrivaled
Okay, so I I wasn't going to stop here, but I have to
Notice what he's doing
Awesome, that's megan everybody. Oh, sorry it says megan here. Um, I may get
Our audience is a lot smarter than I am
Oh, no notice notice what he's notice what he's doing in its scale and brutality
right
What and and this this is common practice
Um, like I'm not necessarily like faulting him or something for this because I don't I don't know that everybody would think about it this way
What he's not going to do is compare the laws on the books in the antebellum south and the laws
on the books from his lights
Uh in the heber bible instead as I pointed out so many times before
He's going to look at the laws in the heber bible and look at what actually happened
in the antebellum south
and that's a big
Like it's a big problem
Right because you you you can't say look they murdered people
But here in the heber bible it says you're not allowed to do that. Well, it said they weren't allowed to do that in the antebellum south too
Like that's a big deal
Because as I pointed out before people that argue
um
Like in defense of the laws about slavery in the heber bible
In many many ways those same arguments can be brought
um
To the defense of the laws and the antebellum south
Yeah
I don't know anything listen. I I don't know much of anything about modern
Uh slavery except to know that it it's still
prevalent in many parts of the world
But like I wonder
Because he's basically making the argument here that biblical slavery is not the transatlantic slave trick. Therefore
Better, right? It's okay
Would he make that same argument?
If there are you know with regards to modern
institutions of slavery
In our current modern world
That look a whole lot more like
You know ancient nearest to slavery and less like the transatlantic slave trade
You you bring up an interesting point
that
Let's paint a scenario
Because they want to go look
You're not allowed to steal a person to make them a slave, right?
but
If we all as a nation chose to go and dominate a land because bobby had a revelation from yawkway
And he said to do it
that
Hent hent william lane craig came to night slaughter. Anyway, my point is we go and we kill
And fight and dominate but there's many men left. We just pretty much slaughter the hell out of them
Um, we can take those men, but that's not stealing because it was fair conquest battle and warfare
Let's take them as slaves now now would gavin get behind this kind of idea
I know this is straw manning him a bit because he's a christian and he has an anachronistic theological outlook and of course the modern
Sensibilities and stuff, but you get where i'm going with this like we could find a justified route
That isn't necessarily just going over here and buying slaves off of others who captured them in their circumstance
Which they may have felt at that time in history in their own little civilization as this was justified
But we're purchasing them or we're we're maybe we're playing a part in capturing them just making the point
That's a no no, but we go over and fight a war
Make it some
Legal justified battle in the name of god. We can then rightfully take them as slaves. Is that okay gavin?
Like what makes it okay? Again, therefore
What?
Yeah, you know what i mean, so
Excellent point. Hey, I just have to interrupt you guys there
You see you atheist. I just have to know where do you get your morality from?
Oh god, that was weird, wasn't it? What the hell is
Wow
I don't know what was I don't know what that was
I'm gonna let myself back in here. You see when I sack a city
I know
Because of the word of god to take the virgin girls for myself
But what do you atheists do do you just what do you do with the virgin girls? You see it's just this this makes no sense
Wow, yeah, what what about those virgin girls?
Wow fair fair point right game set match. I'll just nice. Yes
Oh my god, I love him
Oh
How do we go from that like I don't can't stop that
I I was I had something I was going to say and I lost it, but that's that's fine
We should just we should just continue. That was amazing
But more basically
It's a different kind of slavery all together
Just taking the prohibition of exodus 21 16 alone
This would have made the transatlantic slave trade impossible because in the old testament
You get the death penalty for human theft. It doesn't say whoever steals a hebrew. It says whoever steals a man
That's
So I I I have a question for you josh. It's simple
Why are they making a law saying you can't steal people to make them slaves?
Because people are stealing people to make them slaves
No way
I'm being silly of course to make the point that
If people are doing this that would be the reason you'd make this law
So if if if slavery in the contemporary world you're not allowed to murder
But the people murdering and the same but you can't you're not like your point
Is it sets up an environment where people are going to go beyond whatever those boundaries you set up are anyway
And the boundaries in and of themselves are horrific
For some
But I can guarantee you we could probably find examples in the antebellum south
Where certain slaves I am not even trying to act like the situation wasn't horrific in their status
But in comparison to other slaves, they might have had a better family
That treated them with more kindness and such if we were comparing
Evil to evil in the sense. You see what I'm saying? So
It just it rubs me the wrong way
He's right in the literalistic technical sense of it's not identical in the sense of
racism and stuff, but
It could have been bigoted toward other tribes
Those damn amalekites, you know, you they might have been in their own house talk about the amalekites or those philistine or
You know what I mean those uncircumcised philistines. I mean that sounds like a bigot is
You know
So I listen I I don't I don't know anything about
About the the transatlantic state slave trade. I'm just a dumb canadian, but uh, I
Do believe that
at one point
um
Like like slave slave, uh
Slave trafficking
Uh overseas became illegal
Didn't it 1807 I think but and that was a long time before slavery was outlawed, right?
Oh, yeah
Yeah, like
I mean distinction look distinction without a difference, right? I mean look
like
Here's so this is it right this argument the exodus 21 16 argument. This is the argument
Like if there are three big arguments, this is in my experience. This is one of the like this is the top
If not the top like it's the first thing I on in in the twitter cesspool
It's like the first thing I see not raised based in exodus 21 16. Those are the two things you're gonna hear immediately. Look everybody
gather round
Come close everyone
In the audience you too
It was illegal to kidnap people
everywhere
Oh, so are you are you saying josh that there was no slavery in the ancient that's right
That's it. That's what I'm saying. That's it, right?
Must be it. It just necessarily follows if there's no kidnapping there can't be slavery. Let me read some of these
Laws of ornama four if a man keeps someone captive
This man will go to jail and pay 15 shekels of silver laws of hamarabi 14
If a man should kidnap the young child of another man, he shall be killed
Hittite laws 19
If a louvian abducts a free man man or woman from the land of hati and leads him away to the land of louvi arizawa
And subsequently the abductor person owner recognizes him
The abductor shall bring or forfeit his entire house if a hittite abducts a louvian man in the land of hati
And leads him away to the land of louvia formally. They gave 12 persons
But now I shall give six persons and shall look to his house for it
It's illegal to kidnap
free people
But
Therefore what?
Um and kip. I know that you want to say something even though it's sort of an ancillary point
I know you want to say something about the septuagent of exodus 21 16. So please I love the septuagent. What can I say?
I can feel it
There's a I mean there's a revision of this law right in deuteronomy
Uh, where is it? Josh 24 24 is yeah, I got it right. I'm terrible with the numbers guys
Uh, so there's a revision of this law in deuteronomy 24
Uh, which actually specifies that you are not to kidnap a you know and and a brit
uh ish
Heber man
And then when the septuagent comes along and uh and translates exodus 21 16
It says the same thing
That uh, it doesn't just say you you're not allowed to kidnap a man. It specifies this. You are not allowed to kidnap a son of israel
um now
I think the that this this is probably as
As what happens in the uh in the second temple period as they're collecting literature together
One of the things that happens is they're harmonizing a lot of these texts
So my thought is that this is probably what the greek translator is doing is looking at deuteronomy 24 and going
This is really actually what it means in in uh in exodus 21 16
So i'm going to provide this clarification
Uh, I do know now we talked about this recently and joel couriakko
Who is uh a septuagent scholar actually pointed out he thinks this this could very well just be an alternative version
of exodus 21 16 like a like a heber warlock at that that uh
The septuagent translator is translating from both of those
You know situations are totally plausible. I think the important point here though is
That even though exodus 21 16 just says you shall not capture or or steal a man
the spirit of the rule
of the law
As it was understood by the first readers
Of this text was that this applied
To free hebrou men
That's it. That's all I got
It just yeah, come on guys
um
Can you do it women? It's free hebrou women. Okay. Sorry. No
um
Exodus 24 might actually might actually expand in that direction too
I don't remember josh would know but it says if a man is discovered kidnapping someone from among his brothers
The sons of israel and he trades in their cells and that kid never must die
Who purges the israel from your midst or the evil from your midst?
Yeah, so I'll I'll just say on the on the point of of women
Uh derrick
In my opinion, I suspect that it the the law is worded this way because women are not
They're not on the same level, right? Yeah as a free man
Um a free man is a is is a free man
Uh a woman of any station is still
Uh part of a man's holdings
It's part she is part of property. So she would fall under a different category
You know, you're not allowed to steal uh a woman in in the same way. You're not allowed to steal
You know a cow or a
goat or a
a Toyota forerunner
so
It um that I I I expect, you know, that's why
We're back
But let me give some more specific examples where you can see the hebrew bible
Even compared to other law codes in the ancient iris is taking some steps forward
In other ancient iris turn cultures, you can find lots of laws where if you harm someone else's servant
You're transgressing a certain law and you have to make amends to their master and so forth
But in the in the law of moses, there are laws about how you can't harm your own
Servant and if you do you forfeit the right to that servant. That was relatively rare
You know, you'll find in like the code of hamarabi and a babelonian legal text composed during like the 18th century bc
um
basically permission for masters to to like
Punish their servants in these cruel ways cutting off an ear this kind of thing
That's the kind of thing
Exodus 21 is reacting against saying no, you can't do that and this was relatively rare in the ancient iris
Here's how the jewish scholar neham sarna puts it this law the protection of slaves from maltreatment by their masters is nowhere
Else found in the entire existing corpus of ancient near eastern legislation
Here's how another scholar puts it
No other ancient near eastern law has been found that holds a master to account for the treatment of his own slaves
As distinct from injury done to the slave of another master and the otherwise universal law regarding runaway slaves was that they must
Be sent back with severe penalties for those who failed to comply
All right
So before you do that can I just I just wanted to I I just want everyone to know that when we talked about putting this stream together
I actually thought josh should just sit there
with his his book
open
To this enormous appendix that he has included in the book where he literally just lists
all the laws
all the ancient near eastern laws
pertaining to slavery
um
And where those laws are either the same or sometimes even better
Than what's prescribed in the heber bible go ahead josh
If people are interested in that um that appendix appendix a goes through all the laws as kip said including the heber bible and gives commentary on them
Um and chapter five of the book is a comparative analysis of all the places where there is overlap in the slave laws in the heber bible and those in ancient
Near east
and gives analysis
Uh of each of them and then gives comparative data. Yep
so
um
Get the damn book
I do I I am proud of it
So let's let's see if we can go through a little bit of this
Um
So first of all
Exodus 21 28 to 32 says exactly what gavin is saying that it doesn't right or saying that the heber bible doesn't do
So if an ox
This is the the sort of common stock
Law that shows up in several other ancient near eastern law collections and comes down into the heber bible
um if an ox is known to gore
And the owner doesn't do something to restrain it
And the ox gore is a free man or a free woman or a free child
Uh
Then the owner's life is forfeit now. He can ransom it if the family wants to do that
Like he can pay them to get out of being killed
Then the text says if it goes a slave
30 shekels of silver is paid to the master of the slave
Hmm
It's property law
This is precisely what the text like this is this idea
This is why westbrook points out. There's not
Unanimity uh unanimity. There's not univocality
um
In the way that even the law collection of exodus 21
Presents the idea of a slave. Now. I think there's probably a little bit of a a nuance here, but
nonetheless, um
Like this is harm done to the slave
Uh
The penalty uh, or that if this is a property
Um, god, I'm sorry. I'm tired. I've been up since like three
And it is hard time now 945. It is. Yeah
um
But it's uh, it's a
Crime against the or it's a it's a an offense against the owner and so
Remuneration has to be paid monetarily
Uh to for essentially for the value of this life. Okay
um
But here let me just read to you
So exodus so we can do this one for memory at exodus 21 2020
If a man beats his male or female slave of the wooden rod and they die immediately or under his hand
Uh, he will surely be punished
But if he survives a day or two, then he will not be punished because he is his silver
Right, let me just read to you laws of homerabi 115 and 116 if a man has a claim of grain or silver against another man
Distrains a member of his household and the distrainy dies a natural death while in the house of her or his distrainer
That case has no basis for a claim
If the distrainiest should die from the effects of a beating or other physical abuse while in the house of her or his distrainer
The owner of the distrainy shall charge and convict his merchant
And if the distrainy is the man's son, they shall kill the distrainer's son
And if the man's slave he shall weigh and deliver 20 shackles of silver moreover
He shall forfeit whatever he originally gave as the loan
These are debt slaves in exodus 21 2020 to 21
likely
Perhaps I don't want to say likely perhaps that doesn't make sense. I think it's likely that these are pledges
right
But the the point is that these are debt slaves. These are not chattel slaves in exodus 21 2020 because there is a debt to be repaid
um
and
That he brings up this point about the cutting off of the we're going to go back through exodus 21 more
So I I'll leave it at that for now
But he brings up this point of cutting off the ear without specificity. He says in the laws of hamarabi
I thought he might have been talking about the middle of syrian laws
But just quickly laws of hamarabi 205 and if on a willow like a free man
If his slaves should strike the cheek of a member of the a willow class
They shall cut off his ear. I don't know if that's what he's talking about
I deal with that in the battery section of my book appendix b
I think it's probably law 282 if a slave should declare to his master. You are not my master
He the master shall bring in charge
Uh bring charge and proof against him that he is indeed a slave and his master shall cut off his ear
The cutting off the ear is the same thing that you see in uh exodus 21 26
Putting the all through the ear. This is a mutilation of the ear in order to show chattel slavery
This is what's happening here. I suspect
Um
This is a mark that either it's a chattel slave who is want to try to escape
Which is probably what's going on here. And so he's being marked so that people when they see him out and about
They can go that's a slave
Because of the ear you also had certain hairstyles a hair lock
Uh in the old Babylonian period
And probably other periods I can't remember off the top of my head
It indicated when somebody saw somebody out and about they could identify that person of a slave because runaway slaves were a thing
You also have in the middle of syrian laws a 44 if there is an assyrian man or an assyrian woman who is residing in a house
As a pledge for a debt for as much as his value of that debt
Uh, sorry and he is taken for the full value. He shall whip pluck out pledges hair or mutilate or pierce the pledges ears
Um and what that means is while they're a pledge
While they're a debt slave
They're there with a higher
Like an elevated status over a chattel slave because they're not alienable
It's anticipated that they're going to go back to their original status
Um, and so west brook side knows this a lot. Sorry west brook says here this paragraph the one in the middle of syrian laws
illustrates the difference between the permissible treatment of pledges slaves and by implication debt slaves
A pledge could not be punished by physical maltreatment or marked as a slave by piercing his ear
The same restrictions would appear to apply to a debt slave. These measures apply to chattel slaves
Only but at the same time they acted as limitations
Since they marked the limit of what could be done to such a slave in other words
It seems backwards, but the law is saying you can only do this much to your slave
There's not this huge difference between these collections. There's more but I won't
No, I'll I'll save it for a little bit later. No, I I'd give me the point. Yeah
One question on what you read earlier. We're talked about killing the the the person's son
Or at least something there
Doesn't the bible have kind of this eye for an eye tooth or tooth idea where
You're able to go and kill like if someone killed your brother or your son or something you
Can go and kill their family member you you like legally are allowed unless they end up in one of these
cities that are like
Refuge like they're able to escape and they're in the safe spot
But you're not allowed to kill them in that spot, but like it's really
Archaic sounding the way that they kind of spell it out is my point
Yeah, I mean, I think what we are certainly looking at here is this lex talionis concept, right this sort of quality of retribution
Um, I did want to say from his sarna quote here. Uh, well first of all the covenant code is reacting to that
I wrote in the notes here. Please demonstrate that claim gavin that it's reacting that that's that's a pretty big claim
Uh, I'm certainly not saying it's not possible, but I mean like you'd have to you got to demonstrate these things
You can't just assert them, right?
So and it might not be something that he wants
To do like I don't know that it's good for his position, but it anyway
Sarnas full quote here this law 20 to 21 the protection of slaves from maltreatment by the masters is found nowhere else in the entire existing corpus
Um, it represents quality. Oh wait, he that was up on the screen. Sorry. This is simply incorrect. I wrote
Uh, and I cited laws of hamarabi 116
Uh, the one that I just read above same in middle as Syrian laws and also middle middle Syrian palace decrease 18
Sorry, I'll shut up after this
Um, it's long so I won't read it
But essentially if you have a mistress who has a slave woman in the palace
The mistress if the slave woman disobeys she can, uh beat her I think, uh
Yes, she can beat her with 30 blows with rods
Um for the first defense if she does it a second time she has to bring the slave her slave
Before the king and the king will declare what the punishment is to be just I want to read this second party
If the palace woman who slave woman she beat in accordance with the royal decree
Is excessive and the slave dies from the blows
Or two and then it's broken the palace woman who has killed her slave woman shall suffer for her insolence
She is held responsible for a punishment a punishable offense against the king
You can't just do whatever you want
With these slaves, I'm sorry. It's just that's not what's going on in the ancient Ereast
Um
Yeah, all right, so we should move on because he's getting ready to go to deuteronomy 23, which would be a fun. Okay
Uh, did I I thought I
Oh, I took it right off the stage. Sorry guys
So that latter part of the quote there, uh, chris right is talking about deuteronomy 23
And the law, uh, that was given to israel that basically foreign runaway slaves
Are not to be sent back most of the other places the law is the opposite
You're in trouble if you don't send the back if you harbor the slave deuteronomy 23 says no
Uh, don't send the back and then at the last sentence. I like there you shall not wrong him
And this does appear to be talking about
Foreign slaves. I appreciate this part. Paul copan gives three reasons for that
There's no use of the terms brother or neighbor
Israelites weren't allowed to enslave other israelites according to leviticus 25
And a foreign slave could choose which town he wants to live in as referenced here in verse 16
But the israelites lived in lands allotted to their clients all three this looks like basically, you know, if if some other
Uh, a person from some other nation runs away. They're a slave. They run away. They get to israel
Now they have a safe haven. Can you imagine if god's people had?
Consistently implemented this law. They would be the only safe haven in the world at that time for slaves
These are the kind of passages that get kind of glossed over sometimes
Okay, so let's let me just start with the positive here, right? This is fantastic. Thank you, gavin
Uh, so often apologists want to say that this is every slave that runs away. It's not
right, um
It's almost universally agreed upon that this is talking about
Uh foreign slaves
That are escaping into israel. They're not supposed to have extradition treaties
Which is what uh, and extradition treaties very commonly
Uh, you can read sam gringis's work on this
Um in his book
Pause in the bible
Um
But this is so that they're not supposed to have these extradition treaties these sort of parody treaties
With these surrounding nations
That's what the book of deuteronomy is about, right? Because they're not supposed to be
Equals or vassals, right? They're supposed to be the treaty document
That's right. The book of deuteronomy is a treaty document in which yoppe is basically saying
You're my slaves
and
Here is how you need to
Uh to fulfill this this covenant relationship that i've established with you. It's moderately
So it stands to reason you can't make treaties with with anyone else
because
You're yaw ways. Yeah
And this law is almost certainly talking about as gavin pointed out a runaway slave
Who's coming from another nation? Interestingly enough, they're not supposed to like
Take them in and protect them
They're supposed to essentially have a hands-off approach to them. Yeah, right?
Um, and we don't have to get into why this goes somewhere so long as you don't stay here
You're fine, right?
You can't stay in my house because if you read through the laws of the ancient aries that as gabin was sort of alluding to
If you harbor a runaway slave, it's like you've stolen them
Which is bad news by the way illegal to steal slaves, believe it or not
Um, but this is something that I I have not found anybody else that's written about this
Uh, at least from this perspective. So I think this was one of the novel things in my book
Um, so in laws of hamarabi 87, which is broken. It's in a broken section
um
But the text reads if either a male slave or a female slave
broken
They shall return him to his master
If broken he beats and it's it looks like the word beats is here. It's it's still in question though
Uh, if he beats him they will not return him to his master
Uh, that's how ralph translates this richardson translated it if either a male slave or a female slave to his master
They shall return him if something he has been beating him. They shall not return him to his master
What's that mean like bruised like apparently injured kind of thing? That's what it I don't know that the text is
It might be in the broken section
Um, but I don't know that that that level of specificity is being called out
But it it's it's abusive. I think is the the notion here like if he's been abusing him being him abusively
so, um
If that's the case and and I say this in the book like we can't know that that's what's going on here
but this is
This is interesting
Because in the laws of hamarabi, it seems like there's a good case to be made
That you have the humanity of the slave being considered in this way where if he is being abused
He is not to be returned to his master. So
Something to think about so I think I think that's an that's an important point to make josh more more globally is that
within all of these laws
uh, there are protections provided for
You know, and this is part of why this is part of why
Uh, these kings wrote these laws in the first place was as a demonstration
Of their um of their power and their their greatness you you provided a a sense of
I'm a civilized guy. I've got I've I've got this strong sense of justice that applies to you know, all these
People this is part of my job. I'm keeping the I'm keeping the peace. I'm keeping the social order
um, and and importantly many of these laws were protecting against abuses of all sorts of people
but critically
And this this just reminds me of the the the thing that I gone into with the guy on twitter today
abuses
Are not necessary abuses in this world
Are not necessarily what we
Understand to be abuses
That's right, right
There's variants here
and abuse
Committed to a free israelite man is not the same as an abuse of
You know, uh a slave
Again, there are ways like eating
Yeah
There are ways there are there are things that were perfectly okay in this culture
that we would consider
like
egregious abuse
From a modern perspective, right? It's equivocating. You're right derrick. Yeah, because I mean just because it's abuse here
and they may be both in the category of it, but it's like
You know, there are various degrees like you're describing that may be more horrific
and
It's still abuse. It's just a different level
And and you you guys did an interview
I don't want to sidetrack because we have very prior some more stuff here. You guys did an interview where you were talking about
um
One of the christian apologists told him out trading
LeBron James using slave language dude, that's stuck out to me so bad. That was so good how you guys were like
Why do we still carry over this language in sports when they're trading?
It's clearly still like fossils in the language. It's a it's a relic, right of of this other world
Gavin's Gavin's gonna bring that up
Oh, is he uh
Simone makes an excellent point
Have we considered a hava? I mean come on
Sorry guys. Simone's one of our uh, Simone reads Hebrew with us on every second thursday night
but cool
Right
Now in his response to
Trent
At 12 50 of his response mind shift was saying that you know masters could treat
Uh servants however they wanted they could beat them they could rape them all these kinds of things
Yes, were there isrelites in the israelite community that ran out of money and were going to starve
And so they said hey because I have no other option and you guys are into this thing
Let me come work for you for seven years and that would almost be okay if it was a work contract
But the things that were allowed to happen to these individuals you could beat your indentured servants as long as they got up the next day
You could totally mess them up as long as you didn't dismember their body
You could rape them you could force them to do anything you wanted to very very few rules
And you got to do that for seven years
But this is clearly wrong just from what we've seen in exodus 21 alone
We see no slaves did have rights think of joe's awareness if I mistreat
Even when they bring a complaint to me, you know, how will I deal with god if I mistreat them?
It's not so sinister people try to make this worse than it is
It's not so sinister
I wrote in our notes here. It's not so sinister
This made my skin crawl
Yeah
Right
So I wrote a note to cite some of the antebellum laws and follow them with
It's not so sinister not so sinister. So here we go
Georgia's constitution in 1798 section 12. I'll just do two
Any person who shall maliciously dismember or deprive a slave of life
Shall suffer such punishment
As would be inflicted in case the like offense had been committed on a free white person
And on the like proof
Except in case of insurrection by such a slave
And unless such death should happen by accident in giving such slave
moderate correction guys
It's not so sinister
No, it's not a loophole. I mean, it's not a a way of helping the slave owner
Get out of a pickle in a bad tight spot of getting angry at the slave
Yeah, north carolina in 1791 quote
Which distinction of criminality between the murder of a white person
And of one who is equally and human creature
But merely of a different complexion is disgraceful to humanity
And degrading in the highest degree to the laws and principles of a free
Christian and enlightened country be it enacted that if any person shall hereafter be guilty of willfully
Or maliciously killing a slave
Such offender shall upon the first conviction thereof be a judged guilty of murder
And shall suffer the same punishment as if he had killed a free man
Any law usage or custom to the country notwithstanding
guys
It's not so sinister
The slaves had rights
The slaves in antebellum south had rights
And i'm so you couldn't just treat them however you wanted
So just so everybody hears us this is like where our tongues are firmly set in our cheeks here, right?
like
The idea you can hear
You could make
I just
You're gonna don't cry josh
Ah like but it's like
It's gross
Yes, and and gavin is not trying and this is the really sad tragic thing about this is gavin is not trying to be gross here
Not at all. This is what happens to people when they don't understand the text
and they don't understand the implications of
their
Uh interpretive models
For reading the texts
You know it it makes people say horrible things
by accident
And that and I think that's that's probably the worst part about this
It's probably not the worst part, but this is a terrible part about this whole situation about this whole argument, right?
um
You know, I I can't help but notice like gavin gavin brought up the the exodus
21 rule again about the about knocking out a tooth or or an eye
um, and I I bring this up because again, this is something that I I was in
In discussion with with with someone on twitter about just today
Uh, because this gets this gets extrapolated, right?
You can't knock out a tooth and you if you knock out a tooth or you knock out an eye
The slave has to go free ergo. You can't abuse your slave
That's not what the text is saying. Yes. I agree
that this is
an iron age
Ancient Near Eastern form of attempting to protect against abuse
100 that's the purpose. That's the purpose of the law, but let's be clear about what's being said in the law
You can't knock out an eye. You can't knock out a tooth
You can't hit him in the face or you know
You shouldn't be
Hitting him in the face, right? And if you do and you get caught there's a consequence for that
But there's so many ways
So many ways to inflict injury and harm
And irreparable irrevocable abuse on people without knocking out a tooth or an eye
I mean starvation could be one
Think about it. It's no law against that. You don't get to eat
For the next four days five days
I'm not feeding you because you did this on top of hitting you on your back your legs your butt your feet
Whatever other area I can do
You know, imagine, you know, I'm just being totally creative and thinking of ways that other than that. It's not in the text
It's not in my law
You can't imagine people weren't doing it. I'm sure it's there, but
I get your point josh and the fact that you came back to antebellum south to paint the picture
I hope Gavin if he watches this and anyone who's persuaded or has thought in these kind of ways
Can see that based on the law
You're not going to walk away
We know from contemporary evidence of the way that the institution of slavery in our own
situation our own backyards have
Still to this day impacted society and the way things are but how horrific that was
and
We aren't there in ancient israel. We don't we have very little
We we have like the text and we have a little archaeology and inscriptions and heuristic ways of looking at other
Ancient Near Eastern examples and their tablets and text
but
We aren't there and pretending that we just got to give a complete glass half full
To what the bible says because that's our sacred text and it
Job could never be harmful to his slaves
Like we could give him the benefit of the doubt, but does job represent all of israel
I mean even if you said job was righteous and did good and he wasn't being you know
Like that pretends everybody's like that and we don't even know
Like you said the law you could do certain things and it's still just and righteous to god based on these laws
It's kind of I don't know. Do you guys remember? Derek may not be old enough, but but josh
Uh, you guys remember that that mini series on on tv north and south
About the about the american civil war
Yeah
Yeah, so like one of the one one of the things that that made an impression on me watching that as a as a young
Young person as a young man
I might have been a kid when I watched it was that there was a juxtaposition right of the good
The good southern family
And they're in the terrible southern family and the good southern family looked after
Their slaves, you know, they gave them enough to eat. They didn't they didn't beat them
You know, they they they they didn't they didn't treat them. It wasn't so sinister
Yeah
But you know
This is this is the way
This is the way that that that excuse egetics works
Here's another example
In cases where a slave is killed or assaulted by their master there are severe penalties
So earlier in exodus 21 you find it. I'll just read it
It says when a man strikes his slave male or female with a rod and the slave dies under his hand
He shall be avenged
But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged for the slave is his money
Now here's where a lot of problems come up
The hebra word for avenged here is talking about the death penalty and again
That's rare in that historical context mark. Meinall says if found guilty
A master was to be punished which might result in death
That was unheard of at a time when the closest legal equivalents only dealt with assault on other people's slaves
All right, so I mean like I won't read them all again, but
You know laws of hamarabi 16 is doing the the same thing
Right, um, if you have a restraint
And the the slave dies a natural death
um
There's no punishment, right, but if they die from a beating
Then there is punishment and that is that the equal if it was a
Uh
A child that was taken as a restraint then the master's child in other words, it's it's it's a parallel situation
Right, so I mean like unheard of at the time is just sorry just incorrect
um
And I don't think he said it yet. I think we have to play a little bit further
But I feel like we've talked about that at least a little bit to this point
Should probably keep pressing to the next
Thing
But here's the problem people look at verse 21 and say oh how terrible you mean you can be I just I just
I wasn't gonna do this. I'm sorry
Hate these voices Gavin
I know you don't mean anything by them, but they come across so poorly. Oh look how terrible
I
Like whatever you think about it whatever defense you're making for it
I think you would still agree that we shouldn't be doing it today
right
So I like I don't I don't it's
This is just my constructive criticism to you
um, the voices don't
They don't come across well
In this context. Oh look how terrible that if you beat him to death
It just doesn't come across well
So you've spent more like you spend more time
I'm sorry. Yeah traded
Yeah, right sold. It's the palc open thing and I
Yeah, I mean you've spent so much more time
On this uh, josh, then I have it
because I'm I'm wondering where Gavin is getting his information about the
ancient Near Eastern world and and slavery in the ancient Near East
Does it sound like he's drawing a lot of his stuff from from palc open?
I mean it sounds like
Yeah, I mean copan, uh, may now this this source that he
cited uh
Right has christopher right has a whole book that sort of goes into this stuff. But yeah, I mean it's
I'm surprised that he knew don demaev, but I I suspect that somebody else cited don demaev
Just pulling that section out. I don't know that but
Yeah
That's not a place that I would expect should we get to should we get to uh leviticus 25
I mean he only goes into it for a minute. Yeah, we can kind of press but
As much as you want and as long as they survive then there's no punishment
But no, it's not perfectly permissible to beat your slave as much as you want as long as they don't die
This is one of those areas where it's easy to misread these foreign texts
What verse 21 is saying is there's not to be the death penalty
But that doesn't mean there's no penalty for other physical maltreatment of a slave or a servant
We've talked about this we can just press through it like maltreatment. What is maltreatment? That's an emet category
Uh that we're applying it at a category too and I think that's equivocation
Okay
That specific more extreme penalty
Is not given in that case because it's a less severe crime
But there are and to see that there are
Penalties all you do is just read a little bit further and you get to the verses we already looked at
We're even knocking out the tooth of a slave means they go free
Okay, so it's it's false to derive from exodus 21 21
Oh because you don't get the death penalty. There's no penalty at all
Just a tooth guys
Uh, I thought that picture was appropriate here. It's totally appropriate
um, so
Like I everybody should just go look up
Prover I'll just read it Proverbs 29 19 and 21 by words alone a slave cannot be corrected
Since he will understand but not respond
Uh, then there's this sort of
odd interleague
Intervening verse do you see a man who is hasty with his words?
There's more hope for a fool than for him and then 21
A man who pampers his slave from youth in the end he the slave will be insolent. Here's what michael fox
Says about this 2009 proverbs commentary
The proverb gives advice for managing a household
Since the slave is deprived of material interests of his own
He must it was presumed he beaten into submission like a brute animal or a fool
Slaves were apparently felt to be of qualitatively lower order
strict treatment of slaves is advised again in 29
To 21 and I just
I just want to
quickly
show you
the severity
Of just knocking out an eye or just knocking out a tooth
Appendix B
Which is
That much of the book
I go through all the laws on battery
and the engineers in the Hebrew Bible
Here's what we get as penalties
for
A man having his eye damaged or destroyed 30 shekels of silver 60 shekels of silver
Eye for an eye
It's 20 set shekels of silver 40 shekels of silver and then in Leviticus
Eye for an eye right
For a commoner, which is only really dealt with in the laws of hamarabi 60 shekels of silver
just kind of
Seems kind of crazy
But there it is. It's a it's a it's a really big deal to knock out the eye
For a slave half the slave's value, which here would be approximately 10 shekels
10 shekels of silver 20 shekels of silver and then in Exodus 21 the debt is repaid or forfeit and the slave is released now
to give you an idea of
like
What?
30 shekels of silver means
It's hard to estimate these types of things, but like I did a little calculation
um a little bit of work
10 shekels of silver a year
Seems like a pretty good salary
10 shekels of silver a year knock out an eye 30 shekels 60 shekels. Can you say 40 shekels like yeah
um anyway, so uh for a tooth
30 shekels 30 shekels. I'm looking at different law collections here. So the laws of born almost 30
laws of ash nuna 30 laws of hamarabi
And are they set free as well?
Huh?
Are they set free as well? This is just for a man. This is for a man
okay
Slave is 10 shekels of silver six shekels of silver
um and then but the the point in Exodus 21 uh again
debt repaid and and set free
um it matches up pretty well half the price of a
or half the value of a slave is 10 shekels
um
anyway
So the the point that i'm trying to make here is this is not a little
injury
It's one of the top three
injuries
That you see consistently in the law collections
So this I cringe every time I hear just even just knock out a tooth
It means that you're hitting them in the face probably with a big stick
Right, it's anyway. Yeah
Wow, that's probably factors in pretty heavily
Hey, josh does does your boat I spin around and shoot water? No, it doesn't it doesn't
But I do tie them myself. So I feel pretty good about that. Hey
Very nice is a cool
Okay, we're we're we're now Leviticus 25. Oh, yeah, I'm not there for long, but
But it's really easy to misread these passages or to make them a little more sinister
He uh, let's go to Leviticus 25
This is one of the passages that mine shift is talking about
He's talking about the distinction here between israelite servants and foreign servants
And the language here and in other passages as well for acquiring
Is not talking about human theft
That's already been forbidden in Exodus 21
That was my addition everybody
So that it's clear
because
Who is saying that purchasing means they were kidnapped?
Who's saying that I don't know who's saying that
It doesn't even have to mean acquiring through money
The verb here doesn't have to mean a financial
Purchase yeah, you can find this same Hebrew verb being used for when a
pregnant woman has a child and then she says I have acquired a child or
Ruth 410 talks about the marriage of Ruth and Boas like that
He's acquiring a wife. It's definitely not talking about a forced capture
Man stealing that kind of stuff
So the way the way that mine shift took that is again a more sinister than necessary
And and rationality rules video was quite unfair on this point to paul copan paul copan is pointing out
Basically a lot of the language here about property or about acquiring
Um is not necessarily talking about chattel slavery
And he was making the point that look you can use this language in other ways
And he was giving examples today how we use language like trading sports players
And uh transferring employees and he gave various examples like this making a very specific point about the language here
And the point is just that that language is under determined to tell you the more specific question of whether the servant had any rights
Think of sports players
They are
traded
They are sold
They have agents to take care of these transactions these owners of these franchises
And he had given lebron james as one example. So then uh, steven from rationality rules and his guests are just going on and on
as though paul
Copan were arguing lebron james is in the same position as an ancient hebrew servant
Which of course was not his point. He was making a more specific focused point about the language
And and what you can't get out of the language
And what did you think about that point by the way?
Sorry go ahead. Oh listen, uh
Like I when I when I watched this the first time I think I mentioned this in the notes too, right? Like his appeal to ruth 410
is curious, um, because like
I'll I'll just I'll just read it quick here. What's happening
Uh, this is this is uh, uh, boas speaking
Uh boas said to the elders and to the rest of the people you are witnesses today that I am acquiring from naomi
all that belonged to
Uh, a limelich and all that belonged to helion and machelon
I am also acquiring ruth the moabite the woman a machelon as my woman
So as to perpetuate the name of the deceased upon his estate
That the name
Of the deceased may not disappear from among his kinsmen and from the gate of his hometown
You are witnesses to date like did he do that?
Did he do that on purpose like did he really?
Is that is that the text you want to use here?
Like also the genesis 4 one is funny because that's the one that hollowed puts in a category the big question mark
Yes, uh, that's and that's a wild text like like there's tons of
speculation about what's going on in that text
Because the word kana which usually means to purchase can also mean to create right?
In in in its cognates in the ancient nearest and cognates. That's what it means
but uh, yeah like in
Again, how do we how do we understand what words mean?
We started this stream with this point josh
You look at the context you look at the ways the words are used broadly across as many
Texts we can get our hands on you look at the way the words are used in cognate languages
In an effort to get a sense of how to
Understand what's going on in this context with these prepositions within this certain noun phrase or this construct
How am I going to interpret this word?
and
like
Within this context in leviticus 25. There's just no way to get around this
No, you're buying slaves
Yeah, and I'll just let
Since we're citing genesis and ruth. Let's just cite some other places where kana is used leviticus 25 30, right?
Uh, purchasing a house and if it is not purchased back for him within the space of a full year
Then the house that is in the walled cities passes permanently to its purchaser kone
Throughout his generations. I don't know. Maybe it's not referred to the jubilee
You know, maybe maybe someone was pregnant with the house and and acquired the house through
pregnancy
Genesis 47 22 land only the land of the priests. He did not buy
For the priests had an allotment from pharaoh and they lived off the allotment which pharaoh gave them therefore they did not sell
their land
Genesis 49 30 a field
Uh, and there's tons of these in the cave that is in the field of machpela, which is before memory
in land of canan, which abraham acquired
Along with the field from a throne the hittite for a burial site genesis 2316 which describes this
For 400 shekels of silver
And abraham listened to a throne and abraham weighed out for a throne the silver which he had named in the hearing of the sons of
400 shekels of silver commercial standard
two more
Jeremiah 13 2 and 19 1 have the purchase of a belt and a jar with this word. Okay. Sorry
specifically when it comes to slaves
Genesis 17 12 a mcnaught kesef, which is the purchase of silver
For a slave and let all your males whether they're when they're eight days old be circumcised throughout your generations the houseborn
And the one purchased with silver mcnaught kesef from every foreigner
Those who are not of your offspring exodus 1244 the same
Ecclesiastes 2 7 and i'll shut up
I bought male and female slaves and I had houseborn slaves
I also possessed flocks and herds larger than all who preceded me in jerusalem and sorry i'll say this here
Chun the young seow in his 2008
Work on the verb kana is used for the buying of slaves in these sites genesis 39 147 23 amos 86 and nehemiah 5
eight
It means buying people
I
I dropped my mic if it wasn't uh attached to my mic stand here again and so expensive like
It's so expensive. You would know buddy
but like
So just so everyone understands here too
uh
The reason why
um
You can't just you can't just just soften this with with
attempting to
uh use a gloss like in english like a choir to make it less
sinister
because
within the veticus 20 within the veticus 25
Specifically but in all of these other texts which deal with
um
With slaves
These are all part of larger law collections
Concerned with property
Concerned with the the heritage
Of the israelites with the nahla or or the ahuza
um
And for that reason
uh
You know the these
These texts are when you read them correctly
And contextually and you understand what's going on
They're the writers are being very careful
To ensure that uh that basically all the balances
Are are are level
um
It's the this is property law which is
Where slaves in this mindset belong
Um
Now if you want to know for sure that leviticus 25 is not talking about race based chattel slavery
Just keep reading
Right after those verses you see the exact opposite scenario can come about if the sojourner becomes wealthy
The israelite can sell himself into servanthood to that person
I'll just read it for us leviticus 25 47 48 if a stranger or sojourner with you becomes rich
And your brother beside him becomes poor and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner with you
Or to a member of the stranger's clan then after he is sold he may be redeemed
Actually many of the commentators use this verse to show that foreign slaves could become free
They could work their way to independence because that's disputed
Yeah, I just wanted to know what commentators he's referring to
Because I would like to have a conversation with them
So I actually wrote
Commentators argued that these verses show that foreign slaves could work their way to freedom
What the actual fuck I am so sick of this nonsense. Let's just destroy this by simply explaining what's going on
That's what I wrote in my notes
um
Okay
Sorry, I just like how many times have I explained this? Okay
Leviticus 25 is talking about amongst other things
um jubilee
Right, and it's saying that for israelites. There is a period of time that can elapse
Or that will elapse and at the end of that period of time all debts will be canceled
Um
And all people will be returned to their property, right? It's a big reset button for israelites just for israelites
In light of that the text talks about what if a fellow israelite becomes poor?
How do you take care of them and there are different stages to their
Falling into property
The final one is that they would try to sell themselves into slavery to you
The holiness codes and leviticus code and leviticus 25 says you can't do that anymore
You have to treat them as a hired worker
then
sort of
Heranthetical thing. Well, where do we get slaves from 44 to 46 they come from the nations around you
Or tenant farmers that are living in your midst keep them for life passing down as inheritance
I know the verses that we're not really dealing with here
No mention of arhuzah. No mention of the inheritance. No mention of even verse 46 of the serving forever
Anyway, um
Then we just jumped to 47 47 to 55 is you have a group of people called the toshavim
The toshavim
It's not a straightforward term
But it seems to indicate people that are foreigners living in the land of kanan
Since they don't have land
They rent out fields from israelites. These are tenant farmers is the way this gets translated often
So you have tenant farmers in the land 40 40 46 says if you want to get
Slaves you either got to get them from the nations around or from this group called the toshavim
Tenant farmers that are living in the land of israel you can get permanent slaves there
but
That doesn't mean that everybody that's a toshav is a slave. That's not what that means
so
Like read a comment. I'm sorry. Just read a commentary. Anyway
Okay
A toshav could either do very poorly or could do very well
If kip if you are and I'm sorry. I feel like I'm just talking and talking and talking. No, it's you man
You wrote the book. Yeah
People read it um
so
Let's say you're the israelite
Kip and and I get to be the israelite. All right. There you go
um
And and you own 10 acres of land and I am a foreigner
I can't own land
But i'm living in the land and I say hey, I will pay you five shekels of silver a year to rent out
Two acres of your land and I will grow my money bitch. Yeah, right
Now
One of two things could happen
Right. I mean at least one of two things
one of at least two things
I could do very poorly
And default on my my rent to you
right or not
And if I do then I might become your dead slave and that could convert into chattel slaver
You don't have to release me after uh the jubilee or at the jubilee
It's not so sinister in my house josh, but it's not so sinister
um, however
I could also do really well
Let's say I have great crop years
And I take this two acres and man. I really start doing something with it, right?
I sell in the grain and i'm putting stuff away and i'm man. I'm just i'm doing well
I can rent out five more acres from you, right?
And maybe I can rent out all your acreage from you because maybe you're not doing so well. I don't know
The the point is that I start doing so well. I start making lots of money and now
I am wealthy enough to start making loans to israelites
And israelites
fall into debt
slavery with me
What does the law say about that?
We've dealt with what happens if an israelite falls into a position of potential slavery with another israelite
But what happens if this occurs with a toshav who's living in the midst?
This is not the same person
Get it through your heads everybody
The toshav in 44 to 46 is not the toshav in 47 to 55, right? It's not the same. It's not some guy named frank
Frank the toshav
Right and he becomes a slave for a while. Then he's he's manumitted. He gets out and he becomes really wealthy. That's not what's happening here
It's saying you have a group of people some of that group of people could do poorly. They can be kept for life
They don't have to do poorly at all, but whatever
Or
this group
of the toshavim could do well
and that group
Could take their own slaves. What does the law say about that? That's what's going on here
Also, he seems to think that jubilee is every seven years. I don't understand. I think it's just a conflation of
Deuteronomy 15, but I maybe just misspoke. I don't know but it sounded like that to me
Yeah
But I thought I thought that was
That was very clear josh
Uh, the way you explain that
So and I I don't know does he does he talk about about the the garr and and needing to treat the garr
Well, yeah, I think that comes out does he does okay. All right. Well, let's uh
Let's try and get there. Oh, yeah
Did you press it? But the point is slavery in the old testament is not chattel slavery. It's not rooted in racism people say that too
Okay
It's true that there is preference given
For fellow israelites, but the differences between an israelite and a non israelite are not just about race
It's about their whole citizenship and nationality
And there were differences in how israelite servants and foreign servants are treated
But the differences are not absolute. The main difference seems to be with the jubilee year principle. So every seven years Deuteronomy 15 says
Yeah, that's what I was just saying. Maybe it may just get missed. Yeah, I'm not sure maybe he's saying every even years in Deuteronomy 15
It just might be the wording
No could be
You send your servants away. You don't send them away empty-handed that seems to be applying to hebrew servants specifically
Not foreign servants, but that doesn't mean that foreign servants or foreign slaves could never be freed
That certainly happened sometimes one of the things that would
Yeah, I just wanted to point out the 1949
Like there's a lot that's been written since Mendelssohn's work in 49. I'm not saying you should never cite it, but I mean like
There's a lot of stuff out there. Yeah
Yeah
anyway
Happen a lot is some servants would be adopted by their master in their final years
Adopted and then set free upon the master's death. So that can happen
I also am skeptical that he dug Mendelssohn's
49 publication out. I can found that on his own. I suspect you've seen that in another citation. Yeah
Yeah, and that's fine. That's fine. I just like
There are better resources, but for foreign slaves, it's not regulated every seventh year like this as it was for israelite servants
However, all the least he pointed that out protecting the servant are not just applicable to the israelite servants
They're applicable to all servants including foreign servants or foreign slaves
Yeah, see I don't
He's gonna go into this a little more. Maybe I'll wait for that. We're getting close to the end
Um, but this is sure israelites have to be released and foreign slaves don't but
I don't know like that just
Let's make this. Yeah, let's make this not look as bad as it is. Yeah
Yeah, that's a pretty big
It's a big big big big thing to have before a but
Yeah, it sure is
I like big bucks and
Sorry
All the servants and slaves had protections had rights as sclar puts it
Servants from the nations enjoyed the same legal protections given to all servants such as freedom
If severely beaten and the right to rest on the Sabbath
Yeah, I mean, I just don't know that exit is 21 20 to 21
um
It depends I guess it depends on what he's trying to say here if we're trying to make sort of a
A connection here between leviticus 25 like it's that's that's not the case, right? But um
Because it's a different it's a different section of all
Yeah, I don't
Given that I was the foreign sorry
Um, I was going to say given that exodus 21 seems
pretty exclusive
to
you know, Hebrew
Uh debt slaves seems like a safe bet that that's
What that that rule is is applied to
Yeah, yeah, I mean at at best it's to debt slaves in general, right, right, but I don't like I
This is this is not something for example, that's applicable to chattel slaves. Sure not clear. That's for sure
Also partake of the Passover another israelite feasts
Um, none of these laws made a distinction between with the new testament's portray. Sorry
And my tip pause not
But
What if somebody said to you hey, wait a second like in the antebellum south
Slaves are allowed to go to church on sundays
Yeah
Okay, right sorry
I just always it's true circumcision Passover Sabbath
Cattle were allowed to observe the Sabbath too, right?
Some isn't uh, it's true. This is probably less about the humanity of the slave and more about hey
You can't I don't want you working on the Sabbath. You can't even send your slave out to do your bidding for you
It's it seems even like it's rooted and I would use the term superstition
about their particular
Ritual cultic practices and how they they kept getting rewarded if they obeyed the deity
So the the deity being supreme
How do we honor that deity and make sure even to the point where the animals aren't even doing anything so
I'm not gonna say they're couldn't have been respect toward the human in some ways, but like
I don't know
yeah
Should bring that back
Sorry, um
Okay
The foreign slaves would also partake of the Passover another israelite feasts
Um, none of these laws made a distinction between some kinds of slaves versus others
All right. Let's know one other challenging passages people talk about sexual slavery and they'll bring up Deuteronomy 21
And what we have to understand here is the cultural context
And what would typically be done here again? I want us I want us to see how the Hebrew Bible is
Progressing it's it's putting it's putting things in the right direction. Okay
The rituals during this 30 day period are not designed to humiliate her. These are
Uh, purification rituals. They're not meant to be it's about ritual purity. They're not meant to be demeaning or something like that
And it's giving a period of time to protect her
Okay, look
That the purpose of that law was because the common practice at that time would have been for women to be raped in that
circumstance
And what do you think is happening?
In this circumstance at that point in that at that time in history if their husband has just been killed
And so the law is pushing against that and saying no you have to marry this person and you have to wait this amount of time
It's trying to push against the general practice at that time
First of all their husband has just been killed
No, sir
They have just killed
her husband
There's a pretty big difference between those
Like what you just said isn't sinking in. I don't think I don't think
Yeah, I can't even imagine what that would be like for that woman or anyone for that matter
Like we talk about this elsewhere
um
But like that 30 days
Probably has absolutely nothing to do with her save
Wanting to make sure that she has a menstrual cycle, right? Yeah, can I uh, yeah, please
Can I read this? Uh, this this this selection from, um
Rory Cox I think is really good. Uh, that speaks specifically to this, right?
Uh
They say rather than expressing humanitarian concerns the restrictions detailed in deuteronomy 21 may have originated as a form of taboo
During which time the foreign captive was purified
The woman had to discard her captive guard
And alter her physical appearance in order to be safely integrated into the israelite religious community
In other words the taboo period was not designed with the mental or physical well-being of the captive in mind
Rather the taboo period
Fulfilled a socio religious function
Rooted in a concern for the purity and homogeneity of the israelite community
It also ensured the familial honor of the male captor
The waiting period prior to the commencement of sexual relations was used to confirm
That the woman was not already pregnant thus
Guaranteeing that any future children were indeed sired
By the captives new master
Right does everybody hear what's going on here?
Uh
And importantly like this is all
This is all stuff that the text is very specific here. It's explicit
That this is all stuff that the man does to his new captive
He's the one who trims her nail and shaves her head and dresses her in
In uh in mourner's uh garb. This is
This is humiliating
Like this is a way of this is just another way of othering
a person
From the rest of the community
There's nothing there's there's nothing
There's nothing
There's nothing good here
Right. I mean, let's just say that
Agree really isn't
There's no like there's no justification that really
honestly, I would try to just
Ignore
Or admit
It's bad and it's ugly not try to soften the blow in some way or try to pretend
It's not as ugly as it is
That's it's just
I don't know. Yeah
Sad and kip as you said like the idea that this is not rape
Right
Fundamentally flawed. It's it's it is
It is um anybody who hasn't
Uh seen it or read it. I just I just picked it up. I've been working through it
Uh for my own book
Our colleague Jennifer birds marriage in the bible
uh will
Will change your perspective
On uh on what the laws in the bible are doing with regards to and and conventions within the bible are doing with regards to women
And the relationships with men. I do I do have a practical question. It's not long
It's just like almost like everyone let it sink in
Your husband just died
30 days later you have to have sex with this guy
Willingly happily joyfully
you think you're really
Sharing that bed in what we in our modern sensibilities and our in our partners who choose to be with us and love us and
Dump us and leave us for someone else at any time kind of no
No
But it's not rape
Come on
yeah
But importantly let's let's point out also that this was just the this was just the station of women
Right in in this this ancient neary stern culture regardless of whether
She was a war captive or even a member of the community to begin with
um as
Jennifer bird points out in her book
Uh the way a man the the word in the bible most
Consistently used for what what we interpret as marriage
Is taking and that's exactly what a man does
Men take women
Men give women to other men
Uh and the way that you consummate this arrangement is through is through sexual intercourse
She doesn't I mean it's not like she's got much of a say in this arrangement at all
All right
Getting close people all right
Okay
What is sometimes missed when we come from a modern western framework and read these laws is the sense of
Progress being made here relative to ancient history in general
Here's how one scholar puts it the norms given in the book of the covenant
Reveal when compared with related law books in the ancient east radical alterations in legal practice in the evaluation of offenses against property
In the treatment of slaves in the fixing of punishment for indirect offenses
And in the rejection of punishment by mutilation the value of human life is recognized as
incomparably greater than all material values take the principle of the jubilee here
I mean that uh what one commentator calls that probably the most radical social and economic idea in all the bible
Another says it enshrined in law the cessation of land abuse the cancellation of debts
The restitution of land to its original owners the repair of the family and the termination of slavery
The design of this law is as a safety net for the vulnerable
It's trying to stop generational cycles of poverty in deuteronomy 15. You can see that's the explicit purpose
They're trying to regulate an already existing institution with the overarching goal of reducing poverty
All right, um
I cannot believe I forgot to I just grabbed a screenshot like I did and I cannot remember who wrote the article
just terrible
But here's uh a little bit about law and social welfare in the wider ancient near east
So
There was recognition both in israel and in the ancient Near East of social problems and dislocations caused by economic disparities and hardships
Especially severe was the problem of debt which could force an individual to give up his property home fields and eventually his own freedom
There is evidence in the laws of attempts to address these social and economic problems through relief giving measures and regulations
The rights of a borrower with respect to items of his property pledged to his creditor are the subject of laws in the bible
Exodus 22 deuteronomy 24 and so on and in the ancient areas code of hamarabi
Uh, and I won't list them all out
um
There is concern about persons who are distrained or enslaved because of their debts
Such as a person who must be released after six years in the bible exodus 21 deuteronomy 15 and after three years in babelonia
Code of hamarabi 117
Did you just say in after three years?
Yeah, so it's half the time
Yeah, and it's twice as old
If not more it was it was very progressive very progressive
There's a redemptive movement
Wow
Go asher. I guess it'd be martyre. Um, yeah
I was reading assyrian laws
So that's anyway in the assyrian laws and in the bible one finds attempts to mitigate the consequences of debt slavery for unmarried women
There are laws aimed at preventing the ill treatment of individuals free or slave who are left in pledge laws of estonia 22 24 code of hamarabi
uh
The the bible too has laws bearing on the ill treatment of distrained purpose persons
The veticus 25 39 43 53
And one may also look to exodus 21 2021 26 27 as a piece of larger social policy protecting all types of slaves
Tudoronomy 23 15 to 16 departs from the other ancient near eastern law collections
By forbidding the return of a fugitive slave to his master the near eastern laws consider return to be a duty
Of course I
disagree
Well, I don't necessarily disagree. I just he's not I don't know that he knew the writer knew about
Law 87 anyway
together
um redemption and release
Property I'll stop here
um
Property in persons who passed out of the possession of debtors and into the hands of creditors could often be redeemed
Sites tons of sources from the law collections and from the veticus 25
Otherwise, uh, the forfeiture of sale became final
But even in such cases there was relief in the form of a periodic jubilee
Or years of release when properties might go back to the original owners in the bible this event is termed deror or your veil
While the release of persons came after six years of servitude the release of property was periodically set to occur every 50 years
Uh in mesopotamian sources one finds an array of terms designating release most importantly Sumerian Amar
Uh gi for uh neg to see satu
And their cation counterparts doesn't matter what they are anyway
Uh these releases were most often associated with the accession of a new king or uh, or his jubilee
um celebrated
Sometimes decades later typically the release affected
Uh relief for various unpaid taxes on lands and harvest cancellation of outstanding debts discharge of debt hostages and slaves
An all amount of property sales due to debts and recompense for their loss in other words
It's not just in the bible
And I won't read it, but I have one of the edicts here of Amisa Duka, but
Anyway, it's not just in the bible guys
We're almost there. Sorry
I I could summarize like this
If you read through books like exodus leviticus studentronomy, you have an open mind
Two things will become clear number one. This is the ancient world. Okay. This is not a timeless ideal
Number two. This is not tyrannical and malevolent
This is you can see this as
Coming out of genesis one and the doctrine of the image of goddess trying to curb against the abuses that existed in the world at that time
And that's the great theme if you step back and see the big picture of the old testament law
Over and over and over if there's anything that is hammered away at in the law of moses. It's that you
were slaves in egypt, so
Uh treat the sojourner among you with compassion. Look out for them. I'll put up a few examples of this on the screen
Sorry, or did you do that?
Are you muted audience? I am muted. Sorry. Oh, okay. Did did you take it off the screen or did I?
Uh, I don't know. Okay. I was looking at your word
All right, um
If
Did you want to do you want to pause there? Oh, sorry. Yeah, I uh
I just wrote here in the notes discuss how this is not incompatible with slavery clearly
right, um
So again as you pointed out earlier
In the in the broader ancient Near East, this is the way kings functioned, right?
You you care for the oppressed you care for the vulnerable you care for the weak
um you care for the foreigner
It is it is clear that the heber bible appends to this
Uh this notion of because you were foreigners or you were slaves, right? There's no question about that
um, but that doesn't mean
one
That they then thought this is incompatible with keeping people as slaves
Because it's not
And it's not that they didn't care about the the vulnerable
In the in the wider engineers as well. No
Uh, and can we be clear about this because this often gets you know, this this idea of um,
Yahweh or god
Delivering the Israelites out of out of bondage in Egypt is this great story of emancipation, right?
Like this is how Cecil beat a mill
um painted the picture in his classic film
uh
It's very important for people to understand what's going on in this text and why
Uh, the the laws keep coming back to this point
You know, you don't mistreat the garr because you were garrs in egypt, right?
And the point is you were in this this station as free
uh land holders in egypt
uh, and
You were taken you were wrongly taken from that station and put into
slavery
And Yahweh makes this explicit
Later on in uh in exodus 25 after he's gone through the whole jubilee period
Uh laws he finishes up by saying
You are my slaves
Right, and this is why this was the problem
The problem wasn't
slavery
The problem was egypt had wrongfully enslaved
Yahweh slaves
which
Yahweh wasn't happy about and that's why he took them back
Because they belong to him. They did not belong to egypt
And as a reminder, don't you do that?
To other people who don't rightfully belong to you and I put the stress on rightfully here
right
So and that's who the garr is the garr is someone who who is is is living in your land and enjoys some some privilege and protection
in this sense
I've always thought it was weird
God
puts them in egypt like he
It's all part of his plan to make them go to egypt to become slaves
But then we got to thank him
For helping us get out. It's like you put us in here. Can you imagine a parent?
You know
Hey, i'm gonna send you down here. You're gonna go through some of the worst most horrific things
But better thank me too when I let you out. Oh
And you almost didn't get all the way out
I had to kill a lot of you on the way out because you just weren't doing things the way I told you to do
Yep
so
How are we doing josh? Is there some more here to finish up and then we'll uh, yeah
last last so
When you see the big picture like that it might help you
Kind of see the biblical story in its overarching development. All right, let's keep moving in that development get to the new testament
This will be more brief
All right, so that's that's it
um
I just
I don't know should we do even want to comment on them
I mean like first ten of the one nine to ten. He's gonna talk about this
It it doesn't say slave the social institution of slavery is wrong. It's talking about
An illegal practice of slave traders Galatians 328 is a spiritual
um, then again, I just you know what?
I just refer people to jennifer glancy's book. We've been going for three hours. Yeah, it's very good. Yeah, yeah, so
uh, and I I think I mean I I think we've we've we've fairly
um
comprehensively covered
uh
the many problems
Appear in within uh Gavin's video in so far as we understand
The old testament and the slave laws relative to what's going on in the ancient east and he clearly
For no again, you know for no fault of his own. He clearly doesn't have as strong a grasp
on the literature and the period
um
as as
As as maybe he should
I'm gonna blame him completely though because yeah these scholars
He's quoting to seem to be regurgitating the same stuff from other
In the same vein. It seems they're just keeping the same ideas floating around from book to book
And and hey look like let's let's take um
Let's take uh leviticus 25 40 755
like let's say
Because he cited that it's it's debated, right?
I haven't seen that
But let's say that it is right and let's say
Uh, that that that becomes clear somehow
through the text
That this is a toshav. It is the same toshav in 44 to 46
That doesn't make sense to me in the context of the passage, but let's just go with it right for the sake of argument
What does that get you?
right, um
Like I just I don't know what that I don't know what that gets you
Uh, so so so a foreign slave could be manumitted
If the owner wanted him to
be manumitted
I mean there was a law right to manumit people in the roman period like
Or maybe not a law, but there was a a common a provision 30s, right?
So what there's no slavery in rome. I don't understand like yeah, anyway
Yeah
Sorry, so we can do uh
I let everyone know I got to go soon just so that they are you know what should we should we hit these these super chats and
Yeah, shut it down and and thank you josh so much for putting the work into this
Uh, and you know, not just not just for this stream, but for all the years that you have poured into
Uh, those excellent books
Uh, and everyone please
Go if you haven't already buy josh's second edition on
Biblical slavery. It's excellent. Uh, it's as far as I know
It's like the only place where you can get a a comprehensive collection of all the ancient nearest or materials
Like that just in one place, right?
Um, but yeah, let's uh, let's hit some of these super chats and then we're gonna have to get out of here
Uh
Our friend pat lounger over at discovering ancient history with pat lounger. Thank you
For the five dollar super chat. Can we discuss a preliminary study of the
Sumerian curricular and lamentational texts from the old Babylonian city of kish instead of slavery?
This is how josh enters every stream. I think isn't it? Yeah, well most conversations in my life, you know
um
This is the title of my dissertation everybody
Yeah
It's more clear
Thank you. Uh, I I haven't read it. Sorry
Uh, yeah, don't blame me. Ichabod. Thank you for the uh, five dollar super chat a down payment on kip's book. Yay
Thanks for giving me some freedom
You're welcome
Apostate of mind podcast my friend mark peralta
Uh, regarding the amago day, are there any clues in the text to specify that likeness is ontological and not just physical parents?
Uh, I would say no. Yeah
That's anachronistic. Yeah, that's a philosophy type thing
And I did a little bit of I did a little bit of digging in this beyond just the the Hebrew bible text
Uh, you know, I looked at the ways because I think this is ultimately more of a a
later
Late second temple jewish development. I think philo probably has some reflection on this
Uh, this is a a later christian development and you know rabbinic jewish development, certainly
But importantly one of the things that we do see is in the new testament
Uh, where there is reflection on genesis 126 this idea of the amago day
It's not
It it's also not ontological. I went through a bunch of the texts and and it's it's
It's it's uh, it's very vague
Um, it's it's never applied in the same sense that it is by
by uh, later
christian apologists, but
Thank you mark for the super chat
Um, what's next?
I heart dogs. I think this is over at your channel derrick. Thanks for uh, thanks to critical scholarship
I am loving the bible even more as an atheist than I did as an evangelical christian
I'm wanting that I want him not to just hate it
and and and and
Create more of an interest from a secular humanist. Uh, the humanities kind of angle rather than
The polemics I I get caught up in the polemics people like to see a fight, but
I love
Not just the bible, but I love the ancient, you know literature and the good the bad the ugly to learn from
Understand where we came from not to repeat it
But you know call a spade a spade. Anyway, thank you. I heart dogs. Yeah
Thank you. I heart dogs
Scott duke also over on your channel derrick
Uh, thank you for the super chat. I haven't been able to super chat in a while. Love the bow tie
You look you look badass now that you've kind of you know
Loosen the tie take it off
I know it's it's uh, it's the lights and it's the computer screen. It's hot in here, too
So, yeah, uh, sarah m hues. Thank you all the way from uh, new zealand
I do love to hear a scholar passionately speaking on a topic. They care
totally boss
And you know the right the right usage of the term too very nice
Thank you, sarah. And I mean if you haven't noticed this is something that uh, that that josh and I and derrick are all very passionate about and we love
Um, you know, it's it's a joy to be able to to talk about the the texts and the culture and the history with you people
Uh, Irene Cooper
Uh, also over at your channel derrick. Thank you for the five dollar super chat. I guess they weren't considered humans before that decree
Love what you all are doing. That's on your channel. Are you sure? I think oh, maybe that's on oh, no
That's I think that's on uh, josh's channel. I think that's a digital hamer ebi super chat. I don't know how to tell nice
I I I I can't exactly tell either. I just know which ones are mine
Uh, so
I could see which ones are mine. There's a chain link thingy. Yeah, that's
That's that's what I see too. So um, love what's your your support and we appreciate it serious. Absolutely
Michael apple, thank you for the five dollars super chat five dollars for dr. josh's
anti slavery
Ain't slavery because kidnapping is a legal argument ain't slavery because it kidnapping is a legal argument
Added to the arsenic
premise one
That's it word. You got it. Michael. Uh, all right. Just a few more guys
uh
Blake
Was cyrus the first to abolish slavery in 539 bc
And I honestly don't know
Um, did he abolish slavery?
I'm not sure if that's right
Uh, it's something I feel like I gotta go look like yeah, thanks for giving me more work
And thanks for the super chat
I'm not reading that one
Modular buffalo for ten dollars. Thank you very much for the super chat
I want to thank you for all the work that you do
I used to be like gavin, but you guys helped me
Realize the mental gymnastics to justify it
All are crazy
No longer a slave
to make apologetics
Awesome
The micking sticking gas
It is it really is done. Thank you. It's awesome. Well, thank you very much modular buffalo
Uh, very much appreciated and congratulations
Yeah, yeah
Rennie madden for five canadian dollars off the top gavin says his intent is to sensitize christians to the issue of slavery in the bible
Do we think he was successful in that endeavor?
So listen, uh
When I when when I first saw this video, um
And and then I went on to on to twitter. There was an awful lot of people
Who really thought that this was a a convincing case?
that uh that gavin presented
For a biblical slavery which actually kind of heightened the urgency
um on my part I think on on uh
On our part to to set the record straight about a lot of this stuff
Because let's be honest. I I think especially when you are starting from a position
of uh
sympathy
And you when you've got a lot invested into your own ideas and your own uh hermeneutical framework of the text
Uh, this sounds convincing
If you don't know the material if you don't know the scholarship and he's pulling up
These arguments and this stuff and and and he's cobbling together a story and an argument that makes sense
Right. I mean until you kind of drill down into it. Um, so
To answer your question
Do I think he was successful? Unfortunately, I think he probably was
Uh, which is why a stream like this is important. Do you guys have anything else?
I would say if he was
My opinion is if he's successful from our perception
Of trying to do something that we would say is good. There was maybe sprinkles in there, but overall
I think that it was an apologetic again geared at
Um special pleading the bible over all ancient Near Eastern context in light of slavery
Uh, this is the special one. This is the one and this is our guide and we need to defend the guide at all costs
That's kind of the implications I got from it
Even though he was trying to go to sources or say this is what this says and this is what this says, but uh,
That was my takeaway
Yeah
Claude simian for five dollars josh's wrong monk isn't always right the stench of trash affected him. He was sick
He took one extra. That is a fair point. Yes. Yes. Yes
Damn
Now save wrong theory. Yep. Yeah the uh, the argument was valid, but not sound
It was um, great show though. What's the re-record your testimony now? This isn't gonna work. I guess so
I guess so, right
Chrissy h is in the house. No questions just saying hi and sorry. I'm late again. Kip. Don't kill me
I mean, I I it's kind of what I do
Exactly good to see you Chrissy
I got one more guys and then uh, we can shut it down. Eleanor deal
How should devout christians approach slavery well?
Good question
I if you don't mind, I'll take this one. Um, yeah, you do it
I think that we need to be honest about our interpretive models
And maybe honest with ourselves about them
And that's where I hope that I can sort of motivate people
To get or to move
uh toward
When I read the epic of Gilgamesh
I'm not bothered by
um
You know things that I would consider to be a moral today that appear in there from from
The perspective that people are bothered by things in the Hebrew Bible because I don't see it as a moral guide
To me in other words. I'm not trying to derive my ethical system
From the epic of Gilgamesh or from the Zulquitun inorta epic or for many ancient texts, right?
Hmm
What I'm doing is I'm
So I'm filtering the text
Through what uh, I can't remember where I heard it might have been my father
He used to call it the rake and shovel method. You guys ever heard that
You know, I have rake in you rake in the good stuff out of the pile and you shovel out the bad
Right. It's another way of cherry picking, right? Yeah, but
This is how we we approach
Ancient texts and as a matter of fact, I think we do this with the Hebrew Bible as well
We just don't realize it and the reason that we have apologetics for things like this is because we're doing that
Right, we're saying
Like that that can't be right. This idea must be shoveled out. We must have an apologetic that explains why it is there
And I think that instead what we ought to be doing is is maybe moving away from
This inspired and errant view of the text and saying look as an ancient text if we want to say that
um, it's divinely inspired in the sense that
Uh, people were moved to write about their engagement with the numinists
You know with the divine whatever that's that's fine and and so
You know, we can you know engage with their experience and in the same way that we engaged with
You know neosirian writings and how they engaged with what they consider to be the divine and garner things like you know
Pull things from it that are applicable to our lives as well through that lens
um, and I think that's what I would say about slavery and so in that case, you know
I think the bible would be perfect
uh for something like
Stepping back and seeing these broader pictures and understanding things
um
In in a way that's sort of all right. Obviously. We're not going to care about
Laws from like the ancient world, right? That's the but look here
Jesus is talking about you know setting the prisoners free setting the captives free and this idea of freedom is good
And the exodus story is one about chosen people and so yeah, I mean through my interpretive lens
It seems like being free is a good thing
Yeah, right and so that's that's my takeaway, right? It's a reader response theory, and I think that's good
That's what I would that's what I would want
I like what Chrissy H said in the chat condemn it
Obviously if it's saying what it's saying condemn it
Realize it is bad
Realize that christianity contributed
See what you can do to honestly engage the issue
and of course, I imagine
Modern christians in our context that we're we're talking about aren't doing it anymore and so
Grow out of it learn from it
Permission granted jennifer birds as you know like say that was bad. No more
Let's go forward in the spirit of
I don't think I think this is the the direction that if jesus were to come today or at the pivotal point
He would have been one of those possible revolutionaries. I don't know like you said reader response
kind of reading into it that kind of idea motives of
Salvation of freedom things like that, but not trying to paint over
An ugly picture and pretend that it had nothing to do with those things at all
And just being dishonest with the material and engaging in the in the literature
That's what we're calling out. We're saying no no no you're trying to act like this is the facts
And these this is this is what the evidence is no
That's just being dishonest with history and the literature and your special pleading your case in a in a in a way that's dishonest
Anyway
I think that's good
I think that's good everyone
listen, uh
It's almost uh, it's almost 8 15. I shuttered to think how late it is over on
on josh's side of the country
Thanks guys for hanging out with us for this long for watching the stream
Gavin
Ortland if you see this I I really hope
that uh
That you take us up on the uh on on the open invitation
Come talk to us about uh about some of this stuff
Our goal is is really in the end to to provide clarity
And uh in direction with regards to to what the text says and what it means
Um, so yeah, I think I think with that
Uh, we can shut it down. You guys have anything else
Just one super chat at first age
Oh last second. Yeah, I'll uh, I'll just grab that quickly. Um, my serious take as a religious person
Don't take your religious text seriously
You lose sight of humanity or limit deity on the base of ancient words. Very well said Chrissy
Uh, thank you very much. Um, I'm gonna be back. Josh is gonna be back on sunday for a shorter stream
Uh sunday sunday afternoon at 11 a.m. Pacific time. The diablo critics are back for episode three
I hope everyone tunes in
Uh until then
Thanks, everybody. Good night everyone. Have a good one. Happy friday. Uh, I'm I'm finding an outro
