I would want to say, and I say this kindly, they are anti-intellectual intellectuals.
They are anti-intellectual intellectuals.
Is Dr. Dennis McDonald off his rocker? Is his Greek mimesis, Greek imitation in the New Testament,
absurd, silly, should be laughed off, has zero evidence and support of it?
Here's a little interview I got to do when Dennis McDonald gave me a ride while we were in
California recently doing a course recordings for Karakuni Egyptologists and in-person recordings
with Dr. Richard C. Miller. Join the Patreon if you want those early access with Richard C. Miller
as over the unfolding weeks I will edit and put them up. However, I ask him, check out this interview
that these four Christian apologists over at Testify, including Tim McGrew, Jonathan McClatchy,
Steven Boyce and Eric Manning, what they say about your work. Now, heads up, we are going to do a
thorough response to the stream, picking apart all the errors that are seen in this episode.
But for now, here is his response. Professor Dennis R. McDonald, Harvard graduate Claremont
professor, your work surrounding mimesis or imitation of Greek literature with the New
Testament has been for me, Eureka, groundbreaking, quite an impressive thing you've done. Are you
riding on everything? I could turn it to you and you could answer to say probably not, okay?
There you go. But there's something about what you do. There's something about your work that
just resonates as true. I mean, one thing I just want to say is where did this take off?
Christianity did not flourish in Palestinian extreme Orthodox Judaism. No, it flourished
among Gentiles, among non-Jews, and it grew and it was like a rapid fire they couldn't put out and
they tried. So I want to start with what your two cents are pertaining to the response video.
The gentlemen that were on the screen are Tim McRue, who I would say out of the four would be
considered the most qualified in terms of academics research. He is more of a philosopher and his
research is an epistemological stuff. You have Boise, I think it's Boise on the top right. Then
you have Jonathan McClatchy. Then you have my friend Eric Manning. He's just a YouTuber who's
into this stuff. They did the response to you and really think it's silly. It's ridiculous.
It's funny. It's weak. There's nothing to it. So we're going to have to do a thorough picket
piece by piece video remotely at some point. Dennis, tell me your thoughts.
Well, first of all, I want to thank them for giving attention to my work and taking it seriously
even though they disagree with it. I don't think they treat it fairly and we'll talk about that.
But I want to talk about the apologists as a rhetorical sociological phenomenon.
Almost all religions have apologists of some kind and they are the defenders of the in-group
and its values and its canonical texts and its rituals. And they're embarrassed sometimes by
commensality, that is, that you have similarities in other religions. Then in order to identify
the values of the in-group, they often stereotype the out-groups. And so the out-groups then are
whatever. So for Muslims, they may be Christians or Jews or atheists or something like that.
Now in these groups, then you have self-designated intellectuals that try to fortify the values
and behaviors and traditions of the in-group. And to do so, they often stereotype and actually
name-call the outsider. Well, I find with these Christian apologists, I'm the outsider. And so
then I get accused of being weird and baseless and flippant and hilarious and crazy sometimes.
Well, that's just a part of the rhetoric. So the the issue is that we have to get back from the
rhetoric to the texts. Now, I'm a scholar of early Christian narrative primarily, but I do so as a
class assistant as a humanist. And it's important to start with these texts as literature and not
presuppose that they're historical reporting, not presuppose that they have particular sources,
but to understand what they're like as literature. Now, we know that the Gospels are unusual kinds
of narratives, but they do have analogies in the ancient world. Some of the analogies are Jewish.
Some of them are Greco-Roman. And I'll get to how a scholar makes sense about similarities between
one kind of literature and another. But one of the things that happens in the video that you're
talking about is over and over and over again. These people claim that the New Testament is not
interested in the Greco-Roman world. It's only interested in Judaism. Judaism was not interested
in the Greco-Roman world. And that is just patently false. That cannot stand. What about Philo? What
about Josephus? What about the Testament of Abraham? What about Third Maccabees? What about
Tobit? And the list goes on. Now, that's not to say that Jews were all happy about Greco-Roman
paganism and the Homeric epics. But the way you engage those texts and those traditions
is not to ignore them, but to borrow from them, to transform them. And this is another thing that
bothers me about this tape, the podcast. Mimesis imitation is not stealing. And that word stealing
happened about four times in this relatively short podcast. Stephen Boyce was the one, I think,
that said it first in that. That's right. But he said it several times. It is not stealing. It is
transformation. The same way that you would say, would you say that Virgil is stealing from Homer
when he writes the Aeneid? No, he's transforming it. He's transforming it for a particular reason.
So you can say that Jews and Christians were engaging Hellenism by transforming their mythologies
to say that Moses or Jesus or Paul or whomever is superior. Now, another criticism that these
apologists have, I think I'm wandering away from social identity theory, but we'll get back to it,
I guess. Another thing that they emphasize is that the I qualify differences as parallels. And
of course, there are going to be differences because these authors are engaging Hellenism
and trying to transform it. So not all differences are similarities to be sure,
but there are strategic ones. The image I like to use is a feminist friend of my family,
when my daughter was young, gave her a book called Sleeping Ugly as opposed to Sleeping Beauty.
So that is a transformative variation that is a parallel in a way. And you have examples of this,
the death of Hector. Hector dies and stays in his tomb. Jesus dies similarly and rises from the
dead, but both deaths bring the destruction of great cities. So the other piece that is missing
entirely in this discussion is a discussion of criteria to determine whether you have
imitation or not. And of course, they would not deny that you have imitations of the Hebrew
Bible with the stories of Elijah or Joseph or Moses or David or so on, but they insist that
you don't have imitations like that of the most dominant literature that we have from antiquity.
Now, get this. For literary papyri that we have from 200 A.D. to 200 B.C.E. to 200 C.E.,
we have five fragments of the Septuagint. We have over 600 of Homer. Now, which text do you think
people are going to be more familiar with when they're reading the Gospels?
So I want to poke in here just to give what you're doing right now. You're setting up a template.
You're setting up a foundation in which anyone who's going to take this seriously,
as Richard C. Miller, I just visited, who was a student of yours, said quite well the way he said
it is he said, I want to reverse this onto the apologist. I want them to do a little homework
because it seems, Dennis, you're doing all this homework. And it's a frustrating battle because
they have not studied what you have. They have not read what you have. They're not aware of how
powerful the Greek antecedents were in a world where Greek literature is writing in the Mediterranean.
So I want to point out something that I think is powerful. He said, and he flipped it and I want
your comment. He said, I want them to look in Greek literature across the world in the time.
Let's just say 200 BCE to 280. Find Greek writings, Greek literature, that is not
imitating, that is not playing with Homer or Odyssey or Iliad or even Virgil's Aeneid,
which is Latin. Show me, get me a list of books. Show me a plethora of it where it's not doing this.
And then you might find exceptions. There are exceptions always, but it's not the rule.
And the rule is New Testament gospels written in Koine. They act like this. They make the comment
that Koine is like this so different than Homer and don't get me wrong. It is a different kind of
Greek. But that's like saying, well, let me see if there's any other Koine Greek written around
the first century. Are they imitating Homer? What do we do then? Are we going to act like, well,
they couldn't do it. So comment on that as you're building up the framework of...
Well, I appreciate your comments and I appreciate Richard's, but I would come at it somewhat
differently. I would talk about Quintilian, who was a great rhetorician of the first century
in Rome, but he taught Greek and Latin students. And he was aware of the importance of mimesis,
but also of inventio, that is invention, so that yes, you would have models, but then you would
invent things and you'd make them new. And one way to avoid plagiarism is to imitate multiple
models. So he would say every form, and this is what he says, every form of eloquence owes something
to the Homeric epics, because there you have narrative, there you have speeches, there you have
pathetic deaths, there you have farewells, there you have battle scenes and so on. But not everybody
is going to write a narrative. So if you want to do a philosophical treatise, perhaps you should
imitate Plato, not Homer. Or maybe you should imitate Cicero, not Homer. Or if you're doing
a declination, maybe you need to have Lyceus or Domostines as your model. So it's not that Homer
is everywhere. It's that mimesis is a primary way that people were taught to write. And when
they wrote, they would often use more than one model, like a bee that is collecting pollen from
several flowers to create honey. But here's my challenge to these people. You can't simply say
that because you don't like a parallel, let's say in the Acts of the Apostles,
that you can say then it's a historical reportage. What I would say is show me
stories that come out of the culture that you think are better models for the story of El
Peinor, let's our Uticus, let's say, than the story of El Peinor in the Odyssey. Now central
to mimesis criticism, as I construe it, are seven criteria that are not mentioned at all in this
video. And to the first two have to do with the popularity of the model, that is its accessibility
and its analogous imitations. There is no document in antiquity that was more popular than the
Iliad, and in second place was the Odyssey, and in the Roman world it was Virgil, Virgil's Aeneid.
Now those are not a part of the landscape in biblical scholarship, and it certainly isn't
among these apologists. The next, then you have analogy of analogous imitations, of course Virgil
and Lucy and others are imitating it widely. The next criteria are the density of the parallels,
the sequence of the parallels, and if they're distinctive, that is that the author is flagging
a connection. Another is distinctive traits, but the last one that I love is recognition by ancient
authors, and we have lots of examples Derek of people who recognized that Mark, for example,
was imitating Homer, or that Luke was. So these criteria for determining mimesis are entirely
absent. So the default is for these people, if you can't show a plausible literary analogy,
they must be historical reportage. That is not how ancient literature worked, I'm sorry to say.
So I want to comment on that, because what I know, and you're not engaged in seeing what
the people who are on the screen do more often than not, is just to be frank, my perception,
I'm going to keep my opinion. If I'm wrong about this, then correct me if I'm wrong.
That is, they need this. They need this to be history. Let me just flip the coin for a second,
Dennis. Let's pretend these are histories. I'm going to go so far as to say, they're eye witness
reportage. Let's just go all the way. You still, if you granted that, would still be able to walk
away and go, yeah, eye witness reportage, how many eye witness reportages in the world where people
get things wrong or they want some of their wishful thinking or they thought they saw something and
then they tell you, oh yeah, it was the resurrected. The point is, it still wouldn't be reliable.
It still wouldn't be trustworthy if we gave them that, but they need that. They are called maximalist.
They argue against what are called the minimal historical criteria where they try to argue for,
well, most scholars think Jesus was crucified. We can all agree. Most scholars think that they
were eye witnesses in 1 Corinthians 15 that said that they saw the resurrected. We can all agree
that at least they believed that. The list goes on. They argue against those people like
Michael Acona. They want to say the gospels are reliable historical data about what actually
happened and that you should trust them. Therefore, faith. I want to start with saying they need
these to be historical, which is why your position is threatening to their conclusions. Actually,
I'm not going to say their conclusions because I think their conclusions are where they start.
That's exactly right. They start with their conclusion. I would want to say, and I say this
kindly, they are anti-intellectual intellectuals. They are anti-intellectual intellectuals. They
are smart. They are learned. They work hard. They have great memories. I'm not arguing against
their intelligence. I'm arguing against their judgment and their inability to have critical
judgment that is required by being an intellectual. I think there probably is historical information
in the Acts of the Apostles, for example. I think largely it's because they have a collection of
Paul's epistles. But even so, you still have to argue with what kind of book is the Acts of the
Apostles. Why does it, like the Enid, end up in Rome with the merging of Jews and Gentiles,
the same way that the Virgil ends with the Italians and the Trojans getting together?
Why is it that you have a shipwreck story that takes you to Rome? Why is it that you have stories of
El Paynor and others? I could go on and on, and I've written a lot about it in the synopses
of epic tragedy in the Gospels. In fact, Volume 2 is all about the Acts of the Apostles.
So I agree with you that one can grant historical information, but that doesn't mean it's true,
but it also does not explain the literary characteristics of these texts. And you've
got to figure that one out. Yeah, so there's some things I think we should roll back a little.
You brought up your criteria. I don't want to get into that here now. We can probably do that when
we review the actual live, and that video is an hour and 41 minutes, which means when we go live,
Dennis, we're going to have to have our coffee or tea or whatever, because I think we need to really,
really bring it and pick apart some of the stuff. So the first defense is how Jewish all of this is,
is what I hear. And this is meaning how non-Gentile, non-Greek, non-Roman they were trying to be.
This is Palestinian Jews at its outset. The original Christians were Jews. And here's the thing,
we don't disagree. This is why it's like, okay, but they're trying to set that up to assume like
their whole mission and goals to be wholly separate from any, their kosher from Greek
and Roman world. And we have several scholars could tell Berthelot I've interviewed in her book,
it's called Jews and the Roman Rivals. Do you want to know what that book is about?
She builds up from the very outset of Hebrew scripture, all the way to the Roman Empire,
pagan Rome. I mean, we're pagan, I hate using it because it's a derogative, but
pagan Rome before it was Christian, or let me use another way, polytheistic Rome versus Christianity
and the Jews of the time. How much impact did polytheistic Rome before it converted have on
Jews? She documents so much. And then you see its influence in the Mishnah, which Tim McGrew
actually points out, well, cursed is the person who teaches their son Greek. You could see a
distaste toward Greek ideas later. But that's also like assuming Rabbi Tovia Singer, who I've had on
my show before, is a representative of what actual Jews were in the first century. You've got Mishnah
Judaism over time. That is not the same thing as what we're seeing here. We're talking about
Hellenistic Judaism. Anyway, feel free to take us, but I felt like that apologetic is what I see
over and over from apologists who are critiquing your work, Richard C. Millers, Robin Faith Walsh,
and they all want to say, let's look for antecedents that are only in the Jewish literature.
When we talked about the ascension of Jesus in Acts 1, I saw the critique in an article against
Richard. They went, all right, well, why not Elijah? And it's like they want, they have to have it
because they're afraid of touching something that's non-coacher. The closest even Dale Allison Jr. said,
Romulus is the closest antecedent. But guess what? Tim McGrew and Lydia McGrew, Tim McGrew was on that
live stream. They make public, Jonathan McClatchy publicly say he is not a Christian. Delcey Allison
Jr. is not a Christian. That's how far into the fundamentalism these people are working. They're
calling other Christians non-Christians. You know what I mean? Yeah, it's awful. It is awful. So I'm
kind of taking the gloves off with you here. But what about Josephus? Josephus is writing his
antiquities. He's a great fan of the Jewish Bible. He's trying to make it available to Greeks. When
he gets to certain episodes in the Bible, then he fills it in by imitating Homer. Now, tell me that
Josephus is not a faithful Jew. And tell me that he's not imitating Homer. And I'll give you a dozen
examples of where he is. Why does Philo say that Moses had a Greek education? Take a look at the
life of Moses in Philo. I mean, to say that early Christianity came out of a purely rabbinic
Judaism is really nonsense. Into the story now. So I'm with you. That's why I think it took off
so well in the Roman Empire among non-Jews. This just seems to so clearly point that direction.
What are some other examples? Because I only watched seven minutes at the outset and I knew,
and I popped in at the end, almost was going to make a funny joke, but seven minutes in and I
already saw what they were trying to do is say, this guy's crazy technically. Your theory, your
position is nuts. It is only Jewish and they wanted nothing to do with the Greek world. Is there
anything along the stream because you watched it you want to discuss? There is. One of the things
that is frustrating is that they'll take an example and then they'll deconstruct the example
and they'll ignore evidence that is not congenial to them. And I'll give you two
a brief examples. One I mentioned earlier is the story of Eutychus in the Acts of the Apostles.
They don't mention that his name is Lucky and Lucky dies but is raised back to life.
They scoff that he was in Troas and that actually is ancient Troy. Julius Caesar once considered
moving the Roman center back to Troas in order to claim the legacy of ancient Trojans such as
you have in the Aeneid. They did not mention or both El Peanor dies, is buried at dawn amid
great sorrow, and El Peanor is raised back to life at dawn. Well, they say you can't include that
because it's a difference, but it's a strategic difference. One person dies and the other,
the Christian Paul can raise somebody back to life. And there are just so many examples like that
where they can take details, deconstruct them, then omit things that aren't congenial and therefore,
because you don't have a literary model, it's got to be historical reportage. What is the
rationality of that? Another example is the death of Jesus and the death of Hector.
The parallels are remarkable, but Stephen in this business took a look at them and he said,
well, you both Jesus and Hector drink mixed wine but they're mixed with different things
and one is medicinal and one is to take care of pain. Well, then there's no parallel. I mean,
enough said, obviously. Yeah, enough said. Or that Jesus could not be saying, my God, my God,
you have forsaken me, the same way that Hector says that Deophobus and whom he thought was his
brother has abandoned him, that is, Apollo had abandoned him. So he says, basically, my gods
have abandoned me. So that's not a parallel. So you can deconstruct all these parallels. Some
of them are strategic differences such as Hector dies and stays in the tomb and Jesus rises from
the dead. Well, that can't be a parallel, can it? It's because it's a strategic difference.
And I think it is possible if you know the truth as they seem to think they do and then to see a
challenge at it to peck away, peck away, peck away and to deconstruct the parallels that are,
in my view, really quite compelling and they match the criteria of nemesis criticism.
And then you can deduce, well, because you don't have the model, it must be historically true.
Well, let's be honest, right? Most scholars see what's going on and let's play a little game here
with antecedents with the Jewish world and show that they're not actual antecedents. And I'll
give you an example. Jesus is on a mountain, just like Moses is on a mountain. And what ends up
happening is his face shown and Moses face shown. But because Jesus is garments also shown,
this is not memetically borrowing from Moses. In fact, we should start deconstructing using the
same methodology that they are to show that the Gospels are not actually memetically drawing from
the Hebrew Scriptures. Jesus is in the wilderness for 40 days fasting. Show me where Satan in the
wilderness with Moses is tempting him. He's not. I don't see it. Therefore, it's not a parallel
because it's not identical. And if there isn't an identical actual antecedent, then we should
honestly throw it out and stop saying Jesus is the new Moses. Sure, he gives new laws, but
come on, it's not Moses. And because there's differences, there's no memesis taking place
between Elijah or Moses or David or Joseph, because Joseph was sold for 20 pieces of silver
by his brother Judah, that, you know, Judas selling Jesus for 30 pieces of silver has no,
there's nothing to any of this stuff. Let's stop playing in this game. I mean, if we used their
technique, we could find a way to divorce it from the Scriptures, other than the part where it says
it is written. But that's just a quote about the Scripture. There's no memesis to Hebrew
Scripture going on here whatsoever. If we try hard enough, we'll show it. You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah. I don't know. I feel sorry for them. I do. Because I think they are throttling their
imagination. I think they are shutting themselves off from the beautiful Greek and Roman poetry
that early Christians would have known and would have valued and wanted to transform
in order to establish their own cultural identity and religious identity.
I think they are captive, Derek, to a certain kind of orthodoxy and religious constraint
that makes them anti-intellectual intellectuals. And I feel sorry for them. It's actually ironic,
in my view, that the Gospel authors themselves are apologists in a way. They are trying to
make a case for an alternative mythology to the mythologies around them to support the community.
And apologists are trying to do that for the Christian community. So both of them are apologists
in a way. But the apologists look at the Gospels and unless they are entirely historic or reliable,
they're not meaningful. They're not important. Well, that is a standard I don't think that we
can give to anything, that it has to be absolutely pure and factual in order to be meaningful.
I'm with you. I think there's something powerful about these being literary devices and not
necessarily arguing for the historical or historiological. They're dying on that hill.
And you can see, I think, the reason that they're fighting against their own in the minimalist
approach is because they feel that the minimalist, who I think are being more honest,
okay, so this is the difference. The minimalists who are still trying to hold on and fight
grant their problems that they don't accept things being all historical, like the guards of the tomb
in Matthew, for example. They look at that and go, even the Mike Lacona and the conservative
Christians who are not on their maximalist team will say some of this problem, you know, I don't
know if that really happened. Okay, honesty, I respect giving some ground because it's more honest.
What these apologists will do is find a way to make that actually historical. And I've noticed
this online, and there may be examples where people mischaracterize their what's called
undesigned coincidences. But I just think it's really odd. You know, when you're arguing against
someone like they always have to say how you just don't understand or you never represent their
position, you don't understand the position. And I don't know how they're not seeing what I'm saying,
but they they'll say stuff like in one of the gospels, you have these people go 5000 being fed,
the grass was green. This detail just subtle. And then all of a sudden in another gospel,
it does not mention the grass was green at all. It mentions it happened in spring.
Oh, okay. So that to them somehow signals as like mundane information like that helps solidify
the historiography of it that it makes it more realistic to them. And they call that what's
called an undesigned coincidence. And they go endlessly into examples where they think that's
the case. And for me, I start at the outset very cautious going, how is something undesigned
when we know that they know and are using the literature to craft their own narratives?
How can you factor that as undesigned? Right? Is there a way to do that? No,
I wouldn't think it is. That's a good example. Yeah, I just so we're gonna have to do a review
picking the things apart and like helping educate people. Because I think, you know,
while we typically wouldn't want to engage with serious scholarship, as Richard C. Miller says,
he said, they don't know who these people are. And they probably don't want to know who these
people are. Because to them, it is anti intellectual intellectuals. And that is not their pursuit.
That's why they don't engage. But we're fighting. There's a there's a battle going on on the internet.
And it's not just them. I don't want to just pick on them. It is the the world of misinformation
that goes on tick tock and all of this nonsense that goes on out there. And this particular one,
they're trying to drive home, heaven and hell, belief in Jesus, damnation of your soul. Like
they're really pushing this idea that God is here to save everybody. They believe that this is
literally true, just like I once did. So I'm interested in relieving people like they have a
headache. Here's a Tylenol and give them hate. Don't hate it. Don't hate the material. Take it back.
Don't let these people monopolize it, you know, that's exactly right. Thanks, Dennis.
