We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Today we're gonna have a special show
because you usually either see me
with my co-host, Dr. Luther,
who's still editing his book,
or it might be the other MythVision guys.
Today I have Jasper.
How are you doing, Jasper?
What's going on, brother?
Good, well, thank you.
Yes, sir, and he's actually from,
if you're not part of the group,
go check it out on Facebook.
There's a mythicist versus historicist
or a mythical Jesus versus a historical Jesus,
Facebook group, and I met him through there
and I said, you know what?
Let's do a show together.
This should be a very interesting show.
It deals with the topic.
Who was he?
What was he?
All those good questions.
I'm gonna be learning this gentleman here today,
Richard Smolley, and he's written 10 books.
You've gotta check out his book.
Number one, the one we're gonna talk about today
is how God became God.
That's the book that we're gonna be really dealing with,
and you've gotta go down in the description of this video.
Make sure you guys get a copy of this book,
and he's also got a new one coming out,
A Theology of Love,
Reimagining Christianity Through a Course in Miracles.
Guys, go check it out.
So, all right, you got it, Jasper?
Dr. Smolley, thank you so much for taking the time.
I'm looking forward to-
Thank you, it's a pleasure.
Yes, this conversation should be very interesting.
Given the depth of your learning about this,
you've been at this for a very long time,
tell us a little bit about your background.
I think you went to a couple
of very well-known universities early on,
and you are now a senior official
at the Theosophical Society of America.
Can you tell us about both ends of your career so far,
and what you're doing at Theosophical Society,
and how you got there as a start?
Well, it's a long story, of course.
My degrees from Harvard and Oxford
are in Classics and Philosophy,
and I've been very interested
in the mystical traditions of the world,
particularly the mystical traditions of the West
for a long time.
For a number of years,
I was editor of a magazine called NOSIS,
a journal of the Western Inner Traditions,
NOSIS as in Gnosis,
which was published between 1985 and 1980, 1999.
And I have written a number of books,
probably the best known of which is called
Inner Christianity, a guide to the esoteric tradition,
although we're probably not going to be discussing
too much of that book today.
And for the last 11 years,
I've been editor of the magazine
for the Theosophical Society in America called Quest.
So in addition to lecturing, speaking,
and doing various other projects like this one.
So that's a very short version,
but it has been 40 years.
So what's the, in a nutshell,
what does the Theosophical Society do?
What is its point of view?
Well, it has three, it's called objects.
The first is, it was founded in 1875 in New York
by H. P. Blavatsky and a couple of other people.
And it's three objects are
to promote the universal brotherhood of humanity,
to foster comparative studies
in art, science, philosophy, and religion,
and to explore the potential latent in humanity.
So those are the three objects.
And if you want to join the Theosophical Society,
you have to state agreement with those objects,
which are rather general.
You don't have to believe anything else.
In fact, there was a freedom of thought resolution
passed in 1926 saying,
no one could ever be thrown out of the Theosophical Society
for believing or not believing anything,
even the writings of the teachers,
the founders of Theosophical Society, and so on.
And to my knowledge and experience,
that has been completely true.
So there is an enormous emphasis
on freedom of thought and investigation
in the Theosophical Society.
I'm at the American headquarters,
which is outside of Chicago.
The world headquarters is in Adyar,
which is in Chennai, it used to be known as Madras, India.
And it's been there since the ancient century.
Okay, that's interesting.
It sounds a little bit like
the Unitarian Universalist Church,
which I used to attend occasionally
back when I lived in Vancouver.
It is, but it isn't a religion.
And there are a number of members
of the Theosophical Society that are Unitarians.
There's some overlap,
and there's similar emphasis in freedom of thought,
but it's not a religion per se.
And we have many members from all sorts of religions.
So do you have atheists among your membership?
Yeah, yeah.
There's a guy who reads kind of
his equivalent of a secular humanist equivalent
of a prayer every time there's some interfaith group.
So yeah, you don't need to believe in God at all.
And do you have a concept of God
that you personally hear too, if I may ask,
because that's kind of one of the interesting questions.
Is somebody who studied this as deeply as you have,
where have you come to on that?
Well, my sons, when they were very young,
asked me what God was.
And I said, God is the source of everything.
God is where everything comes from.
And although that was on the spot answer,
I really haven't thought of anything better
than I've been able to say since.
Now, since this God is the source of everything,
where everything comes from,
it follows that nothing you can see,
you know, object in this world as we know it
or conceive it can be God.
It is also very unlikely that God
in the ultimate sense is personal.
But we have to amend that by saying,
well, we exist as persons
and this absolute can relate to us personally.
Typical Christian would say that God is absolutely personal.
I don't know enough either to say this or to deny it.
But I think the source is capable of relating to us
and we're persons.
So it's probably capable of relating to us
in a personal way, whether it relates to a galaxy
or a microbe in the same way is frankly, rather unlikely.
So here's my favorite question to ask people
in this context, here it is.
Would you disagree or agree with the following claim?
The laws of physics are constant throughout space time
in this universe, without their exception list.
They apply throughout this universe, throughout space time.
There's a set of physical laws
that always apply and are exceptionless.
No, you want me to explain?
Yeah.
The laws of physics are gonna be completely different
a hundred years from now.
They were completely different a hundred years ago.
So even, so the idea is, yeah, they're changing all the time.
So they have no absolute truth.
Okay, hang on, hang on, hang on.
I'm not talking about the laws of physics
that we happen to know about so far.
I'm talking about the laws of physics
as if there is a set of rules
according to which the universe unfolds
that we may know some of and not yet know others of
but these apply exceptionlessly throughout space time.
It's not like they suddenly,
you're not gonna see suddenly the gravity
is no longer applying for a few minutes here and there.
You're not gonna see bumps in the consistency and constancy
in space time of the fundamental rules
according to which the flower blooms.
I think it would be presumptuous to claim that you knew that.
And if science is claiming that,
it as in many other ways is being arrogant and presumptuous.
It's science is useful,
but it has made many more epistemological claims
that it can really support.
And these claims stated and unstated
are one of the fundamental rules
stated and unstated
are one of the fundamental problems
with our civilization today.
So I don't know, maybe they apply all over.
I don't necessarily believe in the laws of physics
as they are, scientists will not believe
in these laws of physics 50 years from now
because science is constantly changing.
Yeah, no, I wasn't really talking about the specific set
of physical laws that we have hypotheses about now
or that are working hypotheses that we're using now,
which have allowed us to build smartphones
and rocket ships, by the way,
and to understand what DNA is.
So they can't be entirely wrong,
but I'm not saying we have the final truth.
It was the principle we gained.
We're also destroying this planet.
All the things that are destroying this planet
are also the creations of science.
And if it were not for the scientific worldview
and the scientific mentality,
this climate crisis, which I assume you believe in
being a rational human being,
would not take nearly the form that it has.
So I am no lover of science.
I respect it, but it has become a false God
that is as pernicious as its own right,
as fundamentalism.
Okay, well, we're gonna agree to disagree on that one.
Well, let's move on to the question
of the origins of the idea of Jesus.
Now, this is something that both Derek and I
have been fascinated with for a long time.
And as you know, so are billions of people around the planet.
And it's this extraordinary obsession
with a story of a particular,
well, apparently a man is what's usually thought.
Most people believe there was a historical Jesus,
whether or not they actually are Christians,
whether or not they accept the idea of,
you know, that Jesus is your savior,
that if you believe in this, you get eternal life
and all these kinds of stories
that are told within Christianity.
And I came across something that you wrote.
It's called an article called
A Strange Identity of Jesus Christ,
which I thought was just fascinating.
And I'd like you to tell us what you have learned
and how you learned it about exactly that,
about what it says in that article,
setting aside the question of historical Jesus person or not,
just the idea that particularly the apostle Paul had,
his Christology, his Christology,
what did he think Jesus was?
Can you tell us about that?
Yeah, I mean, just to forestall or provoke later debate,
I do believe in a historical Jesus.
And it is a question and I'll explain why
if you wanna get into that.
But let us say who the early Christians thought Jesus was.
Now, when I say the early Christians,
I mean, the Christians who wrote the New Testament,
there were lots of other Christians out there
who believe all sorts of different things,
ranging from the idea that Jesus was just a man
like everybody else to the idea that he was kind of a specter
just sort of, I suppose what the Tibetans would call
some kind of apparition.
We don't know anything about these people
except for the writings of their enemies,
which are not to be taken at face value.
So I'm gonna say what the Christians
who wrote the New Testament believed.
And they believed, well, for one thing,
there was this figure in Jewish mythology
who was extremely important,
far more important than it's given credit for,
Metatron or the great angel.
Now, this angel, this great angel was regarded
in Jewish circles, Jesus's time,
as second only to God himself.
He was sometimes referred to as a Delteras to us,
a second God.
And we, how do we know this?
Well, he's described and discussed fairly clearly
in the writings of Philo who calls him the archangel
with many names.
And what were some of these names?
The Lagos, the word, the son of God, the son of man,
starting to sound familiar?
So that is who the early Christians thought Jesus
was the incarnational, including Paul,
including all appearances, the authors of the gospels.
Okay, so let me just pick up that ball
because we've gotten right to the meat
of what I wanted to speak to you about today.
So at the time, in the first century Christian era,
in Jewish communities at that time,
there was a common understanding,
if I'm understanding correctly,
that there was this archangel,
sometimes called Delteros Philos,
and Delteros Philos, the second God,
is how does that relate to either the idea of Yahweh
or of the denny urge that the Gnostics
that we know from later Gnostic writings,
there was also the idea that the God
that some people had that an evil God created the world
or an imperfect God created the world,
whereas the perfect God had created that imperfect God
through some complicated process earlier on.
But that is not Metatron.
Metatron is a purely positive or good figure,
if I understand you correctly.
Yes.
I think we have to separate the Gnostic concept
of the denny urge, which we can discuss separately
because that is much later
and not really in the Judaism of the time of Jesus
or very much beforehand.
The Jews, by the way, were radically monotheistic originally.
That is to say, they believed Yahweh, God,
and his story of Yahweh is another long one,
which I go into in how God became God.
But they believed that he was the source of good and evil.
In fact, it says it in Isaiah.
I make peace and create evil.
I the Lord do all these things, I Yahweh do all these things.
If you're a radical monotheist, which we are not today,
at least Christianity is not,
Christianity sometimes characterized as semi-dualistic,
which is probably fairly accurate.
But the Jews in Old Testament times were monotheistic.
Everything came from Yahweh, good and evil.
It was only later, shall we say,
post-exilic times after the exile in the 6th century BC
that these forces were starting to seem to bifurcate.
And you can see that in various texts.
The book of Kings will say that Yahweh tempted David
to create a census of Israel,
which for some reason wasn't supposed to do.
Chronicles written after that time says Satan tempted David
to do that.
So you can see in three centuries
how that piece of thought started to evolve
and Satan became kind of out.
Well, Satan's role in Judaism is another story,
but that started to detach itself.
So Yahweh was the source of everything.
And as I think you were saying,
perhaps in a conversation before we started recording,
there is this concept of the angel of Yahweh,
who is not really very well-distinguished from Yahweh
in the texts themselves.
Like, for example,
three men who visited Abraham considered to be angels.
And one of them was Yahweh.
Wow, isn't that weird?
How do we know this?
Because they're about to leave.
And Abraham says, wait a minute.
And the original texts as the rabbis themselves admit,
say Yahweh turned and talked to Abraham.
Now the text was changed to have Abraham turned to Yahweh,
but that was an admitted and known change.
Just because, yes, this angel was Yahweh.
I mean, if you really want to get into Yahweh, we can.
There was a universal high God
in Canaanite mythology was called El, right?
Then all these other nations had their own national gods.
And the national God of Israel was Yahweh.
The Israelites weren't supposed to worship these other gods
because they were belong of other nations.
They didn't really care much
what the other people believed because they were Israelites.
So they thought there was only one God.
They thought that there were many gods,
but they only, as particular people,
should only worship that particular God Yahweh.
They recognized at the time that there were other gods,
and above all of these different tribal gods,
there was the high God El.
That's how they saw it?
Initially.
Yeah.
In, say, 1000 BC.
Okay.
In around 600, 500, 600 BC,
there was a movement, a radical Yahweh-only movement,
sometimes called.
And these people said El, the high God, was Yahweh,
or Yahweh is El.
In the Bible you read, the Lord is God.
Well, this sounds like a rather dull platitude
in this thing.
But to say, in 600 BC, to say Yahweh was El
was a very radical statement.
So suddenly, the national God of Israel
became the universal, non-athistic gods.
There weren't any other gods.
They were either demons or they simply did.
That was a change in Israelite theology
can be kind of documented in the Old Testament.
If you don't mind me poking right here just to say,
do you also agree though?
I know William Deaver, I believe it is.
He's a famous archeologist on biblical history and stuff.
He suggests that Yahweh used to be married to Ashra.
Do you tie in some of that stuff
in all of this discussion here?
And you said earlier, radically monotheistic,
that was toward the 600s, correct?
Cause I think you kind of just said 1000 BC.
They kind of had multiple layered tiered gods.
And El was the top supreme.
And then they kind of morphed them together.
Am I right in that?
And do you think the Ashra was Yahweh's wife
and they changed?
Well, can you hear me still?
As you're cutting out.
Okay, you can hear me fine.
Okay, yeah, well, in pre-exilic times,
that is to say before the exile,
the sack of the first temple in 586 BC,
the queen of heaven, Ashara, was worshiped in the temple.
Most of the time.
There were occasional reformist kings,
the last of whom was Josiah, who threw her out
and had this Yahweh only movement.
But it is very far, it seems rather unlikely
that this is what most people believed.
And most people believed that, yes,
Yahweh had this concert named Ashara.
And there's archeological evidence for this to Yahweh.
There's very little archeological evidence
for Yahweh before the exile.
But a lot of what there is does link him to Ashara.
Now, this is an interesting point is made in Jeremiah,
where Jeremiah, after the sack of the temple,
Jeremiah's telling the Jews,
hey, you know, you only brought all this on yourselves
by worshiping the queen of heaven in the temple.
And they said, yes, oh, yo, yeah,
when we worship the queen of heaven in the temple,
everything was great.
When we threw her out,
now the whole temple has been sacked.
So yeah, we're gonna continue to worship the queen of heaven.
So yeah, it was widespread
in this kind of reformist radical monotheistic movement.
Who knows how popular it was before the exile,
because all the biblical books were written by these people.
After the exile, it took over Judaism and Judaism became,
it started to morph into the Judaism we know for that.
I mean, that's very, very,
I mean, there's a lot of stuff there,
but it is an attempt to answer your question.
There's a close to parallel in what you are just discussing
with what happened in Islam, I think, a few centuries later,
which is that for a long time,
they worship both Allah and alat,
alat being the female consort of Allah.
Allah just means the God and alat means the goddess.
And at some point,
they decided to become fanatically monotheistic.
And it was only all about Allah.
And a tragedy, of course,
is that denies the female principal
and demotes half of the human species
to an inferior status.
And this is a mistake that's been made repeatedly.
I don't know exactly why, but there it is.
Well, I mean, you know, there are volumes and volumes
written about the sexual politics of the last three millennia
and on, it's a huge subject.
You know, the difference in Islam is
that Islam was able to consolidate its position
much earlier than Judaism was.
When Judaism, this all sort of took place over centuries.
So there are fragments of it.
But for example, the Quran was codified
in the early eighth century.
And any, they brought in all the texts
and any texts that didn't agree with the original
as they deemed it are the correct version
which is perfect.
So there's no textual problems in the Quran
because they made sure this is the Quran and that's it.
How much it actually had to do with Muhammad,
Uttar or whatnot, well, it's anyone's guess.
It would probably be rather physically dangerous
to guess a little bit too publicly about those.
Yes, I have to say though that my perception
of the three Abrahamic religions
is that Islam in its spirit and in its culture
is much closer to a classical or, you know,
pre first century Judaism than it is to Christianity.
It seems to me inspired everything from, you know,
kosher meets and halal meets to circumcision
to the radical patriarchy concept
and the stonings and the this, you know,
the sort of the nasty God, Old Testament stuff, you know?
Allah is not a nice God.
He's like a harsh punishing God
in the same way that the Jewish God of the Old Testament is
whereas the Christian God is this kind of
relatively, one gets the impression anyway,
relatively soft touch compared
to the other Abrahamic God ideas.
I think that's basically true and, you know,
I sort of think that it's possible
that the Prophet Muhammad may have viewed the Arabs
as the Arabs, as the children of Ishmael
and sort of was trying to create a religion
for the Ishmaelites, as he imagined,
that the, similar to what the Israelites had.
Again, it would probably be dangerous to say that
in terribly many contexts, but so yeah, basically I agree.
Now, one of the really exciting things
about having this conversation with you, Dr. Smoli,
is again, let's get back to Metatron a bit
and to his twin, Sandalphong, right?
Apparently there are these two archangels
that have complementary roles
and they were thought of as twins, so I was reading.
Now, I wanted to know, how do we know,
what is your textual evidence for your proposition
that's what Paul had in mind was, in fact, Metatron
or Sandalphong?
And from when and from what texts do we know
of the legend of Metatron?
When does that arise in religious history of Judaism
and what textual evidence do we have for that?
And then tie that into how that became the idea
of Christos Jesus, and I'm not quite finished yet
because to me, one of the interesting points here
is when we have Paul referring consistently
to Christos Jesus and his idea that the death
and resurrection of Christos Jesus is the absolutely
crucial fact that you need to believe in
because then by sympathetic magic,
you too will experience resurrection after you die.
And this Christos Jesus seems to me not to be a name
but to be a title.
As far as I know, it means anointed savior.
So Jesus actually is referred to the idea of a Salvatore
or savior.
It was used as a name by a lot of people,
just like a lot of Mexicans are called Jesus today, right?
But actually, I think that if we think that Paul had in mind
an archangel savior figure, he wasn't talking about,
you know, Bobby Jones, it was not a name.
Christos was not a first or a last name.
And neither I think was Jesus.
Christos Jesus would mean anointed savior.
That fits very well with this.
It's a generic term.
And one of the questions I have for you is it possible
that this generic term was used by him in the epistles
because he didn't want to call the archangel
by his actual name because that may have been something
that only initiates into the mystery cult
were allowed to know.
You know, maybe it's not something you would write
in the epistle and send around.
Maybe it's something that only for the higher level initiates
because they had a lot of, if I understand correctly,
at the time, they thought names were incredibly important
and invoking a name could be, you know,
sort of a dangerous thing.
Just like some Jews today, they will not write God out.
They'll put G dash D because of some superstition
that it's going too far to name God.
So with all of that, you know, contextual questioning here,
let me know where this Metatron idea first arrives.
What's the textual evidence for it?
How far back does it go?
And how do you feel fairly secure in your view
that that Metatron is what people had in mind
with the early Christians?
Well, the earliest, I mean,
where the absolute earliest evidence for it is,
I don't know, but I will take some fairly early evidence
from you for you.
And let's see if I can find it here.
In the book of Daniel, let's see.
Here it is.
So I'm gonna hit Google now.
Oh yeah, Daniel 713 is part of his vision.
I saw in the night visions, and behold,
one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven
and came to the ancient of days
and they brought him near before him.
That's Daniel 713.
Now, the Son of Man,
angels were often, by the way, called men by the Jews,
esoterically, as in the three men in Genesis.
So this idea that the Son of Man was this high angel.
This is an echo of the old days
when El was still the high God
and the great angel Yahweh was second.
This is still an idea that's persisted
into like 165 BC when Daniel was written.
This Son of Man was used in that sense in a generic way
in that particular text, Bara Nash.
But partly as a result of this text,
this metatron came to be known as Son of Man,
among other things.
The name metatron is, no one knows where it comes from.
I mean, the most likely explanation
is comes from the Greek meta to Toronto,
meaning the angel with the throne
and the throne is another thing we can get into.
So that is kind of one piece of evidence
that this figure was extremely important.
And the idea probably developed
between the time that Daniel was written in 165
and the time of Christ, 165 BC.
Now, here, I think the key text as far as you're talking
about is Philippians two, where being in the form of God
fought it not robbery to be equal in God,
but made himself with no reputation,
took upon him the form of a servant
and was made in the likeness of men
and being found in fashion as a man who humbled himself
and became obedient on the death,
even the death of the cross.
So this is saying that this second figure,
almost as high as God himself, became a man.
And you and I differ because I believe in historical Jesus
as opposed to purely mythical Jesus.
We may simply not be able to agree on that point
and that's fine.
Later on, we can talk about why you believe that
and let's focus on it for now.
Wherefore God also helped exalted him
and given him a name about everything and so on.
So what was happening in Christianity was
as nearly as I can see it, was that there was the second God
many names that are drawn, the Son of God, the Son of God,
whom they believed was incarnated in Jesus
and suffered and died on the cross
and was raised and so on.
And after his death was exalted to the right hand of God,
that is to say, he kind of became equal with God.
This is the genesis of the doctrine of the Trinity.
Because hey, you know what?
Is this God that he became equal with?
Is this Yahweh or is it El?
Yeah, or the Father.
Well, those days, the Christians believed
that Yahweh was El.
That whole thing was squawks and squawks.
These ideas are in a sense confusing
because the picture is confusing
because there are lots of different beliefs,
lots of different kinds.
People didn't have consistent,
uniflat theological opinions or beliefs
any more than they do today.
But at that point, well, Jesus was equal with God.
Well, I guess that must mean he is God.
And at that point, the idea of the sacred ternary,
sacred three, which is universal,
sort of God incorporated them.
Well, I guess it must be three.
Well, there's the Holy Spirit.
And that over the first three centuries of Christianity
came to be how Orthodox Christology
and the doctrine of the Trinity evolved.
So that's that.
But yeah, so that's who they thought Jesus was.
I'm not saying I thought Jesus was the incarnation.
I'm saying this is what the early,
I don't know who Jesus was personally.
I don't know who knows what happened to that.
So this is a topic that we have discussed a lot
in this Facebook group that Derek and I are part of.
And we could probably have a very lively conversation
about that.
I don't think either Derek or I have a firm opinion
on whether there was definitely
or not a historical Jesus Christ.
But I certainly have come to the point
where I think that we know essentially nothing about that.
The question for me, I think there were probably,
there probably were people who had declared themselves
to be messiahs who for example,
led the revolt against Rome at 66 CE
and who were treated essentially as messianic figures.
The question is whether any elements of the biographies
of such figures crept into the theology either of Paul
or of the writers of the gospels
or whether the writers of the gospels
were talking about something else entirely.
So that's the distinction.
It's not, you know, where there are any human figures
who declare themselves messianic leaders
of the Jewish people.
I think yes, there were.
I think the density scrolls make that fairly clear.
And so do other sources.
I think that however, they are not necessarily
that about which Paul was talking.
I think about which Paul was talking
was what you're talking about here,
which is this archangel.
And this is a fascinating thing
that is not generally known and it deserves to be.
It deserves to be very much known, Dr. Smolling.
So what I'm gonna ask you is,
can we make this case that you are making
or have you perhaps already done so in writing
in a way that, you know,
will stand up to peer review in a historical journal?
You know, what is the evidence that we can put forward
that would make this case as clearly as possible
based on the evidence,
the actual historical evidence,
textual evidence that we have?
Well, I must correct you on one point,
which is that I am not a doctor.
I am not a, I don't have a doctor.
I have a master's from Oxford
and that's about as high as it goes.
Okay, well, I have a master's too.
So we'll call each other master.
I'll call you master Smolling.
You call him master Zimmerman.
But, you know, and I've never been an academic as per se.
I, you know, and I'm more and more grateful that I'm not
because that is a very constrained world.
And you can't really, particularly when religion
gets into the picture,
you can't really diverge very much
and still stay academically reputable.
I mean, I've read a lot of peer review publications.
I've never published in a scholarly journal per se.
My books are, to a certain extent,
are other popular books.
So, but I think, you know,
having read enough of the scholar in literature,
I think this is what it's saying.
I want to add one thing about Metatron
because there's one very interesting piece
of evidence regarding him.
Well, if Metatron was so important,
I mean, he was a second God among many Jews,
including Philo at the time of Christ,
what happened to him after?
Where did he end up?
And there's a text called Third Enoch,
which casts some light on this.
There is a figure known as Ahere,
whose real name was Elisha Ben-Apulia.
He was a real figure who lived around the turn
of the first, second century.
And he was called Ahere, meaning the other one,
because he did a bad, bad thing and became a heretic,
probably a Christian.
This is alluded to in the Talmud.
In Third Enoch, Ahere goes up into heaven,
sees the angel Metatron on the throne,
remember the throne, and says,
there are indeed two powers in heaven.
And curious thing then happens,
some other angel shows up,
flogs, makes Metatron stand up from his throne,
and flogs him with a fiery whip,
like, I don't know, 70 times or so.
Now, did this happen in some esoteric,
angelic realm, who knows?
But I think this is what is saying,
is that at that point, like in the second century AD,
this idea of the second God, Metatron,
was leading too many people to Christianity.
And as a result, they had to demote him in their theology,
which they did.
I mean, Metatron is still a figure who appears
in Jewish legend and Kabbalistic teachings long after that.
But he no longer has anything like the status
that he had, say, in the time of Philo.
So that is one piece of evidence, like,
well, where did he go?
Well, Christians decided he was Jesus.
So it was Jesus.
The Jews decided, he's getting a little big
for his riches, so to speak.
So he has to be demoted radically.
What happened to the concept of Metatron
as a result of Christianity?
I understand.
So one of the things that we discussed
on our Facebook site about mythosis
versus historicist perspectives,
about this idea that Metatron and or Sandalfon,
his twin archangel, might actually be the basis
for Paul's idea of Jesus, i.e. what you're saying.
One of the things we talked about there was,
well, where did he get this idea?
And it apparently may come from something called
Merkava mysticism.
That there's a particular strain of Jewish mysticism,
which is around the idea of,
they call it Merkava mysticism
because Merkava means chariot.
And it had to do with, there is some imagery,
somebody had some dreams that got very popular
and published in the scriptures about God
being on a flaming chariot and so on.
And that idea of the heavens having these palaces
and chariots and things,
seems to be where these kinds of archangels fit in.
And a couple of interesting questions arise.
One is, when did Merkava mysticism arise?
Because again, it's a question of whether the timing fits in
with where Paul's own writing fits in.
So people think that he wrote around 50 CE.
Was Merkava mysticism a big deal then?
Or was it a small minority sect then and Judaism?
How did it fit in to the general picture
of what it meant to be a Jew 20 years
before the fall of the temple, a second temple?
Well, I don't, how many people,
I would have to assume that the number of people
who practiced Merkava mysticism was very small,
just as is the case of the number of catalysts today.
They're always a small part of the population.
But they're usually extremely erudite, so they write.
And, you know, you see more of their writings
than you did, you know, the ordinary slob
who believed in who knows what.
Merkava mysticism has its origin conceptually
in the first book of a chapter of Ezekiel,
in which Ezekiel has a vision like this
of a throne and a chariot with a man in it.
Remember the man on the throne?
That's another place where that shows up.
And later, Merkava mystics,
who I don't know when it exactly arose,
my strong impression is that it was very much
around the time of Christ and Paul.
And there's even an illusion to this
in one of Paul's epistles in which he says,
I know a man who was taken up into the third heaven.
And what, you know, the third heaven,
well, it goes back to what you're talking about.
The palace is the hey-colloot.
There are different levels of heaven.
And Paul is saying he's taken up to one of them.
Sometimes there's supposed to be seven of these.
Sometimes they're only supposed to be three.
Who knows which of these systems Paul was using
and was alluding to there.
But he probably practiced.
I mean, he's talking about it very circumspectly.
I know a man who was taken up in the spirit
up to the third heaven, but, you know,
most scholars would say, yeah,
he's really kind of talking about himself
without trying to brag too much.
So he probably did practice this kind of mystical ascent,
which probably was a type of what we would call,
you know, an elaborate visualization,
probably accompanied by lots of fasting and austerities,
you know, that kind of thing to raise
your level of consciousness.
I mean, I don't think there's a great deal
on how it was practiced
because this stuff was always transmitted orally.
So what about its practice, how it was actually implemented,
I think is only really known
through kind of oblique references in the written material.
I am, you know, I think, you know,
there are catalysts to still practice
something like that today.
I think the tradition has lasted,
but how much what they do now
resembles what Paul did is boot.
Yeah, I was gonna say,
you brought up some interesting things
and I'm kind of going back,
but I wanna kind of stay in the first century
according to this, when we were talking about Yahweh,
being a man, okay, we talked about Yahweh,
being a man with Abraham, there were three of them.
You know, I tend to see these as stories.
These stories carry some type of possible esoteric meaning.
I don't find them very historical in nature.
So when I get to the New Testament
and I see this midrashic type literature
this copying Old Testament literature,
I mean, like I literally was just doing a video
the other day about Joseph being Jesus.
Like you can literally show him going into the dungeon,
the two men, one's the baker, one's the wine,
there's the bread and the wine,
eat of my flesh, drink of my blood
and you will inherit eternal life.
Do this in remembrance of me,
Joseph tells the wine bearer,
remember me when he goes to Pharaoh,
then he seated at the right hand, it's a story.
Now in the New Testament,
I like the question of the historicity.
It's a fascinating one, I enjoy it
because I get tug-of-war all the time.
Like was there a guy that was so mythologized?
It's not, was he mythologized?
Was he so mythologized to the point to where
what can we actually even really know, really know?
I mean, we can go and try and use references saying,
Crestus, we can try and go to Josephus and say,
hey, well the testimony in Flavinium,
we'll go to the other reference.
We can use these things,
but what can we actually know about this guy?
And if Paul's theology is this,
could they have a concept of saying,
we're gonna take Metatron
and he's this actual guy over here on earth.
This is a real guy, we're gonna apply a DED concept
to a real guy.
Is that something that can even happen in their theology?
And if so, could there have been many Metatrons
that have been applied to humans throughout history?
Because I just don't see this would be like,
I don't know what we're just gonna do a new thing
and apply it to an actual guy over here on earth.
Does that make sense?
Well, here's what I would say about Jesus historically.
I think the core story in the gospels is true.
There was a man named Jesus
who started to preach around 30 AD
and he managed to irk the religious authorities
who managed to get the Roman authorities to kill him.
And after that, some of his followers experienced him.
They saw what they thought was a risen Jesus.
None of this is innately implausible
because there are plenty and plenty of people,
it's even quite common,
who have dead friends and relatives
appear to them soon after death.
So it's not at all improbable
if they could have had this experience.
They obviously decided that this must have meant
that he was a special figure.
Whether he allowed people to believe that or not,
whether he himself believed that, I don't really know.
I mean, the only title he really kind of alludes to
as far as he's concerned is the son of man.
And that's a bit ambiguous
because he does, does he mean son of man
in the sense of a great angel?
Or does he mean son of man
in the way that it's used in the book of Ezekiel
where God calls Ezekiel, son of man,
over and over and over again?
Or is Jesus playing with his hand to give it?
Well, I don't think so.
I think mythic elements,
biblical stories, of course, were projected onto Jesus.
Well, like in Matthew, for example,
you have instead of the flight from Egypt,
the flight into Egypt.
How historical is any of this?
I have to say, I don't know.
And I don't think barring, you know,
someone getting a copy of the Daily Bugle of Jerusalem
from AD 33.
And it was gonna really know.
That is to say, any evidence more than what we have,
anyone is gonna know.
Mr. Schumann, if you don't mind me just kind of like
telling you where my frustration in all this is,
and this isn't with you.
It's just the whole question is very frustrating
because when I hear, for example,
and you're not the only one who says,
hey, look, in the first century, I think there's a core.
Everything that was described there,
I see in the story of Joseph.
I mean, his brethren's, right?
What did Jesus do?
He came and he was rejected by his own, his brothers.
Well, his brothers are considered Israel.
They reject him.
Well, look at Joseph, he's rejected by his brothers.
The middle man are his brothers, so to speak,
or the brethren that reject him.
And here in Joseph, he's given to the Ishmaelites,
then the Ishmaelites give him to Egypt.
In Jesus' story, he's given by his brother's Judas
to the high priest or to the Israelites, the council,
and they give him to Pontius Pilate.
Potiphar and Pilate end up in the same location
in Matthew 27 when you parallel Genesis 37.
So when I see this midrash and I follow that same theme,
the same narrative plays a part.
And so when you start seeing the same narrative,
you gotta go, really?
I mean, is any of that actually historical
or are they taking contemporaneous things
to create a fictitious esoteric story?
It's so hard for me to say,
okay, this is a repeat of a history.
I just don't see history repeating itself.
That coincidental in that order,
I tend to think it's a narrative.
And that's kind of where I'm struggling is like,
okay, if there were historical elements
that are in the gospels,
I tend to think they're borrowed from Josephus
or some historical source
and applying it to some contemporaneous meaning.
I don't know if that makes sense to you,
but like even the death, burial, and resurrection,
the only part that I would say
isn't necessarily found in Joseph's story,
even though one could argue it's in Moses' story
with the serpent being lifted up in the wilderness,
the crucifixion, right?
Everybody goes, well, the Romans crucified.
We know that's legit.
Well, Josephus has three friends
that get crucified in his autobiography.
He asks Titus to take them down.
Under a physician, two of them die and one survives.
Could they have applied this Josephus historical event
back here into this fictional gospel story
and created a narrative?
It's very tough.
It's very tough.
And to say with absolute like Bart Ehrman does,
I am very, I just, I don't know.
I had a hard time.
I'm not the professional, but that's my frustration.
And I don't know if you see where I'm coming from or not.
Yeah, I see it and I sympathize with it.
I mean, there's this huge continuum of, you know,
Jesus, you know, exactly the way he's portrayed in gospels,
Jesus complete myth.
And there are a lot of different positions
you can take in the middle.
Mine is to say, well, you know, yeah, there are a lot of,
and there are a lot of esoteric elements in it
that were included in going back to origin
in the third century says,
not even the gospels are entirely true.
Parts of it are true.
Parts of it have deeper symbolic meaning
that was added later.
Well, he doesn't say specifically which it is,
which parts are, which parts aren't.
But this was always known.
And the only difference between you and me
is that I probably see a little more truth
in the core story than you do.
And that's the difference of opinion.
And there's no point in trying to force each other
into agreement.
Oh, no, no, no, yeah, I'm not.
I understand, I see your frustration.
I'm not even, I mean, like I'm willing to go over.
If I was shown a little more like solid,
like this is the case, I would definitely,
I'm agnostic on that.
I could be a historicist tomorrow, you know what I mean?
And some days I am, and some days I'm back to mythicism
because I just find this so,
I don't know if we'll ever have enough evidence.
I'm trying to find something right now,
which I unfortunately can't.
Three months ago, maybe came across something
which I could post right now
so our viewers could look at.
There's a gentleman who did a really detailed analysis
of the gospel of Mark,
which is the chronologically first gospel,
where he identified every source or the parallel
and there's a two against and another sources
of every line in the gospel of Mark, right?
Where does it come from?
Nicolor coded them to correspond to different sources
and basically said, here's the entire text
of the gospel of Mark.
And let me see if I can identify its antecedent
in the Old Testament and in other sources
and see what's left over after I've done
as much of that as is possible.
You see where I'm going with this?
I'm going in the direction of Derek is saying.
When he was done, there was almost nothing left, right?
And what this suggests very strongly
and there are a couple of other authors
who were members of this Facebook group
who've written books about this.
I think is it David Oliver Smith
or what's his name, Derek?
Who's done similar work.
Who essentially are saying that the gospel of Mark,
which is chronologically the first one
is a very carefully constructed work of literature,
drawing from existing scripture and recomposing that
in a work of allegorical fiction
that's meant to make certain theological points.
And if I were to summarize what my understanding
at present is of what the points
that the gospel of Mark is trying to make
was essentially written right around the time
that the Second Temple was destroyed
and it was trying to explain why that happened,
why Yahweh would allow that to happen to his chosen people.
And the answer was more or less,
you should have listened to Paul
and Paul's message about Christus Jesus.
And then this wouldn't have happened.
You know, you've gone astray,
you've been arrogant about your racist idea
that the Jews are the only people
that deserve a relationship with God
and Paul was trying to explain to you earlier this century
that that was not the case.
And because of your apartheid mentality
and trying to force the Romans out,
you brought destruction upon yourselves.
I think more or less that's the sort of take home message
of why this was allowed to occur.
And he puts this message, and in fact a lot,
apparently he puts a lot of phrases from Paul's epistles
in the mouth of his literary figure, Yezels, okay,
which is the key figure in the gospel of Mark.
So he basically created a composite figure
and put him in what you could call a historical novel,
put it in the context of the Jacob Placentine
under Pontius Pilate, which was, you know,
the time maybe 40 years before the thing was actually written.
And so it was said, well, you know,
and he had this Yezos figure from back then say,
I foresee that in 40 years' time Jerusalem will be destroyed,
there will be a wall built around it and so on.
So it had this Yezos figure predict the destruction
of the second temple.
Obviously the writer already knew about the destruction
of the second temple.
That's why he had to put the Yezos figure in the past
in order to be able to predict it, right?
So it's a work of historical fiction
it's more Harry Potter than it is historical reportage.
And like Harry Potter,
it has moral and ethical lessons that it's meant to convey.
And the very carefully calibrated structure of it,
there are all these kinds of structures within it,
which are kind of ABBA or ABCC, CBA structures throughout.
This indicates what a carefully composed work
of literature it was.
And the more carefully constructed a work is,
the less plausible that it has any, in any sense,
aspects of historical reportage,
especially when you can trace pretty much
every important event, including the crucifixion
to Old Testament sources.
And the crucifixion is the point of the whole thing, right?
It's just like it's the point of Paul's message
because the idea is that the gospel of Mark
really maybe should be called the gospel of Paul.
We don't know who Mark was, right?
Maybe it should be called the gospel of Marcyon or Marcyon.
It's probably was pronounced Marcyon, in fact, not Marcyon.
And the gospel of Marcyon was based very much
on the works of Paul.
So Marcyon and Paul were maybe the real originators
of Christianity, of what became Christianity,
although other things were, as you pointed out,
the Trinity idea itself were added on
as a certain stream within the Christian churches,
competing cults became orthodoxy
and then was imposed in the Councils of Micaiah later on,
a particular single story.
The whole point from the Roman Empire point of view
was to impose a single narrative on the whole empire
to try to create politically unity.
It didn't work, but they tried.
And that's why they then declared the Roman Empire
to be a theocracy with just one single religion
and no tolerance for any alternatives.
And they used, why did they use Christianity in 380,
I believe it was CE when Theodosis
and Barotheodosis imposed this?
Well, because by then, I guess it was very popular
and it made sense to choose that particular story.
So what all of this says is there are excellent reasons
in my reading of the situation.
I had no pony, a year ago, a year and a half ago,
I was a historicist.
I thought there must be a historical Jesus at the core.
And then I started reading about all this stuff
and more and more, as I've seen more sophisticated
analyses, especially the textual critic analyses
of the Gospel of Mark, where the other gospels
are just fan fiction on the Gospel of Mark
by people that have different theological perspectives.
So they took the material of Mark
and then they changed it around and added to it
and so on to try to get their own idea across.
Like Matthew was more into the idea
that you still had to follow the rules
of Orthodox Judaism and the Mosaic Law,
whereas Mark had explicitly said you don't
because Mark's perspective like Paul's
was that that stuff is all superseded.
It's no longer necessary.
And you can invite Gentiles into the church
without asking them to cut their foreskins off
or to follow all kinds of obscure dietary laws.
And so Matthew didn't agree with that.
So he rewrote the Gospel of Mark and corrected a few places,
geographical details that Mark had got wrong.
It looked like Mark probably was never actually
anywhere near Palestine.
And so that's how this whole thing originated.
There's a really interesting book by Gokhov,
R.G. Price, not to be confused with Robert N. Price,
not a professional theologian, but like you,
somebody who deeply interested in this stuff.
And he wrote a book called Deciphering the Gospels
and he covers all of this in some detail.
And that pretty much convinced me
that what we're looking at in the Gospels
has nothing to do with historical reportage at all.
And that we really need to look for the source
of the original Christian Christologies,
the original Christ ideas to Pauline epistles,
to the epistles of Paul.
And I'd also read the Gospel of Mark in that light
as being an allegorical, pseudo-historicized novel
intended to convey certain messages.
And it would have been read that way
by the first Jewish Christians
who would have been familiar with the Septuagint,
the Greek version of the Old Testament
and would have recognized all of these stories
that were being recycled, as Midrashic recycling.
And it was later Gentiles who didn't know those stories
who mistook this quickly, actually quite quickly afterwards.
They started mistaking the Gospel of Mark
for historical reportage.
They didn't understand the nature of that text.
It's like somebody taking a Harry Potter book
and thinking this is historical reportage
about a guy called Harry Potter.
Sure, maybe it's mythologized a bit,
but basically there was a guy called Harry Potter
and this is kind of the core of that story must be true.
So that's where I've come to as my working hypothesis.
So probably that is where we're at.
And now this is why we have you.
We're thinking you're onto something with your theory
and well, actually Spencer's brought it to my attention
because I don't really have my head wrapped around this,
but we have, have you heard of Earl Doherty?
He has a angelic Christ figure that pre-existed
and we see elements of this in Pauline literature,
like in Philippians.
And in the book of Philippians,
which is claimed to be one of the original Paulines,
not a pseudo-Paul, it suggests that this Jesus
is a pre-existent angelic figure
or at least some type of pre-existent figure
who comes down, takes upon flesh and comes to earth.
Well, the historicists like Bart Ehrman, they see that,
but they're like, eh, that's just myth.
The real guy came and they mythologized him
into making him from a man into eventually a God.
The Earl Doherty or the Doherty thesis is saying, listen,
this was an angelic person who's you hemorrhized
by people who are ignorant of these mysteries.
These mysteries had an angelic figure, so to speak,
or a pre-existent type figure that comes
and then is eventually you hemorrhized into a human
or like in the narrative, he becomes man, okay?
But literally into history as an actual person.
So mythicists come from that angle working inward
and the historicists start with he's a man
and work outward into a mythology
and a lot of them make these arguments
which tugs me back and forth because they go,
well, look at the Caesars.
We're gonna say the Caesars, we know they existed
and then they're mythologized.
However, I've asked this question to countless scholars
who've come on my show and I say, okay,
were they like 99% hocus pocus mythology
or were they like mostly historical?
Once in a while you go, well, yeah, there was a comet
told his birth or a virgin birth
or he healed a blind man with a spittle
or that's like here or there.
Jesus is wholly like enormously mythology
and so that's kind of where we're at.
We pulled you into this because we thought
you're onto something, so I'll shut up
and let you guys keep going.
Well, let me jump in here and say,
hold this, let's get into what this is really about.
Yes, there are allegorical mythic elements in the Gospels.
Why are they, why are they of any interest to us?
And they're interested in it
because they do have an allegorical symbolic meaning.
And the one, perhaps the most important element in it
for us is that Jesus the Christ is a symbol
of the true I or the true self in man.
This is known as the Atman in Hinduism
has a true self, a high self, and all sorts of names.
It is what we really are.
It's the only part of us that's eternal
but it is totally obscured and occluded
by physical sensations, thoughts, emotions, opinions.
That's what meditation is to like,
oh, what is really here?
This I, this true I.
Oh, by the way, what does Jesus call himself
in the Gospel of John?
I am.
Well, this is that in us, which says I am.
And the Gospels are, I believe,
stories about the alliteration
and the awakening of this true self
called the Son of Man, the Son of God
and the Synoptic Gospels, the I am
in part of the Kingdom of Heaven and the Synoptic Gospels.
I mean, the Kingdom of Heaven,
that's what the Kingdom of Heaven is and it's about.
And Jesus is the story of Jesus is the story of all of us.
That's one way of looking at it.
No, let me finish.
God comes down to earth.
He kind of runs around, he lives and plays his part
and it's in this time, makes friends and enemies.
Eventually he suffers a painful and humiliating death
on a cross known as time and space.
But that doesn't really matter
because what is true and eternal about him lives on.
That is the story of Jesus.
That is the deeper story that we read into Jesus
and that is the truth we see in it,
whether or not we believe in the story,
the literal truth or whatever.
That is what I see the core truth is
and why it remains important and interesting today.
And that's what my book Inter-Christianity is about.
So, in terms of mythology,
you could go in any length of the gamut
that I've just talked about, mythology.
What was that book?
Just plug that book one more time?
Inter-Christianity.
Inter-Christianity, make sure you guys get that
if you're interested in what he's discussing here.
So, okay.
I mean, because that's what it is.
And this means that the story becomes relevant
and it's a guide to our own spiritual awakening.
And there are huge symbolic levels.
There are three levels, remember the three heavens,
there are three levels of reality.
Earth, earthly reality, psychological reality
and spiritual reality.
These are symbolized in the New Testament
by stone, water and water, respectively.
So, the water is drawn out of the stone, right?
The stone cisterns at Cana and then it's changed.
It's an account of this transformation of inner self
from the outer stone element and into the spirit.
The stone is always the external, the dead level.
Who of you, if your son asks for bread,
will give him a stone?
The symbol is pervades the whole New Testament
and it's talking about these levels.
So, yes, it was written on that.
How much of this actually really happened?
I agree, we don't know.
But I believe that that's symbolic element.
And this is found from the earliest writings
of the church fathers down to my little book.
It's always been known and it's always been kind of buried
because the external authorities don't want you to look
past the level of the stone
because usually they're not much past that themselves.
Right, I was about to ask you why.
What?
Say that?
I'm sorry, you cut out.
I was about to ask you why the authorities
don't want people to read these texts
in a sort of more mystical way.
One of the core characteristics of Christianity
for the past 1500 years or so
has been to insist on a literal reading of these texts.
And this is actually a fairly strange thing.
Maybe it's to keep it simple or something like that,
but they went to great lengths to,
they committed entire genocides like in Southern France
at one point to wipe out so-called heresies
where a more allegorical and mystical reading
of these ideas was practiced
and perhaps I'm reading that according to what you're just
saying is closer to the original spirit of the thing.
Yes, the cathars, I mean, even the Catholics said
that the cathars were closer to the original Christians
than they were.
So yes, yes, I agree with you.
Well, let me explain it as I see it.
A spiritual movement begins
and it has genuine spiritual power and life.
It attracts followers.
If you attract followers, you gain power.
And the more power you gain, the more likely
you're going to be attract leaders
who are interested in power.
And if you're interested in power for its own sake,
hey, you don't really care that much about spirituality
because you don't understand it that well yourself
and you just assume nobody else did.
So you don't know anything about it
and because you're the ecclesiastical authority,
you have to step on everybody else who does.
And that is, I think, a reasonably concise
if irreverent history of Christianity
in the first four centuries.
Oh yes, I agree.
So it is, something has spiritual force
and then it becomes about power
and it becomes all about power
and the real spirituality, if you're lucky,
doesn't die out completely, which it does in some religions
but it always kind of exists on the edges.
And as you know, the mystics have always been
highly suspect to the Christian authorities.
Meister Eckhardt in the 13th century
was only saved from the Inquisition
by the fact that he happened to die conveniently
before they could actually condemn him.
So I'm just gonna talk, all along the one.
So that is it, it's a power not of this world
but the powers of this world are gonna like it.
So one of the things that you said there
was that you thought the story was about the true self
or the true I and that this was the eternal part of the self.
Now, I have to admit that as somebody who studied neuroscience
where the evidence is that as parts,
let's say somebody has a stroke or has some of the car accident
and part of their brain is destroyed,
then that part of the person goes missing, right?
There are certain capabilities that go missing
and the more damage there is to the brain,
the more it goes missing and the sort of,
you take that to its conclusion,
the suggestion is that if the whole brain goes missing,
i.e. if you die, then you're gone.
And so this idea of an eternal eye is something
that personally, I think probably doesn't exist.
Now, I may be wrong.
There may be some sort of a metadimensional shadow
or sort of like a magical computer
in another space time connected to this one
through a dimension I don't know about
which stores some version of me that we call my spirit.
I have no idea.
I don't think that's very plausible, but I could be wrong.
So what I'm wondering is do you think that there is such a thing
or do you think that this idea of an eternal eye
or a true self, like what does that even mean?
To me, that is a phrase that doesn't really mean anything.
If you look at it hard, what do you think it means?
It is that in you, which is witnessing everything.
You can, if you meditate, you can start to witness
your own thoughts, emotions, as images on a screen.
So who is watching?
It's that that's watching.
Does it survive the death of the brain?
Well, I don't know.
There are a lot of ND near-death experiences
that suggest that it does.
And if we're being really scientific,
one thing I don't like about science
is when it's talking about empirical evidence,
there's a whole range of empirical evidence
that it dismisses out of hand
because it does not fit in
with accepted scientific theories as known.
And this has to do with the religious experience of man,
the paranormal experience of man, the mystical experience.
This is all nonsense
because we cannot account for it in our neurology.
And it doesn't fit into our worldview.
Since I'm dissing science for a minute, let me go on.
Because science is about,
the scientific worldview is about to collapse.
No, it's not.
This is the most important thing
that's happening in our time
because it has come up with two quite contradictory claims.
One is what you just said.
Consciousness is totally a function of the brain.
Our cognition is highly circumscribed by our neural system.
Well, then you can't go and then say,
and reality itself may be very likely very different
from our cognition of it.
Well, you can't then turn and say
the results of our cognition,
which would include scientific evidence,
cannot be anything more than,
shall we say, a very limited human perspective
on what it is.
Yet it's always claimed that this is really the way it is.
And scientists tend to believe
that that's really the way it is.
Well, you know, let's put it this way.
Naive realism, the view that, yeah,
things in the world really is the way we see it is,
is not taken by any serious philosophy,
unless you count Ayn Rand.
No, Mr. Smollett, I was gonna say,
if you don't mind me just plugging one thing I heard said
see, what I like to do,
so I was a very fundamentalist Christian
who was super spiritual, like super spiritual.
And then I went and as I started to,
I guess you say research
and try to make sense of some of these things,
I started looking at stuff more naturalistic and say,
what makes sense in a natural world?
And one of the things we're talking about,
as we're talking about over time,
how they didn't want this information
to get to the common folk,
is the spiritual are practical.
So when we talk about the spiritual,
why this movement would take off and why it became popular,
in light of the movements that are around,
it seems that Christianity had some practical applications
that I think almost everybody was crying out for,
that people really liked the idea of love and mercy
in a way that wasn't expressed before.
There were things that were practical
in a natural sense that were applicable.
And we could say they're spiritual,
because obviously there's no way to test it
except for the fact that I personally find
it's a subjective experience
and that to themselves, that experience is true.
It might be for a Hindu, their experience is true.
It might be for a Christian, their experience is true.
It's all subjective.
But just like you're saying the natural world
can't necessarily go into the metaphysical
and try to make sense, the same vice versa.
Not exactly what I said, but come on.
My gist is that if there is a natural explanation,
is that this is a better version of religion
than what was being already, I guess you'd say,
espoused out there.
And then the powerful that saw that they could control
this thing and control people, took it and reigned with it.
And here we have people not being able to practice this stuff.
They're being killed for this stuff.
And I myself, I have experiences all the time.
I don't say that they're not experiences.
I don't.
However, today I say,
what if there's a natural explanation on top of the fact?
It still doesn't make me not have these experiences.
Does that make sense?
So I don't have to run around and go,
that was the Holy Ghost.
Like a fundamentalist would go,
I just experienced the Holy Ghost.
I tell Christians all the time who are like,
Derek, are you saying you're an atheist?
I'm saying, I don't know what I am.
I just know that I experienced things
and I'm a practical spiritual person.
I think these principles work regardless
if you think there's some divine beyond you
or if this is something in your own conscious state,
whatever, they work.
So I go, go ahead.
I'm sorry, Jasper.
I would just add an agreement with what Derek is saying.
I see it the same way.
And I would contest one thing
that you said a minute ago as a smally is you said
that scientists dismiss all of these experiences,
these mystical experiences,
spiritual experiences, paranormal, what have you.
That's not true at all.
Scientists do not dismiss those.
I did all of course work for PhD neuroscience 20 years ago.
I find that stuff absolutely fascinating.
And you know, like the fact that consciousness
even exists as an emergent phenomenon in this universe.
And it clearly does have something to do with the brain.
It certainly has something to do with the brain, right?
It does seem to arise from the workings of the brain,
at least while we're on this planet.
The fact that it even exists is a mind blowing phenomenon.
It's the deepest mystery that I know of
that we haven't sorted out yet in this cosmos.
So we, scientists do not dismiss it.
We just don't try to make claims about it
that are, that go beyond the evidence, right?
And so working-
Well, we're not taking all the evidence into account.
There are mystical experiences
and they're always written off like near-death experiences
are written off.
Yes, they are, maybe not by you, but by lots of people.
Oh, well, the near-death experience
where someone's actually looking down
in the operating room and describing things that happened
and even though we're in a coma.
You know, a lot of this stuff is written off.
Maybe not by you.
You're insisting that it's written off.
And I'm telling you that I personally don't write it off
and conversations I've had with other people
who are professional neuroscientists,
which I am not, but I nearly became,
it is not written off.
It is an open question.
We don't try to pretend we know what is going on there.
It is a fascinating phenomenon.
Just like the very, just the fact that all of us
are conscious every day and that we experience consciousness
makes us think that it's some sort of the now thing,
which is an obvious thing, but actually it's not.
What's going on, and it's just mind blowing
what's going on, is that you have literally
a hundred billion neurons sending electrochemical signals
to each other throughout this massive tangle of wiring
and somehow that generates coherent gestalt moments
of consciousness that feels like a singular eye,
like the I am in this moment eye, right?
That is not something that we really understand at all.
Why would different neurons in different parts of the,
different alliances actually of signaling neurons
in different parts of the brain at every given moment
give rise to this gestalt moment of consciousness?
How does that actually work?
Is that's an unresolved question of both science
and if you will, spirituality.
I think you're taking a dogmatic anti-science perspective.
No, I'm saying that science as positive self
is the only legitimate arbiter of truth, which it is not.
And if it is not positive itself that way,
it has allowed everybody to believe that it is.
And I'm sorry, that includes many scientists.
It doesn't include all scientists, but includes many.
Moreover, this naive materialistic worldview
that science can explain everything
or will very, very soon because there's always
this promissory explanation.
Well, maybe your theoretical model is completely defective.
What you just said, all about that,
it doesn't explain anything.
So maybe your theoretical model needs to be scrapped
and refought entirely because it's not explaining anything
as you just admitted.
But no, it's this theoretical model
of all these neurons firing here.
We're gonna explain consciousness someday real soon, real soon.
And this basically would be very, very much like
our current preconception, I think with bullshit.
Well, Mr. Smolley, I appreciate you coming on in,
Jasper.
No, but you know what, this was a very,
I think this is one of my favorite shows that we've done.
And Jasper's right.
It's good that we, it's good there's tension
because it spices up the discussion.
It shows your, see, I had a good show with Dr. Eisenman.
Robert Eisenman is a Dead Sea Scrolls Scholar.
Man, he was chomping on Christopher Lawson.
And Christopher wasn't even against him.
He was just trying to discuss and Robert's like,
I'm not talking about the Kumeran Cave Scroll of this.
And they got a little tension and I'm like,
you know what?
I'm just listening and I'm thinking to my head, Jerry,
Jerry, Jerry Springer.
But look, this is good because this-
A lot of people watch Jerry Springer.
I know, and I'm saying this is good
because the outsiders looking in can see what Jasper's saying,
can see what you're saying and say,
where do I fall on the line?
Is there a historical Jesus?
Is this an angelic type, God-like figure?
I love this.
Everybody needs to get your book,
check out his book, How God Became God, correct?
Yeah, let me just add one thing.
I mean, I don't expect or need you to agree with me.
And I don't need or expect you to agree with me
any more than you might have
at the start of this conversation.
So I'm happy for the dialogue.
I think it's important that these views are aired
in all sorts of ways.
And I think you're doing a great job
in making that possible.
The idea that we're all gonna have to,
I mean, there is often an idea
that if everybody doesn't walk away
from the sort of thing with a consensus, it's a failure.
But I really don't think that's true.
And I doubt that you do.
I do very much appreciate the opportunity
of having me on, just to send me a link
so I could let my people know about it.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much for Jasper.
It was fascinating.
You're quite right.
These subjects are not easily resolved.
And part of the way of resolving them
is by endless conversations like this,
which may amount to something somewhere.
Where we do, I think of the three things
that we talked about tonight.
One, I think we're very much in agreement with.
And the other two, less so.
So where I think we're very much in agreement,
the reason we asked you on
is your perspective about the great angel,
the idea that Paul thought of his peace,
and eventually is our angel.
And I want to follow up on that more.
And Derek, let's see if we can find other people
that are knowledgeable about the show.
Yeah, you know who you should call?
Margaret Barker.
Okay, Margaret Barker, we're gonna make a note of that.
Absolutely.
You know who she is?
Oh, absolutely, yeah.
Margaret Barker's a very well-renowned scholar
on temple theology.
And she's well aware of a lot of the stuff
we even discussed with Ashra.
She's aware of Yahweh.
A lot of the ideas that I'm getting
come from her book, The Great Angel.
Write that down.
Yeah, you know, get Margaret Barker
talking about the great angel.
She's...
By the way, one thing I wanted to mention
that to me must be the case,
the book of revelations is kind of
a Mirkova mysticism base, isn't it?
Yeah, I think so.
I mean, that's a whole different
show in its own right.
But yes, there are some elements of that.
Anyway, well, thank you so much.
I really appreciate it.
I'm very, very sorry about the whole Skype business,
that computer.
We're fine, no problem.
Look, ladies and gentlemen, get his book.
It's on Amazon.
It'll be down in the description,
A Theology of Love, Reimagining Christianity
Through a Course in Miracles,
A Spirituality Based on Love, Not Fear,
by Richard Smolley.
And he has How God Became God.
Let me get this subtitle here.
How God Became God.
What scholars are really saying about God and the Bible.
And you wanna go check that book out at 7.99 on Kendall.
It's not a lot.
Paperback's 12.91, go check it out.
And I also wanna give a special thanks to you, Jasper.
I really appreciate you joining in.
You're really good at this.
And I'd like to have you join us again,
bringing scholars on,
because you make it a very good conversation.
I thought it was a great conversation.
And I really enjoyed it.
So I hope you have a great day.
Jasper, I hope you have a good night,
because I just what, like 10 o'clock your time?
Yeah.
9 o'clock, oh yes, okay, yeah.
I appreciate you two gentlemen.
And like and subscribe us, share this,
MythVision podcast.
Do you have any closing words, Jasper?
We are MythVision.
MythVision.
MythVision.
