From time to time, I entertain this theory called Israel only their proponents technically believe that only Israelites genetic descendants of Abraham and only the elect ones of the genetic descendants of Abraham are in view of salvation.
They look at the promises in the Hebrew Bible.
They see over and over again that God was incumbent with Israel only and they go all the way into the New Testament and they want Paul to be saying the same thing.
So scholars actually don't fall down on this position.
Today we have this conversation and I have Dr. Jim majors who has a PhD, not only on the book of Daniel where he wrote his dissertation, but in Second Temple Judaism.
How do Jews understand their own scriptures?
And that is where you're going to see a difference today.
So with that being said, let us know what you think of the episode.
I plan on doing more down the road with these gentlemen and also critical responses in my opinion as to why I'm not an Israel only proponent.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Today we're having an Israel only discussion between Jim majors.
There's a PhD, did his dissertation on the book of Daniel.
Welcome to MythVision.
And my two buddies, Michael Beeris and Michael Bradley are joining from the Israel only side.
We're going to be having a very cordial conversation.
Yes, people disagree.
Scholars do this all the time.
However, ontologically, none of the gentlemen on the screen, including myself, has a God in the race.
We don't have this ontological baggage where we must have this position because somehow it keeps our God in check or we're worshiping God the right way or whatever.
It's really just an adventure of trying to explore and understand what's going on in the Bible, what's going on in this book, that text, this and there.
And there's disagreements and there will be disagreements today, I suspect, but I'm wanting this to be a friendly conversation.
That being said, I want to give IO the opportunity to explain what is Israel only.
Maybe a better understood is Israel only preterism to some degree, even though technically you guys aren't preterist and I don't want to get lost if we can in like Adam is Israel, even though you might mention this.
I'm just saying some of those details might get us lost in the weeds.
If we could do like five to eight minute opening, if you don't mind, I'd love to hear your side.
Okay, so hello, gentlemen.
You're opening, Derek, your opening was great and thank you.
I guess I could say as a preface that we wouldn't be at the position of IO if we weren't willing to go where the evidence best pointed.
So I think all of us are interested in doing that.
So I personally don't feel like there's any like competition or hostility in the interview.
We're all just, you know, we're going to share our views, we're going to share information and just go where the evidence best points.
That's kind of how I ended up at IO.
So to define IO, I will just use our standard definition that I share often.
IO or Israel only is sometimes called AIO, Ancient Israel only.
And it's also called consistent preterism.
It's a method of interpretation that uses a consistent application of historical context and audience relevance that when applied to biblical texts,
shows that the entire Bible's redemptive narrative pertains only to the 12 tribes of Old Covenant Israel.
For purposes of our discussion, I'm just going to call it IO.
IO returns biblical words and phrases to their original Israel like context,
showing that in many cases, words like world, for example, the Greek word cosmos,
referred to the Covenant world of Israel, not the entire planet.
And that English words like Gentiles, which the Greek word in the New Testament used, there is ethnos.
The ethnos who were saved were actually Jews and non-Jewish descendants of the tribes of Israel who had been dispersed among the nations
and who had been absorbed into those populations.
IO also defends the view that Israel's redemptive narrative ended in AD 70 along with the need for the gospel.
So in this sense, IO is an eschatological position.
It is a view that is scriptural, adheres faithfully to audience relevance,
and has consideration for the exclusively Hebrew cultural and religious milieu the scriptures come from.
It is sometimes referred to as consistent preterism because it is as consistent with audience relevance when it comes to eschatology
as it is when it comes to soteriology.
IO rightly concludes that the end of the Bible story happened in AD 70 and that none of that story involves people today.
IO shows from the scriptures that salvation and redemption were only meant for Old Covenant Israel,
which means nobody today is saved and redeemed, nor has anyone needed salvation and redemption since the first century.
IO essentially destroys the premises upon which the post AD 70 version of Christianity relies on,
and in so doing shows that today's so-called Christianity is a complete fraud.
IO tends to be a great relief for people who have suffered mental and emotional anguish over the false premises of the post AD 70 Christian narrative
that has led so many to a lifetime of despair, fear, and error.
For example, the belief that one is a sinner or has a wicked heart.
Most objections to IO are based on the assumed identity of terms like Adam and Gentile,
and the application of words that appear to us to have a universal application, words like world and all.
But at the time the text was penned, had a limited context and were used symbolically.
Today's Christians usually begin in the New Testament and work their way backward toward Adam,
trying to isolate one verse or another to support their belief that they are part of the Bible's redemptive narrative.
When one verse is shown to have an exclusively IO application, instead of reassessing their faith position,
they simply look for some other verse and try to read themselves into it to reaffirm their faith.
To disprove IO, one would have to show from the scriptures that non-Israelite nations had and were under the law or its curse,
were imputed or charged with sin under the law, were judged at the end of the age,
that first century non-Israelite nations were judged or saved from what Israel was judged or saved from,
that non-Israelites were referred to as an olive tree, as the elect, and as the sheep,
that non-Israelites were part of Christ's new covenant and that the need for the gospel was expected to extend past the end of the age,
which was in the first century. To date no one has been able to show any of those.
Though there are a few variations of IO, namely what I call Primitive IO, Second Generation IO, and Third Generation IO,
the IO that Michael Burris and I are representing today is the most recent iteration.
It is the proposition that the Bible's entire redemptive narrative pertains only to the 12 tribes of Israel up to AD 70.
It is not an argument based on racial purity, but that the gospel was meant only for Jews and non-Jewish descendants of the tribes of Israel
who were being gathered into Christ before the end of the age of the old covenant religious system and temple community.
I'll just leave it at that.
Michael, we've got two minutes and 20 seconds, if you want to give a little top off there before we pass it to Jim.
Okay, I'll just continue.
Paul said that he would not have known sin were it not for the law in Romans 7 verse 7, and John defined sin as violation of the law in 1 John 3 verse 4.
According to many passages in the Old Testament, Psalm 147, 19 through 20, Deuteronomy 4 verse 8, among others,
only Israel had and was under the law.
Paul also said that where there is no law, there is no transgression in Romans 4 verse 15.
That means that since nobody today has or is under the law, it doesn't exist for them.
Nobody transgresses a law they aren't under and that doesn't exist equals nobody today's sins.
Being innocent of the charge of sin, nobody today is a sinner in danger of judgment.
Not being in danger of judgment, we don't need forgiveness and salvation.
Not needing forgiveness and salvation, we don't need Jesus.
Not needing Jesus, we can choose to lead a meaningful, productive and fulfilling life without today's phony Christianity.
I'll pass it on to the next person.
Thank you. Yeah, we're so close to the time. We might as well switch up and go ahead, Jim, if you would, five minutes.
If you can knock that out in five and then we're going to go to examples and I want to have the Israel only guys have five minutes,
no more than three on Jim's side is one man.
So, you know, having the conversation will be interesting. So, Jim.
Yeah, so basically my position is that looking at it from a historical context and from a scriptural context.
I am of the belief that audience relevance really isn't that important or it doesn't really dictate the terms.
Because when looking at it from a historical context, like the during the early conquest and the exiles of Israel, it was a tribal society.
And each tribe lived within kinship boundaries of the promised land.
And they're said to have descended from the twelve sons of Jacob or Israel.
And God made a covenant, a holy covenant with these twelve tribes at Mount Sinai.
And the land that was promised to Abraham would become theirs.
And in this community, membership was based on birth within these identifiable groups, these twelve kinship groups.
And Israel shared its land with other groups, but it distinguished itself from these other, what they called resident aliens.
The Torah specifies that they were not allowed to intermarry with these other people that they lived with, these Canaanites.
Although this was, it was not usually extended to other nations.
But when intermarriage did occur, the children of the marriage were not considered members of this community for several generations and sometimes never.
And as a result of this, of identifying an Israelite based on their ancestry, you had really strict boundaries surrounding this community.
And basically it precluded conversion by outsiders born to other races.
And so the Torah, some say, is completely silent when it comes to conversion.
But within Judaism, that's not how it always, how it always would end up.
With the Assyrian conquest and the deportation of the northern tribes and then the Babylonian conquest and exile and deportation of the southern tribes, there was a shift within the identity of what was Israel.
So we had more and more Jews who had migrated outside of the Israelite homeland.
The concept of tribal ownership of owning this land was becoming more and more irrelevant.
But even with these developments, you still had this entrenched view, this traditional view of Israelite identity.
And it was really hard to shape that in these official circles or in the priestly circles.
But during like the fourth and fifth century BCE, you had like Ezra and Nehemiah who saw that Israelite men had married other women from foreign nations and had children with them.
And they sought to address this.
Now, at this point, they still identified themselves as Jews and conversion for non-Jews is not a valid option.
But it was clear that these women, these wives that they were intermarrying with and the children, the products of that relationship were also Jews.
They were observant of Jewish customs.
They were observant of the laws of the covenant community.
So as membership became more dependent on the observance of Jewish customs and practices and less observant on the kinship aspect of it.
So it then became possible after these exiles and conquests and intermarrying and the issues of Jews marrying non-Jews and whose descendants would be able to be a part of Israel.
It became possible to include these non-Jews or Gentiles in the Jewish community.
And by worshiping Yahweh, the God of Israel and by following those Jewish customs and observing the Jewish way of life, one could then become a Jew.
Or a part of the covenant community.
That's basically my position in that show.
Thank you.
You relinquish 30 seconds.
And I think the same was for you guys.
So what we want to do now is have our phones get a little timer out.
One of the Israel only guys can have it.
You don't both have to.
And then Jim, just be ready to time.
I'll try to keep up with your time, but I just don't want to interrupt you.
So five minutes for you guys, max three for you, Jim.
And I'm going to bring up examples to get you guys to kind of elaborate deeper as we have this discussion.
I hope fingers crossed, we can go through this successfully.
And I think we will.
So thank you so much, gentlemen.
One second here.
This time right here.
All right.
So my first example I'd like to get into and just kind of mention as we have this up on the screen.
This is a timeline, Israel's timeline.
We're kind of skipping ahead, but I guess the good question is,
whom did Paul identify as Gentiles and Greeks according to IO refugees from the Assyrian exile, northern Israel, who were paganized by the eighth century.
If you will prior here on the map, if you look up at the top, you can see where 800 the minus and then 800 is right there where the Assyrian exile happens.
Or was Paul referring to Hellenized Jews, which this is another IO proponent, Ryan provost and a couple other guys occasionally have you guys don't hold to this, I think,
but I just want to clarify.
Are they Hellenized Jews who apostatized a couple centuries prior during the Maccabean times?
You know, if you don't mind, please.
Well, I would argue that it would be both both groups, but be the Hellenized Jews and also be the northern, the 10 tribes in order to kingdom of Israel that Paul was referring to.
And we get that through, I believe it's in Romans nine where he quotes Hosea and Isaiah referring to the 10 northern tribes being brought back into Israel.
So all Israel could be saved.
Bradley.
No, I would agree with that.
I think we see all 12 tribes represented in the New Testament being gathered at the time of the end of the age.
So yeah, I'm in agreement with that.
Awesome.
I guess, like I said, if we can move on even better, because then we have time at the end to talk if we end up getting through these pretty quick.
Jim, did you want to comment on this?
Are you good on this one?
I'm good.
We can move on.
Okay, awesome.
Thank you, gentlemen.
Next example we have is this little image.
I don't know if you guys remember this image.
Oh, I remember this.
It's a beautiful image.
You have to admit that this is actually a pretty well done visual, whether you agree with the contents there.
But just one note, does this diagram do any like a reasonable job at representing IO?
If not, what's wrong with this visual representation?
If you can, I know this is off the cuff.
So is there something in it that you might would want to change or you think this is somewhat pretty accurate?
Well, so far it seems pretty accurate.
There's just a lot going on.
I know, right?
Yeah, I like it.
I need to copy this.
Yeah, I think when I first showed this to you guys when Steven back in the day, there was a lot of turmoil going on.
So I don't think there was like a fair jab at Steven's beautiful art.
Steven, you did a wonderful job.
Bradley, do you see anything wrong with this or do you pretty much think this accurately represents to some degree?
Yeah, I mean, at first look, it looks pretty good.
There are some of these terms like proselytes, sojourners, strangers, foreigners.
There's been a lot of discussion in different groups over those terms.
So those would probably be, you know, issues that may come up with the IO critics.
But yeah, I mean, overall, I don't think it certainly doesn't threaten the IO position at all.
All right, wonderful.
Thank you.
I'm just trying to give us a visual here.
All right.
First example we have textual wise.
Let me make sure I have this whole thing in screen.
Okay, there we go.
So the first, if you will, text we're getting into, and I hope we can get through all the pericapies and examples is Amos 3 1 through 2.
I'll read it real quick out loud and then give my notes.
And then you guys will have five minutes and then three minutes for Jim.
So here this word that the Lord has spoken against you, oh house of Israel and against the whole tribe that I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying only you in quotations Israel have I known of all the tribes of the earth.
Therefore I will avenge you all your sins.
And my note here is here the Greek translator of the LXX rendered the Hebrew for family as tribe.
Acts 3 25, for example, in the phrase all the tribes of the earth.
So how do you guys see this passage or interpret this Israel as a tribe singular, that kind of thing, and then all the tribes of the earth.
Do you guys think that all the tribes of the earth here is actually all humanity?
Well, I don't think it's all humanity at all.
I think I think it's all of Near Eastern, all ancient Near Eastern nations is referring to that.
Yeah, I've known.
I don't believe the Bible from the beginning is ever speaking in a universal term of all of humanity.
It's speaking of the nations within Middle Eastern, Upper Africa.
So I believe Amos 3 1 is basically saying Israel is the only nation I had a covenant relationship with out of all the families of the earth,
whichever they refer to in that in that area of the world, not Australia, not China, more the Middle Eastern area.
So he's basically saying I only had a covenants intimate relationship with Israel.
I didn't have a relationship with other nations.
I didn't make a covenant with them.
I married Israel, and that's the point I believe Amos is trying to say.
That's why he says I'm going to punish you because what comes with the covenant comes the law.
That's why other nations didn't have God's laws.
They had their own laws, according to their own gods.
So he says, I'm going to judge you because you broke my covenant.
You broke my laws.
I'm not judging the other nations for that because I wasn't in covenant with them.
So that's why I believe Amos is his whole point is getting a prostration.
Bradley, with three minutes and 30 seconds left, who are the other tribes?
If you don't mind me asking, and how do you understand this passage?
Well, I think the word earth can be misleading to people.
Usually when somebody sees the word English word earth, they think it's referring to the whole planet.
And I don't think so.
I think that the context of this passage is a localized area.
The word earth there, the Hebrew word, Adama, is not referring to the entire planet.
So I don't think it's referring to everybody on the planet.
Do you guys mind that I ask questions during your time to kind of like further get your thoughts?
Okay, I don't want to be disrespectful.
So just ask in this particular when it says, oh, House of Israel, we know that House of Israel could be the northern kingdom.
It could be the total 12 tribes, northern and southern, the whole nine.
He's saying, oh, House of Israel and against the whole tribe that I brought up out of the land of Egypt.
We know that's Israel, right?
Jacob and his descendants saying only you Israel have I known of all the tribes of the earth.
So who are the tribes of the earth in this particular passage?
If it's not universal, do you have an idea of maybe seeing who they might be?
Well, you can include the Canaanites.
You can include all the nations of Syria, Babylon.
I mean, the nations that are listed in the Torah, which, you know, there's not that many actually listed.
So I would include all of them.
Oh, yeah, you can't go beyond that without other nations prior mentioned, because those are the ones mentioned in Old Testament.
That's why you can't include, that's why it doesn't include the whole planet.
It doesn't the whole message is for a small localized area, not for the entire planet.
So you can't go past those boundaries.
And with one minute left.
Did you want to comment on that Bradley or pass the mic?
No, go ahead, Jim.
Thank you, Jim.
Let me start your time or three max your time.
I would just say that I do believe that's referring to the whole earth.
I do know that that that Audemars can refer to just a generic ground, but here it uses a definite article and name is three two.
So it's actually Audemars, which would be the earth.
So it's specifying that it is, it is, you know, the earth is the same type of language that's used during the creation narrative.
So it I do believe it is referring to the the whole earth.
I think that's about the only thing that I would comment on that.
So a disagreement.
Thank you so much for that time.
We'll move on gentlemen.
I really appreciate it.
All right.
Amos three one through two.
We actually went through this here in particular, just giving a visual for anyone who might be watching.
Feel free to screenshot these so you can actually or pause the video, look at the examples and give us your thoughts in the comment section.
By the way, yes, sir.
Just a quick question.
Just a quick question for Jim.
So if you if you take the words.
Ha Adama.
To refer to the entire planet.
So would you agree then that based on the text that.
That according to the narrative that God only chose Israel out of all the people on the face of the earth.
Would you agree to that?
Yeah.
That's what it says right there.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
I do want to try and keep from potentially just in case, but you guys are carrying yourself very well.
Michael knows what I'm talking about.
I have PTSD from the last review.
So anyway, thank you so much for being kind gentlemen.
Romans for we're getting into the fun stuff, right?
This is where this is where I think major differences from like academia and IOS positions might be.
So I'll read the verse, give you my notes and then go from there.
Romans for 11 B to 13.
The purpose was to make Abraham the father of all who have faith without being circumcised to impute them with righteousness and to make him the father of those who were not merely circumcised.
But to those who walk in the footsteps of the faith footsteps of the faith and that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised for it was not through law that the promise was made to Abraham or to his offspring that he would be heir of the world.
But the promise was through the righteousness of faith.
So just a note, Paul affirms that Abraham is the father of all who believe all who have faith.
How do you guys see this particular passage from the IO perspective and starting your time here now?
Go ahead, Dearest.
Okay.
Well, father of all faith, he's not talking about universally anyone who has faith could jump into the promises of God, because it's very specific.
It was to Abraham, his descendants.
But remember, Abraham had eight sons, and only one son was promised it.
And now it's Isaac.
And then through Isaac, it went to Jacob.
So he had eight sons that are circumcised, yet they're not in the covenant of God.
He didn't choose, even though he blessed Ishmael, he didn't choose Ishmael for the covenant.
So the promises of the father of faith had had to be within the bloodline of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, which came to the 12 tribes of Israel.
But the bloodline wasn't the full ingredient you had to have.
You had the bloodline and faith.
So two components to be included in the promises of God.
If you had one without the other, like if you just had faith and you weren't part of the bloodline, you couldn't get into the covenant.
If you had the bloodline and you didn't have faith, you could not get into the covenant.
You're crossed out.
You had to have the bloodline plus faith to be included in the promises of Abraham.
And Bradley, if I may, because you might repeat that.
And I just maybe to probe deeper is in this particular verse, he says that he would be heir of the world.
Some of the colors coordinate to some of the some of the terms being used here.
If you notice, but world, is this just covenant world to you guys?
Like the actual descendants of Israelites only or Abraham here as this world?
Well, I take it as the covenant world.
If the Greek word cosmos is being used, then it's always going to be the covenant world, not the entire planet.
Every instance where the word cosmos is used, it's always associated with Israel.
It's religious system.
It's rituals.
It's people, not the entire planet.
So when you see that he would be heir of the world and especially associated with the promise, then that's Israel only.
That's the Israelite world, not the entire planet.
You do have two minutes left if you want to.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so, you know, other other scriptures support that it.
I mean, I could go through a whole list and it might be kind of boring, but describing how every instance of the word cosmos is associated with Israel.
And it's a done deal.
It's a sealed case for the world always referring to the covenant world.
But in this particular passage, it mentions the promise.
But every time you see the promises, the promises are also only associated with Israel.
For example, Acts 2 verses 38 through 39 shows that the promise was for Israelites.
Romans 9, 3, 4 says the promises were for fleshly Israel.
Acts 13 verse 32 says the promise was to their Israelite fathers and fulfilled for their children, which would be their physical descendants.
Acts 26 verse 6 says that the promises were made to their Israelite fathers.
And Acts 26 verse 7 says the 12 tribes of Israel hope to attain the promises.
So, maybe Dr. Majors could show us where non-Israelites fit into the promises.
I leave it up to him.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Let me show you a slight echo there again.
All right.
Starting with you, Dr. Majors.
Yeah, to answer your question, I would turn to Isaiah 56, 6 through 7.
It talks about the sons of the stranger who joined themselves to the Lord, who serve him and who love his name, who will be his servants.
Everyone that would keep the Sabbath and who would obey his covenant.
He says, even them, I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer.
And that their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on his altar because this is for for mine house shall be called a house of prayer for all people.
So, Dr. Majors, if I may, just because I don't want to have cross dialogue in this particular, how do you view this passage in particular?
Do you do you see those who are people of faith as anyone who does join the faith they become that kind of idea they become?
Or do you take that the idea that what I was saying?
Well, that's clearly what Paul is teaching here.
Now, whether or not the Abrahamic covenant that he's referring to, I believe Genesis 12, 1 through 3, whether or not that's referring to anybody else.
It kind of depends on which position you take there.
But clearly here, what Paul is teaching is that anybody who would have faith, who would take that upon themselves.
If I may, guys, before we move on to the next example, I guess the question would be for both sides.
We'll start with you, Jim, then allow Iota to answer real quick, is that do you guys think that the context in the Hebrew Bible usually is the interpretive method on which we should interpret the New Testament?
Or the context in the New Testament should override whatever the Hebrew scriptures say in particular.
Like, for example, there's a recontextualizing text where you might be quoting something but mean something different in the New Testament.
Which is the better method to you, Dr. Majors, and then the same goes for you guys in the Israeli camp?
Well, if what we're trying to discern is the authorial intent, what the intent of the author is, we need to take it at face value.
So, however, it interprets the text that it's referring to.
I think we need to interpret it within that context.
Now, if you're talking about what the text that he's referring to originally meant, I don't think that the New Testament reference is relevant at all in how to interpret that.
Other than just from a standpoint of just trying to determine what the later reception of that particular text was.
But I think in order to determine the original intent of the Old Testament passage just being referred to, we have to look at it within that context.
Yeah, I agree.
I just was asking if you thought maybe the Old Testament that's being quoted by the New Testament author, whoever they may be,
if you should use the Old Testament context, what weight do you give that on your interpretation of the author that is using that passage?
And I think, I could be wrong.
I don't want to put words in your guys' mouth that Israel only would say there's more weight to that original context as it's being interpreted through the lens of the author of the New Testament using it than maybe what you would.
That's why I was trying to get that question answered.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, but I would agree that it is the Old Testament scripture that is the predominant view.
But I also would argue that the writers such as Paul in the New Testament are quoting those Old Testament passages in context in the Old Testament and referring to the New Testament.
That's where I think our disagreement would be with some people.
They believe Paul's changing the context.
I don't believe Paul's changing the context.
Right, right.
Now, do you get it, Jim, what I was trying to get at?
Because I could already tell there was going to be differences there other than some of the minutiae.
Yeah, I think it's more than demonstrable that Paul takes the Old Testament out of context several times in order to perpetuate his interpretation, his teachings.
Alright, disagreements.
Awesome.
I'm glad we're doing this and moving on.
Romans 9-3-5,
For I wish or I could wish that I myself were cursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen, according to the flesh.
They are Israelites and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship and the promises.
To them belong the patriarchs and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ who is God over all blessed.
Amen, or forever. Amen.
In this particular passage, my notes have, Paul refers to his kinsmen, according to the flesh, in the third person as Israelites, implying that Jesus was the same Jewish race, according to the flesh.
I was watching Jason DeCosta the other day and he actually goes into this specifically in Romans 9, how to understand it.
And he makes the Jews Israel here, Israel, according to the flesh.
And of course, then you would have the other Gentiles, etc.
But that this right here in this passage, he seems to say that are you guys on the same page.
And with that being said, let me give you your five minutes.
Go ahead, Michael.
Yeah, so, I mean, I don't really have too much to contribute to this, except that I think Paul is referring to when he says they are Israelites, you know, there's 12 tribes of Israel and
but those according to the flesh would have been of the southern kingdom, those who were practicing circumcision, which I interpret that to be referring to circumcision of the flesh.
It's not a declaration of physical descendancy.
I take it as just an association with circumcision.
And, you know, in the Bible, narrative pagan nations weren't tasked with or commanded to to practice circumcision.
So again, this is a definitely an IO supportive verse.
Yes.
Further further noting that I think a lot of Christians don't realize that they don't even know much about the 10 loss northern tribes of Israel.
Because like I was a Christian, I'm no longer a Christian.
You read the New Testament first, and then you go backwards and you read yourself into the Bible just like I did.
And as we know, in the 721 BC, the Syria exiled the 10 northern tribes and they were scattered throughout the nations.
And then I was a 581 BC.
It's the same thing happened to Judah, but much of Judah was brought back.
The three tribes of the southern kingdom of Judah were brought back and now 521 BC.
Yet a lot of them still remained in Babylon.
But so we have this distinction between circumcised, which would be the practice would be practicing Jews, Israelites.
And but at the time in the first century, we had Hellenized Jews that were not circumcised because they practically were influenced by by Greece.
And he also had we as Paul would be searching for the people that are brought in that were not that were descendants of the 10 lost tribes of Israel that were not no longer practicing Torah.
They were not circumcised. So that's why here he's differentiating between the Jews that were practicing circumcision.
And later on he gets into that's what the Gentiles Gentiles means nations means people people automatically believe it just means Gentile can refer to an Israelite also.
And so that's basically I just wanted to cover on that point.
Thank you so much gentlemen.
Let me get yours started here.
And by the way, we get through all these.
We can have fun and just kind of open up the conversation.
Jim, I think we can just we can go through all the Romans nine examples.
And I'll comment at the end of that.
Yeah, let's do that then.
I'll just run through them here and read off my notes here in particular that way.
Everybody's aware Romans nine, six to eight.
And it says for it is not the case that all those who are from Israel are Israel,
nor is it the case that they who are offspring of Abraham are all children rather through Isaac.
Shall your offspring be named?
This means that it is not the children of flesh where the children of God but the children of promise are counted as offspring.
And so Paul refers to Jews as being from Israel, the children of the flesh and says that they are the offspring of Abraham full stop.
However, these Jews are described in contrast to the children of God and the children of the promise are merely counted as the offspring of Abraham.
By faith.
If the children of the promise were biological Israelites, it wouldn't merely be counted or considered or regarded as offspring.
They would simply be biological offspring.
This usage of the Greek verb is classified according to B-DAG Greek lexicon in the same sense as Paul's usage in Romans two twenty six where he asked rhetorically.
If uncircumcision will be regarded as circumcision.
So where it talks about that the not according to the flesh in this verse, who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring.
I think this is where the disagreement would come up is that that people who aren't I will say this right here is they're counted, but they weren't initially, if that makes sense.
And then you guys would disagree.
But did you guys want to comment on this?
I know Jim's reserving his comments to the end of comment.
Well, Paul's making a point here.
Not all Israel's of Israel because remember that you have the Pharisees and the religious leaders who are Jews that are part of Israel.
They're fighting the first century church.
So that's what he's making.
Paul's argument is just because they're Jews and they're on the circumcision and they're Israelites doesn't mean they're true Israelites.
They don't have faith there because they're they're not believing that Jesus is the Messiah.
They've cut themselves off from the cover covenant.
And so and and it's when he goes, the seed goes to Isaac.
But remember, Isaac is the bio is a biological son of Abraham.
He didn't choose Ishmael and Abraham seven other sons to have the covenant with.
He chose Isaac and who through Isaac seed becomes Jacob and the 12 tribes.
So it still goes back to the fleshly sons of Abraham, but it was only one son that got chosen to be in covenant with them.
Remember, like I keep repeating this to flood people.
Remember, Abraham had eight sons who were circumcised, but they were not included in the covenant.
It was Isaac.
And then it goes to Jacob, which becomes the 12 tribes of Israel.
And so he's just basically saying in this argument is just because you're an Israelite doesn't mean you're in the club.
You have to have faith to you have to believe that Jesus is Messiah.
You have to believe the gospel message or you're you're out just like anyone else that's not included in the covenant.
So it takes two parts to be into Israel.
You have to be a biological descendant and you have to have faith.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Would you guys like want me to try and get through these Romans nine examples that will speed up things for open conversation at the end?
Or would you like to take them piece by piece?
I'm open up to anything.
Yeah, same here.
I'm good.
Either way.
Jim's doubt.
We can go through them if you guys want to call it.
I'll just read quickly, read my notes and then move on.
And if you guys take issue with anything or if you want to address something, feel free at the end.
I'll just read as quick as I can.
Romans nine 30 to 31.
What shall we say then that Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness attained righteousness, but the righteousness that is by faith.
However, Israel pursuing a law of righteousness did not arrive at that law.
Paul directly contrast Gentiles against Israel, not against Jews in this particular passage.
In Romans 11 7 11 through 12.
What then Israel shall Israel fell to obtain what it was diligently seeking, but the elect obtained it.
The rest were hardened.
So I ask, did they Israel stumble in order that they Israel might fall by no means.
Rather through their trespass salvation has come to the Gentiles.
So as to make them jealous.
Now if their trespass means riches for the world and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their Israel Israel's full inclusion mean.
Paul uses the term Israel here, not Jews to refer back to to those he calls my flesh.
Israel is contrasted here against the elect and the Gentiles.
The failure of Israel to obtain salvation in parts riches to the world and to the to the nations Gentiles.
Romans 11 13 through 16.
Now I'm speaking to you Gentiles.
It is much thin as I am an apostle to the Gentiles.
I magnify my ministry in order to somehow to make jealous my fellow Jews my flesh and thus save some of them.
For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead.
If the dough offered as first fruits is holy, so is the whole lump.
And if the root is holy, so are the branches.
My notes here are here Paul refers to some non-elect people as literally my flesh.
Jews Israelites again in contrast with Gentiles.
Romans 11 17 through 18.
But if some of the branches were broken off and you.
Although a wild olive shoot were grafted in among others and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree do not be arrogant toward the branches.
If you are arrogant remember it is not you who support the root but the root that supports you.
Here Paul identifies the Gentiles.
He's addressing as wild uncultivated olive shoot grafting in many I'm sorry in among the others my flesh.
It's the Israelites who are depicted as both the branches and the root of the olive tree.
Romans 11 19 through 22 we're almost done.
Then you will say branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in that is true.
They my flesh were broken off because of their unbelief but you stand fast through faith.
So do not become proud but fear for if God did not spare the natural branches neither will he spare you.
Note that the kindness and the severity of God's severity towards those who have fallen but God's kindness to you provided you continue in his kindness otherwise you too will be cut off.
Here Paul again Paul again refers to non-elect Jews as my flesh and branches account according to nature again in contrast with Gentiles.
Romans 11 23 through 24 and even they my flesh if they do not continue in their unbelief will be grafted in for God has the power to graft them in again.
For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree how much more will these my flesh the natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree.
Note here Paul says God can graft the Jews in again and that the Gentiles he's addressing were cut off from what by nature a wild olive tree a separate tree to be grafted into a different cultivated olive tree contrary to nature.
If the roots of the wild olive tree are unholy and the roots of the cultivated olive tree are holy then we're talking about two separate trees and just keep these in mind.
I can always come back up to these examples and I think I'm going to give you guys more than five minutes to talk on this particular one.
Romans 11 25 to 26 for I do not want you brothers and sisters to be uninformed of this mystery so that you will not be wise in your own estimation that a partial hardening has happened to Israel.
My flesh until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in and in this way all Israel will be saved as it is written.
And he goes on here the key part where Paul says that all Israel which has undergone a partial hardening will be saved only after the fullness of the Gentiles has come in.
Then he masses together various quotations from Isaiah and then Romans 11 26 the deliver will come from Zion he will banish ungodliness from Jacob and this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins.
The verse here Isaiah 59 20 to 21 and the deliver will come for Zion's sake he will banish ungodliness from Jacob and this will be my covenant with them.
Because of this the lawlessness of Jacob will be removed and this is his blessing where I remove his sin.
Notes here here Paul makes some changes to Isaiah for the sake of Zion becomes from Zion.
The sin of Jacob becomes their sin.
For the record everyone here is in agreement that the original context of Isaiah 59 and 27 is obviously about Israel not about Gentiles.
And then and then I don't know if you guys saw that movie and then no and then and then so Israelites first Gentiles and Romans 9 11.
And this is just to show you a contrast color coded that in Israel as you have from Israel my brothers my flesh my kinsmen according to the flesh children of the flesh are offspring of Abraham through Hagar if we looked at Galatians yet fell to attain the law law of righteousness first fruits the root natural branches broken off can be grafted in again their own cultivated olive tree and then Gentiles are
elect children of God or of the promise are counted as offspring through Isaac attained righteousness by faith whole lump unnatural branches grafted in contrary to nature cut from a wild olive tree to note this if the Roman Gentiles Paul was addressing were actually Israelites.
Why doesn't Paul give us any indication that they're the offspring of Abraham according to the flesh broken off from the same cultivated olive tree according to nature because he mentions that they the Israel according to the flesh would be grafted back in.
Whereas the wild olive tree it's not referring to it as being grafted back in but that it would be grafted in so it's like it's almost like it's the first time that seems to indicate with that being said I'm going to shut up and have us on the panel here.
Let me give you guys because we knocked it out let me give you guys how much time do you think it's fair on your side to address this.
Why don't you go first Joe.
You guys want like eight minutes you think.
Yeah.
However long you guys need it's.
Yeah.
I don't think how much do you think Mike.
It won't take long to show this is I oh.
Yeah.
Okay so I'm gonna get back to five minutes then.
Awesome.
Go ahead gentlemen.
Let's go first Jim.
You guys go first and if you need like start let me know.
I'll restart.
Okay.
So.
In Romans 11 Paul is speaking of three groups.
One Jews who believe which is the natural branches like Paul and other disciples.
On believing Jews natural broken off branches like the Pharisees Sadducees and priests and three believing scattered Israelites also referred to as Gentiles or the wild olive tree.
People not associated with Israel simply are not in view here.
In Romans 11 most of today's faux Christians today believe Paul is talking to them.
However when you look at what is said in Romans 11 you'll see he isn't talking about Gentiles in the ordinary sense.
He's referring to Israelites who are scattered among the nations.
Right from the beginning.
In Romans 11 Paul says that God has not cast away his people which he foreknew.
But in the entirety of the Bible only Israelites were referred to as his people.
And Dr. Majors agreed with us earlier that God only knew Israel amongst all the people on the planet.
What other people did God deal with besides the Israelites that he foreknew?
He's saying foreknew because the Northern Kingdom Israelites had turned from him so he cast them into slavery.
During that time they were without God and no longer obeying his law.
So Romans 11 verse 1 says I ask then has God rejected his people by no means for I myself am an Israelite a descendant of Abraham a member of the tribe of Benjamin.
God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew.
Do you not know what the scripture says of Elijah how he appeals to God against Israel?
We know God says in Amos 3 1 verse 2 that he only knew the children of Israel.
Paul then quotes from the Old Testament.
Lord they have killed your prophets they have demolished your altars and I alone am left they seek my life.
But what does God's reply to him?
I have kept for myself 7000 men who have not bowed to me to bale.
That is from the Elijah narrative found in 1 Kings 19 verses 10 14 and 18.
Paul is identifying his audience not as those in 1 Kings but a portion of that people group who are of faith of Israel.
He says in verse 5 so too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace.
But a remnant is a part of an already existing people it's not a different or new people.
Here it is who Paul believed was a remnant of the Israel of faith.
Verse 7 what then?
Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking the elect obtained it but the rest were hardened.
Who failed to obtain what it was seeking?
Old covenant Israel not all humanity not the entire planet not the universe Israel and who obtained it the elect.
Those of Israel who were of faith the chosen ones.
Paul then quotes another Old Testament passage.
His only his Israeli audience would have been familiar with and found meaningful.
He says in verse 8 as it is written God gave them a spirit of stupor eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear down to this very day.
That is a reference to Isaiah 29 verses 9 through 10.
Which reads astonish yourselves and be astonished blind yourselves and be blind be drunk not with wine stagger but not with strong drink.
For the Lord has poured upon you a spirit of deep sleep and has closed your eyes and covered your heads.
Paul is reminding his Israelite audience that God had hardened them on account of their complacency and blindness.
This wouldn't have been relevant to a non-Israelite audience.
Non-Israelites wouldn't have even known what Paul was talking about.
Paul continues by introducing the idea of Gentiles being saved so as to make Israel jealous he says in verse 11.
So I asked did they stumble in order that they might fall by no means rather through their trespass salvation has come to the Gentiles so as to make Israel jealous.
This has been a source of confusion and poor reasoning for opponents of IO who erroneously claim that if Gentiles are Israelites then God was making Israel jealous by saving Israelites.
That's a very poor argument.
Rather Paul is simply calling unfaithful descendants of the tribes of Israel Gentiles and those of the religious community of Israel Israel.
Why would, why wouldn't, is that my time up?
Do you need more time? I can give you more time if you want.
No, I have more material but I'll just stop for there for now.
Awesome. We're passing it to Jim here.
Bearish, you cool with that brother?
Yeah.
He can have whatever he needs to add.
If you need to add anything, feel free to.
Good.
Can I add one thing though?
Please.
About the two olive trees.
We also see these passages and what Paul's referring to is we see it referenced in Zachariah and in the book of Revelation.
In Zachariah the two olive trees are called my two anointed ones.
In Revelation we see the two olive trees also called his two anointed ones and it gives a description of these anointed ones that they have the power to shut heaven from rain.
As Elijah had the power and now their witness had the power to turn water into blood as Moses had.
So we see these two olive trees are representing basically both houses of Israel.
The Jews and the northern kingdom, the southern northern kingdom.
Moses would be the southern kingdom and Elijah would be the northern kingdom.
We never see in the scriptures non-Israelites referred to as God's anointed ones.
So we see throughout the Old Testament, whenever it references the olive tree, it says,
You Israel are my green olive tree.
It does never reference non-Israelites included or even mentioned with an olive tree.
So it's really, I don't understand how people, to make that jump and try to put non-Israelites into a wild olive tree.
Why it's a wild olive tree is because it was cut off from the covenant of God.
They were exiled.
The 10 northern tribes were exiled.
They were no longer in covenant.
They were no longer as people.
That's why we see that, we see that in Hosea.
You're not my people anymore because the covenant has been broken.
You're swallowed up by the Gentiles, by the nations.
So there's no reference to the olive tree to non-Israelites anywhere in the scriptures.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jim.
Yeah, I'd say this is one of those places where it's important to interpret within context.
Like I believe that Paul here is misinterpreting the Old Testament, misrepresenting it in order to perpetuate his position.
I'm not saying that what he's saying is correct or is the way that the author that he's referencing intended.
But I mean, Paul here identifies the Gentiles as this wild olive shoot,
granted in among the others, among his flesh.
So he's depicting the Israelites as both the branches and the root of the olive tree.
But the only problem that I have is that the roots of the wild olive tree are unholy
and the roots of the cultivated tree are holy.
We're clearly talking about two separate trees here.
I think that's about all I would say about that.
All right.
Thank you.
So we'll relinquish that time and we'll move on to other examples.
I just wanted to cover that as best we could.
So now we're in the fun place where people are condemned to hell, if you will, for accepting another gospel and Galatians.
I'm just being funny.
Galatians 3, 7 through 9.
Therefore, recognize that it is those who are of faith who are sons of Abraham.
And I'm going to try and go through all the Galatians examples and then we'll open up for discussion.
That might be better.
So therefore recognize that it is those who are of faith who are the sons of Abraham,
the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith,
preach the gospel beforehand to Abraham saying,
all the nations will be blessed in you.
So then those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer.
Genesis 12, 3, and there's all these other passages you can cross reference,
and shall be blessed in you, in your seed, in him, all the tribes, all the nations of the earth.
So as an Amos 3, all the nations here seems to refer to, if you will, whatever limits you want to put on the earth.
It doesn't cap within the genetic, but it might go beyond within the northern kingdom up into the north somewhat, whatever you want to limit that all nations.
But it could mean that is the whole point.
That it could mean the whole world as they may have understood it,
even though they weren't thinking of Native Americans or people in Australia, those type of things.
To be blessed in Abraham, the believer. Those are my notes on that particular one.
The next example is Galatians 3, 29.
And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's descendants, heirs, according to the promise.
And so in the B-dag, Greek lexicon, here's my comments on this,
to express result, then as a result, with suggestion of emphasis.
Examples, Galatians 2, 21, 3, 29, 5, 11, Matthew, Luke, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, tons of examples.
So if I may, Michael, you've argued that this is in contrapositive or equivalent statement where the conditional syntax can be reversed.
And Iowars often feel compelled to paraphrase this verse, replacing the word then with expressions like,
it's because or it means that or it's proof positive that you are Abraham's descendants.
But you won't find that kind of paraphrase in any Bible translations,
because scholars assert that this Greek term often translated as then actually means as a result.
This interpretation is supported in part by the following examples.
And just to give you guys an example of some of these in particular,
if you belong to Christ, then as a result, you are Abraham's descendants.
If righteousness comes through the law, then as a result, Christ died needlessly.
If I still preach circumcision, then as a result, the stumbling block of the cross had been eliminated.
If Christ had not been raised, then as a result, our preaching is in vain.
We all believe he didn't rise from the dead if he existed.
If Christ had not been raised, then as a result, those who have fallen asleep have perished,
once died for all, or one died for all, sorry, therefore as a result, all died.
If you are without discipline, then as a result, you are illegitimate children and not sons.
If I cast out the demons by the spirit finger of God, then as a result, the kingdom of God has come upon you.
These are some of the examples from B-DAG of conditional syntax where the Greek particle,
Ara, if you will, points to the result of an initial condition.
In Galatians 3-29, the initial if clause is a condition belonging to Christ.
The following then clause is the result being Abraham's descendant.
At least this is how the scholars would come to this conclusion.
With that, we're through Galatians.
Those are the particular examples that you gave me to bring up, but I had to give my notes.
I'll bring us back on the screen.
I want to have Israel only start, and you guys, your time is now.
Let's go with the key first.
If you are Christ, let's start and stop right there.
How does one become Christ?
I hope we go to the proof text, just one of our favorite proof texts in Matthew 15-24,
where Jesus said, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
He wasn't sent to non-Israelites.
He wasn't sent to the world.
It says, he specifically said, the Father sent me one mission, and for one people,
the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
So to be in Christ, you have to be included in Israel.
To be in Christ, you had to be a biological descendant and have faith.
That's how you get in Christ, or be Christ.
Someone can't just arbitrarily say, I'm in Christ.
How does that happen?
How do you become in Christ?
It says in Galatians 3-29, it says, they're the heirs.
It goes back to the promise, the biological seed of Abraham are the heirs.
It doesn't talk about spiritual Israel in the Old Testament.
It's all a biological seed, not a spiritual seed, as Christians falsely made Galatians 3 into.
They made the spiritual Israel out, which does not exist.
It didn't exist in the Old Testament, and it doesn't exist in the New Testament.
It still goes about to the biological descendants, the heirs.
You have to be a physical descendant to become an heir of Abraham, not a spiritual.
It doesn't even make sense.
So to be in Christ, you have to be part of Israel.
You can't just jump in and go, hey, I want to be part of Christ too.
I'm in.
What's the process to become in Christ?
You've got to come from one of the tribes of Israel.
You've got to be included in the promises of God.
You've got to be included in the covenants.
Remember, the covenant, the old and new covenant were exclusively made with both houses of Israel.
We don't see non-Israelites.
We don't see the world, the planet included.
God made the contract with Israel.
He didn't make it with humanity.
Hebrews, after Jeremiah 31, reclaims that.
There's the coming day I'm going to make the new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.
I'm going to write the law in their hearts.
In Hebrews 9.15, he says, I am the mediator of the new covenant for the sins, the transgressions under the old covenant.
So Jesus' death only covers the old covenant sins.
Humanity was never under the old covenant.
They weren't sinners of the old covenant.
Jesus didn't die for the sins, the non-existent sins of the non-Israelites because they weren't under the law.
So to be in Christ, you have to be in covenant.
And the person who makes the covenant is God.
He's the one who decides who's in his covenant, who as bright as him.
We can't arbitrarily join in if we weren't invited.
Mike, you want to finish the rest?
Yeah.
So, I mean, Galatians 3.28 is a pretty common verse that's presented to Iowa's.
And it's clearly an Iowa passage.
Number one, Paul's audience in Galatia were Jews, not the ordinary non-Israelite people.
So you have to understand who Paul is talking to and why he would be talking to them and not the rest of the planet.
So in Galatians 3.28, the distinction between Jew and Greek, some people say it's Jew and Gentile, but it's not.
If you look at the Greek word, it's actually Jew and Helene.
So the distinction between the Jew and the Greek in Galatians 3.28 that was removed was not between Jews and everyone else on the planet,
but between Jews and Hellenized or Greek culture descendants of the tribes of Israel.
After the kingdom split, the northern kingdom, Israel, fell into unbelief and idolatry and had stopped practicing circumcision.
By the first century, the law had become a source of enmity between these two groups, Jews and the diaspora from the northern kingdom.
Jews called them Gentiles and considered them a completely foreign nation.
This was what Peter's vision of the sheet was about. People not associated with Israel were never in view.
It was always about bringing the two houses, Judah and Israel, together into one new people and restoring them to a covenant relationship with their God
before the old covenant religious system and temple community came to an end.
That's why you see in Romans 11, Christ's new covenant and also Hebrews 8 verse 8.
Christ's new covenant was made with people who had once been under the law.
That was only Israel. That was only Judah and Israel.
It was always about bringing those two houses together to be united in Christ.
Notably, Galatians 3 verse 28 understates the fact that the elimination of distinctions such as Jew and Greek pertain to Israel, not people today.
Galatians 3 verse 29 says, And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's seed according to the promise.
A couple of key words there, seed and promise. What kind of seed was that?
Well, if you go back to Genesis 15 verses 4 through 5, you'll see that the seed was a physical seed, not some imaginary spiritual seed.
What's that?
Sorry, I'm just looking at that. Did you want another 60 seconds or so?
Yeah, 60 seconds. Actually, give me like two minutes, two minutes.
No problem.
Alright, so it was a physical seed. Paul was using Paul throughout Paul's ministry.
He referred to Old Testament texts and used their application for some of these words like seed.
So who was the promise for? Again, we went through this. The promises were only for Israelites.
Scriptures mentioning Jew and Greek have nothing to do with people today or people outside of the context of Old Covenant Israel.
Paul wasn't speaking to people today. He was speaking to descendants of the tribes of Israel. His audience in Galatia were Israelites, people who had once been enslaved to the law.
Galatians 4 verse 3. Non-Israelites were never enslaved to the law.
So Galatians 3 verse 28, although it's brought up by IO critics often, they just haven't studied this thing out.
They don't know who Paul is talking to and why it's IO.
And then the other thing I think hopefully I have like 30 seconds left is this term nations.
All the nations, according to Paul, had already heard the gospel and were blessed by the coming of the Lord.
That was 2000 years ago. So this is where the eschatological portion of IO comes into play.
It's simply impossible for more nations to be blessed since they were already blessed by 70 AD.
Now people have this misconception that the word nations means the modern iteration of nation, like a nation state throughout the entire earth.
And it doesn't. The Greek word for nations is just ethnos and it just means people, tribes, and sometimes actual nations.
It was nations then in that local region, not throughout the entire planet.
So according to Jesus in Matthew 24 verse 14, speaking and he spoke to those disciples around AD 33,
the gospel would go out to the nations and then the end would come.
And according to Paul, writing in the late 50s to mid 60s, the gospel had already gone out to the nations, all the earth,
the whole world and all creation. Romans 10 verse 18, 16 verse 26, Colossians 1 verse 6 and 23.
So this clearly shows that those terms like creation, world, earth, and nations did not mean the way we think of them today.
They had a more localized context, a limited context to how they related to Israel, per century Israel.
Thank you so much. I appreciate it, Bradley.
All right, Jim, I'm going to give you five minutes if you need it. You think you'll need it?
I don't think so.
Okay.
So kind of working backwards back to the world.
I agree that we can't interpret the world through a modern lens and I do believe that it was more localized from our context.
It was more localized, but to them it was the whole known world.
That was everything that they knew.
They were just excluding other known places just to talk about one little centralized area surrounding Israel.
That is that it was their whole world.
So if they had known about the US or about Canada or about these other continents, that would have been included in that.
But I do agree that we can't say that the author at the time intended it for it to mean inhabitants of the United States or of other continents.
If I may bring you back to the Galatians thing, did you want me to bring up an example for you?
Yes, please.
Just so that we're on topic, because I know some of the stuff got off into side discussion.
In Galatians, how do you interpret this in particular?
The whole idea of sons of Abraham and Gentiles by faith are the seed of Abraham.
Do you understand this to mean what I've been hearing scholars say often is that seed is not the Genesis literal, what you're seeing in Genesis.
He says that seed singular is Christ and that it's some weird crap that Paul might be pulling off here that isn't directly what the Genesis is saying.
Or how do you understand it?
Yeah, I don't believe that Paul is interpreting this the same way that Genesis does.
In a way, I agree with the other side here that it's not the same.
If you look at the way that it's used in Genesis 12, it's clearly only referring to biological descendants.
But I do believe that Paul is misrepresenting Genesis here so that he can include biological non-Israelites into the covenant.
Is that all you have there, my brother?
Yeah, I think that addresses it.
Alright, we'll move on to another example then.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate you guys working with me here.
Let's go to Hebrews 8-8, the hotspot, right?
This is a good one.
A well-known verse within the IO camp and, of course, using it as a hammer to modern Christians.
And he says, whoever the author is, we don't know,
For in finding fault with the people, he says,
Here are my notes.
The original context of Jeremiah 31 refers to two houses, Judah and Israel.
According to IO terms like Gentiles or Greeks were commonly used to refer to non-Jewish Israelite Christians,
or Christian Israelites, representative of the house of Israel.
If that's the case, why does the author of Hebrews never, ever refer to the nations, Gentiles, or Greeks in this letter?
It's nowhere in this book.
And that's just one of my notes to consider in the response of this because this seems to be straightforward, right?
Everyone who reads this would see this straightforward.
House of Israel, House of Judah, you might can have some recontextualization going on,
but reading the mind of the author is going to be impossible at this point.
We're too far removed.
The question is, is like, why does it Gentiles, nations, or Greeks get mentioned anywhere in the book of Hebrews?
Could this be a letter that's specifically for Israel and not Gentiles?
I don't know.
I'm just throwing out ideas.
So how does IO in particular deal with this?
Well, he's just quoting Jeremiah 31.
He's just reiterating, this is who the covenants, the old and new covenants were made for, was Israel.
He's not adding on to it.
He's just referencing Jeremiah 31.
I don't see how this is a, I don't know why, if he added on to it.
I'm not getting exactly a point.
I'm sorry.
Let me clarify.
So my real question wasn't like adding on.
I just was trying to see why the author doesn't mention.
Like if you go to Paul's letters, ethne, ethnos, if you will, Gentiles, Greeks, Helen, you know, the various terms in Greek that we clearly God fears, right?
In the book of Acts, different terms that aren't ethnic in any way.
You would say that these are probably Israelite scattered.
Not always is the case.
I don't want a strong man, but usually when redemption is involved or covenant or whatnot, they would be Israel according to IO.
My question is, why doesn't the book of Hebrews ever mention Gentiles or ethne?
It never mentions any of those terms.
It's a book to the Hebrews.
It seems like this book is purposely not including.
It's not mentioning Gentiles.
Does that make sense?
I understand your point here.
But even Bart Ehrman said, because the title to the Hebrews, the title was never in the manuscripts.
That was a later edition.
So it was never, it's not the book of Hebrews.
Even Bart Ehrman said this book, he goes, a lot of Christians mistake.
They think this is just written to the Jewish believers.
He goes, no, this was written to all Christians, Jews and Gentiles.
So that's my argument.
He wasn't specifically, this book's not specifically written to Jews.
Yeah.
I actually agree with you that that is exactly what he would do.
I think he recontextualized.
I think he's saying kind of like if we go to James 11, which we're going to get to those passages where it's like clearly to the 12 tribes dispersed.
If you ask different scholars, some might say the Christians became the new Israel, right?
Or they'll like have a way of saying this isn't literally what you read about in, you know, some Old Testament passage.
The term is now taking on a new fold, et cetera, et cetera.
So I wonder if they're recontextual, recontextualizing.
But I just was wondering, taking a literalist approach and saying, all right, Gentiles in the context of redemption usually includes the house of Israel in Io's perspective.
At least your guys' perspective, it includes the regathering of them among the nations.
In this book, there's that term in the Greek word for ethne or ethnos, anything like that.
It's not in it.
And it makes me wonder, is this book like sticking out like a sore thumb and it's different, maybe?
I don't know.
I'm wondering if why that term doesn't show up, if that would play any role in affecting how you guys view the book.
I never thought of it that way.
It doesn't take away from it.
I would have no idea that the exact intent, none of us would of the author, why he wrote it.
Sorry for rambling back and forth.
I'm just having a friendly conversation, so I hope you don't mind.
Bradley, what are your thoughts on it, man?
Do you think that there, we'll get to open conversation here shortly.
I just wonder if there's, how do you understand this?
Is it just straightforward, literally, what you're reading in Jeremiah is exactly what's happening in Hebrews 8A according to this author?
Well, the fact that Esnos is omitted, I think, is inconsequential.
I mean, it's the author probably knew that some of the Esnos would be part of the tribe of Israel.
I don't think he needs to make a statement about the Esnos.
I mean, it's clearly about Israel and Judah, and that's enough to show that it's I.O.
I don't see this as a, I mean, this is definitely an I.O. positive verse.
If somebody believes that non-Israelites are part of Christ's new covenant,
I think the onus is on them to demonstrate from the text that they're a part of Israel or Judah,
and to this date, I don't think people have been successful doing that.
And, Jim, did you want to make a comment on this?
I mean, yeah, I mean, if we're just trying to discern what the Paulian teachings were,
I don't think it's the Paulian text, so I think it's pretty inconsequential from that context.
But if the I.O.ers take this text to be authoritative,
I do think that the absence of an ethnos or something,
some of those lines is consequential.
Now, of course, they don't take it as authoritative in any like that kind of way,
but like as I.O. text, yeah.
Okay, awesome. We'll move on then, gentlemen.
I appreciate your responses.
First, Peter 1.1 is a well-known passage used.
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect of the dispersion
in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bethany.
And so, yeah, I guess I don't really have much to say on that.
I mean, obviously, you guys would take this to be Israelites.
How do you understand this passage?
It could be Israelites or it could be a dispersed Jews, too.
So we see that in the Old Testament that members of Judah were sold to the Greeks.
So we see that in the Old Testament times.
So this could refer to not only Israelites of the Northern Kingdom,
but also refer to Hellenites Jews that were dispersed centuries ago.
Bradley?
Yeah, I would agree.
Again, as before, I see 12 tribes of Israel represented in the New Testament.
And there were multiple diasporas going on in the first century.
A diaspora from the Babylonian captivity,
a diaspora from the Greek in the Greek community.
So this elect exiles of the dispersion could include all of them.
That term elect is clear.
Every time I go to talk, there's some like crazy noise.
Do you guys hear that noise, too?
Yeah.
Okay.
That term elect catches your attention, right?
And dispersion.
Yeah, also, Israel's only people called the God's elect in the Old Testament.
Israel's God's elect.
We don't see non-Israelites being ever described as God's elect.
It's always Israel.
Dr. Majors?
Yeah, I think it just depends on what you call Israel.
If we're just calling Israel biological Israel, then yeah,
that would make sense.
But I don't believe that the authorial intent of the text that he's referencing
is referring to just the biological Israel.
He's referring to an Israel in a second temple context where necessarily
because of the Jews in the diaspora and the intermarrying and having children
out of Jewish wedlock that they would necessarily have to include non-Jews
into the covenant.
I think he's speaking from that context.
But whenever you're talking about the elect exiles of the dispersion,
I do believe that he's referring to those of the 12 tribes of Israel,
whether they are biological or not, to basically everybody who is a biological
descendant.
It doesn't have to be 100% Jew.
It could be the daughter or son of a Jewish, a Syrian intermarrying,
which is what you saw quite frequently in the diaspora.
Thank you, sir.
James 1-1 is another well-known one.
He says, James, a bond servant or servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ
to the 12 tribes in the dispersion greetings.
Did you guys have any particular comment?
I mean, my only notes I have is let's try not to spend too much time on these examples
because it's clear how you guys would see this.
And I think there's even a lot of agreement here.
What's the significance of these references to the Christian recipients
of these letters as being in the diaspora?
Well, to me, it's a lot of reference.
Again, back to the 12 tribes of Israel.
I don't see how a non-Israelite could be included and they'd be written to.
It makes no sense.
I mean, the first century Jews were well aware that their brothers were out there
dispersed in the nations, and that was their hope that both houses of Israel
will be brought back together.
James is writing to the 12 tribes.
That's his audience.
Bradley just said he didn't like what you said, so he walked off.
No, I'm just kidding.
He said he had to use the restroom, so he's like, I'll be right back.
No, I think he said he had a power cord for his laptop.
Sorry, I had to make it funny in the middle of a list.
That was great.
Yeah.
How do you see this passage, Jim, coming from the other side or academic side?
What in particular do you think of this?
Again, I think he was referring to the 12 tribes, but he had to look at in context.
How does the author of James see the 12 tribes?
Does he see them as just biological descendants?
Or, as I believe, does he see it in the context of a second temple Jew to where what was considered
an Israelite or not had to necessarily become not so dependent on kinship or biological descent,
but that standard had to be lowered in order to include wives and children of biological
Israelites that wouldn't have been considered as a part of the original covenant in Genesis,
when none of this was an issue.
Interesting.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
We'll keep moving since those are kind of, you know.
Here we have Matthew, Luke, Mark, and, well, we have color coded here for anybody who's
interested in seeing some of the references, but in particular, I'll read you guys this.
So I want to give a little note before we get started on it.
Michael Biers made a Facebook post recently on behalf of Michael Bradley stating the
Gospels were late forgeries, by the way.
I think the Gospels are definitely late, but forgery, I don't know if that term, I don't
know if you'd die on the hill of a forgery, probably just definitely late though, especially
not by the authors are probably noted as being Matthew actually wrote Matthew or whatever.
I think we're in agreement, but are you open to the mainstream dating of the Gospels and
acts to the late first century?
If so, who was the intended audience of these late forgeries if the church consisted of faux
Christians after 70 AD, which you knew I had to ask the question.
I mean, it's been one we've talked about a lot.
How do we deal with that in particular?
That's for you, Biers.
I don't know.
Well, about forgeries, I don't know if they're forgeries or not.
Right.
About the later dating, that's what the scholars have stated.
I have no evidence to disprove that the late dating sport.
There's why even with the late dating, the audience is still to Israel.
It never changes.
Because even if you go to the late dating, okay, I'm Matthew, then why would if there
was a different audience, I think they would have took out Matthew 1524 and Jesus said
I was only sent to the law chief of the house of Israel.
If there was an inclusion of making it to non-Israelites, it wouldn't make sense for
them to keep that included in there.
Basically, all the New Testament speaking, I believe, about the 12 tribes of Israel.
Even when Jesus said in the regeneration, the disciples are going to sit on the 12
thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel.
We don't see the judgment of humanity at the great white throne judgment.
So the dating aspect of it, I don't have an answer for that.
I don't think anyone has an answer for that.
I wonder if they're writing this after 70, how that might impact the audience that's
reading this.
They're writing it for someone to read it.
I guess the question is, who are they writing it to?
This has been an enigma in my head trying to say, okay, we're not in open conversation
because I think we can open conversation after those.
Maybe you want me to just push it to when you, we'll do open conversation.
I think that's a good question to discuss.
That was just a note I thought I'd bring up.
The passage in Matthew that I wanted to ask you guys here, it says, he says to them, this
is Matthew's version.
He says to them, it is written, my house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make
it a den of robbers.
So I'm going to just, just getting started back on this pericope here so that Bradley
can keep up with where we're at here.
I just asked a generic question.
We'll have an open conversation about when we're done, if we have the time.
He says to them, it is written, my house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it
a den of robbers.
Mark's version says, and he was teaching them and saying to them, it is not written, my
house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations, but you have made it a den
of robbers.
And then Luke 1946 says, saying to them, it is written, my house shall be a house of
prayer, but you made it a den of robbers.
Isaiah 567 says, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations.
The earliest gospel is the only one that quotes the part of Isaiah 567 about all the
nations.
Do you have a comment we could start with Israel only on this particular?
I'm going to Isaiah 56.
56 verse 7.
Well, if you look at the next verse where it says, for my house shall be called a house
of prayer for all nations.
Verse 8 says, the Lord God who gathers the outcasts of Israel says, yet I will gather
to him others besides or gather to him.
And then he goes down the list.
I say 56 is a second temple scripture.
It's all about the gathering after the Babylonian captivity.
And so it's about bringing back his people from the nations that have been scattered.
So it's not talking about all nations are going to be gathered in my house.
Remember, Gentiles were not allowed in the temple.
I mean, that was, if you got there, the outer courtyard, they're not allowed to enter the
temple.
That was the death sentence.
Remember, Paul was accused of bringing a Gentile into the temple of God, which was punishable
by death.
So Gentiles were not allowed into the temple.
So it's not talking about Gentiles are going to come in and worship God in the temple.
This whole Isaiah 56 is a second temple period, bringing the Israelites who have been scattered
back back together back home.
Jim, did you want to comment on that?
Because the next verse, the next example going to bring up actually gets into this a little
more and we can we can go deeper.
So we can get to the next one because I have to leave here in a second.
Oh, it's it's four 10.
All right.
All right.
All right.
So we'll continue here.
Don't worry.
I'm still here guys.
Who eight says and to the aliens who cling to the Lord and as as for all who keep my sabbaths,
so as not to pervade them and hold fast my covenant, I will bring them into my holy mountain
and make them joyful in my house of prayer.
Their whole burn offerings and their sacrifices will be acceptable on my altar for my house.
Shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations said the Lord who gathers who gathers
the dispersed of Israel.
If I'm not mistaken, I always believe that references to foreigners in Isaiah 56 are all
referring to Israelites.
Okay.
Okay.
On the second one, they returned from Babylon.
Remember, as Jim mentioned earlier in Isaiah, Nehemiah, that the Jews had to divorce and
send back all the wives and children they had back to Babylon.
Yet, Nezra, it states that there are there are some Jews returning claiming to be Israelites,
but they did not have proof of their genealogy.
And so this is what Isaiah is referring to.
And those strangers he's saying are allowed to be included in Israel, even though they
can't prove their Israelites, because if they couldn't, then they'd have to be sent back
with the women and children that they married.
So all this is saying that, yeah, the sons of the foreigners, they're claimed to me.
Yeah, when they returned from the Babylonian captivity, God accepted them.
And you see that in Nezra, that there were people that claimed to be Israelites, but
they couldn't prove it and they accepted them.
So that's all Isaiah 56 is speaking about.
It doesn't have a future tendency because no one's Christians aren't doing the Sabbath
and this is practicing the law.
There's no more temple.
This scripture is relating to 2,500 years ago.
It has no context with Christianity or today.
It was all about a second temple period, about the return from the Babylonian captivity.
And the sons of the foreigners was referring to those people that couldn't prove their genealogy.
Can we allow Dr. Majors with our time being limited?
Dr. Majors, what are your thoughts about this in particular?
I mean, I think that they necessarily had to include them.
I mean, because divorce just simply wasn't allowed.
I mean, except for under, you know, cases of like adultery.
Until the New Testament, you know, and then it's even, you know, even not under adultery,
like, you know, just man and woman become one.
They're not meant to be taken apart.
I, you know, I think that the solution was rather to include them not on the grounds of kinship
or on biological descent, but on matters of faith, on adherence to the Jewish law.
All right. Thank you so much.
Next example, Matthew 19, 28 through 29.
I'll go ahead and read these real quick.
And Jesus said to them, truly, I tell you that you who have followed me in the regeneration,
when the Son of Man will sit on his throne of glory, you will sit also on 12 tribes, judging the 12 tribes of Israel.
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or women or children or fields,
for the sake of my name, he will receive 100 fold and will inherit eternal life.
That's Matthew's version.
In Mark, Jesus spoke, I truly tell you, no one who has left the house or brothers or sisters or mothers,
he cuts out the whole 12 tribes thing here.
Luke 18 says, and he said to them, truly, I tell you that no one who has left my house or woman or brother or sister,
et cetera, et cetera, in the age to come eternal life, which is the same as Mark's in the age to come eternal life.
It is later in Luke, though, you see, you are those who have stayed with me in my trials,
and I assign you as my father assigned to me a kingdom that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom,
and you will sit on 12, judging the 12 tribes of Israel.
And I think it's probably the 12th throne or the thrones.
So here's my notes.
The earliest gospel does not include any reference to Israel in the section.
It seems to have been added by Matthew and modified by Luke, who removed the number of the thrones.
Michael B. Harris recently argued on Facebook that Joel 3-2-3 supports I.O.
because it contains a prophecy that God would judge all nations surrounding Israel on behalf of Israel.
So a reference to disciples judging the 12 tribes of Israel supports I.O.
While a reference to God judging all nations also supports I.O.,
we know that at least Matthew believed that the nations would also be judged because he described it in Matthew 25.
How do you guys understand this?
Well, again, there's that word nations, and it's not referring to nation states in the sense that we understand the term.
It's nations, creation, world, all these kind of words were used in a different way than we use them today.
So in the Old Testament, the Hebrew word for nations is often used as or is often goi,
which is interpreted as Gentiles also.
But goi also refers to descendants of Abraham, Israelites.
So it's not exclusively used for non-Israelites.
In the New Testament, the word nations, the Greek word is ethnos.
It just means people, tribes, and in some cases nation states, but always within a localized context, not planet-wide.
So when I see a judge in the 12 tribes of Israel, that's pretty straightforward.
Thank you, Dr. Majors. Do you have a comment on this in particular and how much time do you have?
I mean, I have to be there at 4.30. It takes like 15 minutes. Really, I should leave right now, but I can stay for a few more minutes.
The kids can take care of themselves. I'm just kidding. What are your thoughts on this?
I mean, I would just say that the Greek translation shouldn't dictate the original Hebrew meaning, and in many cases it doesn't.
And I think that in this case, again, it's another example of the New Testament taking the Old Testament out of context.
All right.
Can we add something? Can I add something?
Yeah.
Is that possible?
Yeah, for sure.
So I noticed that a lot of the discussion today has pertained to Old Testament texts and texts like Isaiah 56 and others in an attempt to somehow link non-Israelites into Christ's New Covenant and make them modern-day Christians.
But Jesus himself argues against the use of Old Testament texts.
So in Luke, we see Jesus predicting that all things written, obviously this would include all prophecy, would be fulfilled.
And he says that in Luke 21, verse 22, he says, these are days of vengeance in order that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
So what were the these days that he's referring to?
The these days of Luke 21, 22 were in the first century.
The entire context of Luke 21 pertains to the destruction of the Jewish temple and its religious community, which what ancient Israelites referred to as heaven and earth.
They used that term throughout the entire Bible to refer to the Old Covenant religious system and temple community.
And that was destroyed in 8070.
So all that was written, including all Isaiah, everything was fulfilled by the time that, I mean, according to Jesus, that it would be fulfilled by the time of the destruction of the temple.
So to me, you know, appealing to these Old Testament texts, I think is just kind of like boxing in air.
What authority does Jesus have over the Old Testament texts, though?
Well, the authority that Christians believe that he has.
Me personally, I don't think he has any authority, but Christians believe though, right?
Well, yeah, well, I always kind of it's an argument against modern day Christianity.
Yeah, I understand that.
So if Jesus says, if Jesus, you know, according to Christians, he's the man, he's God's son.
If Jesus says that all was fulfilled by the time the temple would be destroyed, then that would seem to include all these Old Testament references as well.
That they already were fulfilled.
They already happened.
There is no future fulfillment of them after the destruction of the temple.
I'd like to just say this.
Wait for the echo to go away.
Next time we'll have to wear headphones, everybody, just so we don't run into this.
It sounds better.
So I think we're all in agreement.
The end was either going to happen or some people say it did, whether it's actually been to or was expected.
So we're all on the same page of this.
This whole discussion of preterism, I would like to reserve for another time, even though I know that it's married to IO and it has a lot of presidents in the theory.
But the argument of did it happen or didn't happen expectation and stuff like that, that would be something I think we all agree was supposed to happen then, whether you think it did or didn't.
I just wanted to try and keep moving on while I have Jim here as much as possible before he disappears on me.
Hey, can we hit Matthew 1524?
I'm curious what Jim thinks of that scripture.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know if I have that one up in here.
We've got the revelation ones.
Oh, I brought up that meme.
I wanted to get your thoughts on that again.
I don't have it up here.
So let's pull it up.
Let's pull it up.
Okay.
So Matthew 15, what verse is it again?
24.
So Matthew 1524.
Okay.
I don't know why that's not up here because that's one of the go to with Matthew 10.
I think we do get to that.
Maybe we do mention that one.
But I think that one's pretty obvious on that.
But the Syrophoenician woman.
Matthew 1524.
Is that where it is?
Yeah.
Yes.
Okay.
So send her away for she is crying out loud verse 23.
He answered.
I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, but she came and knelt before him
and said, Lord, help me.
He answered.
It is not right to take the children's bread.
Throw it to the dogs.
She said, yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table.
Then Jesus answered.
Oh, woman, great is your faith.
Be it done for you as you desire.
Blah, blah, blah.
What are your thoughts about that?
Jim.
I mean, I think this is showing that the author of Matthew clearly believes that Jesus was
only sent to the people who were dispersed from these 12 tribes.
Again, I don't think that should dictate what the Covenants call for or what Second
and Simple Jews believed or anything like that.
As far as what Christians believe, I think a Christian would say that this shows that
even people who are outside of the Covenant, who are outside of those 12 tribes, can be
recipients of salvation through faith.
All right.
Continue, Michael.
You just wanted to get it on record, right?
Yeah, I totally agreed with this first part.
You're right.
Christians do portray the part that, but as you see in that scripture, she receives healing.
Her daughter receives healing, but there's no mention of salvation.
And also, this is a text also that Jesus called this woman a dog.
I mean, it's a racist term.
I mean, he's called it.
He's like, we're the children of God, the Jews, Israelites were the children of God,
and you, non-Israelites are dogs.
And there's no sugar coating now, like saying that's a nice thing.
As Christians will say, oh, he was testing their faith.
He wasn't testing her faith.
He was just literally what the first officer, the first officer of Jews believed about non-Israelites,
that they were lower class than the Jews.
And so he did heal the daughter.
So there's nothing about salvation.
So that doesn't mention anything about her being included or her family being included in the Covenants of God.
And as always, as another proof text in Revelation 22, it says, those who could come into New Jerusalem,
the list that comes to one of the 12 tribes of Israel,
and outside in Jerusalem that are not allowed in our dogs.
And dogs referenced in the Old and New Testament, as Jesus said here,
referred to non-Israelites or unbelieving Jews.
So my argument would be this woman was not included in the salvation plan of God,
even though her daughter was healed.
Jim, I mean, you're leaving in a minute, man, and I don't want to lose this opportunity to have you talk.
Yeah, you can go ahead.
I think I can answer one more thing.
I'm going to be late, but I think we can go through one more example.
Okay.
All right.
Here we go.
Gentlemen, Matthew 1, 21, she will bear a son.
You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.
And then, of course, here you have a reference in Psalms.
Redemption he sent to his people.
So, no, Luke lacks the reference to Jesus on the right, saving his people in the section where it occurs in Matthew.
We lost Jim.
He must have had to go, honestly.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, guys.
I mean, we didn't know.
You weren't aware that, you know, we were doing this right now,
and I know he has kids to go pick up and stuff.
So, I will continue it without him here.
Oh, he's here.
Jim, I thought you left, man.
Okay.
My arm went off and it cut off the screen.
Okay.
So, I thought you were gone already.
Where it occurs in Matthew, in Matthew, this seems to refer to a future salvation,
at least in Matthew's time, the writing this or their back dating.
And of course, Luke uses a modified quotation Psalms 110 implying that the redemption of his people was already accomplished past tense.
So, this might get into the models of salvation that we see, like, some people say,
you know how Jesus divinity develops as Bart Ehrman writes?
He's baptized, and some say he's even baptized by John the Baptist and Mark,
because he needed redemption from sins.
Then you have him as the Logos and John, where he's co-creator.
There seems to be this development.
I wonder if Luke is already past tense making this salvation has already come,
where Matthew's still making a future, and he's referring to obviously his people.
Matthew is speaking about Israelites.
I don't know if you guys, I probably just commented for you and said,
what do you guys think?
I think we're all on the same page on Matthew here.
Yeah, I have nothing to add on that.
Did you, Jim?
No.
So, all right, maybe we could squeeze one more out of you, man.
Let's see how far we can go.
Yeah, hey, before we do that, Derek, you know, can you go back?
Yeah, go back to the, yeah, so it's often overlooked, you know,
that's just taken for granted that Jesus said he came to save his people from their sins,
and people just believe that's them.
But that's totally wrong, because the Bible itself defines who his people are.
If you just go to Luke 2, or Scarab, Matthew 2 verse 6,
it clearly defines his people as Israel.
And I think Luke 1 verse 68 also kind of parallels that.
And that's not the only, I mean, it's throughout the New Testament.
John 1 verse 31 says, I myself did not know him, but for this purpose,
I came baptizing with water that he might be revealed to Israel.
I don't see non-Israelites in view here.
I don't see the whole planet in view.
Luke says in chapter 1, now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied
saying, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people
and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David
to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins.
So the child grew and became strong in spirit and was in the desert
till the day of his manifestation to the entire planet.
Right? No, it says manifestation to Israel.
The emphasis in the New Testament is always for Jesus to seek the lost sheep of Israel
to gather the elect, the remnant from out of the nations who are descendants of the tribes of Israel, all 12 tribes.
Luke 1.68, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people.
But we're not his people.
Non-Israelites were not his people.
Isaiah 51, verse 16.
And I put my words in your mouth and covered you in the shadow of my hand,
establishing the heavens and laying the foundations of the earth and saying to Zion,
you are my people.
The Bible itself clearly defines Israel as his people, not Israelite.
When it says in Luke 1.68 here, just to probe a little deeper,
Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, for he has visited and he has accomplished redemption for his people.
We know this right here in Luke is speaking about the people the author is writing to.
It's painting the narrative as though here it is in the context of Jesus' life, his men is true.
These are his people.
What do we do with that when we get to Paul?
We're going now later on in a different...
Can we not separate those things?
Or do we have to try and connect the dots and say his people, they are Israelites,
and therefore we also have to jump to Paul and see that and connect those dots?
That's the kind of thing I'm thinking is...
For example, we were talking about Matthew.
Matthew 15 gets brought up.
I was sent only to the Lawship of the House of Israel.
I might as well bring this down for a second while I have Jim here.
Matthew 10 does that.
Matthew 10 says this,
Do not go in the way the Gentiles do not enter any city of the Samaritans,
rather go to the Lawship of the House of Israel.
This is clearly Israel.
Gentiles and Samaritans in the way I look at that aren't.
It doesn't seem to be that.
And what I think I will do is go,
Well, in that case, when he says the term Gentile,
what he means is these are non-Israelites.
And the Samaritans though, he literally excludes them.
But in John, he's talking to a woman at the well and during Jesus' life,
it literally enters a city that in Matthew, he commands not to go into
and stays with them for many days and they end up believing.
So different authors with different intentions,
literally Jesus contradicts himself over and over and over.
And this is why I've been trying to get like separating the authors from
trying to harmonize all of this stuff.
Because if you look at Matthew, go ahead, Jim.
Sorry.
No, no, no, no, I agree.
Amen.
Yeah.
I just think that Matthew sounds very IO.
Okay.
And I'm willing to use the term,
even though there's different baggage that might be attached to it and whatnot.
But in Luke and John, it does different things than Matthew was doing.
And that's what really starts to cause people to go,
what different authors have different intentions, potentially,
on what they're trying to say.
There's just, there's a lot more to it, I think, than just that.
And I guess since we have you here, Jim,
did you want to comment on that before I let you go, brother?
I mean, no, I mean, and additionally, you know,
it's not just difference in between the Gospels,
but, you know, it's different.
It's different if we just look at them just from one Gospel
and just look at their internal references that are found in the Old Testament.
It's different.
You know, they are interpreting these Old Testament texts
from a completely different context than what they were originally written in.
I think it's really important to remember that.
But I do want to thank both Jim and for their time.
And I apologize for having to leave.
That just a little bit of a delay that we had kind of put a kink in this.
Oh, I apologize for that. That was nice of you.
No, no, it's just a problem.
I appreciate your time and I appreciate speaking with you
and your friendly demeanor.
I thank you for an excellent discussion.
Absolutely.
Yeah, well, we're going to do this again so we can get.
I was going to say, let's continue with the rest of the examples with you.
And as I let you go, I'll have closing statements with these guys.
If you guys are down, I hope you enjoyed this.
I'm sorry that this was like haphazard and throwing these examples up,
but I really wanted to get some of the major go-tos to get different pictures painted and why.
So, Jim, love you, man.
Let's do this again.
Let's let's finish what we started here because I know Stephen will literally murder me
if we don't get through all these examples.
He spent so much time.
For sure.
And understandable.
All right, brother.
All right, guys.
Y'all have a great one.
Awesome.
Okay.
Guys, I want to let you guys have the final word.
I've invited you on to share what Israel only is.
We've barely scratched the surface.
I mean, the iceberg is far bigger underneath.
There's a lot of examples and you have a book coming out with Satanic numbers
for pages.
Seriously, though, what would be your conclusion so far in the discussion?
I do appreciate you guys for being kind.
And Jim is definitely a much calmer guy, isn't he?
Oh, yeah.
He's a very nice guy.
And Derek, thanks for having both of us on.
And Jim, thanks for having Jim.
Much better.
Very nice guy, knowledgeable.
I would also like to, you know, bring up for Michael Bradley's book will be coming
out and then your future.
And I can't wait for that to come out.
And for people who want to know more about Israel because it's right and barely touched
the surface.
I know some of your listeners and followers are probably going, you know, this, what
the hell is this all about?
You know, because we had there's so much information thrown at everyone.
But I encourage everyone like Jason DeCosta has an excellent YouTube channel that you'll
get as much information about Israel only that everything you want on, on, on his,
you know, we have some, we have some Facebook groups that Michael will mention them.
But, and we're really looking forward for his book to come out.
But so I'll get in the description too for anybody who's interested, please.
I look forward to having finishing the discussion with Jim.
And I'll let Michael take it from here.
Yeah.
Well, Jim or Dr. majors seems like a real pleasant fellow.
We, we have enjoyed our discussion with them.
I personally didn't find his arguments really a threat to IO.
He seemed to agree on some points with, with IO.
It was remarkable that he agreed that the Amos three verse two is that the God of the
Bible according to the narrative only knew had a relationship with ancient Israel.
So that's very much an IO supporting verse.
The things that he did bring up, I took a few notes.
He does like to appeal to history, but Israel's history has changed.
Their rituals have changed.
Their culture has changed throughout thousands of years.
So it's, it's kind of hard to pin down one part of Israel's history and argue for an anti IO position from it.
And then a thousand years later, their culture changes and, and they're back to doing something different.
So I don't know, appealing to history is it's interesting.
And, you know, I appreciate his knowledge, but IO, although it has an historical core to it.
It's not based on history per se.
It's based on what the text actually says, according to who it was intended for and when it was relevant for.
So I wish we could have spent a little more time on the eschatological portion of that to discuss that, but maybe next time.
If I may, one final question.
So my final question, I didn't get to ask you, Michael, because Bradley, let me both Michael, so I can't use that.
My, my one question I was asking the areas that I thought this is better to bring up during open discussion.
My personal question, I'm sure we'll have plenty more when we follow up to continue is what do we do when texts are written after 70 AD?
You've addressed this sometimes through Facebook, but let's say the Gospels, the Gospels are written after 70 or the Book of Acts.
I'm fairly sold on the Book of Acts being written after 93 AD.
He references Josephus works.
His works weren't published till 93 AD.
Who is he writing to and for what purpose?
If these are all faux Christians after 70.
And in that vein, while you guys maybe just address it how IO would respond to this, I would like to ask, and I've asked this before.
I'd love to get your position on this.
Are there any New Testament books where you would think, all right, there's some taste of faux Christianity?
I grant that that is not IO.
Is there anywhere in the New Testament where you think, okay, this book probably was written to a faux Christian based on your guys' position?
So dating and then are you willing to grant that any text are not IO?
Any of you guys are welcome to answer.
Well, we already got them at the dating part, but the second part is no, I don't believe any of the books are written to people that are, that's not Israel only.
So I would, and Michael, would you?
Yeah, well, this isn't really an IO position per se.
My opinion here doesn't represent IO.
I don't think anybody really knows the definitive answer.
So my thoughts here are just offered as speculation and are no more or less valid than anybody else's.
I believe the Gospels were probably written by Hellenized Jewish Christians who were forming a Greek version of an Israelite personality cult.
The Jesus of the Gospels was just a highly embellished version of the real Jesus who remains today a virtual nobody.
Nobody knows much about that original Jesus.
After all, a Jesus who doesn't walk on water, doesn't feed 5,000 people and doesn't raise the dead isn't a very interesting Jesus and wouldn't have been able to compete with other first and second century cults of that time and culture.
The Gospel authors obviously had access to historical information about the events in Jerusalem and formed their Gospels around those events, including the end of the age of the old covenant religious system and temple community.
In other words, they wrote it from a perspective of having already seen it, but the narrative reads as if they're right there living it and being part of the narrative.
Over time, competing versions of the post-AD70 narrative coalesced into a single narrative based on legendary information from oral traditions about a primitive and relatively unknown Jesus.
The Gospels are written accounts based on some of those oral traditions and legends.
The post-AD70 Jesus created within their pages was a Jesus made larger than life, meant to present the Greek world with a new post-AD70 Christian cult in a way that would be appealing to a Greek cultured audience and to compete with other cults in that time period.
With religious Hebrew Jews on the run throughout Judea after the events of AD70, Hellenized Jews like the Gospel authors and John were able to finish the Jewish redemptive narrative in a way that suited them with an ending that made Jesus and his cult the victors.
The Christianity that followed and which in its various forms endures today is based on their invented Jesus.
Words like ethnos and cosmos lost their Israelite interpretation and instead were replaced with the more universal Greek interpretation that we use today.
That's all I have for that.
Gentlemen, thank you so much. I appreciate you.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Thanks, Derek. I appreciate you having us on.
Yeah, do me a favor.
I enjoyed it.
Yeah.
Give me some dates and I'll throw it around to Jim too and ask that we finish the examples we still have, which we have one, two, three, four.
These are all revelation to five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11 more examples, which is plenty of time.
And then that will be, I guess, a shorter example show.
Then we'll have open conversation allowing you and Jim and each other to engage seeming you guys got along.
This was a great test run and I feel way more confident in this one going through with the success.
So thank you guys.
And I do agree with some of the things you said there, Bradley.
So by the way, I'm going to go in the show.
Don't go anywhere.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you enjoyed the content here today, like the video and let us know what you think down in the comments.
In the description, if you disagree with the gentleman on the screen, say you disagree.
But all I ask is to try and be reasonable, be respectful, you know, where everybody's trying to figure this out.
These guys are probably people you'd go down to the bar and have a beer with and hang out with.
You wouldn't have a problem.
So all I'm asking for is to be respectful in the chat.
And if you do have critical thoughts, have critical thoughts, but keep that in mind.
And with that being said, don't forget we are MythVision.
Thank you.
MythVision.
