Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, Dr. Airman.
We have a course that everybody should go check out, and it is on other virgin births
and antiquity.
That is the question.
Tell us briefly about this course.
Right, so we're in the Christmas season now, and one of the things that's obviously
celebrated is Jesus' birth to a virgin.
There are lots of elements of the Christmas story that are very much worth talking about,
and this one is particularly intriguing for several reasons.
You find the virgin birth in the New Testament only in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke.
The other two Gospels don't mention it, Mark and John, and it's nowhere else in the New
Testament, but the 27 books of the New Testament only two mention Jesus being born of a virgin,
but it becomes a very central feature of Christianity and Christian doctrine.
Since the Enlightenment, some scholars have pointed out that there are other stories like
that floating around in the ancient world where somebody is born to the union of a divine
being and a mortal being.
In almost all these cases, you have a male divinity, a God, who comes down and gets a
mortal being, a woman pregnant, and so the child that's born then is the union of a immortal
and a mortal, both human and divine.
These kinds of stories are circulating throughout the Roman world, and you have a number of
cases of the political figures, philosophers, religious figures, who are said to have a
divine parent.
If you go on the internet, you'll see that these things are called virgin births.
The virgin birth of Jesus was a common trope throughout the Greek and Roman worlds that
you have these divine fathers and mortal mothers.
My question in this seminar is, were any of these women in these stories virgins?
If so, then are Christians just taking over this theme from others?
If not, if they actually weren't virgins, then why do Christians come up with the idea
of virgin birth?
Why do they tell that story as opposed to some other kind of story?
So that's what the webinar is about.
I'm looking forward to that webinar, and of course, I hope everybody goes down in the
description, www.mitfissionpodcast.com forward slash virgins, plural.
The link is there.
So Dr. Ehrman, I'd like to focus on something that really has intrigued me.
The earliest gospel, consensus academics say, is Mark.
And if Mark is our earliest, why the heck doesn't Mark capitalize on the birth of Jesus
from a virgin?
Right.
Well, it's a very interesting question, a really important question.
There will be scholars with different views, although I think my guess is the majority
of scholars think that Mark didn't tell us anything about the virgin birth because he
didn't know about a virgin birth, that this is not a story that he had heard yet.
It's not clear whether the story had even come into being yet.
It's even more interesting than that with Mark because in Mark's gospel, you have a
passage that you don't quite get it this way in the other gospels.
In Mark's, in Matthew and Luke or John, in Mark's gospel, a couple of chapters later
after when Jesus is in his ministry, a couple of chapters into his ministry, he's attracted
this big crowd and there's a lot of rumors going on around him, and we're told that his
mother and his brothers come to rescue him from the public eye because they think he's
gone out of his mind, his mother.
She doesn't seem to know who he is in Mark, and that's often taken as an indication that
in Mark's gospel, at least, there's not only not a virgin birth, but there's a question
about whether Mark seems to be arguing against a virgin, not arguing against it because he
doesn't know about it, but his gospel seems to presuppose there wasn't a virgin birth
because Mary doesn't seem to know who Jesus is.
Wow, this is great information.
I've always wondered that.
I want to make one mention, there's contemporaneous work to the gospels, I'll say give or take
a few decades, Suetonius writes, actually, in Life's the Caesars, and I'm really impressed
with his Augustus angle because in this documentation on Augustus, you literally hear not only of
portents of his birth, there's like a prophecy where lightning strikes a certain wall, and
these people fight against the Romans almost to their own self-destruction, but the Senate,
this is what's really interesting, catches word that this prophecy is going to be fulfilled
in a certain year, so the mothers didn't want to rear up their children and put them in
the senses saying, hey, our kids are going to be born, and they're going to kill these
children if they find out that this might be one of them.
That sounds a lot like Matthew, do you think there's something going on here?
Well, it sounds a lot like Matthew, it sounds a lot like Exodus, same thing with the birth
of Moses.
There actually, it's a trope in ancient literature that the great man had a lot of troubles to
begin with and almost didn't make it out of infancy, and so you have these kind of divine
interventions to make it happen, and so you get the divine intervention in the birth often,
but then also in the early protection of the child, and so I don't think Suetonius' game is
from Matthew, I think this is this trope that you get in other contexts, including, I mean,
even in the ancient Aes, the birth of Sargon the Great has also a similar kind of story,
the king of Assyria, and so I think it is a trope, and it is interesting that you get this
spectacular birth of Augustus in Suetonius, and that is part of the trope.
I must ask you your thoughts on this. I watched your debate, the long debate on the resurrection
with Mike Lacona and you, and there was a moment during the debate where I felt like maybe Mike
was wiggling in a seat a little, and you were getting a little hype, and I loved that because
it's fun to see this go on with academics, and you said, there are so many other stories
of other people, and I think you mentioned virgin births or miraculous births, and I don't want to
get caught up on whether the virgins are not because your course is going to get into this,
but the point I do want to mention is this seems to be kind of an Achilles' hill, in my opinion,
when the Christians set up a creed that demands you believe this is a virgin birth, and that you
need to believe that in order to be a Christian, but we have all these other stories, whether
they're virgins or not, don't you see there's a huge flaw on being not consistent toward other
narratives that are speaking about other gods or demigods, you name it?
Well, I think the consistency is the issue. I don't think that it's necessarily an Achilles'
hill for Christianity that you have these other stories floating around because there are ways
that you can explain that if you're a theologian and have. I mean, C.S. Lewis, for example,
was an apologist, not a theologian, but who C.S. Lewis claimed somewhat famously that you have,
and he's actually borrowing this from Justin Marr from the second Christian century, who are our
first apologists, that you have kind of foreshadowing to what's going to happen with when God comes
into the world in other religions, because religions aren't all completely false, they're
also claims of truth in other religions that are actually true, and so they have reflections of what's
going to happen to you. And so, you know, you can get around these things on a theological level.
The problem is the historical level, which is the one you're talking about. If someone like an
apologist, like Mike Lacona wants to say, we've got proof of Christianity, here it is, it's bam,
bam, bam, bam, and the exact, not the exact same things, but the parallel thing, the exact
parallel things can be claimed for other gods and other humans, then why is it proof of Christianity
and not for these other things? I mean, when you come to a miraculous birth, okay, I'm going to
claim that God was my literal father, and I'm going to claim that, and my followers are going to
believe me, and they're going to convince other people. How are you going to convince somebody
that your father actually was God? I mean, you know, is it that your mother is going to say,
oh, he actually never had sex, you know, or, yeah, I didn't want to, but you know,
as God came down and, you know, had his way with me, you know, and so it's based on what
the woman says. Well, okay, is that evidence? I mean, suppose Mary, some people say, look,
the only way the gospel writers could have gotten it is if Mary told them, and so it had to be right.
Well, okay, so today, if there's a woman who gives birth, and she says, look, I never had sex before,
really, trust me, it's like, I'm not married, I never had sex, and she gives birth. Do you think,
oh, well, that's evidence then, okay, yeah, she never had sex. Of course not. You say, yeah, okay,
I think you had sex. And so, you know, so what kind of evidence would be that, you know, if somebody
could cite from the Virgin Ruth, what would be the evidence that would be different from the
evidence that Romulus, I mean, was born of a virgin, or Alexander the Great, or, you know,
or any of these other, who I'm not conceding right now are born of a virgin, by the way.
I am saying they were said to be born miraculously with the divine father. That's not the same as
the one being a virgin. And I understand that every narrative of every God is unique and special
in its own way. But there's also differences, there's similarities. So I think that that's also
this like cop out thing that apologists use is to say, this is so unique. And it's like,
they're all unique and different. And there's always something special about them.
Yeah, that's exactly right. So you have, you'll have apologists, you know, they'll,
they'll take, you know, five divine men from the ancient five sons of God,
and who are doing miracles, you know, they do this, this, this, and then they'll say,
yeah, but Jesus is different because he does that, you know, and so, so Jesus really is different,
you know, or people are sending to heaven, you know, well, the, yeah, but Jesus is different
because of that. And it's true, Jesus is different because of that. But if you put the,
if you've got five other divine men, if you put the pile, have six, including Jesus,
and you take one of the others out, you could do the same thing. Oh yeah, those others including
Jesus, this is, but this person is that, you know, and so everybody's different. So it doesn't,
you know, but I don't know why apologists who want to argue objectively for the,
for the historical truth and use logical argument. I don't understand why they don't understand logic.
So I'm done. The idea of philosophy, I have found from reading books like Francesca
Stabrakapulu's book, which takes Yahweh and places him in his ancient Near Eastern context,
where she spends multiple chapters talking about God's penis. I mean, like the physical body of
the deity. Over time though, we find Plato comes in and the impact of the philosophers in the
Mediterranean world, there seems to be this trickle down effect where they're kind of even like,
oh, hold on, Zeus did what? No, that must mean something else. It's an allegory or a metaphor
or something. Yet they still hold on to the idea that the gods have children. And my question,
zeroing in specifically on Jesus is this, he's called Son of God and Mark. How can he be a Son
of God if he isn't born? At least Matthew's narrative is trying to say, Hey, the Pneuma,
which is a whole another thing I think your course will probably get into, is what births
Jesus and Mary as a virgin using the Septuagint, which is a whole another sidetrack. But the question
is, why is he a Son of God and Mark if he isn't birthed by God in Mark?
So it's a very good question, a very important question, because to understand what Mark means,
it's important to understand what the term Son of God met in the Roman world at the time. Son of
God was a term in familial relationships. You could be the son of somebody, if they were your
biological parent, or if they adopted you. And so that's why Octavian could claim to be the son
of Julius Caesar, who was declared a God. And so he declare himself the Son of God.
Within the apart from the theological things about sons of God, it's important that within
family relationships, the upper elite people who were adopting people, if you were adopted in the
ancient world by an elite person, you were normally adopted as an adult. So they're not
adopting a baby and raising them. I'll probably do that sometime. But like Julius Caesar adopted
an adult or older boy, Octavian, to be his son. Julius Caesar had another son
with Cleobatra. He and Cleobatra had a child, Caesarean, who was his biological son.
But being the biological son was not as important as being the adopted son.
The adopted son became Caesar Augustus. Caesarean, whom you've probably never heard of, became a
nobody. The adopted son was the one who was given all the status, the power, the money,
everything. And so being an adopted son was a big deal, and you're still considered the son.
Jesus is the Son of God in Mark, probably because he's the adopted Son of God.
God makes him his son. So he doesn't have to be born to be the Son of God in the Roman world.
He can be adopted. Thank you so much, Dr. Ehrman. Go sign up. I hope to see you there.
And let's learn something together.
