Ladies and gentlemen, several, several videos we've done on Mithijin highlighting comparisons,
attributes, themes, you name it, among other deities in Jesus.
We've done it for some time and of course there's always a back and forth and the apologist
would love to downplay, ignore, deny sometimes these comparisons that we find that happen
to be in the writings of the New Testament portraying Jesus in a certain way.
Today I have three.
I claim, I think they're the most important people in terms of my circle and that I communicate
with right now online and that is these guys, Dr. Richard C. Miller, who's to my left.
I've got Gnostic and Formant down below and Derek Bennett, welcome gentlemen.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I want to make a very important point before we proceed.
We can't even do this live stream.
In fact, we should not and cannot even comment on what will be discussed today before we
take our statement of faith.
We need to make sure we affirm these particular things about God, Jesus, scripture and the
church before we have this stream.
You have to accept these things.
You sign off on these tenets or you're not going to be allowed to actually even communicate
on these topics.
Is that okay with you gentlemen?
Then we can be objective about everything, right?
You can be objective about everything as long as it doesn't go against these statements
of faith.
Makes sense.
These are our presuppositions.
We have to start with these and then we're going to make sure that we come back around
and make sure it somehow fits to our statement of faith.
I'm being silly just to open up our stream.
There was a recent live stream on my buddy Michael Jones, inspiring philosophies YouTube
channel where he just wants to take the task, the skeptic.
He wants to let us know, what do you think you're doing, man?
Jesus is not comparable.
There is no parallels.
There is nothing.
Jesus is unique, like no other DAD and, of course, he worships him along with the guests
that joined him, Nathan Nadeau or Nadette.
I'm not sure exactly how to pronounce his last name, but he's a PhD candidate.
He's a sharp fellow and we do not want to take that away.
I put in the description, the YouTube video for you to go watch the whole thing yourself
over on inspiring philosophy so you could see what happened.
Pay attention to the live chat too.
There's a lot of stuff going on in there.
Dr. Miller, you had something you wanted to say about this and it's kind of sad in one way,
but give us some good and bad at the same time here.
Yeah, well, first, I think some of the language it's used.
We could talk about what a skeptic is, but that almost presupposes that there's the dominant
kind of proposal and then we're the outsiders kind of poking at it.
I think that's kind of almost a wrong-headed kind of way to frame it right up front.
It's almost more of a delineation between reality and people that want to live in a fantasy world.
We have a fantasy kind of world here, kind of a cage that's described in this affirmation.
Individuals that can't speak outside of that.
What you're watching when you watch and I respect the character, I've been in the cage myself
and so I understand what it is, the guest on the show there cannot go outside of these
parameters that are set for him.
This is basically his employment contract there with a fragile kind of employment arrangement.
There's hundreds of people waiting to take his job and if he steps outside of this cage in any way
at all, the faith-based board of trustees or whatever is governing his employment status
there would be quick to act.
Even if he goes another inch or two outside of what's described here,
and so you could see there the triumphal resurrection under the Jesus section there.
Yep, his sacrificial death saves us from our sins, separation from God.
Like this is a pretty strict statement and if this isn't, if the evidence, let's just say,
we approach it and this is no different.
This guy we're calling Jesus Christ right here is, I'm not going to say no different,
they could take that literal.
I'm saying he's another one among several sons of gods, several deified figures who have cultic,
mythic traditions and practitioners that follow in a line of his mythic
topos, so to speak.
If this isn't true and you start with this, how can you actually get to the truth if that isn't
the truth?
So you have to hold to these kind of creeds if we can call them that to begin with.
But I didn't want to get caught up on that.
I just think it was perfect to bring this up.
When you have someone come who has to sign to work in a certain place,
it's hard to imagine that they can objectively, critically come to the reality if the reality
is not in your bubble.
And this is the bubble that they have to live in.
Dr. Richard Miller, you wrote this book, Resurrection and Reception,
an early Christianity, a Rutledge studies and religion I hope people will get a copy of.
I've really enjoyed it.
I swear it's denser than me and Derek Bennett's head combined.
Hey, trying to be, trying to be honest here.
Okay.
My wife reminds me.
And so it is dense.
And what I mean by dense is I had to pull out the dictionary several times to understand
a lot of this stuff, but it's, it's very scholarly and you really, really,
I don't think you leave anything that, you know, that you don't touch pertaining to this whole
origins of Christianity, kind of what category we would put this in.
Go subscribe to Atheological.
He's also done a video responding.
I put it in the description to this video that we might actually get to review and play some
once Dr. Miller leaves.
And then you got Gnostic Informant.
And he just did another video becoming a God, death and ascension of numerous gods.
Holy smokes.
He even brought some sources we might get into while Rick's still here.
We will get into them even if Rick isn't here.
And this is the video.
Pagan parallels to Jesus with inspiring philosophy that we're actually responding to now to the
panel.
Rick, I know you wanted to say some things and we do not want to hog the time while we have you
here.
Jesus said, you always have the poor with you, but not me.
And so I'm looking at you as our Jesus today, my friend.
Well, so one of the challenges I have even coming into a discussion like this is the
term parallel is just always thrown around as a, it's such a soft category and it really
doesn't feel like it gets enough.
It doesn't put enough real meat on the bones in terms of what we're saying.
In the Hellenistic world, the very idea of it, as I've expressed in some of the other videos
with you guys, the very the core idea of it is imitation of the Greeks.
It's intentional.
It's deliberate.
These aren't mere parallels.
This is an effort to cast someone within a certain type or category.
In other words, there to be interpreted that way, linguistically, culturally, etc.
So mentally processing someone is very deliberate.
And what's lost on us today, I think, is the Hellenistic aspects of this.
Take it so much further than what we're used to even in our own culture.
In order to rule in the ancient world or to have any kind of cultural capital to be a
significant figure in the ancient world, you had to register in some way your imitation,
your mimetic qualities in relation to these archetypal figures of the classical world.
And so we see this in every possible way.
You know, it's hard to imagine any of the rulers not falling in line with this in one way or another.
I quote in my book on page 111.
Here's from a classicist, John Polini.
Here's what he has to say about it.
An important feature of religious belief and political rhetoric in the late Republic and
the Principate is the special relationship that individual leaders claim to enjoy with the gods.
An idea which served to enhance the leader's position in the state and to validate his acts.
In the visual arts, an association with the divine could be expressed most directly through
assimilation or imitation of a divinity.
Divine assimilation comprises either an alteration of an individual's portrait
so that he looks like a god or the presentation of a god with some degree of physiognomic
resemblance to a specific individual.
In either case, there may be ambiguity as to whether the man is portrayed like a god or a god
like a man.
And so this is a very general pattern that's being observed by classicists across the line.
And this is not disputed in classics, which is kind of strange.
You get over into our field and all of a sudden there's all this confusion.
But over there, this is all well trodden and accepted observation.
And so the archetypal figures, who were they?
You've got Heracles, you've got Dionysus, Castron Pollux, maybe in a little bit of secondary class
Romulus when you're talking about Roman propaganda.
And then Alexander himself, who was in fact imitating Heracles in many ways.
And so he's kind of, you could see it cascading down, but Alexander became his own archetype
because he was such a towering political figure of that time.
His shadow was cast over the entire Greek East.
And so anybody that wanted to rule or have any kind of political capital in the Greek East
needed to express their imitatio-alexandri, their imitation of Alexander.
And so you see this in coins, you see it all over the place.
Mark Antony is in Egypt with Cleopatra ruling there.
And he's even teased for the extent to which he's imitating Dionysus and Heracles on the daily.
He's walking around wearing their clothes.
He's got Heracles club.
He's trying to do, he's putting it on coins.
He's just going crazy with it, almost overboard.
And he ends up becoming teased for it just because he's going so far with it.
And that's mostly propaganda coming from Rome, the Roman side.
But to rule in Egypt, you need to present your mimetic signals to those around you
so that they understand, oh, register this guy as a legitimate ruler in succession to
Heracles and Alexander and Dionysus.
These were the big cosmocraters, as they say, the world rulers.
Would it be safe to say that it would be kind of absurd to say, here's this guy
who's in the Mediterranean world, and he sees how everyone else is doing.
People are seeing this.
They see how everyone else is imitating the deities of antiquity,
which means these deities go way, way, way, way back, right?
Granted, granted.
We don't even know if they existed.
Probably didn't on some of them, right?
And this tends to be this argument that I was hearing in that live stream.
Michael Jones was kind of getting at, or Nathan Nadeau and Michael Jones were trying to point out.
And it was like, well, Jesus is a recent figure.
And these guys, man, they're way, way, way back there.
Wouldn't it be well known that they would have seen what the Caesars were doing?
They would have seen what other Coltic religious figures were doing and said, hey,
it's like the modus operandi to imitate these ancient antiquity deities and figures.
So we want to model our Jesus off Romulus, off Socrates, off whoever from antiquity.
They want to put the clothes, as you did about Dionysus, on Jesus.
That's what these writings are.
They're putting a hat and a t-shirt and a sweater and a pair of jeans and a pair of shorts.
Have an ascension.
Make sure, oh, make sure that tomb's empty.
Make sure this and make sure that, like, isn't that what's going on?
Yeah, there are whole books.
And I've got, in the third chapter of my book, I've got basically a depth of research there,
getting into other scholars, classicists that have whole volumes on each one of these different
figures.
There's a whole book written in German that's on the political imitation of Heracles
and how ubiquitous that was throughout.
And there's a whole book written on the imitation of Alexander, the Roman Alexander.
I think it's called by Deborah Steiner.
You can go look that up.
Fantastic book.
And basically, it shows that anyone ruling in the Greek East was only legitimate to the extent
that they were imitating Alexander.
And so they were measured by that.
In terms of Rome, you've got very current at that time.
The Caesars, during the Principate, wanting to live in, they had actually a house there
in Rome that was supposedly Romulus's house.
And so these guys all wanted to live in the house.
They were creating their coins so that they would look like, and so if you go back into
Roman art, you'll see them trying to festoon themselves and look like they are Romulian in
some way.
We've got Augustus even living in the house, dressing like Romulus and claiming that he
is the new Romulus.
And then you've got this series of emperors that are also having apotheosis and falling
in step in some ways with Romulus.
And so those two, especially Heracles and especially Romulus, become the archetypal figures
under which the entire apotheosis and translation tradition falls.
And so you could go through my catalogue there of, I don't know, there's 80 or 100 people.
Each one can fall either into one or the other of both of those in one way or another depending
on which memetic signals are being displayed.
And so those are the two primary figures.
And almost everyone can be classified in one way or another as following those templates.
I don't want to hog up the time with Rick.
So you guys want to highlight something?
Because I have so much I could.
Speaking of Augustus, trying to be the new Romulus and sort of using that sort of propaganda,
you have with Suetonius, the life of Augustus, you have a story about a portent happening.
And this was portent only happened with Alexander the Great.
And now it's happening with Augustus.
And in his funeral, did you hear what happened?
There's an ex-prador and he swore under oath that he saw the body of Augustus rise up into the heavens.
So you have these are not myths.
These are stories that are written, maybe in propaganda, but it's not like a
people believe this is like supposed to be real.
So I mean, that's we got that's right in the sources, you know.
So the propaganda is, hey, our guy, this is a good question to ask Rick.
You know, we have propaganda today.
Humans are pretty much operating the same way that we did 2000 years ago.
I imagine the common folk, you want the general populace to think this guy really was, you know,
this, the people who were probably in the know, the Senate, the educated, the philosophers are
probably going, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's legend, it's mythic or whatever.
Do you think that the general populace would have believed that the Caesar actually did ascend
that this is the propaganda they want the known world to kind of be under the stupidity of,
hey, we know what this is.
Let them just think this is literally true.
We know what this means in our, in our category, in our higher echelon of society.
Yeah, it becomes difficult.
I mean, there, there is a cult.
There's obviously a ruler cult that's definitely in place and there's,
there's sincerity there.
That's not a joke.
It's also, I think, political propaganda.
Libya, the wife of Augustus was in large measure, even responsible for the,
the institution of that cult throughout the major cities in the Greek East.
And so they were building these temples left and right, trying to get that stuff going as the,
as the early empire was taking off there to really exalt because they hadn't had rulers
like this before that had so much power vested in them after Julius Caesar, then every, you know,
basic ruler there had unprecedented level of power.
And so this was a way to elevate them in the Greek East.
You had to be divine to rule.
That was kind of the requirement for the job.
And so this is a very important point.
And then I want to have Derek Bennett jump in here.
We're all well aware that Jesus never spoke of a kingdom.
You know, there was no, he never said like the kingdom of God is coming.
In fact, he was never even supposedly known in post-mortem situation to have been seated
at the right hand of God, ruling on high, right?
Like, so you, you keep talking about these rulers and like these people who would be
over kingdoms, but Jesus never talked about kingdoms, right?
I think, I think you've, you know, we have to see the, the king of kings.
How can he be given, addressed up in any less, with any less, you know, magnificence than the Caesars?
Let me, let me throw something out there.
I want to get your thoughts on this, Dr. Miller.
Would it be fair to say Christianity sort of drawing from the same cultural milieu as the
Caesar cult would be, but almost an apolemic alert, they flip it on its head.
Instead of having this rich kingdom and having all the power in the world, you're having this
like humble Jewish prophet who is going to, instead of, like it says in the text,
instead of laying up riches in earth, lay up riches in heaven.
So it's sort of like a polemic of what the cult, what the imperial cult is doing,
sort of flipping it, flipping it basically.
Do you think that's fair to say?
Yes, it's subversive and that, you know, that's why these guys are getting killed.
It's offensive.
They got this backwater, almost like an indigent, you know, a vagrant almost,
walking around without a house or anything.
And, you know, they're saying, oh, and by the way, this guy gets exalted just as high
as your highest guy.
Right.
And that's, that's patently offensive.
And so that's, that's really where the rub is here.
And that's why people are getting killed.
And, and what's pissing off the Roman government is they're taking,
they're taking this, this character that's clearly marginal, clearly not significant in
the, in the big theater and the grand theater of classical antiquity and exalting him with
the same kind of honors that would go to their highest political figures and even more so.
And so, but I would broaden it.
It's not just political.
You've got philosophers also having translations.
You've got generals.
You've got athletes even.
And so these are, this is the way that you would install someone in the classical antiquities,
Hall of Fame, so to speak.
These are the protocols is to dress them up with divine birth.
You know, one parent is, is a divine parent, the other is human.
And then the other one would be to have stylized ending where they vanish or are translated or
ascend.
They're basically given, they're not going to go to Hades, basically.
They're not going down with everyone else.
They're getting installed in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, so to speak.
We have a hero watching us right now.
Dennis McDonald just texted me and he says, Hey, Jesus almost certainly spoke of the kingdom of
God.
Why do you think otherwise?
And I was like, no, no, no, I was being sarcastic.
I think he didn't hear you.
You almost sounded serious for a second.
Yeah.
I did that on purpose because I wanted to kind of point out like you guys keep talking about
kingdoms and rulers and like empowers and principalities and stuff.
I'm joking.
And I'm like, Oh, but Jesus never did that.
The point I'm trying to say is here's another one.
Okay.
Here's another guy who's claiming to get a kingdom that's going to be ruler.
And no, it would be absurd, right, Dr. Miller, to not think they wouldn't model it or imitate
or even react in some way to the well-known what is established here that's over the Jewish
people or however you want to paint it.
Anyway, I've been hogging it, Derek.
You got to like interrupt me, man.
Well, I'll jump in here just to say that in order to be fair to some of what Jones and
Nathan Nadeau were getting at, partly this is a rebuke against the old Frazerian model
of the dying and rising God.
So what the figures made popular by James Fraser and the golden bow that the sort of
dying and rising crop deities.
Most scholars today, and certainly not Richard Miller here, would say, you know,
most scholars would not say that Jesus was just another dying and rising crop deity like Adonis
or Temus.
So they're right about that.
But what we're talking about is something a little bit different, if not loosely related,
but a little different.
And I think I think Dr. Miller would agree with this is more of the apotheosis and translation
and Greek resurrection beliefs that were popular during the time that that Christianity emerged.
Dr. Miller was it was in fact the one who helped me to kind of parse those two.
So that's that's why after I wrote my chapter on dying and rising gods and John Loftus's anthology
when I went and I did my presentation for the Global Center for Religious Research
on Resurrection and Apotheosis.
I've done that for for your channel.
Garrick, I was sure to to separate those two categories.
And so it's more the apotheosis and translation type of mythos that we're really getting at here.
The problem as I see it is that sometimes the lines between those two categories can get a little
bit blurred because there was so much cross-pollinization and syncretism in the ancient Mediterranean world.
So for instance, Osiris, I bring that one up all the time.
You know, he falls into that sort of that Frasarian category of the dying, rising God.
But that is equally an apotheosis myth for Osiris and for ancient Egyptians.
What happened to them?
They became immortal and everlasting gods.
There are even depictions of the Pharaoh ascending into heaven as Osiris had done.
And great work by Elisir Gonzalez.
He traces even some of these Greco-Roman asset motifs to ancient Egyptian thought.
Not to say that it came exclusively from that, but that there is something of a link there.
So I bring up in my video the response that I did to Jones and Nado.
I bring up the example of Antonus, the lover of Hadrian.
And so this is a figure from the Greco-Roman world, second century, I believe.
And he is clothed like Osiris.
To say that he becomes known as Osirantinus, the reborn and everlasting.
On the obelisk it says that he was raised again to new life.
He becomes an immortal god.
And others can be initiated into the cult of Ananas
so that they can become immortalized figures like him.
So this kind of phenomenon, this deification, can happen to actual
historical figures.
And that's kind of the salient point here.
And that's what we're saying.
It looks like that's what happened with Jesus.
So it doesn't matter that he was.
Yes, he was probably an actual historical figure, but he became deified according to
common cultural conceptions, mythic motifs of the time.
Yeah, it's correct.
I think there's kind of an interesting analogy.
It would be like, I mean, what they did with this should end the discussion really.
Where did this go?
Where did this story go?
If it literally happened that Jesus rose from the dead,
say let's just presuppose that as the hypothesis.
This all really happened and somehow by some freak of nature or something ended up looking
a lot like what we see in all of these myths.
Now, I'm not saying there isn't a more sophisticated argument that was put forward.
Maybe he rose in some funny kernel of a fashion and then his baby dressed up in literature.
Otherwise, you kind of wonder why would they even do that if they really thought this happened?
That would have rocked their minds and they would have written it correctly
and would have distinguished it.
They would have worked all day to distinguish it, which is not what we see.
But let's just suppose that's what's going on.
Then it's a little bit like you've got someone, we went into this discussion the other day about
the guy you see some story about some guy that comes out of a phone booth and then flies into
the air to fight crime. But no, this really happened.
I really saw this.
It was on Fifth Avenue and et cetera, et cetera.
There'd be a tremendous amount of work to try and make sure that everyone knows this isn't crazy talk.
This really took place.
You wouldn't go and then publish a comic book that's 40 pages long with cartoons
of this guy coming out of the phone booth and then sell it in a comic book store.
And have different kinds of comics that don't agree with each other that tell different stories about the guy.
But that's exactly what we see with the early Jesus cult.
It's set up alongside of the other cults in the major cultic basic marketplace of ideas in the
major urban centers in Corinth and Ephesus.
These places are the places where you get something like that off the ground.
You couldn't do it in rural areas.
You'd have to take it to these cultural hubs.
And it's set up as almost just another franchise alongside of all of these other offerings.
And it's starting a religion.
It's not starting a we're talking about a scientific reality story.
We're starting a cult with people singing songs and giving offerings and doing all the same patterns
that we would expect in other cults.
And so it's patterned after that across the board pretty much.
And so it just because the argument doesn't just achieve absurdity.
It surpasses it really.
Wow.
I mean look no farther than Justin Martyr and his apology where he's
Hey why are you guys criticizing me?
Are you you have sons of God?
You have Mercury.
You call him the Logos.
Dude this intro Neil in this book it literally starts with that.
And he didn't discover this till later as he was really diving in.
And he found the fathers agree with everything he's just saying.
What what I love what you just did Rick is you took you took a model that we know
as Superman Batman Spider-Man whatever comes out of the phone booth.
Boom he's flying in the sky whether it's a web whether it's his cape.
He has abilities from another planet you name it.
We know this is fiction.
We know this kind of fiction model.
But then you we're now supposed to assume this guy is not clothed in fiction.
He's not wrapped as the other super models or superheroes in the whole nine.
But you went even a step further than just kind of using that little example
by showing the same cultic practices.
We have you know John Kloppenborgs you know Christ Association's book
that goes in and analyzes they used similar language.
Ecclesia is not a Christian term.
It is a well-known Greek term.
They are setting up temples house worship.
Their cultic worship practice is modeled after the same thing.
You talk about Paul Saneus or I think I'm saying it right.
And he walks through Corinth and he's going look at this look at that look at this all the
cultic mythic stuff and these other cultic mythic heroes also wore capes like Jesus
also flew out of the thing.
And guess what some of them didn't wear a cape.
Some of them just disappeared.
They didn't fly or some of them burned on a pyre instead of dying on a cross
or some of them might have cut their testicles off and bled to death instead of yada yada yada.
Oh but Jesus is unique and this is so interesting because if we use their argument
so is Hercules so is Osiris so is Julius Caesar so is Octavian so is Romulus so is Alexander the great
so are all of them Venus Mars you name it they're all unique they all do different
things they all have different attributes therefore they're all true that's that would
be absurd if you heard me trying to make cases to argue for these deities in that respect
it just eventually became the success successful cult.
Exactly when we see we see intentionality to it and even trying to feign translation
you know Empedocles for instance the ancient philosopher tried to throw himself into the
volcano on Mount Etna out in the Mediterranean and in order so they wouldn't recover his body so
that he could be also recorded as having been translated so that his remains wouldn't be found.
And so we have Alexander the great at the when he saw his life coming to an end you know with
that you know he gets sick and all that wanted to throw himself into the Euphrates according to
our sources so that they wouldn't be able to recover his body so that they would be able to
worship him afterwards. And so you know these are this was intense war over his body after
which means Proteus Peregrinus is on at the Olympic Games in 165 CE and he's going to throw himself
into a funeral I mean a pyre a big bonfire basically and die like Heracles again intentionally
the idea there is they wouldn't be able to recover his bones and his disciples are standing by
you know to make sure that this all comes off right it's a great account in Lucian if you get
a chance to read it and then they they see him ascend and they and supposedly some voice that
he's going flying up to Olympus and then a day or two later someone comes back to the funeral
service the Panergyric that they had there to commemorate this individual and declares that
they had seen him back in Athens in the portico of the seven voices walking with a gleaming white
toga on or whatever and a garland of white of olive on his head and had this encounter with him
and this is a post mortem appearance and so there's a lot of intentionality going on here
people are trying to get them get get these get their stories into that form intentionally
so that they can then receive this exalted knocklament to use the the german word there
afterlife or kind of legacy they want to be remembered as above you know beyond human as like
superstars so you have two things I think are really interesting about your book rick again
I got a self plug here I like 15 more recordings with you in 4k by the way on the patreon and on
the youtube member thing if you like hearing what rick's saying help support us I've I like
I traveled I paid out of my own pocket I made a trip to california I recorded all this I edited
all this it's a lot of work so when people talk about three dollars a month there's too much
too bad I mean starbucks isn't handing out free coffee we kind of live in a world where
things cost money so I worked my butt off three dollars I think that's a heck of a deal
for the whole month you can drop the patreon after after one month and milk me just to get those videos
so um I wanted to read something that I think is interesting but first comment about your book
that is this missing body thing that we find about the empty tombs I tend to think it's
legendary narrative right it has a narrative structure it's got it just has a punch about it
Matthew really highlights that like the stone's not even moved and Jesus is yet
in like the angel moves it to show you he's not in there but he's not in there so like this is
evidence of him being a god um Kalihari I pronounce a Kalihari how do you pronounce this a Callerho
Callerho yeah something like this I was like looking online how to pronounce this I want to read
from book three or section three uh of book three uh the tomb robbers had been careless
and closing the tomb it was at night and they were in a hurry at the crack of dawn Charius turned
up at the tomb ostensibly to offer wreaths and libations but in fact with the intention of doing
away with himself he could not bear to be separated from Kalihari and thought that death was the only
thing that would cure his grief when he reached the tomb he found that the stones had been moved
and the entrance was opened by the way this was probably written mid first century AD all right
so the the the stone moved and the entrance was open he was astonished at the site overcome by
fearful perplexity sound familiar at what had happened rumor a swift messenger told the Saracusians
this amazing news they all quickly crowded around the tomb but no one dared go inside until
Hermocrates gave an order to do so the man who was sent and reported the whole situation accurately
it seemed incredible that even the corpse was not lying there then Charius himself determined
to go in in his desire to see Kalihari again even dead but though he hunted through the tomb
he found he could find nothing many people could not believe it and win in after him they were all
seized by helplessness one of those standing there said the funeral offerings have been carried off
it is tomb robbers who have done that but what about the corpse where is it because you know
tomb robbers wouldn't have taken the corpse according to this many different suggestions
circulated in the crowd just like the gospel say the disciples stole the body Charius looked
towards the heavens stretched up his arms and cried which of the gods is it then who has become my
rival in love and carried off Kalihari and is now keeping her with him against her will constrained
by a more powerful destiny that is why she died suddenly so that she would not realize what was
happening that is how Dionysus took Ariadne and Thesus how Zeus took semi oh sorry from Thesus
how Zeus took semi it looks as if i had a goddess for a wife without knowing it someone above my
station but she should not have left the world so quickly even for such a reason Thetis was a
goddess but she stayed with Palaeus and he had a son by her i have been abandoned at the very
height of my love what is to happen to me what is to become of me poor wretch should i do away
with myself and who would share my grave i did have this much to look forward to in my misfortune
that if i could not continue to share Kalihari's bed i should come to share her grave my lady
i offer my justification for living you forced me to live because i shall look for you on land and
sea and in the very sky if i can reach there this i beg you my dear do not flee from me at this the
crowd broke out in lamentation everyone began to lament for Kalihari as though she had just died
powerful first century ad novel talking about an empty tomb experience fear and trembling the
deification of her being missing is evidence that she was taken by the gods to become a god
because she was really a goddess i'm it um there's so many things to highlight in that and i'm thinking
saying that the gospels borrowed this shoot they don't even have to know about each other
i'm saying as you're saying rick there's a game there's a certain kind of literary
structure that you would want to model your figure after
yeah it's it's uh this is how you would signal in terms of linguistics in terms of cultural
kind of pattern this is how you would signal that this is what that meant what that signaled
the body's gone deified that would have been that immediate connection was was just implicit there
and so notice there wasn't a lot of even justification for that there they can go and do any work to try
and draw any line why that would be the case it's because that would have been the clear
way that that would have registered in the in the ancient psyche in mind and so you know i think that
you could see over my and this is one of the things that if you see this this pattern over this
over a spread of nearly a thousand years some of the examples that i give there it's well entrenched
you know and so um that's it's kind of the unavoidable sort of implication of that
and so this is how you would this is how you would speak to that now the gospels have to work
over time to try and present that because they're using the word resurrection and so but they need
so in the epilogical content that you get at the end of each one of those narratives there's a
a lot of work to be done to make sure that those signals are are present and clearly registering
for the reader so there's no mistaken interpretation over what they mean and so Jesus is able to
you know be touched and grabbed and all of this but at the same time he can walk through walls
he can eat broiled fish but at the same time he could disfigure himself such that he's not
even recognizable um so his physicality there is important because that's also it just distinguishes
him from being a ghost and in fact in one of the episodes i think it's in was it luke at the end
there he in fact try is explicit i'm not a ghost you know trying to make sure you understand that
and in no uncertain terms but at the same time he's got all of these um you know uh
phaistic properties is these godlike properties um and so he which which are their way of saying
look he's not he's not what he was before this he's able to do things now it's fuzzier than that
because this isn't i mean the theologian will go back and read that and think there's some
hard category there it's a little bit like gandoff going from what was it gandoff the grade again
off the white or something in the you know you you know it's next level right a little bit like
that going on but it's not this hard like ontological theological category that you get in
like a systematic theology or something like that because you've got the you know the transfiguration
on the mountain it's kind of a preview of it right right he basically gets up there and then you get
the the divine voice that you know they're getting ready to set up the three shrines right what was
it to elisha and uh moses yeah and uh and then they were going to give one to jesus also and then
the divine voice comes and says no no no no he's not like them that yeah they did raise they did
ascend also but this is this is a demigod this is my beloved son you know distinguish him
and so they were going to set up three centitaphs up there are three little shrines right that's
kind of what the the the segment indicates and so anyway so that's the idea is that he's exalted
he's being exalted in the text this was the protocol this is the only way i think they could
have gotten this off the ground in any kind of trajectory that moved into the realm the the
Mediterranean world what's interesting is if you look at trajectories of earliest Christianity that
moved in other directions like say down into Africa or like to the east into parthia or something
like that they don't do this kind of work the same way or at all even like manicheanism isn't
they're not interested in dressing Jesus Jesus doesn't have these properties and you see that
even surviving in some ways into early Islamic tradition the Jesus that's there isn't dressed up
like you know in in these uh cultic forms that you would see prevalent prevalent in the Mediterranean
world he's he's a prophet more in that context if you go down into like a gnostic tradition
they're struggling they've got their own kind of way of painting him you know it's not they
want him to shed his body kind of in a platonic way so and so you get to see that and some of the
like Marcy and I in some of the other gnostic traditions where they're trying to
get rid of the body because they would see that as a negative thing that he would have physicality
afterwards because that's that's a bad philosophical idea and so anyway so he's it's adapting and so
you see the mythic the myth the mythic dress that's going in the orthodox tradition or the
so-called orthodox tradition is highly Hellenistic and highly Romanistic and moving that direction
full speed and so and you see all that evidence it as it really is even in the the gospel tradition
so don't want to step on anybody's toes did you guys have something you really dearly want to get
off your chest um you might while we've still got Richard with us take a bite out of the other
thing that oh tried to propose was that unlike a lot of these other figures um with the gospel
accounts these are these are historical accounts these are biographies um and then he even allows
for you know even even if you want to say that it's historical fiction it's still historical
in nature and that is so unlike these other figures uh so i'm just curious if Dr Miller
would like to comment on that yeah i'm not sure that last nuance that you made their historical
like um maybe that's kind of a puzzler but i mean we have to understand what even is a legend
and that's the whole idea of it right is that you're kind of fusing history with some
tall tail down in it right it's uh it's it's it's history like in some way we tell stories about
different characters uh davey crocket you know uh saint patrick whatever and these are untethered
from history that there is a historical kernel there somewhere um possibly even santa claus you
know uh there was i guess a dude he's he's he's all but lost to us uh saint nicolas but um so it's
untethered in that way uh but yeah i would say that you've got this going on at christianity
he's not the only or the the christian kind of depictions of jesus is not the only place you
find this um even if you want to go to the life of apollonius you know philistratus's work there
you've got a you know another sage that's going and doing a lot of miracles and other kind of
works he's got philosophical and rhetorical you know wit and capability there that's above
the standard human capability and and at the end of his career he ascends you know he he
sends to heaven and so um that's that's one you could go even pythagoras is another interesting
one in the cult of pythagoras and what's going on there and those are later in some ways but they
are i think having to work with their downstream from the christian tradition in some ways
interpreting it lucian's work with per proteus peregrinus you know proteus the guy that threw
himself on that fire in 165 it said that according to lucian that guy had been a christian and not
just a christian the teacher of the christians and not just the teacher of the christians he had
been like the second christ in that community and a writer and all sorts of things he was a major figure
and uh had decided to fall in and lucian paints him as a charlatan a huckster some guy that's
you know running around duping everyone and so um and then he decides to deconvert so to speak
and take up this kind of cynic or stoic kind of way and that's when he kills himself but it's in
also kind of the imitation of the way he under interpreted what was going on with jesus and so
is it kind of a stuntman in some ways dude there's so many good things you just said rick i want to
highlight a comment that was on derrick benett's youtube video i just commented this earlier by
the way we'll we'll get into more of this stuff but while we have you rick i wanted to just highlight
camille greger's comment because i thought it was really good because you brought up this whole if
we thought this was history it'd be a bit absurd the two leading explanations of the evidence
offered by christian apologists other than a mass other than a massive coincidence are
yaway made jesus's life similar to other ancient mediterranean figures to make christianity more
plausible satan made myths about other ancient mediterranean more similar to future jesus's life
to make christianity less plausible uh i think we should appreciate that if the two leading
explanations of the same evidence involved literally the maximally good being and literally
the maximally evil being and there is apparently no way to tell which one is true christianity
might have some serious issues with explanatory power in the first place nice yeah i'm a fan
greger good job man yeah well you know what i would what i would say to that to camille there is that
there's really no escaping the problem of massive coincidence you know he tries to offer those in a
you know in a uh uh sort of sardonic way tries to offer those as alternatives you know that a
theologian might offer but even if you want to try and put this up to god or to satan it's still
awfully coincidental that either of those superpowers should do it right there in the very
spacetime the very cultural and historical milieu in which these ideas were prominent
there's really no escaping it it's it's it's a problem that's rick you could speak on it man
that's why you were saying justin had to deal with it nil's done videos on this i've done videos
you've talked about this i just recently in my second last video i i i mentioned and i i was
recording this it wasn't part of my like script or anything i just went off the cuff and i said
people like inspiring philosophy can just pretend doesn't exist because it's not part of the culture
anymore as much as it was justin martyr had no choice he had to deal with it he had to write
about it's right in front of him he walks outside there's a temple of hercules he walks over there
there's a temple you can't ignore it oh you have to make that everyone should read that passage by
the way it's now what what michael would say to that and i'm interested in getting uh richard's
take on this as well as is well you see you see um justin martyr was fighting for his life fighting
against persecution and so he had to stretch and exaggerate these comparisons in order to save his
own hide and that of other christians um curious what you have to say to that dr miller uh it's
it's it's kind of feels a little bit like camille's kind of argument where it's both sides you've got
justin martyr don't forget what he's called he's that's where he's taken this good point um so he's
not afraid to die he's not afraid to tell the truth he's not afraid to get right down to it there
and so i think it is in some ways just to disrespect it it's interesting that the the christian
argument is to disrespect the earliest christian argument and so oh wow i love that so your point
is and just to highlight i want to get into the nitty nitty gritty here he died for a reason
not because he screamed and kicked and tried to get out of the pickle by making up anything he could
he died because he stood his ground where he stood his ground by comparing jesus but still
emphasizing hey those others are done by demons ours is the true you know path that you should
follow the way um and then you've highlighted ignatious with me and we read the letter to
roam oh my gosh this guy was the most suicidal sounding church father i've ever heard anyone
write this guy was begging the roman church to make the animals the beasts that are gonna eat him
his tomb he begged them to let him die his fourth chapter in that i think or fifth says i want to
die that's the title and then he goes on brethren please do not keep me from the death that awaits
me to become one with my christ and like dude these guys wanted to die so this it's it's the biggest
throw the early christians under the bus as much as we can to save our modern apologetic as we can
and i think the most of the least ad hoc is exactly what nil just said exactly what you're
bringing up derrick and what richard writes about in his book that is you can't get away from it he
had to engage this he had to show look yes you know jesus looks similar to ariadne and the
zoos and the or zoos and the sons of zoos um you know the caesars etc etc the list goes on
let me let me issue this challenge to the reader you get this oftentimes that i've even seen it in
a lot of these comment threads and it's a well intended argument but it's it's just a false
it's patently false the early christians were dying because they they had this compelled they were
compelled to because of this historiological case around jesus raising from the dead so they're
they're going to their deaths like lambs to the slaughter repeating that they the 500 saw him and
creating you know creating this case that the jesus i cannot but be here because i know that he
rose historically or whatever show me that text show me one of those martyrdom tales where that's
exactly the way the psychology of the person yeah i'd like to see that and yeah i was talking to um
i was talking to someone about this just recently and a lot of these narratives show up
a long time later they're kind of legendary if it's if i'm not mistaken right right and it's
and in fun it's kind of a little bit and candid amos has brought this out in her book
it's a little bit like the old west you know more people died and shoot them up on hollywood
screenshots than in the actual boring old west and so if you go back into antiquity i think i
think we're blowing up the the early propagandistic aspects of martyrdom and why they were producing
these texts to scandalize the the the tyrants that were they were they were you know and the powers
that be at that time um you know there are more people dying in the text than are actually dying
in reality and so you didn't want to that's part of asceticism you didn't go hide in a cave somewhere
and you didn't want anyone to know they got to know you're over there or else it's not working
you know they got to know they got to know that you're over there and they also need to know that
you're not eating and stuff like there was there was a there was a political side to this the same
thing with martyrdom you wanted to die in front of caesar as a spectacle not out in some in the
wood somewhere with no one seeing it and so the the idea was that you know that if you go back
into those texts they didn't want to die for jesus they wanted to die like jesus and there's a
major significance there a significant ship there that goes all the way back to the gospels themselves
you know if you want to follow me you got to take up your cross too um and so you're you're dying too
this is a martyrdom cult in some ways and you know what did john the baptist die for wow and so
dr miller oh i'm sorry go ahead and keep talking if you go across the luke ax there's no death for
sins theology there you know search it oh yeah that's not the signification that's given to
jesus death in luke ax it rather you get a compendium of martiological tales with jesus merely
figuring prominently in that wow yeah and so each one of those meant to scandalize and so
there there's a different reason why they're dying it's not it's not what's normally
presented as well they're dying because of the case that modern apologists are are trying to prop up
that's not that's that's a falsehood that's being projected back onto it you could say in a way being
it's martiological they're dying this is a philosophy to them this is their philosophy the same way
other philosophers died for their their philosophical coltic mythic trope or whatever
yeah martyrdom was the supreme manifestation of ascasis that is you're kind of your contempt
for the world your your severe self-treatment and so this was the the like the supreme manifestation
of your philosophical sophistication the idea of being able to face death without flinching
that was a huge statement in the ancient world and that's part of why christianity won out with
some of the spectacle of that but a lot of it's going on in the work that the literature is doing
as kind of an agency in that culture and so there's propaganda there about it and so and it goes all
the way back you go back to the macabee and marvors and two and four macabees what were they dying for
exactly again it's spectacle against antiochus and so
Derek what were you gonna say D? Oh just for the sake of clarification on martyr on Justin
martyr he the apologists have it half right and that he is he is making an argument in the face
of persecution but he's he is not exactly having to stretch in order to make these comparisons
and i mean what are the chances he is going to convince pagans of certain parallels that they
would know better are fabricated or exaggerated that makes no sense i think it's true Derek i'm
gonna drop off and let you guys carry on after this but i'll make this point that it wasn't just
a mic problem with uh Justin martyr and as i said in another video with Derek that same argument
continues on beyond Justin you see it recurring throughout the early apologists are nobious even
two full centuries later is making the same argument and then some Eusebius right Eusebius is doing a
big time right and so it's not just one guy who's afraid over in the corner good point it's this
this is the this is the only track that they could have taken with it that would have flown
the other argument would have worked in that context because everyone would have called it out
as bullshit i love you rick look everybody go get a copy of dr richard c miller's book resurrection
reception and early christianity if you want to watch more of what rick has to say i've got like
15 more recordings all on the patreon all on the youtube membership side so you can go check that
out go to the community tab and see all those they're there this book is amazing rick final
words from you brother oh i just thank you i'm a fan of all three you guys you guys are the best
same i i'm privileged to know you guys hey don't forget to remember your your statement of faith
okay everywhere you go uh okay right i'm gonna reaffirm that right after we get off the call
here exactly thanks rick thanks for joining us rick all right i dropped him off here we're
gonna go like this here um this this was i'm gonna go down here i'll let you guys uh hang out on
top of me here we've got a couple super chats but there's so much guys um there's so much we get to
talk about and can go over now uh now that rick is uh you know painted a way for us to kind of go
down the path here uh i'm gonna wait on the super chats we'll get to you thank you for the support
but what are your comments i mean i was i was i was going through the justin marter passes just now
and i realized he's doing better comparative mythology than we are like he's he's dropping
Perseus being born of a virgin he's dropping sons sons of jupiter getting getting suffering for the
sins of people like he's going past what i'm doing justin marter i mean i i think we should probably
pull a little super chance but i think we should pull that text up again sure and i can i have some
other stories too we can go through too share screen all right well i don't know if you want to
do super chats first or not so well yeah let's bust them out here okay image thank you there for the
super chat yaoi equals storm god who destroys chaos beast lost his coherence through time as humans
vied for claim to yaoi's inheritance for l original yaoi is much more interesting i agree i tend to
love the idea of like the the primitive uh you know very anthropomorphized uh human with a penis
and a wife and he's mad and he's angry and he's happy and he's sad and he's having babies and all
that kind of stuff i like that god uh better than i do this whole outside space and time because our
modern philosophy tells us that god cannot potentially be you know like i'd much rather have
that archaic beast of a deity not like to actually literally worship just to study because it's
actually reflection of the people more often than not i love how these more philosophically
inclined christian apologists are trying to graft that sophisticated you know
um uh philosophy of religion you know what i mean type arguments for god on to this archaic
tribal storm god from way back when i love watching them do this it tickles me pink
thank you image ginger griffin how did ancients view a work like the aneid they knew
vergell wrote it and that he was imitating homer but did they somehow imagine it to be
a true account of rome's founding that's above my pay grade on answering that's actually how did
ancients view a work like the aneid they knew vergell wrote it and he wants this one for dr
mcdonald but did they imagine it to be a true account of rome's founding i don't know that's
good question we're gonna call the king mcdonald here
hey dentists we have a uh you know who wants to be a millionaire i'm on a question that if i
don't get right uh you know they gave me a phone a friend option so i decided i'd phone you we are
live and the question is how did ancients view a work like the aneid they knew vergell wrote it
and that he was imitating homer but did they somehow imagine it to be a true account of rome's founding
no i don't think the issue is true in the historical sense but it's important to know
that vergell was a historian of sorts and that people who read the aneid teased out some of those
illusions to history but they knew it was a founding mythology and it was a creation of
a narrative to evoke the the literature of classical Greece yeah but it has historical
information there and i suppose readers were sophisticated enough to be able to
to parse that out now some probably thought the aneid was historical to some extent but
i really don't think that's helpful i think most were aware of the the fictional nature of it
and were not at all displeased with the foundation mythology that vergell had created
thank you dentists i think i might win this game i really appreciate you brother
let me add someone to that when you when you're done with them all right thank you dentists i'm
gonna let you go brother take care but you too bye so i also think this too when you like so
plutarck i know this is a century later but plutarck does his parallel lives and plutarck
takes real historical people for example he compares exeser to jew to alexander the great
he compares thesius to well not in this case ron listen thesius compares to the gods there
but he compares like pericles and fabius maximus he compares the one i love the most mark anthony
and demetrius that's a good one to read so cicero and demostin these two great orators
in their respective senate the athens and roam he's comparing these two these people from different
periods of time and he's writing these stories about them and like seeing how they line up you
can almost argue that something like the aeneid is someone like virgil is taking the mythical
stories of the past and comparing them to what's happening in the in the time period that he's in
and then rewriting it and then boom in the same way that plutarck does his lives you have virgil
rewriting homer for the for a latin audience does that make sense yeah that's the game right
that's the game in town that's why i asked that curious question of like did people really believe
some of these mythical legendary you know oh well the season really did become a god and and it's it's
not a black and white thing but i imagined some did but some probably didn't and and i'm not just
talking about the higher echelon there's probably just people who knew that hey this is what you do
with your figure right um i want to say thank you to the governor for becoming a member i really
appreciate that i just found out youtube allows you to gift memberships remember that no i owe you
stream i think oh yeah yeah yeah and last one says michael app says fine keep putting milleron
see if i care i hate i hate that michael apple i hate that guy i tell you he's a good looking
apple though look at him look at him over there thank you michael really appreciate that we are
done with super chat so now we can get into some sources all right feel free to super chat i'll get
to him here in a bit yeah yeah i want to start with this with with what justin martyrs laying down
all right this is so big like this is like the end this ends the conversation this is a conversation
ender for like is there like the parallel whatever you want to call it because even if we have justin
martyr in the second century seeing it and writing it down then it's like what else would
they're talking about so he says like in the symbol in the high suspicious has said that there
should be a dissolution by god things corruptible and the philosophers called the stoics they even
teach that god himself should be resolved into the fire and they say that the world has to be
formed to do by this revolution but we understand that god the creator of all things is superior
to the things that are being changed if therefore on some points we teach that same things are as
the poets and philosophers whom you honor and on other points are fuller more divine in our teaching
and if we alone afford proof of what we assert why are we unjustly hated more than all others
so he's like he you know he's talking about like we shall seem to utter the doctrine of Plato
while others and while we say that there will be a burning up of all we shall seem to utter the
doctrine of the stoics and while we affirm that the souls of the wicked this is from Plato's republic
being endowed with sensation even after death are punished and that those of the good being
delivered from punishment spend a blessed existence so this is so important because like
Justin martyrs pointing out that like you got we all love Plato Plato's the greatest but even he
has these disagreements with some of the poets and even he thinks that stuff that we believe is what
is is true like we're like we're lining up with Plato and so why are we getting called out and
then it gets even crazier because then he says well we talk about this logos the word the capital
word who is the first birth of god was produced without a sexual union the he jesus christ our
teacher was crucified died and rose again and it says yeah about nothing different from what you
believe regarding those who use seems sons of jupiter for you know how many sons you esteemed
writers ascribed to jupiter mercury the interpreting logos word and teacher of all
and that's that's a fact mercury was the logo see that's not even just in that's even in down in
egypt and the hermetic stuff asclepius who thought though he was a great position was struck by a
thunderbolt and ascended to heaven and bach is too after he'd been torn limb from limb and hercules
when he committed himself to the flames to escape his toils the sons of lada and the dialscore and
perseus son of damien so he gets into all this stuff right you guys cannot read this for yourself
but like he he even goes when you go down to here he's even go he goes farther than i go
like he says like uh right here he says um pert where's the one about the virgin oh he was born
of a virgin except this in common with you except about perseus and in one way like he's going far
i don't even know what is that is perseus born of a virgin i don't even know that i'd love to see
this source right like i don't even know i read i just found this out from justin martyre like
uh martyre danae danae his mother had been i believe she was a virgin until uh she conceived
perseus by zeus so right so that's so maybe he doesn't even care about that whole category of
like right um oh well it was only like zeus had to have had sex with her maybe he doesn't
even care to get into the detail on that he just is like look he was she was a virgin zeus a god
had sex with her and made a a a a demigod you know yeah look at like like like like uh healing the
lame and the blind like a sleepiest we all know that but um i was thinking about what you just
said right there because then you can then you because you can apply that to like um well first
of all you could go right to the birth of horus because how does he get born she turns into a
bird flies over the dead body of osiris and then gets impregnated somehow that doing that that's
i don't know if you want to call that a virgin bird it's a miracle birth for sure but then you
go look at um bacchus when he's you know he's born twice so semolina is the second birth
and in that case it says that text literally says she was ravaged by zeus so that's pretty bad
so there's a set that's not a virgin birth but at first birth with uh percepony she even after
she she gives birth to dine i said her title is still the eternal virgin so like virgin birth
is it even is it about a title is that what the person is things about that's what i'm wondering
is she a good question you know i would recommend uh for a shameless self plug here watch my video
on the church father church fathers and pagan parallels uh on a theological because
the the point that i make there is that it's kind of hard to argue as apologists do that
justin martyr or any of these other church fathers are stretching or exaggerating when we find that
all the things they're saying there are absolutely corroborated by the ancient sources so um which
which one is it help me out here so keep scrolling down keep scrolling down go down go down on me
there it is right there uh the in the up up up up up a little church fathers church fathers and
pagan parallels that one right there can interpret the audio you're the attack to your christian
that's all it is hey yeah yeah here we go that's the one where i take on that whole hey did you know
i just looked it up zoos so this is this is interesting when he when dan a got pregnant
is because zoos came to turn into golden rain that's right it's not a sexual unit it's it's a
miracle he turns into golden rain and then she apparently what does it say he took the form of
a golden rain to get into the bronze chamber and then seduced well he does seduce i don't know i don't
know why he thinks it's a virgin birth but there's probably something there yeah like it's almost
like the same birth well we we read it all the time i always pull it out to gustus yeah life of
seizures life of the season or alexander alexander's another one yeah deified augustus no mortal father
maybe that's what it is no mortal father equals virgin birth could be i mean that could be the
case with her it says that seems to be the case for all of them there's no mortal father it says
here in sutonius that it's i attended attending the sacred rites of apollo in middle of the night
had her litter positioned in the temple and fell asleep while the other matrons were also sleeping
all of a sudden a serpent slid up to her this is exactly what it says this is it doesn't tell you
anything else it says a serpent slid up to her then quickly went away that's it on waking she
purified herself as she would after sleeping with her husband and at once they appeared on her body
a mark in the image of a snake and she was never able to get rid of it so that ever afterward she
avoided going to public baths augustus was born 10 months later for this reason is believed to be
born of the son of son of apollo that's a virgin it doesn't say they had sex yeah it says a snake
slid up to her slid away it tells you that it doesn't say anything so anyway that's a divine birth
yeah oh yeah that's what it comes down to i think it's better just to use the term divine
miracle birth and who cares if it's a virgin it's about the miracle because that's that's the
category that because because i mean like you might say i'm i'm i'm choosing that category
so i could have them all in the same place but it's like no we're talking about divine heroes
that are had this like story where all of them seem to have mortal mothers and their sons of god
so they don't have mortal fathers i think that's a really important thing to point out
you know what i mean yeah no matter what the it's in the category
but i do like uh my in david litwai video i did where we talk about this because uh barred airman
did a course on it talk about other virgin births and i think he concluded that there weren't any
other virgin like the way that christianity did i contacted litwai now you know me you guys know me
i'm like hey what's up man i got like speed dial on 99 scholars right um and i was like hey
litwai what's up man let's uh do a do an interview i want to talk about are there other virgin
births i'm no more virgin births where the women conceive of a child not through sexual union at all
because barred airman says no in the greek and roman world they had sex with him and that was it
and he wrote me back it's he said it's really unfortunate that my teacher barred airman
takes that position remember now he was taught by bart and several other academics right and he's
like but he's just wrong so i did a video where we like corrected barred airman on this and you
know when you invited me to do this short video for the course about virgin births how excited i was
did bart learn about all these virgin births are we about to and then i went in there and i was like
so let's talk about this virgin birth of right well you know i'm more the course is more about
showing that there isn't any virgin births but it does show divine births which is yeah yeah yeah
so he does play it in the category it's just i got hyper specific and litwai brought up plutarch
showing that the birth of play dough was a virgin birth literally got about that yes plutarch talks
about as play dough's mom being giving birth divine birth through literally no sexual union but uh
derrick what what's what's some other should we play something from the clip of michael jones
you can i was going to just throw in one other objection that uh nathan that oh raised in that
video you know uh dr miller was talking about how the uh the death of jesus is presented more as a
martyrdom in in luke and ax but we do still have this idea of his death being an atonement
for sin elsewhere like in in paul's letters especially you know and one of the things
nadill tries to say and this is very much in line with earlier apologists like uh uh ronald
nash from uh many years ago and the gospel and the greeks when he when they make these comparisons
with other figures in the ancient world they say that well none of them died for sin
none of them died for sin you know that's something that makes jesus completely unique
well of course uh you're going to have that element in christianity because it did partially
spring from judaism so you know the the sacrificial cult and even the idea of um like in uh the
suffering servant of isaia and isaia 53 uh elizir in uh i want to say it's second or fourth maccabees
it's it's his death is presented as an atonement naturally you're going to have that in christianity
and not have that elsewhere because it is partially jewish we're not denying its jewish roots completely
but we are saying it is sort of a quasi helanized jewish you know it's it's it's as it's as
greek and helanistic as it is jewish so naturally you're going to have aspects of christianity that
are more jewish in inclination that do differentiate it from these other greco roman or pagan uh
cults and myths and movements um but at the same time you're going to find stuff in christianity that
you don't find in judaism precisely because it is also heavily stamped by helanism and and those
such ideas i'm with you man we could find things that seem unique from the jewish world i was thinking
of the maccabees when you said well nobody else has ever died for the sins and and if i'm not mistaken
i think it's fourth maccabees but it might be second where i was reading and they die on
behalf of the people like they literally become martyrs for the people um so there's kind of this
in a way they're dying for the nation uh you see this in john i think it says it's like it's better
that one man died than our nation be destroyed um so there is a sense in which jesus is atoning for
that but even paul says in an interesting way that he talks when he's flexing on oh i've been
lashed you know 39 times three times or whatever i've uh been shipwrecked i've been this if they
are jews and i'm even more so if they've done this and i've even this and like he's flexing on him
in that passage uh he mentions that i am filling up what is lacking in christ in terms of his his
suffering so paul is filling up what christ was lacking in his suffering i'll find the source for you
um i'm sure you guys showed my this birth of alexander real quick yes so when olympias
awoke from her sleep she was amazed at the learned diviner that's neck to nevo
uh i just i just go up a quick quick uh no i just keep reading i saw the dream the god that you
told me about and now i wish to be united with him talk about amon now let this be your concern
you should notify me at whatever hour he would mate with me so that i might be found most ready
for the bridegroom first of all my lady what you saw was a dream but that very one who was the god
in the dream is coming to unite with you allow me to sleep near you in the room so that you be not
afraid when the god is upon you she said you have spoken wisely prophet i shall give you access to my
room and if i experience the mate the mating and conceive i shall greatly honor you as an
infallible seer and i shall receive you as though you were a father of the child neck to nebo said
the first harbinger of the god who is coming you when you go inside and sit in your room you will
see a serpent come slithering to you there's that one you just thought you are to order those those
who are there to leave do not extinguish the light of the lamps go and recline on your couch and cover
your face once again you shall see the god whom you saw come into your dreams and immediately she
gave him another room there close to her chamber and he prepared the softest fleece of a ram together
with the horns from his head from its head and a staff in a white robe and he made a serpent
and he made it a soft and limp and it slithered out of his hands all of a sudden he set the serpent
loose and it entered a limpiest bedroom and when he saw and when she saw it she was not afraid
for she had been expecting it and she bid those who were there to go away each to his own place
and she reclined on the bed and covered her face only out of the corner of her eye that she see him
assuming the appearance which he saw in the dream and he put aside the date tree wood staff got up
onto the bed and turned Olympias toward him and mated with her then he made his then he put his
right hand upon her and said invincible and indomitable child long may you live my lady for
you are pregnant with a boy who shall be your avenger and become the world conquering king
of the whole civilized universe and having said this he took his staff and left the room
what yeah that's just because you had that i mean reading the sintonian thing it could be
implied that the serpent did mate with her because it says that when she woke up and this might be
all in a dream um that when she woke up she went and cleansed herself as the as that as if she slept
with her husband you know so that is implied it doesn't matter at the end of the day it really
doesn't matter yeah it's all miraculous fucking miraculous birds here author bow thank you for
that 20 hello guys just tuned in i am a longtime viewer love your content keep doing what you're
doing does dr miller offer a audio version of his book no he does not it is um a Rutledge publication
i'm hoping at some point to get him to do a more popular audience type uh version because it's so
dense and it's such a good book uh that he could really put this on a popular level and a lot of
people i think would jump on it and then if anyone had any quarrels it's like no reference your
academic work if they're serious they want to take you to task go check out the Rutledge publication
but let's get you public popular um the closest thing you can get to his book being audibly is
when he is doing his interviews on myth vision i've done like 20 recordings and i edited them
they're on the patreon and they're on um on myth vision's uh membership option as well so if you
became a member of either one you can access all those recordings but there's a lot we don't cover
that is in his books it's just too much there's no way we can do it it's too much but i do thank you
for that 20 i really appreciate the super chat um Derek i was talking to Neil we found a weird
thing about Hercules or Heracles and i wanted to kind of highlight that for a second oh yeah
so i mentioned this to to Richard we didn't get to bring this up um while he was here but he said
notice they're willing to change narratives in these mythic tales about the figure this is what
you see with Jesus that they're willing and capable of creating mythic legendary folklore you name
it with especially when you have all these other gospels start popping up and stuff but go ahead
Neil would you find brother yeah so Eusebius is talking about the time of Aristobulus so about
100 years before in the BC around that time and it says Aristobulus and his colleagues had written
in the book of records and the epistles of the kings of the house of David and Hezekiah and Josiah
and their companions were written and deposited there when they had found them and collected
they wrote in their volumes of their books and through the care of these ancient writers when
they saw that they the Jews went to the city of Tyre to praise Heracles a hero of the Greeks
and i'm just and reason why i'm pointing that out is like you hear all these you get like you
know the people were talking about these apologists types that say like Jews don't do anything but
outside of their religion they're all they're all in this bubble and they have no they have no
interest in anything Greek at all and it's like here you have Eusebius explaining that in this
he's citing Aristotle i think he lost that text by the way it's Aristobulus because i was looking
for i don't look at it exists anymore but he's he apparently has it and he's talking about it
why i mean i don't know why he'd make that up so um and then so i then i thought and something
something really shocked me today when i was going through Josephus because i wanted to know
i was trying to find what Josephus says about this uh and i found something crazy so let me just
i'm gonna share my screen out a couple things real quick if you don't mind
so Josephus it turns out that the the translation of Josephus that most people have
which was what is it what is it called again the the Winston i think that was that due to
Christian or something i don't know might have been he had to have been because it shocked me
because um there's in this and in one of these books here i got it right here perfect i got it all
right here oh why isn't why isn't it loading up let me know if you want me to play any specific
spots too Derek from that when we get when he shows the source from that video if there's
anywhere specific you want me to all right one second i don't have timestamps for any of that um
all right let me just do it like this then let me present it like this
can you see my screen uh yes all right so um in the translation that we have it says he set up a
temple of Hercules in the month of Peretius but if you actually look at the Greek this is the
Greek right here you guys can all fact check me if you want look at the Greek it's there's some words
in there that aren't being translated correctly and i looked them up and the word is Egesis some
of you might know this word it's used in Plato and in the New Testament see that see i'm down here
for waking from sleep and awakening it's literally means resurrection in the New Testament look
at garrisos awakening from sleep awakening from death and if you look at the uh times it's used
it's used by Josephus in the text that i was showing it's used in the New Testament and what
is it what are what are they used for the New Testament ready for this oh shit that's not the
right one they use it in Matthew i'm gonna pull this up right now i don't think i screenshot of that
one so the the the verse the verse that it's in in mat it's in Matthew um shit where why didn't i save
that one i don't know anyways the words the words resurrection it's in Matthew it literally
translations the English as resurrection so so that the real the real text from Hercules
um and by the way Neil Godfrey i looked at you know Neil Godfrey is yeah oh yeah he found
this way before me he's not here he's already on this shit because i found an article that he wrote
and he shows it right here uh here it is
Neil Godfrey so where did it go Josephus he points this out he goes
menander he just reads the same verse that i wrote and then he writes right here
you did not see it and above in the Winston translation Winston here is a closer look at the
passage relevant by john day resurrection and it says there's the word ergios the so here's the
real translation thus menander as uh refers to the i don't know why he didn't put it in there
anyways the real translation is Hercules resurrected in the month of pair whatever it is that whatever
problem so they changed it to they put up a temple of Hercules in the actual Greek of Josephus
it says they put up a uh they put up a temple of Joseph of Hercules commemorating his resurrection
in the month of blah blah blah that's so you have you have a we have Josephus talking about
Hercules's resurrection being commemorated in in Sedona entire
what do you think of that Derek that's pretty and and what did you did you mention something
like an homophagy or the the actual like partaking or consumption of Hercules oh yeah so Hercules
and Euripides um they eat his flesh i gotta find that actually i i i xed out of it um
hang on i don't know i want to if you want to play some of the stuff i can find it but they
find that that's what i was hoping you were gonna bring it because i did have it when i when i left
and came back i xed out of it so you not only have him resurrecting Hercules a flesh using the
same language his flesh so that he can rise that they needed to eat his flesh it was a cell
elevation thing it wasn't just for fun so find that source and while you do that uh i do have
another super chat i play some of that i'll find it for you in thank you for the super chat um
Nathan here see comment on a theological video and important to emphasize i do advocate parallels
plus support the args arguments my paper had its own oh it's Nathan Nadeau in the chat yes it's
Nathan yeah okay so okay i do advocate parallels plus support the arguments my paper had its own
argument that could be taken either way i take it one way honest thanks for
um reading is that reading thanks for reading yeah it is a great paper so hold on hold on he
commented on yours a theological video okay hold on yep i didn't know that
popping it up uh nope that was the wrong one
Nathan i want to talk to you by the way i we've already talked off air um but i would love
to interview you and talk with you and get into this because you take a stance i gotta i gotta
give you some credit man um you buck against nt right and uh and that that that alone gets you
some street cred and most apologists on those points yeah i mean at the end of the day i i'm
fascinated with seeing that uh let me see here can you guys see this do you see me scrolling
yeah try to go try going to most recent comments most recent where how do you do that
sort by yeah sort by most recent okay hold on let me get this newest comments newest first
ah there he is hello i don't disagree with many your points but when i talk about the
historical nature of the accounts about jesus i'm talking about the uniqueness of the gospel
text as evidence compared with the traditions of dying and rising gods okay so we kind of
both talked about that earlier uh with the dying rising god thing um the point about the rise of
christianity which i discussed in the paper and briefly mentioned elsewhere in the video was
sloppily inserted into very brief mention about the imperial cult yet it is relevant evidence for
considering christian resurrection belief in comparison in contrast with the greek pagan
resurrection beliefs that is wrt conversion the ultimate explanation will be multifaceted of course
so um this point right here i'm trying to wrap my head around elsewhere in the video was sloppily
inserted brief mention about the imperial cult yet it is relevant evidence for considering christian
resurrection belief in comparison in contrast with greek pagan resurrection beliefs um is this
kind of going into the whole what we just mentioned about jewish versus pagan and how there's certain
jewish motifs or i think he's trying to say that um it was conversion among christians into this
new cult that makes it unique from other movements uh in the ancient world at that time
okay um i i'd love to go further and see what you mean by that um just curious to know i know
paul's trying to push a monotheistic kind of uh you know motif uh on non-jews so maybe there i mean
obviously there's going to be some differences i would imagine regarding deification of human
beings it isn't something i discussed in the paper nor am i an expert in that that literature
when i mentioned the exegesis of the christian text i'm referring to the arguments that christians
the christians these texts do not represent jesus as an apotheosized man even if deification in
those terms can loosely describe analog the awareness of jesus's status after his death and
resurrection i agree with lit within and i wonder if he wouldn't agree with me were we to talk what is
behind my sense here is coming to grips with the christian texts are saying um sorry i just butchered
the hell out of that but what what did you get what he was trying to emphasize there specifically is
this the idea that jesus before he you know dies and then is considered deified uh that he kind of
sees him as more than a mere man he's he's he's obviously he says when i mentioned the exegesis
of the christian texts i am referring to the argument that christians these texts do not
he's written kind of sloppily but these texts do not present jesus as an apotheosized man
which i would just vehemently disagree with him even if deification in those terms can loosely
describe analog the the awareness of jesus's status after his death and resurrection i agree
with lit within and i wonder if he wouldn't agree with me were we to talk what is behind my sense
here is coming to grips with what christian texts are saying and so um yeah so this this idea that
him being either an apotheosized man i know that uh michael jones would probably take the approach
that jesus was not an apotheosized man he was actually a way in the flesh and so he he goes
way beyond uh the typical but i'm curious to know the ins and outs of what what he is suggesting
versus what you know you might be just saying here derek i also should say that my mention of
mythology was not that not what i had written down in my notes where i conceded that on much of the
definition the gospels do conform to the genre but they are ultimately historical text generic
distinctions are notoriously difficult to maintain but still descriptively important and worthwhile
so again we're in so are you suggesting their historiography um because i mean you could find
this is what richard miller brings out in his book and in our conversations find ancient fiction
and it's very hard to do this you will find some you might find some illusion you might find some
in other places but find ancient fiction that does not have realism or what we like to call
verisimilitude historical details people places things they did this with fiction um all the time
and in fact that's the most common thing is to write narratives novels fictions uh you name it
with that realism there so saying they're ultimately historical text i'm curious to know
what is historical here are you suggesting well let's forget the walking on water and the virgin
birth narrative and let's forget about you know any of the what we would consider mythic legendary
topos once you erase that like we're thomas jefferson then you have real history everything
else is pretty much historical um i'm curious to know on that the explanation i am warm to
is not the either demons copy god or god copy demons as one commentator said but that resurrection
belief is an integral part of the human psyche and speaks to something about human nature which
finds its expression both in the myths myths about it and in jesus this is of course not
something i can argue historically it is an inference presupposing a great many other things
in the paper i do mention my own resurrection belief in the conclusion and this is precisely
why i deliberately submitted the paper to a theology journal even while the other 49 pages
are historically and linguistically focused for what it's worth there are all sorts of
interesting evidences from the ancient world and i do not always know what to make of them
i like this comment and i'll say this because i really like this comment because don't we all
not want to die i mean dag navet i'd love to not die i think everybody kind of wants to not die
and i really appreciate this one because i do also think that the whole origin of the mythos and the
idea of of death and wanting to live after or somehow existing after whatever mode that is if
you're plate if you're plateness and you don't have a body or you're not a plateness and you're
stoic and you think there's something whatever if you're a pneumatic body kind of guide you think
it's a pneumatic but the list can go on but the fact that we still keep going after we're dead
i think that's something we all want even me as a like a naturalist i want to leave a legacy i want
to leave a legend i want to leave a story i want to leave you know a name i want to leave memory
i want to leave all that and i think we all want that um so i i don't think that you're wrong for
that at all i think that's important uh to investigate but i do think that that is so
commonly known in the mythic trope that it's like you know how do we how do we bring this out of
the mythic legendary trope derrick for example and then now make this one true but all i mean
far before jesus osiris two millennia before jesus you already have this within an agricultural
i get it cyclical i get it but that was the milieu just like we're finding these other figures in
the milieu of jesus this time looking and sounding and acting similar uh what they're doing in some
ways and then sometimes it's unique you know you have them clothed in in things we find in
deities that have been the heroes of ancient times but they they're they're mimicking it
they're imitating it they have imitations for example the the ascension narrative of jesus
very much like romulus very very much like romulus um and so we start chipping away and
i mean i've had uh delcy allison junior on i really enjoy him because he really does try
and he's like yeah i think the closest antecedent to that is definitely romulus
but most people want to try and only force it into the jewish world well well
you know elijah got taken up in a chariot or whatever anyway uh what do you have a comment
on that or did you want me to keep going well you know first and foremost i i appreciate
nathan for taking such a kind and courteous and professional tone um i have noticed that
as of late i've had a few christian commenters surprise me by taking
kind and respectful tones and when they do that i absolutely uh return the favor you know it's
as i said on my own social media i live according to the brazen rule which is
do unto others as they do unto you uh so you know what i mean if you're respectful to me i'm
going to be respectful to you and if you're a jerk to me i'm going to be a jerk to you he's very
respectful um so i very much appreciate that what he's what he's getting at here is he's
saying that there's and i agree with him that there is something to be said for the sort of
collective yearning for uh immortality and for you know an ongoing life beyond this one
in whatever form that may take including resurrection but i i frankly i don't think that
you can i don't think you can downplay what's going on here um quite that easily that there is
something to be said for what lit was talking about and what for dr miller for what he's talking
about that with with what we've got going on surrounding the the resurrection of jesus um
here within this this greco this greco roman milieu from which it emerges you have just as
you were mentioning with romulus all of these um as dr miller calls them protocols or signals
that strongly suggests that it is plain in that kind of mythic sandbox right you have you know
the the resurrection is equally part equal parts of deification uh that he is you know he ascends
to the heavens he appears to witnesses his body goes missing the whole nine yards i i just i can't
you can't convince me it's merely a coincidence that this this stuff shows up in the new testament
you know what i mean right there in that milieu where these kinds of motifs are popular i think
it's interesting what you just said there too if we model we look at two so you've got like genre
categories of what are the gospels and a lot of them will say their biographies um there is
really good reason to be skeptical of that i downloaded a book recently that is actually
mentioned by richard c miller in in his book um not to deny that matthew and luke i hear a loud
computer noise um not to deny that there isn't some that it appears matthew and luke have a
cradle to grave narrative for jesus but taking that motif of like cradle to grave uh you have this
deified birth right he's like entering the world you see this with other figures who become deified
at their at their peak moment right they die and then they ascend and who now they get crowned
you see this in philippians too in the hymn you know he was less he was he was still you know
someone great but he humbles himself he lower boom he ascends now his name is about you're
getting crowned they're getting that hollow fame tab on the chest here he is now he's a deity
on another level in fact it's no other name by which men can be saved and then all knees will
bow right this is the guy jesus um so that sounds very he's now deified post mortem deification
this guy is being rewarded his hollow fame honor for for for his death and humbling himself and such
but the gospel narratives two of them look like biographies mark doesn't according to one of the
scholars that miller brings up because there's no birth narrative i mean you literally jump into a
scene it's the last week or so of his life it's not really it's not really doing a lot of his
life here it's just telling you a highlighted moment the guy gets baptized boom and it's very
narrative like doesn't sound so i guess you could say it's biography like but it's not i mean there's
no birth and even if you want to call them greco roman biographies so are sutonius's the 12
seizures so is uh you know plutarx parallel lives and yet they still include this fanciful
fantastical stuff that we find so often in the greco roman world and we're seeing this in the
gospels as well so i actually was able it's actually um there's it's in a bunch it's in
couple sources but it's like you're right it's tweaked in different ones senica is in the first
century he's a teacher of nero and his version it's this it's the uh it's called the it's called
the hercules oita oetius oetius and um so here we go hold on hold on the governor not that i'm
not loving this unfortunately i have three Siberian huskies demanding a walk by for now
thank you for becoming a member and that super chat of course of course those supers always
got to go first all right phylloctatis announces the death and the last disposal of the body of
hercules alchemyna agrees about her downfall arising out of the death of hercules alchemyna
in her grief chance of funeral dirge hercules having been raised to the companionship of the gods
although i passed it i passed it i passed it all right hercules there's the death of hercules
all right the chorus sings of the death uh regarding the failing strength of hercules that
nothing born or created is lasting a sentiment of orpheus is pray it is praised and the chorus
would celebrate divine art hercules complains about suffering undeservedly that he should be doomed
and dying ignamious death especially one arising out of a woman's treachery alchemyna consoles hercules
while lamenting said hilas had returned to hercules that dnr after she found that she had deceived
nesses killed herself the chorus besieges phobos to announce all the world the death of hercules
they predict the apotheosis of hercules and employed jupiter that no more tyrants uh where
wait how can this is this is even it uh oh we lost eric for a second
okay so wait this doesn't have anything about him being eaten sorry about that
that so that that version of it is not showing no i'm not seeing anything about him being eaten
here i thought this was the one but i guess not find that and while you do that i want to highlight
i want to highlight uh nathan's comment continued i don't follow the ongoing debate on youtube nor
did i do i intend to participate in an ongoing debate between various parties i provided a
brief reflection to the interview on my blog which along with this comment says pretty much
all i can say at this juncture too many things on my plate and other focuses however i saw the
videos of yours that discussed my paper and i defended as rational the project you were
undertaking in your correct citation of my work i have always been happy to see readers of any
stripe interacting on academia as you have regarding any misspellings in the interview
i've never done anything like this before and it is hard to respond well in a live conversation
even with notes this is a hobby area for me something i tried to make clear at the outset
of the video even while i thought to have something important to say about it but i have
not specifically focused on it say for a course paper i wrote a few years back and i'm happy to
keep adding to my understanding regards nathan nathan let's talk brother i would love the chit chat
and hang out with you and do a conversation i'm not a uh not a debater dude i'm a hang out
conversate let's let's deep dive together understand each other where we're coming from
and please i'd love that which you were really cool even when i emailed you we definitely got
a talk i think i got your number even so maybe we could talk off record and then discuss how to go
forward um on this discussion but i would i really think you went above and beyond even kind of
highlighting some of the points that i think are important in a kind of ignored or downplayed by
people in apologetics and that's the game on youtube right so that he brings up in like 19
minutes in he brings up um you know herodotus bringing up the zalmoxis cult and the resurrection
motif or the idea that they would live on after death and things like that there's a lot of stuff
that uh he brought up that i thought was interesting all right the gods could not take benet they said
screw that guy i'm sending him back did you know i'm benet had to pee pee i had to take a second
because uh i'm trying to uh i'm looking through something right now okay so he's looking for
the part where the devotees or the followers of hercules eat him after he dies just just to
highlight like this happens with what appears to be bachic kind of dianese and the titans chew the
flesh and you know eight uh dianesis and see that goes right along with what i was saying earlier
about how you know it's it's nice to kind of neatly categorize these things you've got greco
roman apotheosis in in this box and then you've got the dianorizing gods in this box and we keep
these nice and neat and separate but in the ancient world it didn't always work that way
there were there were you know sometimes fuzzy lines especially with all the kind of
syncretism and cross-pollinization that was going on and so here we see heracles uh one of those
that we would classify as greco roman apotheosis being treated like one of these agricultural gods
you know where they're consuming his flesh like they did with osiris or dianesis so that's what
i'm talking about is sometimes these lines were blurred i think you're right i mean you but you're
also trying to suppress the truth and unrighteousness so it's hard well there's that too because i love
to sin oh man it's great no but you bring up an interesting point that we've created these kind
of categories and when we go back into it we're trying to try to fit it into this or fit into
that i think that if we try to get into the mind of justin martyr like we can't but if we try to
imagine what we're saying about these comparisons is the case and that these are real comparisons
justin is doing in his apology he can't deny them they're outside in the buildings on the
street corners literally like churches today maybe even more okay i would i would say even more i mean
this is a highly cultic world that they live in and it's not secularized in much the way we we
live in our world um you're walking around you see it you can't deny it's there you're engaging it
and you're comparing but you add well it's demons right uh what what nathan is saying is saying well
i don't buy the demons i don't buy the idea that you know either or position um i'm gonna go with
the idea that people what was his argument i don't want to put words in his mouth
the explanation i am warm to is not that either demons copied god or god copied demons
as one commenter said was that's what justin martyr seems to be implying at least and it gets
elaborated by different fathers as one commenter said but that resurrection belief is an integral
part of the human psyche but but that alone so i want to critique that while i loved that comment
i have to critique it right and here's why i agree that the human psyche but that could be true
whether or not you think it copied borrowed didn't borrow whatever the fact that it's being compared
by justin martyr and that we do see antecedents that seem to be utilized here that's the problem
i would say is is just the human psyche isn't enough to explain what i see in the new testament
we're hearing like bongo noises too every time you type derrick so sorry so sorry but you get
what i'm trying to get at right like i like i can't look at the new testament ignoring or
not really recognizing all of the other motifs that go on with different figures and such
and then just say well i'm going to put this one in this one box here and say hey all right i
don't want to compare this and i don't want to see the analogous comparison as if there's not a
genealogical or even some type of connection between christianity and the rest of these other
cults um i think it's just a human psyche thing and i don't think that's necessarily what nathan's
trying to do i just want to rule that out i want to say that's not enough for explaining what i'm
finding in the new testament what about you i absolutely agree with that i absolutely agree
with that um you know just just as i was saying earlier it's it's you can to a degree are you
that you know because of that collective yearning for you know ongoing life or immortality that
naturally you're going to see this these analogies across the board but at the same time that we see
christianity emerging from this greco roman milieu in which you have uh resurrections deification
with all these attendant motifs that line up with what we find in the new testament as mentioned
before deification the missing body appearances to witnesses um shining heavenly appearance
all these things it's it's it can't just be a coincidence i mean if it is it's a remarkable
coincidence right right something else um and this was written by url dority now url dority
is not a celebrated scholar in fact he's one of these mythicists that not too many people take
very seriously in academic circles nonetheless um i enjoyed his work early on and he has a great
quote uh that goes along with what we're what we're talking about touches on this kind of perfectly he
says um and that some comparative religious need to dilute their parallelomania with a bit of
analogical input almost every sect that looks back to a divine event or interaction with the
deity develops a sacred meal as a commemorative thanksgiving or ritual reflection um he says
of the most fundamental religious impulse is to find a way to believe in a life after death
this is almost inevitably going to take the form of creating a deity who will bestow such a thing
and given our mystical predilections it should not be surprising that a process we would all
tend to hit upon is the principle of the god undergoing the desired goal himself it would
indeed take a god to conquer death but if we could just find a way to ride through that
formidable barrier on his powerful coattails um these are common developments which enjoy no
exclusivity in any one expression and yet the reality is probably a combination of the two
he's talking about of genealogical and analogical uh stuff going on he says ideas are in the air
precisely because they are the current product of a common impulse in the human psyche but each
expression has also absorbed the example of and been additionally motivated and influenced by
other expressions a cacophony built largely of the same oral ingredients as in music each
generation the period of composition has its characteristic sound one gradually evolving
not because any individual composer and certainly not the great ones has been consciously copying
his musical peers but because he or she cannot think musical thoughts in isolation but will build
his own expression and innovations on what is currently being heard in the environment so if
you if you get what he's saying there it's it's that you shouldn't talk in in a either or dichotomy
what it comes to is it analogical or is it genealogical right is it purely psych
psyche or is it purely mythic complete right and i think i think that it's
too like you point out there's way too many details to imagine that this is purely coincidental
i would go a step further than it just purely being uh cultural like litwell might do i do
think there's some genealogical literary reasons i think denise mcdonald's on the on the path of
some of this stuff though it i'm not denying the cultural i'm saying i just feel like it's
so strong and overwhelming i mean look if the modus operandi of luke and matthews to copy mark
they're constructing narratives using an earlier narrative i mean is it more ad hoc or less ad hoc
to assume they're also constructing utilizing antecedents such as the lxx such as possibly
other narratives like homer um it's not out of the question it's not ridiculous and i think that
that makes the most sense so i'm with you ascension birth narratives post mortem empty tomb
you know missing body which is a translation fatal fable motif where someone had become a god that's
where the body goes missing uh there's several several things that i would highlight the eating
of the flash drinking of their butt like osiris dianesis like what the heck he is the true vine
john really paints him dianese and he's turning water into wine the whole night um it just seems
more than just cultural even though i do think it's cultural i think it's more than just psyche
i think the point is we all want to live on somehow it's where i think reincarnation and
other things come to mind to try and explain it so i just think it's special pleading for me
if you're going on record and i've said this several times i'm saying it again tell me if
i'm wrong derrick or or or nuance a bit if you're going on record going but jesus
no no no screw and scratch everyone else but jesus and ignoring uh some of the clear statements
even of the the gospels that have jesus himself condoning slavery not seeing how non-moral how
backwards that would become when you have scenes contemporaneous or even a little before this saying
i will not own another human being that's a crime against humanity there were jewish scenes who were
condemning the act of owning another human they would not do it yet jesus is working in the con
he's working within that moral construct because what they'll do is they'll say yeah but the ethical
and there are church fathers who go look the Zeus raped women our god did not do that right so
they'll they'll downplay or hercules murdered his family in a fit of rage you know that god ended
up making going to a fit of rage he killed his own family no god could do that that's ridiculous our
god though like so they were doing arguments and polemics against the pagan world but like jesus
himself works with slavery never condemns it as scenes did widen jesus if he is able to know this
if his father is communicating with him like there's so many simple things that i would highlight
that make me go you're making this one special and unique and and and not just laying it out
there go look i have faith in this one i like the tradition i'm a christian by culture but no
there's a apologetic grind to say jesus is special this one's true their others are wrong
and that's what michael jones does so nathan appeared on michael jones's channel and whether he
agrees with him some of the water gets muddy i'ma shut up there tell me what you think so far
um you know i have to say and i just have to because i i did finish reading the entirety of
nathan's uh comment on my channel um i want to express how much i appreciate it it's it's
i know i already said this but it's it's it's professional it's kind it's courteous it's respectful
and i um you know uh i i admire him for that and and you know i didn't go into this i didn't go
into making my response video thinking that the guy was an idiot he's not no he's not he's that's
you know i loved his his paper um because it was so well done and i knew i mean i can read i can i
knew he was associated with mcmaster's divinity school i did not take this to mean that he was
saying uh there were you know risen gods in the ancient world and jesus was one of them
that wasn't the point uh we only cited him to because what the what what apologists like michael
jones are initially bucking is this idea that there were any bodily resurrected divinities in
the ancient world right like we couldn't they can't they couldn't even go that far that's why
we pointed out that highlight in your video that so we're citing yes natto's work that that of john
granger cook who is also a christian who certainly believes that jesus was raised from the dead
we're citing those works just to show that with you know without making any argument as to whether
this has any relevance to the resurrection of jesus yes there there was such a motif in the ancient
world there there were resurrected you know heroes and divinities and and whatnot the resurrection
was a thing that was step one right um and how much more potent is it to be able to say look
these are christian scholars who are saying that yes there was such a thing it is an extra step
to then argue that this has any relevance to what we find in christianity of the new testament
and i'm not going to depend on you know natto or cook to make that argument because it's not
an argument they're likely to make right so so for that you you have to go elsewhere and i i
definitely want to give a little praise to during the interview i only had 30 minutes in it's a couple
hour interview and you asked me did you watch the whole thing i said not yet that's why i was
wanting to review it and go over it with you but he brought up a zelmoxis he he admits in there says
look int right is wrong on this um and that i got to give major kudos brownies i appreciate anyone
who comes in and doesn't sit there and have to go into the same old repeating this stuff because
it becomes repetition and he he highlights that in the first 20 minutes he's pointing out like
it's almost like there's this axe the grind position that we must have about about a thing
and he's bucking against it saying no they they had physical resurrections of of figures
you wanted to play that clip of michael jones because michael jones actually
went on record before saying no they did not have this and that was part of that
int right polemic that has been going on so that's the first objection that you have to overcome right
yeah because if you're going to like just if let's just pretend the supernatural is real and
we're on the same page and we think you know what one of these guys could have been resurrected from
the dead um we want to at least be on the same talking on the same foundation that yeah they
also thought that people physically could come back or physically were alive after death in fact
that's what richard c miller writes about and points out in his book i was shocked to find this out
this is what rick miller said derek i don't know if he's mentioned this to you yet but it really
blew me away and in his book i'm sure you came across this but i'll just be highlighting preaching
to the choir here remember the scene when thomas touches jesus he says i will not believe until i
touch he touches him physicality he doubts before this as soon as he touches him physicality he then
exclaims my lord my god this is a direct quote my lord my god he says rick miller points out
and i never thought about this i always thought about you know a contradiction between paul's
letters and luke and john on what kind of body's going on here and there's still possible debate
be had here but the idea is as rick miller points out the only beings that could have a physical body
yet appear and disappear walk through walls any of that kind of stuff in antiquity during this time
were gods if he could not be physical if he was a phantom or a ghost he was not a god
he could have been a human he could have been a shade he could have been so he's not a god
but if he's physical and could walk through walls according to these what i would call
narratives that's being without me saying fictions because i really do think these are fictions
these narratives have him walking through walls it clarifies who this person is that's why
thomas tells you the answer my lord and my god like right there so if we're on that basis then
we can understand why litwa writes about saying how how um hercules after he dies hops on the pyre
goes up in ascends into mount olympus and then has children how do you have babies
how can you make physical children how can you continue to procreate you just burned your only
physical body here on a pyre and so it's not supposed to necessarily make sense
litwa said but that is told about hercules heracles he goes up and he has babies on
and the same can be said of Dionysus or whoever else in the greek world that literally has a
physicality to him or her after they're dead and if we can have that as a foundation derrick
and then move from there then we can start asking questions like why don't we actually
join the cult of heracles why are we joining the cult of jesus why this one why is it this one
that you think is absolutely true and you have all these analogies why is this one the one
this is into the polemics and anti polemics of apologetics but you know that's kind of the
thing we're doing here on youtube and engaging and showing like you're running around telling others
they're gonna go to hell and i'm not talking about nathan here nathan seems very layback and
chill wants to do this as an academic pursuit this seems more just like a hobby in an academic
pursuit but michael jones is a an apologetic channel and he and along with the rest of the
apologists out there are pushing the faith polemicizing it against the world and saying convert
or something might happen to you if you don't like what so so we're fighting we're fighting
a little battle here in terms of ideologies that's why i did that this is war video derrick but
what do you think man what do you think well i i think you know something something that
occurred to me while you were talking about all of that too is you know thomas now understands
the bruis and jesus as a god essentially um you know and then what is paul saying his letters
roman's one four that uh he became the son of god in power by his resurrection from the dead
in philippians two i want to say eight through nine that's the whole idea is is he humbles himself
to death and then is highly exalted um so he he does yeah i mean this is something like an apotheosis
and he had to have been mortal beforehand right or else he couldn't have been killed right that's
something that can only have so this is essentially an apotheosized man i i think and i could be wrong
about this because i couldn't quite make out what nathan was saying there about right agreement with
the apotheosized man thing but if if his point was that jesus was in some sense already divine
well you have that in these other myths as well what does it say about what does avid say about
esclavius that from a god you will turn to a bloodless corpse and then to a god who was a corpse
so he was already divine all right one of the god but then after his death he's exalted
to an even higher status romulus in plutarch uh you know when romulus descends and he's speaking
to proculus julius what does he tell him i descended from the gods he was already divine
pre-existent in fact that's why i was thinking the birth narratives kind of already tell you
and notice they're all written usually after the fact it's interesting to note that uh you do have
the aneid writing contemporaneous to octavian and he's painting him with divine attributes already
and he's alive while this is happening which is quite interesting but um you you have this kind of
cradle to grave narrative and that cradle it's a divine birth there's some divine birth taking
place so there is a divinity i mean look at her Hercules Hercules going through his trials and there's
some miraculous things and feats he overcomes or you can look at other examples i like the whole
one you bring up of a Sclepius but let's use more mundane real historical figures that we know
like the Caesars Vespasian in the temple of Serapis who hills a withered hand and spits in mud and
literally rubs the eyes uh you know there are debates in the scholarly world like is this
borrowing from this one or that one from this one but they are using it and applying it to
Vespasian Titus uh so i'm like hmm i don't know i don't know that one's not a cradle to grave
narrative but it does have him performing these feats that you would think only people who are
divine or or have these abilities would do um i'm curious to know what what all other alternative
that's why i brought up what Michael Jones would say is he thinks that Jesus is Yahweh
like that's how far because they have a Trinitarian point of view he's kind of
God in the flesh as if Yahweh and there's a Trinitarian kind of theological systematic
approach to explaining it because he can calm the storm as if you know Jesus is the only one who
calms the storm so to speak here but i think it's mercury in the Aeneid and it's um it's uh who who
was it in the Odyssey or is it the Iliad i think it's the Odyssey it's not mercury but it's i can't
think right now but um you get the point there's other people who calm seas and stuff other gods
in pedicles uh was able to do so and i want to say Pythagoras as well
i just and even Augustus that's true because you have the quote by Philo and Philo is saying like
hey what was that get that quote out man that's a freaking quote can you grab that i think i
haven't memorized he um he uh healed pestilence is common to Greeks and barbarians and um nope
you know what maybe i don't i have that part memorized what how's type it in uh i'm gonna
mute you type it in real quick because it makes a lot of noise go ahead and mute all right you're
mute you're mute oh i just you mute unmute yourself there you go you're mute now yeah awesome okay
he's gonna get the source i think this is an awesome source and and this is uh phylo right
there contemporaneous so to speak to paul and i while he's looking for that i just want to make
the point i don't i think that we would be on the same page with michael um inspiring philosophy
and others if you're trying to make the zeitgeisty comparison but i think what he does often is tries
to separate jesus whole cloth from comparison and that's where we're like nah we draw the line
we want to be scholarly but we also aren't trying to be apologetic at all we want to give you the
facts on the ground and what seems to be the case and i think we're on the right track so
did you get it derrick oh you're mute go ahead brother you're on yes uh this is from phylo of
alexandria he's talking about augustus this is the caesar who calmed the torrential storms on
every side who healed pestilences common to greeks and barbarians uh that is phylo in
oh which work is this
i'm trying to recall le g is the abbreviation 144 to 144 legacy i think it's a legacy
to gaius i think that's right phylo
sounds like you're playing music when you type
so all right i just want to see why you do that i'm in the poll have you grabbed dr richard c
millers book and it says uh 294 people voted 58 percent said no i'm planning on getting it 33
8 percent say yes and i don't blame people you're talking about a 53 54 dollar you know
scholarly ruttledge volume um but hopefully uh they make it affordable at ruttledge or
you know dr miller will rewrite another book and do it for more popular audience and go from there so
that was embassy to gaius uh 144 to 45 from phylo of alexandria there on augustus
awesome so you just just read that part but i thought there was a lot more to that
like he gives him some titles and all sorts of stuff that you kind of would imagine jesus gets
um i don't recall whether phylo uh bestows such titles on him but
um augustus did bear titles like son of god and savior of the world right that's what i thought he's
the uh the birth of the god who whose uh gospel or good news gospel was used uh an association
with augustus so clearly when uh early christians are writing gospels this is a counter movement
to the imperial cult and to even augustus
oh yeah there's some good stuff there's some good stuff so uh i'm gonna hit nathan up at some point
here i probably end up eating some lunch first before i end up doing that but um is there anything
else that we should play or is there anything else you want to cover derrick everybody nice
to go subscribe to you by the way i think we yeah yeah yeah i think we hit the main points i mean
if there's one thing i would impress upon nathan it is that you know to make the distinction that
he did you know to say that that jesus was a recent contemporaneous figure from the standpoint of the
new testament yes that's fine i would i would agree with that uh most scholars would but you know
having been a recent person historical person didn't prevent you from being deified um along
the lines of these common cultural conceptions these mythic motifs that were known uh to earlier
mythical figures i love the way you said it earlier derrick is that they they clothed themselves or
others would clothe them in the the mythos of these of these mythical and legendary figures
i i love that idea because what what we typically get when you get this like very very
rigorous comparison trying to act like this person is like this person and these ancient deities that
you go back like romulus has a a dark past meaning like deep deep back back in history livy tries to
describe it i know that it's in uh avid too but that's more poetic livy seems to be almost straightforward
and his histories to try and describe what's going on with the origin of roam the five kind of kings
of roam and then moving into romulus is one uh with romulus and remus of course but i'm sitting
here reading and i'm going they did this with the caesars these are real people that are contemporaneous
to the authors that are writing or at least somewhat contemporaneous some are very contemporaneous um
you know virginals writing contemporaneous to uh octavian being alive and he's building temples and
he's being seen in a kind of a deity sense before he dies there's already expectations of him becoming
a god he helped make sure julia cesar was deified against the senate um and then you have them packaged
as hercules uh alexander the great even julia cesar at one point when he conquers the galls
there was like this well known almost like seeing in the street saying like hey not even alexander
the great conquered the galls and julia cesar did so it's like they're trying to outdo them but
they're also trying to imitate them and mimic them and they're they're wearing the clothing of them
as you heard richard miller talk about so they're reaching back they're grabbing the gods of ancient
times that we probably think don't exist but they have tales about them and they're repackaging their
lives in modeled forms after those figures what we're suggesting is that jesus is doing the same
there's a reaching back of the authors at least the cultic surrounding the mythology of jesus
and they're reaching back and they're modeling uh not only on antiquity ancient gods of antiquity
like dionysus with john's gospel or romulus with the ascension of jesus but also competing with
the contemporaneous stuff as denise mcdonald's work shows not only are they reaching back to homer
ancient ancient they're competing axes competing with virgil's aniad rewriting a better better than
the julio claudio line sons of god line of these cesars jesus is going to have an everlasting kingdom
and it's competing with this in a way uh literally so you've got contemporaneous competition and
imitation you've got antiquity you know stuff going on i don't know that makes the most sense
to me to act like this is all unique or this just happened and we've got to ignore the cultural
milieu seems ad hoc or or just i don't know it doesn't seem to make sense to me it's pretty ad
hoc and and you know i think um one of the things you have to realize and you have to acknowledge
is that our explanation doesn't require anything but what we commonly witness in the world around us
their explanation requires a massive coincidence as well as phenomena that is
completely um just not not observed or known to happen uh in reality right i i echo that i agree
with you and so is it odd to you derrick this is a personal question to you is it odd to you
after finding all this out you were once a christian i know i was extremely drinking the cold
you know version of it very fundamentalist um is it odd to you that humans more often are
superstitious and believe in the things that are not based in reality than then then just being
rational and going based on things that we observe and and going that route is that odd to you
thinking about it at this point it's especially odd to me because i mean yes i was a christian but
i shed christianity from a very young age like adolescence um you know so i don't have the
experience of man i was a church going christian on fire for jesus up into my adulthood and i don't
have that experience and so it does kind of boggle my mind i don't understand how
it's uh i i want to be polite in how i phrase this but i just don't i don't get it i don't
understand how any grown adult still um still holds to this stuff which is so obviously to me at
least uh legendary i don't get it but you know to each his own i i my message is not to say that
people can't or shouldn't um you know really i'm just um i'm making known the things i have learned
over the years and defending my own non-belief and that of others it's it's only when someone is
trying to push their agenda or their ideas or beliefs on me or others that we've got a problem
you could say that again that's that's that's what i mentioned yesterday with dr carville
when we talked about his story it is not normal to not believe in america okay it's it's it's legal
it's allowed um but you are ostracized there is a view uh even in academia it's very difficult to
like people like barred airmen for example you could tell they also try to tiptoe you know they
want to be professional they want to work within the academic circles but they can't be too polemic
or they can't really speak as bold and blunt as often as you might hear us do here on youtube
it's not normal to be a non-believer it's more normal to be of some faith community some type of
thing and we're trying to normalize that and so you see people out here who are still trying to
with this agenda push christianity that jesus is the truth and you know what the repercussions are
if you don't believe that according to them and i have people who with their rational mind
write me messages on facebook saying i don't think this is true anymore but then they write me i got
one person that writes me all the time hey what is that scholar but do they believe are they christian
and i'm like i don't know and if i do know i'll tell them hey no they're not or yes they are um
like some of my scholars and they always ask are they a christian what do they believe what do they
believe and i go why does it matter what anyone else believes well they're really smart why would a
really smart person believe that and so they they kind of like because they've never studied this
stuff they write me and they go why would this really smart person believe jesus rose from the
dead if he didn't and so i'll have like a scholar on that as a believer and then i'll have a scholar
on who's not to come and educate and this person has tug of war go on constantly in their minds
because they know what if what if it's true is it worth risking at all that that hell dangles
over their head always and so i feel i understand that i know that experience my mother conveys it
to me all the time when we talk about it which is why we don't talk about it anymore derrick you
know my mom i try not to bring it up you know mom you know my mom pretty quite well yeah um
that's why i do too you know i love well yeah these are really smart people um you know it's it's
you have a lot of intelligent highly intelligent people who are believing christians and what you
have to realize is that that stuff is compartmentalized right so it's just in this little god box where
they their beliefs just are not in accord with reality but in their everyday lives they are
fully functional rational human beings and and rationality exists on a scale anyway and it's
you know i'm i'm pretty rational pretty logical when it comes to this stuff religion and philosophy
but in aspects of my personal life i'm not rational at all yeah i'm a recovering alcoholic
for god's sake you know what i mean i've done plenty of being you know emotional and irrational
i'm not a robot i'm not perfect so we all have we all have irrationality in different areas
we're all human we all have our own strengths and weaknesses um so it's just i don't know it's
it's uh different variations on the human condition right right i would love to talk with
nathan if he i doubt he's watching at this point but i would love to talk with him
on the record and like get him to spell out more because when when i wrote him on the email he
wrote me back really cool guy in fact i think he's a fan of what we do here at myth vision and educating
people um not to polemicize not even to like engage debate not even to like use him against uh
michael jones that's not even my interest my interest is what the facts are on the ground and how
he's seeing it and just highlighting that again i think it's amazing he at least is willing on
even on michael jones to say int he writes wrong on that if i could get him on the record to say
some stuff like that i'll be happy i'll take any brownie points i can get in terms of getting
closer to what the scholarship is what is the most modern up-to-date scholarship on these
arguments and that's i think his goal too based on what i read in his comment to you he's trying
he says at the end of that comment and by the way a comment i put in the comment your video so i
hope people check it out you know he's like at the end of it but i have not specifically or
especially focused on it say for a course paper i wrote a few years back i'm happy to keep adding
my understanding yeah i think that's just that you know someone who's a student who wants to
continue to learn i'm a student you're a student i hope everybody stays a student so yeah yeah i
would put nathan in a uh a different category uh altogether from uh most of the apologists that i
um bulkheads with right right right absolutely um derek plug in your channel one more time in
this is the video if you haven't watched it go watch it right now go check it out subscribe
to derek benett's youtube channel we lost nil nil was supposed to find us the the passage he found
here it is in the chat go watch it should i play it right now or should we get them to
go click on the dang thing should we tease him with the intro yeah just tease him with the
intro that'll work just tease him a little bit i'm gonna i'm gonna dangle something great like
your little kittens and i've got yarn for you little ball of yarn just dangle it here hold on
what is this wrong one hold on how where'd i go share screen ip still not getting it on pagan
parallels here we go let's see what's this guy have to say who is this guy let's see jones of
inspiring philosophy has come a long way from declaring that pagans had no belief in bodily
resurrection as nt right says neither in play though nor in the major alternatives just mentioned
do we find any suggestion that resurrection the return to bodily life of the dead person
was either desirable or possible to now understanding that they did i'm glad you
clipped that that was that was a really good clip um i also appreciate in this video that you had
toned down the sarcasm just enough that it wasn't seen as derogatory to to our interlockers so to
speak or the people were trying to communicate with so yeah that was cool i'm sure that you know
nathan thought it worthy to leave a comment for that very reason so go watch the video now
everybody don't watch it okay derrick serious man i'm sick and tired of you dude i'm so tired of
you being on my screen that i've got to ask you to give us some final words here brother
final words oh my god the pressure um hey uh yeah just um
i've been up since 645 this morning and i'm not a morning person so i'm about shot uh
love one another um you know what i'm saying um don't uh yeah uh be kind be nice as patrick
swayze said until it's time to not be nice and you know make sure you can kind of distinguish
when and when not those times are um yeah and don't um don't let people gaslight you with with bs
because uh that that don't fly here and um yes yes ma'am yeah and never forget we are
mid vision son do you want to know what the truth is after this there's no turning back
you take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
you take the red pill and you stay in wonderland and i show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes
remember all i'm offering is the truth nothing more
oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
