What was that? I don't know, it's too busy dawning a big nose. I think it was blessed
are the cheese makers. What's so special about the cheese makers? Well obviously it's not
meant to be taken literally, it refers to any manufacturers of dairy products.
Dr. Delcy Allison Jr. Thank you again. I've got a couple questions I'm going to just time into one
that are from Pine Creek Doug and he asks, is there a myth contained within, oh is there
myth contained within ancient Roman biography? Can you give an example outside the Gospels?
And the fourth question, the reason why I said well it inevitably asks that there's another
question because you're asking outside the Gospels assuming that you already think there's probably
some type of myth within this biography of the Gospels. Could the Gospels be in the genre of
myth or history? Okay so I'm not sure what he means by myth or history. If you mean that they are a
combination of history and legend and are mythological in that sense then yes I think the
Gospels qualify on that score. Now as far as Greco-Roman biography, sure there are mythical
things in them. The thing that pops into mind is in Plutarch's life of Alexander. He has a story
or one story about Alexander's conception and it has to do with a god taking the form of a snake
and crawling inside Alexander's mother while she's taking a bath in a pond or something like this.
And most of us would regard that as mythological. Now when it comes to the Gospels I'm pretty
middle of the road here as is obvious from other interviews here we've had. I think there's history
there but if I look for example at Matthew's infancy narrative I see very little history.
I think Jesus was probably was born during the reign of Herod the Great. I think his parents
were named Mary and Joseph and I think he was associated with Nazareth but I don't see a lot
more there and I see if you want to call it myth I see I would prefer legend at this point but I
don't see history there in Matthew one and two. I see legends that take up some history for example
his parents were named Joseph and Mary and they were probably pious. I mean if you if you worked
you probably get a few more memories there but I don't think the massacre of the infants is history.
I don't think the star is history and so on. So the answer I guess is yes but for me one and two
is then followed by chapter three and I do think that Jesus was baptized by a gang named John the
Baptist. I do think some of the saints attributed to the to the Baptist probably represent what he
was in part about. So it's a mixture and actually that's why we have this whole
discipline anyway. So I spent my life in the quest for the historical Jesus. Why is there a quest?
Well at some point we realize the Gospels don't agree on everything and at some point we realize
they're not pure history. There's more that is going on there. So the question is how do we separate
the history from the more that's going on there or how do we distill some history that sort of thing.
So if I understand the question rightly the presupposition of my work is yeah of course.
I think it is a question. Well if I can give you a little background as to why.
Many apologists that we encounter are starting to realize and I know this is going to sound
funny to you. This has been known for a long time but it's almost like they're behind the
learning curve on these things because they're trying to hold on to something.
You know where I'm coming from with this and Adam and Eve have been like this really interesting
place that recently William Lynn Craig has caught a lot of angry Christians have come at him because
he said well there's some it's mythological histories mytho histories the term he used.
And here you have we're now going to the most sacred of areas right around Jesus the Christ and
they're going no no no no no and they're acting like but it's a different narrative of course I mean
you would think Adam is more Adam and Eve is far more mythological and it's pre deluvian or anti
deluvian so that's a different thing but they're not even granting these things you're saying.
So they're asking someone who is a Christian who does at the end of the day say I believe I am a
believer but I'm not going to be dishonest to a point where I'm not willing to consider
how the literature is and what it's using and still at the end of the day you have found yourself
being a Christian which is what makes you unique and I guess that would be the reason.
Well part of the reason also is that well I did spend a little time in what you would call
evangelical circles I did grow up as a middle of the row mainstream Presbyterian church person
my dad was very liberal about lots of things so I didn't grow up with the sort of I don't know
I don't want to be pejorative here but a lot of the anxieties my wife had who was raised as
very conservative Baptist and just worried about lots of things that I didn't so I feel that
I feel that there are groups of Christians or Christian bodies that just haven't gone through
the Enlightenment right and I've gone through the Enlightenment and so for me for example
harmonizing texts or finding mythology in the Bible those are just old hat those aren't the
interesting questions there are other questions I just take that for granted that Adam and Eve
might be real people it doesn't even occur to me it's just not and that anyone would want to argue
that it doesn't occur to me so you know I had a liberal school or mainline school and
and you'd have to go back a long time to find people here anyway who were worried about that
worried about Adam and Eve what I tell my students is that
well I remember I remember a dinner I was having once I had a dinner with
actually it was Ed Sanders and Eric Myers and Carol Myers who are archaeologists right
so I you know I just thought I'd ask them well they're also Jewish right I thought
was there a real Moses was there a real Moses
well maybe maybe there was something sort of I wasn't a robust yes how about that wasn't a
robust yes and I've asked other Old Testament scholars from time to time and you know there are
lots of reasons for thinking that the conquest in Joshua just doesn't it just doesn't fit the data
right so I don't know maybe maybe Israel comes from Mesopotamia and the idea about Abraham moving
from between the rivers to Palestine maybe there's some memory of the people there and maybe you know
there's something behind the story of the Exodus but it's really hard to get to it so my sense is
that the Bible sort of gets more history as it moves forward because I think there were I mean
there wasn't a Jewish state and there almost certainly was a guy named Solomon and a guy
named David and you know the other kings and so on even if you find legendary elements and the
stories about about these people you know like how big the kingdom was yeah yeah and so on
anyway the point is is that that's that's the literary heritage that early Christians inherit
which is a book that has lots of memories in it but also has lots of other things and I think
that's what they reproduce in their own movement they have memories I think Jesus was I think Jesus
was a very charismatic guy I think it was very interesting I think he said provocative things
he said and did the sorts of things that people might remember right and generated the responses
that positive and negative that people might might remember but that doesn't change the fact that
these are not just history books right so many questions thank you
he's going to inherit the earth
