Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor John J. Collins.
We are hanging out in your office and I've got questions.
This will be a retired office here soon.
Jonathan McClatchy, he's a Christian Apologist online, he made this claim about Daniel.
He's trying to talk about dating Daniel and why you can't date it when you date it, right?
It's gotta be older, so a cool piece of evidence that somewhat raises the probability of the
early dating of Daniel.
In Daniel 5-7, Bel Shazar offers the one who can correctly interpret the writing on the
wall the rank of third ruler in the kingdom, but why only the third in the rank?
Extra Biblical records indicate that Bel Shazar himself was only second in rank under his
Corrigent father, Nabonitis.
Thus third was the highest possible rank that Bel Shazar could offer.
But Daniel himself does not mention that there was a Corrigency at this time.
Thus leaving Bel Shazar's office of third in command unexplained, this undesigned coincidence
is somewhat more probable given the hypothesis of a historical reportage than the falsity
of that hypothesis.
It also increases the evidential value of Daniel's prophecies in confirming the divine
inspiration of Scripture.
The beginning of that argument is right.
The idea of third in the kingdom is something that needs to be explained from traditions
about Nabonitis and Bel Shazar.
And everybody recognizes that, all sorts of Babylonian traditions, that are remembered.
Now the fact that you remember a detail from an earlier period doesn't make your whole
story accurate.
It has no bearing whatsoever on the part about Daniel then reading the writing on the wall.
It's just something that they remembered about Bel Shazar.
That's all.
A loose end in the story.
Everybody recognizes, I think, that those stories in Daniel two to six formed gradually.
The showpiece of that is the story of Nebuchadnezzar's madness, certain magic.
Because there is a text found in the Dead Sea Scrolls, the prayer of Nabonitis, which
says that Nabonitis, rather than Nebuchadnezzar, became ill or strange or something and then
a Jewish diviner interceded for him and he came to recognize the true God.
And that seems to be obviously an earlier stage of this story, but some of the names
are different in it.
This is the way folklore develops.
You know that folklore is like a rolling stone that does gather moss, it picks up little
bits and pieces from different stages and there's no bearing whatsoever on the truth
of the story as it now exists.
Interesting.
He goes on to, he sent me another one, he said, this is something too to present and
he says, I'm currently doing a deep dive on the scholarly arguments bearing on the
dating of Daniel, sixth century versus second century BCE, a debate that carries high stakes
for both sides since Daniel contains many very specific and accurate predictions that
are of significant evidential value if they can be shown to be written before the events
they describe.
Here is one fascinating gem that I learned today from biblical scholar Gleeson Archer.
Oh, you know Gleeson?
I know who he was, so they think the man must be dead by now, but he taught a trinity dear
field evangelical seminary, I believe.
And like a lot of those people was quite learned because these debates go back especially
to the time of the fundamentalist controversy about 100 years ago.
Robert Dick Wilson wrote a huge amount of very learned material in which he would dig
up all sorts of facts about Babylonian culture, beside the point.
Interesting.
Go ahead.
He says in 8, I think it's chapter 8 verse 2, the city of Shushan is described as being
in the province of Elam, back in the time of the Chaldeans.
But from the Greek and Roman historians we learned that in the Persian period Shushan,
or Susa, was assigned to a new province which was named after Susiana.
And the formerly more extensive province of Elam was restricted to the territory west
of the Eluis River.
It is reasonable to conclude that only a very early author would have known that Susa was
once considered part of the province of Elam.
Police in Archer, Jr., a survey of Old Testament introduction, third edition.
No, it isn't reasonable to conclude that.
All again it shows is that you have historical details that got remembered in the oral tradition
and got preserved.
So you will find in those stories that seem to have formed over a couple of hundred years.
You'll have details that relate to the early part of the transmission and you'll have
details that relate to the later part of the transmission.
And none of it really has any bearing on the date of Daniel.
Isn't it true that there are also facts that are mistaken in Daniel about older material
or older?
Oh, absolutely.
So...
Absolutely.
Darius, the meat, never existed.
Do you think Daniel existed?
Because I heard that Daniel was mentioned by...
I ask because Daniel is mentioned in one of the other prophets, but is that Daniel a
different Daniel or is it representing a Daniel possibly from the Ugaritic?
That's right.
That's in Ezekiel.
And he's mentioned in the same breath as Job and Noah, a legendary righteous man.
Now the Daniel described in the book of Daniel should have been a contemporary, a younger
contemporary of Ezekiel.
So it's obviously not the same reference.
So no, I don't think the Daniel described in the book of Daniel ever existed.
I think he's a literary fiction, something wrong with literary fiction.
You can write a good historical novel and work in various historical details into it.
That doesn't make the story true.
Wow.
Powerful book, though.
Great book.
Great book.
It's been half my life working on it.
Thank you so much, Dr. Collins, and thank you for the question, Jonathan.
