Allow me to become food for the wild beasts, though whose instrumentality it will be granted
me to attain to God.
I am the wheat of God, and let me be ground by the teeth of the wild beasts that I may
be found the pure bread of Christ, rather entice the wild beasts that they may become my tomb
and may leave nothing of my body.
Would you die for Jesus?
If someone walked up to you today and had a gun to your head and said, renounce Jesus
or die, what would you do?
These are questions I would ask myself when I was a Christian several years ago.
And I took them seriously, and I'd ask myself, would you be willing to die?
Yes, I'd be willing to die for you, Lord.
Almost like the Peter talk with Jesus.
Yes, I'll do anything for you, Lord.
The cock-o-crow three times before you deny me.
And I would sit there and think to myself, would I die for Jesus?
These are questions we would ask ourselves, and a lot of the evangelical churches that
I went to growing up would paint this picture that the Bible is going to be outlawed and
you won't even be allowed to own it.
A lot of films have been produced with this kind of idea like the Bible is illegal now.
And what are you going to do when that time comes?
You're going to still believe and hold on to the word of God and all of that.
So kind of pain in this idea in your mind, get ready to die for Jesus or renounce him
and get left behind or whatever the theology might be at the time.
And one might go see, but that's not truly what the New Testament teaches.
That's not what the Gospels present.
That's not what Paul's letters are getting at.
And today, as a non-Christian, someone who once was a Christian, I describe this all
the time on my channel on what I think are the harms of Christianity.
And the teaching, the philosophy, the ideology, the martyrology that goes into it is a very
important point to highlight.
And this is what I've said.
I'm going to say it up front and then I'm going to read to you some things that I found
really interesting from one of the saints, the early church fathers who died for Jesus.
And the first thing I want to say is that this world, literally the world, is nothing.
It's worthless.
Do not love this world, okay?
The flesh is bad, bad juju.
And in the context that I'm talking, I'm saying philosophically speaking, the lowest level
you can be is where we're at.
The Platonic levels that are being described, there's higher forms where the Numa dwells
and that is where you want to go, heaven.
This is something going back into the New Testament I find very important when we wrap
our minds around this world and do not love this world.
If you hate this life, you will gain life.
If you love this life, you will lose it in the hereafter.
And take up your cross and follow me, Jesus talks about.
Many Christians go, look, he's only talking to the 12.
He's not speaking for everybody.
But then you get sermons all the time where people are kind of using it to try and get
the Christian who's listening to know, like, you need to follow Jesus.
You need to be like Christ.
Have this mind, Philippians said, in you as what was in Christ Jesus.
What was the mind in Christ Jesus?
At least as far as we can tell in the Gospels, it seems to be a sacrificial one.
It seems to be a willingness to die for saking the world and its pleasures and focusing on
the mission.
And I know that this is a leap, but I want to make a point to just overlap on what has
happened with those who've interpreted jihad in radical fundamentalist ways in Islam so
much so that they've been willing to blow themselves up in airplanes to crash into 9-11,
what happened with the Twin Towers.
And the list can go on with the kind of suicide bombings and things that happen because of
the radicalized perception of direct access on getting to heaven.
You don't have any worries if you do these things to get directly to heaven.
This is the kind of concept.
That concept is not original to Islam.
That actually is a concept we find in Christianity with martyrology, the martyrs or the saints
who died for the faith.
Now there's a curious church father I was talking to Dr. Richard C. Miller about who
writes in such a gruesome way.
He's writing a letter to the Romans and his name is Ignatius.
And so I have opened his letter here on Ignatius' letter to the Romans and he's begging, he's
pleading, Ignatian who is also called Theophorus to the church which has obtained mercy through
the majesty of the Most High Father in Jesus, his only begotten son, the church which is
beloved and enlightened by the will of him who wills all things and he goes on and on
about this.
And then he begs them at a certain point.
He says, For it is easy for you to accomplish what you please, but it is difficult for me
to attain to God if you spare me, spare me from what?
And then the next chapter title statement is, Do not save me from martyrdom.
For it is not my desire to act towards you as a man pleaser.
That sounds familiar.
Paul keeps saying he's not a man pleaser and that his gospel is not a man pleaser on
and on and on.
But as pleasing God, even as also you please him, for neither shall I ever have such another
opportunity of attaining to God, attaining to God, nor will you.
If you shall now be silent, ever be entitled to honor of a better work.
For if you are silent concerning me, I shall become God's.
But if you show your love to my flesh, I shall again have to run my race.
Pray then, do not seek to confer any great favor upon me than I have that I be sacrificed
to God while the altar is still prepared.
That being gathered together in love, you may sing praise to the Father through Christ
Jesus that God has deemed me the Bishop of Syria worthy to be sent far from the east
unto the west.
It is good to set from the world unto God that I may rise again to him.
These are the earliest Christians who are interpreting this material and they know death
is the key to life.
It's a death call in Christianity that this world, this bad and why did I struggle with
this flesh?
You could see the mindset of Ignatius being spelled out in his letter to the Romans here.
So he's asking them to pray that he ends up achieving martyrdom in going to his death.
After four, allow me to fall a prey to the wild beast.
I write to the churches and impress on them all that I shall willingly die for God unless
you hinder me.
I beseech of you not to show an unseasonable goodwill toward me.
Allow me to become food for the wild beasts though whose instrumentality it will be granted
me to attain to God.
I am the wheat of God and let me be ground by the teeth of the wild beast that I may
be found the pure bread of Christ rather entice the wild beast that they may become my tomb
and may leave nothing of my body so that when I have fallen asleep in death I may be no
trouble to anyone.
Then shall I truly be a disciple of Christ.
When the world shall not see so much as my body and treat Christ for me that by these
instruments I may be found as a sacrifice to God.
I do not as Peter and Paul issue commandments unto you.
They were apostles.
I am but a condemned man.
They were free while I am even until now a servant.
But when I suffer I shall be the freed man of Jesus and shall rise again emancipated
in him.
And now being a prisoner I learn not to desire anything worldly or vain.
I desire to die chapter 5.
From Syria even unto Rome I fight with beasts both of land and sea.
Both by night and day being bound to ten leopards I mean a band of soldiers who even when they
receive benefits show themselves all the worse but I am more instructed by their injuries
to act as disciples of Christ yet am I not thereby just justified.
Which Corinthians 4.4 May I enjoy the wild beasts that are prepared for me and I pray
they may be found eager to rush upon me which also I will entice to devour me speedily and
not deal with me as with some whom out of fear they have not touched.
But if they be unwilling to assail me I will compel them to do so.
I will make them kill me.
Part of me in this I know what is for my benefit.
Now I begin to be a disciple and let no one of things visible or invisible envy me that
I should attain to Jesus Christ.
Let fire and the cross, let the crowds of wild beasts, let tearing, breaking and dislocations
of bones, let cutting off of members, let shattering of the whole body and let all the
dreadful torments of the devil come upon me only let me attain to Jesus Christ.
By death I shall attain true life.
All the pleasures of the world and all the kingdoms of this earth shall profit me nothing.
It is better for me to die on behalf of Jesus Christ than to reign over all the ends of the
earth for what shall a man be profited if he gain the whole world loses soul.
Him I seek, who died for us, him I desire, who rose again for our sake, this is the gain
which is laid up for me.
Pardon me brethren, do not hinder me from living.
Do not wish to keep me in a state of death.
This body, this life is a state of death in the perception of the Christians not only
witnesses to this early on in the church, but in Paul's letters, in the gospels, that's
what I'm seeing.
That's what I've been saying.
If you're not seeing this, I don't know what you're reading, but you're ignoring this.
That's why when they say I'm misrepresenting the gospels and Jesus, I think they're misrepresenting
what it's teaching.
And that's why I couldn't find a way to live my life in pleasure.
It might have played a role in being able or in being interested in escaping reality
because it's such a poisonous idea.
This world is horrible.
It's death.
This life is just misery.
Now I've found, like obviously I've found a way in my life with the philosophy I live
now in a world where I know I have flaws, but I'm totally content and that's okay.
I'm not worried about anything anymore.
That's through learning and going through some stuff and growing up and being able to
escape that mindset.
But Christians who read this stuff, the gospels and Paul and don't see what I'm saying, I
don't understand, especially if you study this stuff.
I don't understand.
I read this material with pastors, without pastors, on my own in meditation, on my own
with music, really sincerely taking it in and realizing it's not me, it's Christ.
I need Christ to be living, not me.
And it was so much you want to kill the flesh so that Christ lives or I attain to Jesus,
Christ Ignatius says.
And this is an important point.
I had a plaque on my desk a long time ago and it says, I am nothing, nothing at all,
but Christ is my savior, my all and all.
That was the name of the plaque and I was, obviously I was in a reformed camp at that
time.
I had come to a conclusion that it was like, if there's anything good, it's not me.
I am nothing.
I am bad.
I am wicked.
I am evil.
I am flesh.
This filthy rags before the presence of this holy God, but it's Christ, if anything, not
me.
I'm shit.
He's everything.
That is the mindset.
That is what I see going on throughout the New Testament.
And Ignatius sees it too and it gets, it gets even worse where he's talking about the animals
and stuff.
In this chapter by death, I shall attain true life and he says, this is the gain which is
laid up for me.
Pardon me, brother.
And I said, hinder me not to live permit me to be an imitator of the passion of my God.
If anyone has him within himself, let him consider what I desire and let him have sympathy
with me as knowing how I am straightened.
Chapter seven, reason of desiring to die.
The prince of this world would feign, carry me away and corrupt my disposition towards
God.
One of you, therefore, who are in Rome, help him rather be on my side, wanting him to die.
That is on the side of God.
Do not speak of Jesus Christ and yet set your desires on the world.
Let not envy find a dwelling place among you, nor even should I, when present with you,
exhort you to it.
Be persuaded to listen to me, but rather give credit to those things which I now write to
you.
Though I am alive while I write to you, yet I am eager to die.
My love has been crucified and there is no fire in me desiring to be fed.
But there is within me a water that lives and speaks, saying to me inwardly, come to
the Father.
I have no delight in corruptible food, nor in the pleasures of this life.
I desire the bread of God, the heavenly bread, the bread of life, which is the flesh of Jesus
Christ, the Son of God, who came, who became afterwards of the seat of David and Abraham.
And I desire to drink of God, namely his blood, which is incorruptible love in eternal life.
Chapter 8.
Be favorable to me.
I no longer wish to live after the manner of men, and my desire shall be fulfilled if
you consent.
Be willing then that you also may have desires fulfilled.
I entreat you in this brief letter.
Give credit to me.
Jesus Christ will reveal things to you so that you shall know that I speak truly.
He is the mouth altogether free from falsehood by which the Father has truly spoken.
Pray for me that I may attain the object of my desire, death.
I have not written to you according to the flesh, but according to the will of God.
If I shall suffer, you have wished well to me, but if I am rejected, you have hated me.
He is begging the Roman church to make sure he is killed and death is his situation.
So Chapter 9.
Pray for the church in Syria.
Remember in your prayers, the church in Syria, which now has God for its shepherd instead
of me, Jesus Christ alone will oversee it.
And so he says, I'm just skipping ahead for even those churches which were not near to
me in the way.
I mean, according to the flesh, have gone before me city by city to meet me conclusion.
Now I write these things to you from Smyrna by the by the Ephesians who are deservedly
most happy.
There's also with me along with many others, Crocus, one dearly beloved by me as to those
who have gone before me from Syria to Rome for the glory of God.
I believe that you have acquainted with them to whom then make known that I am at hand
for they are all worthy both of God and of you and it's becoming that you should refresh
them in all things in this and I may have skipped over it.
He talks about making the animal's stomachs, his tomb.
He wants his tomb to be the stomachs of the beast that are eating him.
If you've listened to this whole thing, you cannot stand back and tell me that you're
not seeing what I'm seeing about how bad this really is.
If a Christian is telling you that this is not what it's teaching, I don't know what
they're reading.
They cannot be reading the same things I'm reading and they obviously aren't reading
the same things that Ignatius is reading, who's a saint, a martyr who went to die, wanted
to die.
When I start to wonder about some of these Christians who may have died in the beginning
or early parts of these churches, you kind of wonder, did they want to die?
Were they putting themselves in a position where they knew this was going to possibly
get them killed?
So really, is the people killing them the ones that are guilty all the way through and through
or are they purposely suicidal, wanting to die?
This is Christianity in my opinion, at least the struggle of it.
I was struggling with what the text was teaching me and messages I heard from the pastors and
what the modern church is trying to do to have it match the world and how to fit with
the normal society.
Very difficult.
It's a very difficult split personality type of teaching of how to act and what is true.
So the question still relied, like we're laid at the end of this is, if you're a Christian,
are you willing to die for Jesus?
And if you're not, I'm sure you see why this sounds crazy.
Thank you.
