Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Let's get this party started.
Yes, you are all eye witnesses to what just happened. You saw it. Adam, you saw it. You know it. Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you. Thank you for having me.
I appreciate you. Yeah, I came across your channel maybe a month ago. It's not been very long. I saw a few of your videos.
And the one thing I like about your content up front for those who don't know, I need to give you a shameless plug here while I'm expressing this, is your polite, your very polite.
You're bringing critical thinking, which I appreciate. This is the video that just recently came out, Koran's Undeniable Error. This is why.
And you think you're going to go in and you're going to go, how stupid, how this, how that, you know, and typically you get that kind of criticism from people who might be disenfranchised or harmed or traumatized or hate, you know, their religion for whatever reason.
But you actually carry yourself in a very polite manner, though you are critical and you don't believe. And I'm trying to carry myself the same way.
So you set a good example in terms of behavior. And I just want to offer my audience to go subscribe to you, to go show you comments of love and respect.
If you're critical, be critical. I just ask, do you treat people the way you want to be treated? You know, that's, that's number one.
But, um, yeah, so what did you bring today?
I really appreciate the feedback.
Yeah, that's my number one thing is, I mean, I can go read scholarly works that will probably say this, but it's not as confrontational.
They try to avoid that. They just point out simple things like in a lot of these critical scholars will say things like, yeah, dual Karnaan is Alexander the Great, early Muslims all agreed across the board.
So later you had some try to throw Cyrus in the mix, some try to do this, some try to do that. Okay.
And they don't bat an eye, but they're not doing it with polemics. They're not trying to attack or antagonize.
And so I get it. There's so much debate and usually it's between Muslims and Christians. That's usually how it goes.
True.
I get this assumption all the time. So whenever I make my videos about the Quran,
Automatically the criticism in the comments come as a rule. Have you seen the your Bible?
I'm not really a believer anyway
You're assuming that because I criticize the Quran that I'm Christian. Well, I'm not
That's interesting
That that would be the automatic. I guess they're so used to Christians doing that and they're not wrong
Just to be very frank
That's the problem I'm finding is that I can agree especially with some people that are extreme out there like
Daniel Hikikachu and people like that that are really trying to argue for
Asinine ideas that are just ridiculous and so I've seen Christian
I'm friends with many of the Christian apologists are out there. I'm a Nazi out of I some I like more than others
You know, it is what it is, but I noticed that
Michael Jones, you know went to baited the guy and I was totally on Michael Jones side on this because it's obvious
Why but at the same time, I think Michael Jones is wrong about Christianity
I think he is wrong on his world. You get where I'm going with this. So absolutely. Yeah, and that's it's a fascinating thing
That you see very smart people
applying
Literature criticism when it comes to the Quran
But then they don't really do the same
Good criticism when it comes to their own faith and their own ideology in a way it fascinates me
But yeah, then the flip side of that you get the what about ism the moment you start criticizing
Islam or Christianity then the the other party is like, so what about your book?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, so you proved you made some good points and I'm not interested in responding or I don't have an answer yet
But what about yours and so that's usually the kind of responses I get back to is what do you believe then and I'm like
Well, I'm I'm actually a skeptic. I don't really have a belief system in terms of religion
I'm more of a naturalist. I tend to try and be a scientific
I don't know ultimately if you wanted to pin me down with an absolute answer of like well
What is really all this? I don't know
But I tend to go with what makes the most sense to me and that is a natural worldview and and that is what I would think is
Defendable because it's observable testable. It's reliable. I don't go beyond that
Impostulate ideas without having good reasons
Not like I and then as you investigate, you know, you find more reason to doubt a lot of the things that are being said in a
lot of these accounts so I
want to get into the content here of
Errors in the Quran as you came today to discuss some of these and
Maybe we freestyle and go from there to various topics that you found within the Quran that are erroneous
And what do you mean by an error?
An error is something that looks like a clear mistake whether that is a scientific mistake or a historical error and
before I
Label it as an error. I go and read and study
excessively the apologetic response before
So basically you come across a claim in the Quran
Which doesn't match what we know today whether is scientific or historical now
the only reason to
Claim it is an error is when you can find the
Ancient people reading the Quran understood it in a particular way
Carried throughout the generations. It is understood that way
Continuously, but then all of a sudden you find
Today we found
Scientific evidence or historical evidence that this claim is wrong and
All of a sudden the argument changes are the Quran didn't mean that right only then I would say well
It's a clear error, but you're trying to
Twist the argument to make it not an error. I can give multiple examples on that
One one good example is
Mary version Mary the as as presented in the Quran now when the Quran talks about Mary
He calls her daughter of Imran and
sister of Aaron
So clearly
And in the Bible, we know that there is also Mary sister of Moses and Aaron and
She was also daughter of Imran in in the Bible
The apologetic response that comes from Muslims usually ah, but just because the Quran called her sister of Aaron
It's not a historical error. It didn't mean quite literally that she is the sister of Aaron
It's it's a in Arabic. You can say yeah, I can and I can say I can say
Derek is
Brother of Moses. It's it's it's a way to honor you. It doesn't mean that you're really a blood relative of Moses
Which is fair enough. I can take that with a grain of salt, but you're ignoring half of the argument
It's not only that she is sister of Aaron. She is sister of Aaron and
Daughter of Imran. We're talking about an identity here daughter of someone. That's not to honor
Sister of okay, you're trying to say that it is just an honorary term
But when you put put it coherently it doesn't sound like
No, that that is clearly an error. So that's an example where the apologetic response as it doesn't
You were trying to say she was the daughter of someone and the sister of someone
In the Arabic
Is there any other way to say it more clearly that you are trying to say?
She's the daughter of someone and the sister of someone other than the way it was already written
exactly I
Would argue no that there isn't and and especially when you put that there was actually a Mary
Another Mary who was literally sister of Aaron and daughter of Imran. So you're you're clearly confusing two identities here to Mary's you
took one
from a particular context to context and made her to be mother of Jesus which was completely
I was going to be funny for a second there and say
What if her brother because it doesn't mention her brother in the New Testament
What if her brother was named Aaron and what if her dad's real name was because they don't mention
Who are real dad, you know, they mean like
To try and fix this issue
So the problem in this situation the error
In your in your estimation and in I'm sure many other peoples
Is that the Quran conflates Mary mother of jesus with mary the wife of moses?
Or not wife of my sister from moses. Sorry. So gets these two marys
Mixed up in a way
Yeah, and you know why they do that
Well, I you're talking about the apologetics or the I'm just curious to know what would have made them made that mistake
Was there some tradition floating around or did they just make a
like an honest mistake through oral tradition or something like that like
I honestly think that at the time of the
Quran being being composed or being
Revealed if you want to use that term
Um
At that time there were many many sects of christians and jews and the in-between
Sects that you cannot really label neither christian nor jew
um
So there were a look for innocence that there were sects that believed that jesus is the son of god, but not god incarnate
Um, jesus was born as a mere human, but then he was raised to uh,
Elevated to a god status. So he had many many sects and
The overlap
Was confusing at the time
So it doesn't surprise me that the author of the Quran heard a bit of here and a bit of there and got the two confused together
because
mary mother of
Jesus was a very revered character in in christian
theology
Right. Also in jewish sects mary sister of aron and moses. She was a very revered and very respected character in in uh,
In judaism and she's one of the
top seven prophetess in uh, rabbinic sources
So who whoever authored the Quran got confused because you have two mary's
that are very
High figures respected figures and he didn't know who is who so that they got confused in the in that context
If you read outside of the Quranic sources, if you read the sunnah, which is the other um, sunnah for whoever
doesn't know it's
The teachings and the life of the prophet, which is the second most important thing in islam after the Quran
Now there there are very famous
Uh, a very famous story in the sunnah that when the Quran was revealed the christian of nagran
Uh, a christian sect that lived near prophet Muhammad
Complained about this, uh, this error. There's a lot. How come you muslims say that mary mother of jesus is mary sister of
of aron and the guy who
Got that, uh, complain from the christians of nagran didn't know how to respond to it
So he went back to the prophet and so the christians of nagran saying so and so
Um, and it's like the response that was given at the time. Of course, I'm not
Telling the story as it is true, but this is what comes from islamic
sources
Um, you give it a step. Yeah, what happened though. Yeah, exactly the defense was
Uh, well, that's because mary, uh, sister of aron. It didn't mean really by blood. It was just, um, uh, you know
At term of
Revealing or honoring her completely ignoring the idea that she's also daughter of, uh, i'm wrong
so
It's there was no clear apologetic response that was given and clearly christians of nagran state christians
They never embraced islam for a clear reason. It was a clear error and it
I don't know how people today cannot see it and they try to be
To give apologetic responses about it because in my opinion that is a clear error
Interesting that you point you point this out
I've I've been wanting to talk to like a specialist specifically on abrogation
From a secular kind of critical standpoint
And not from an apologetic kind of scholar, but someone who might actually come and say hey
This is what it looks like coming from a historical
You know using historical methodology and research and whatnot and I wondered why he wouldn't have just
Abrogated that or found a way but then again, maybe the christians already found it because
I don't know much about the abrogation
Part of all of this
Abrogation can only happen with with commands. Okay, but it cannot happen with
Facts so basically abrogation works in the sense of
God comes and tells you uh
Hey, Derek, you can drink alcohol. Okay, then 10 years later he comes
Well, that has been abrogated and now you should not drink alcohol
So it's a command that was allowed for a certain period of time and now it is not it's no longer allowed or vice versa
But it cannot happen with facts. I cannot say that Derek is
Son of such and such and then 10 years later. Ah
Derek is now son of such and such different
Does it work that way?
Yeah, I get what you mean. Um, that makes sense. Okay, so mary
All right adam, we'll give you this one
You you got me one on mary. Okay, I agree with you, but that's that's literally it. Okay, there's no other errors
Just just stop already, right?
Is that it?
well
Mary is a good example of a historical error now. Let's go to a scientific error, which is the very famous long debated
Again, this was in my last video. So you watched it the Quran says
that the sun sets in a
muddy pool of water
Now apologetic responses. Oh, no. No, the Quran doesn't say that the sun sets in an in a in a pool of water
It says that dul karnain
Whether he is alexander the great or not that figure in the Quran
So it as if it was sitting in muddy water like it up. So it's not us. It appeared to yeah
Now
I explain it in details. I'm not sure how how far you want me to go here
following you
all right, so
one thing
linguistically
that is
Completely wrong because the the the word that was used dul karnain found it to be setting in muddy pool
Wajada that was the actual word that was used
It was used 40 times in the Quran in the entire Quran and the 40 times. Well
You want to consider it 40 times or 39 out of 40?
It always meant something to be found
Really happening like it's not like appeared to be happening when it's not
It's either found or found out
so
There is no way to twist it
In this particular verse you can see that when they took the word wajada and translate it in the Quran
They twisted the meaning to make it appeared to dul karnain as if it was sitting in muddy water
That was the first question
mark or alarm
Why this wajada out of all 40 other wajada or wajada in the Quran was
interpreted that way
But now if you really want to dig deep
You cannot ignore that
Again, we can argue that dul karnain is alexander the great or not
But in greek mythology, there was helios the sun god
who used to
As the greek mythology say that he used to pull the the sun with his chariot
In the sky all the way to another god oceanus or ocanus
A body of water that was in in the greek cosmology
The of course the earth was flat and they have this massive
Body of water that circulates around the earth
So helios would go all the way to the far west
Go to oceanus take the sun through through the river where it comes
Back from the east the the next day. That's in the greek mythology
So now you're telling me again that the Quran didn't borrow any of that mythology and the fact that the sun was actually setting in water right there
No, no, no
And then you take on in consideration the egyptian ra
again the sun god who used to
sail around the
Cosmology of the ancient egyptians again in boats in sail boats. They're literally known as the solar boats
Again, no the the sun has no relation setting in water the Quran didn't mean that meant that
So it feels like the apologetic responses are very very fragile
when it when it comes to
Counter the clear claim and then again you go to the sun and you'll find that every single
Muslim of the early times understood it that the the sun sets in
a muddy pool
In one story. I presented in my video. They called for
A muslim guy was from a jewish background kaab al-ahbar
They called him and asked him hey, well kaab. Have you heard what the prophet said?
Well, where does the the sun set only because they were debating does it set in a muddy pool or in a hot pool?
The word in the Quran
Hamia or hamea
It's a very close words. So instead of asking him about
What do karnin so was it in a muddy pool or in a hot pool?
They actually asked him a very interesting question. Hey kaab
What does the Torah say about the the place of sunset?
And then Kaab responds they will
And I don't know. Well, I will leave the Quran aside, but in the Torah. It says that the sun sets in
mud and water
Now that is not about the karnin at all. We're talking about clear mythology here. We're talking about people who
believe the sun to set in mud and water, right?
So to come today and say well, no actually the Quran didn't mean that
Doesn't do it for me. It clearly fell into an error again. You want to deny it?
Be my guest
If I can just make one point that I think anyone who's been on a beach
uh, like more like the west coast and if you're in the us or if you've been on a
large lake or a large body of water and you saw the sun setting
From my perception
It looks like the sun is going down into this
You know wavy watery
sunset into the water
It's going down into the water from your perception
Like you could understand why anyone would say that and it wouldn't have been a problem
What ends up becoming a problem is the same thing in antiquity when the gods used to dwell on mountains
Yahweh dwelt on whoreb or Sinai
You know mount olympus was on certain mountains and once explorers had already checked out those mountains and saw there's nothing up there
The gods end up in the clouds and then eventually we end up figuring out wow or we're going above the clouds
I don't see the gods
Well, you know gods outside space and time and uh, you know god becomes unfalsifiable. Uh, all of these things become
Unfalsifiable they keep pushing it to the beyond
Than what it was originally and so I had no problem
I think it's kind of neat that they thought this way in some respects
I thought, you know, you look at the sun that looks natural looks normal that it would do that
but um
What happens when the scientific, uh, you know world starts to come
And press on these old ideas saying hey, that doesn't work
Um, this is how things really work
And you have a book saying no no no and fundamentalists. I'll say that aren't
Adapting to modern concepts. See that's something I can respect about people who might be
Uh people who hold to religion traditionally, but they're not
So fundamentalists that the evidence doesn't lead them down a certain path. They hey, that's my tradition
Yeah, it's it's an old book, uh old ideas. That was the best they knew at the time
We know better now. That's that's a good thing if people are holding to I need to keep this old idea true
Slavery for example or the treatment of women or things like that
That's a problem. You see where I'm heading on this. So
100% well to take the the old values and
Apply it to to today as if these values are the highest and the ultimate values that we should live by
Yeah, you really have to
Leave room to understand
Where it came from
Why it was accepted and understood in that context back in its time but to to bring it to our
Here and now is very problematic. So yes
And just want to know I do think the dual chronine in its context was, uh,
Alexander the great to maso tesai. I think that's how you pronounce his name wrote a lot on this
Exploring historically finding where the tradition coming from jews and christians all the way down to
Uh, the muslims in arabia
But beyond that too is the idea that I think there was a huge scientific revolution
Around the eighth ninth century with muslims actually pioneering probably
The number one people for a period of time on planet earth pushing the the the science to a new level
They had come across all this ancient greek material the greek philosophers
They were translating this stuff over from greek into arabic and stuff and
They were pioneering a lot of the advanced thinking
I'm not saying that the quran itself had this but I imagine the ideas were around especially with the
You know the various traditions and if he was, uh trading going out and trading he must have learned
something along the way
I just I definitely think the mythology level
Needs to be brought in that whole idea needs to be brought in you start comparing it to the other religions
And how they dealt with this stuff. It's very similar. So I don't know why that's a problem
other than
I have
This needs to be true over against christians or over against atheists or over against whoever
That's the only thing I could think of is why they're defending it this way
It's because well
The quran is is a very unique
document
So it's unlike the the the bible whether from the perspective of jewish traditions or or the christian theology
There is this understanding that the bible was written by people
It was yes, um
And inspired by the holy spirit or the holy ghost but
At the end of the day, we understand that it was written by human being
so
From that it is acceptable and understood that you can say well
Yeah, people were influenced by the mythology of their time people understood it in that context
There is room for that
In nearly every other religion jewish christian or otherwise
But when it comes to the quran the uniqueness of it is that it was dictated word for word by god
God is the author. It's not like an inspired by god
It is the actual literal words that came out of god's mouth to gibral his angel to muhammad the prophet
now
You cannot accept that the text has been influenced by mythology or or any other
wordly elements because how could god be influenced by
What's circulating at the time so this what makes the quran a very
special case to study and when you study the
textual criticism of the quran
It is a different school of thought than when you study textual criticism for the bible
jewish or christian
It makes me wonder if the early muslims saw the quran that
I wonder if the development of absolute perfection
directly from god out of heaven like almost like i hear some muslims seem to portray it as like
This is the perfect book that almost floated down like
And it came down directly from god
um, I wonder if the early muslims actually thought that or if they had more of a
nuanced understanding of the material saying look it's inspired by a law
um, and and the message the words the oral words that were spoken to him through the the angel gabriel to, um, muhammad
He puts that into the quran or gave those words to us and we put them into a book
We call the quran. I'm wondering if they're a little bit more nuanced instead of like
Absolute perfect directly out of heaven. I don't know. Um, I don't know
Have you seen because if the claim is that they all from the beginning thought this way
It does make it a special case because to me it makes it more falsifiable. Um, much more falsifiable than allowing human
Involvement and even potential human error in the text of the bible
Most christians you run across aren't fundamentalist unless you're in america, but like you're gonna find them and they go
Yeah, yeah, there's contradictions. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's it's you know humans wrote this but it was inspired
There's this overarching message that god's trying to convey. Oh, okay
So when you find all these issues many christians don't lose their faith. They're like, okay
Many like me though who believed it was inerrant infallible
God really was trying to preserve it perfect as much as possible
Um, and I found all this other stuff out
Really
Popped my bubble. I could not my faith. You know what I mean?
Yeah
Well in the quran there is evidence for both
There is evidence that from as early as
You can go people consider the quran to be the actual literal
words
Revealed from god's mouth and there is also evidence that
It is not well, it depends how you want to take it
Because you can see clearly that people
Did not
Transmit the quran exactly word for board
So you would
question well, if if this is the actual word that came from god, why
Didn't this word specifically carry on and I'm talking about a literal word
This is when you find all the cons concepts like
abrogation
Loh al-Mahfuz
Literally that the book that is
Written in heaven. So the claim is that there is a copy of the quran
That is written and preserved in heaven
and that is
The perfect preservation of the quran
It's a I know it's circular reasoning, but this is mentioned in the quran itself
The quran tells us that there is a copy of itself up there with god
So now
It's a very complex issue
But all I can say now in this time
That you can you can provide evidence for both whether you want to take it as it was from god early on or
It was a later development in history that people came to believe at the
About 60 70 years after the death of the prophet
That the quran now is revealed from god, but they had some loose understanding around that. Does that make any sense?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and that's what I was wondering. I mean
I don't know because our sources are late in terms of talking about the life and even how the quran how we got the quran
There's different voices explaining, but it seems that you know the collections of it on stones and
Leafs and things like that and getting warriors that are dying off to come and tell us what was said by the prophet and get all that written down
Um, depending on what you're reading exactly how because there's different stories about that, but um
Let's go into a few more examples of problems that you find
That kind of reveal the man made or the human aspect of this supposed divine
through and through divine book
And then I'd like to ask you a personal question about your experience
Since you've been speaking out about this. What how you your treatment?
How have you been treated and I'd like to know on a personal level
those things
okay
so
The first question there is another video on my channel where I talk about three questions that according to the sunnah
According to islamic traditions
The jews came to ask prophet muhammad. They asked him about the soul
And they don't they didn't don't really
um
clarify if they're asking about the human soul or
The soul who I ask a lot about the soul. They ask you about the soul
And what's the name of this video?
um
Muhammad was he really a prophet? I think how old was this? Do you know?
Uh, it's about a year old now. Okay. I'm finding out so I could share it to people in the chat
Right. I think it's it's it's it's one of those videos that you um gave me a shout out for on your channel about
Six seven months ago. Oh, I did
Yes, you did
But you put it on the youtube community tab
Okay, okay five human errors in the Quran that revealed the author was not god
No, that's another one
You shouted out too. I did. Okay, so I'm okay. Okay
But um, yeah, you're gonna be a prophet
Was it yeah, because I think I I changed the um
The title of the video after the shout out, but the link remains the same. I'm just sharing it. This is the one I
think
Please forgive me. Go ahead
so apparently according to is
uh
To islamic traditions that the jews came and asked prophet Muhammad three questions one about the soul
two about young men
um that lived in ancient past
How many were they and what's their story?
And the third thing
Was about duqarni
So three questions
Now the way these three questions were and and anyone debating this it's actually in the Quran. So even if you're gonna say well
I don't believe in in traditions. I don't believe in sunnah. It's hadith da'if. It's it's a it's a refuted
Hadith or refuted narrative. I don't agree with well, it is actually in the Quran that these three things
It says wayas alunaka
Meaning they ask you about duqarni and they ask you about the spirit and they ask so you cannot refute that they came from
Questions from people around prophet Muhammad at the time
now
To the naked eye it looks like these three questions were random questions
unless you really
Look closely you will find that the three questions come from the book of daniel in the bible
which
A brilliant tactic that the jews did when they wanted to really examine
Muhammad's claim for prophethood
The most interesting thing is the way these three questions were answered in the Quran
The first the first question was alunaka when they ask you about the spirit or about the soul
Say, I don't know. It's something from god
Well, yeah, I know well we're asking god
We're asking you to ask god and give us some answer
So it wasn't really an answer in a way. What do you mean? I don't know
We're not asking you you we're asking you to ask god
So that was the first one
and then
Dulkarni, I guess we we give him
enough exposure for now
but the the the story of
The young boys or the the the young men who lived in ancient past. We're talking about shadrach and meshech and abnel
these are
the Hebrew names of the three
Young men in the book of daniel
They were put in fire and the fire didn't consume them. Not sure if you know the story in the book of daniel
But then prophet Muhammad had no clue what they're asking about
So he went and borrowed a another myth
Called the young men of ethicists, which is a christian legend
Of course, the jews don't even believe in christian legends or christian miracles
But because of the confusion again, it's it's the classic example. He confuses. What's jewish and what's christian?
Because at that time there were many sects and you cannot really draw a line between
What's jewish and what's christian?
so
This is the second time other than mary sister of aron daughter of imran. He does it again
Confusing the seven sleepers of Ephesus a christian legend with the three young men of the in the book of daniel
And gives a completely off the mark answer
and of course the jews didn't
Agree or accept or take these three answers
anyway
And even the answer went when he the question was clearly how many are they and what is their story?
and in the quran it says
Some people say that they are six and their dog was the seventh
Some people say they were seven and their dog was the eighth
But god knows how many were they that's the literal
Answer given in the quran in in surat al kaf
So again
What do you mean some people say such and some people say such and and god knows what we're asking you
Because we're trying to verify that you get your information from god
And you're unable to provide any of the answers that shows that you are a prophet who talks to god
So that's that's another
one
He could have solved this but if he knew the shadrach me shacken had been the ghost story
He could have probably given them a sufficient answer and they might have been convinced but
It seems
According to what you've been saying here that like if he threw them the sleepers of emphasis instead of the shadrach me shacken had been to
Go context
Then they're like
What's up with this?
You know i'm a big fan of seeing even these sources critically like
Some of these scholars wonder were there really satanic verses, you know
Something maybe there's something like a memory that goes back and then others who say no and then some say it's a theological thing going
Like there's always like different schools of thought even in the critical scholarly world that aren't
Apologetic and they have different views, but I don't know that one. I'd love to look and see deeper
But you kind of you kind of think about that. What's another one?
Uh, what's another one? Let me let me just close this curtain because the the sun keeps blinding me so just give me
okay
One second
All right. Thanks for those super chats everybody. I will get to them
Bear with me here. I am
Just trying to get through a little bit of context in my first interview discussing this with adam and then we will
Come to your super chat. So thanks for the support. Appreciate the love
Hit the like button share this out
All right adam
All right, what's another error?
um
Or another issue that you see something that you know
um
Another issue I say is
The acceptance of the Quran or so so the Quran talks about Jesus as the christ
And that in my opinion is another problem because the Quran
So to give context
The jews had an idea about what is a messiah? What is a
Christ, okay, and and they have this idea about this person who will come and establish peace on earth
and
This is the messiah to come now at some point
Came the christians of course they they weren't christians from the get go they they were a jewish sect
Who believed that actually that the messiah came
And fulfilled all the prophecies and he died on the cross and apparently that peace was not
peace on earth as such
it's it's making peace between heaven and earth and
Being the savior for for humanity saving us from eternal sin and
So forth that that's that's the idea between the the jewish understanding of the word messiah and the christian understanding of the word messiah
Comes the Quran and calls jesus
Isabne mariam el messiah which is jesus
the messiah
but then he rejects the
idea that jesus was crucified
and died on the cross for the sin of
man
And at the same time clearly jesus didn't establish
peace on earth in in a in a worldly sense as the jews so
he
He rejects the idea of
Or the view of both the jewish understanding of the messiah and the christian understanding of the word messiah or christ
Yeah, he still calls jesus the messiah. So in in what sense I would like to know but the Quran doesn't give you
Any understanding it seems like the Quran didn't even understand
Theologically what a messiah is
That's interesting
almost like
The context of earlier centuries and and the meaning and understanding of these things especially initially
Take on a whole different meaning
By someone out of the context that may be using the same language, but don't really know where the original initial
Uh context for that theological term
Is coming from and what is intended?
I mean one could argue that a messiah was somebody who
Who was a political leader that would have been a king or ruler or leader or something like syris the great
Jews saw him as a messiah
This the language is still kind of used in the new testament
Jesus is a king. He's supposed to be the king of the jews. However, he doesn't establish peace on earth
He came to bring a sword. However, there is this theological idea though that heaven will come down
The new jewsland will come down the bad will be destroyed. He will rule on a throne
He will be that messiah the jews were thinking he was supposed to be but he had to die first
messiah had to suffer and then they're still waiting for kind of the jewish idea to happen
It just hasn't happened yet
But then you get to to the Quran and I imagine I've heard them say that in the end Jesus will come in
And fulfill those things. So there's some context. I think they do bring in
But they don't want to be crucified some of them
some of them like trying to hunt for things that might be early in like
Certain versions of christianity where jesus didn't really die on the cross
We have hints of this, you know what I mean? Yes, and they
Yes, we have in in well the rejected forms of christianity that jesus didn't die on the cross
Um, some people will say that it was actually his appearance
Right on Simon of sireen
And that is I cannot remember exactly the christian sect that believed that but it was in the apocryphal
Gospels and somehow again
Islam bars from that and it it all boils down or comes down to the idea that
uh
It seems that the author of the Quran or whoever established the early the earliest version of islam didn't know
Judaism from christianity from the in-betweens and this entire spectrum was confused in a sense
So he borrowed stories from here stories from there and sort of stories from random sects and there was no coherence whatsoever
Or maybe he's maybe they're trying
To unite by pulling they're trying to find a middle ground politically that gives enough
Christian ideas and enough jew, I don't know. You know, I mean there's speculation here. I like your idea
They don't know maybe what if they do know and they're like, man, how do we get everyone in one under one umbrella?
We want everybody to be at peace and get along. I've heard some scholars say that in in the earliest forms
um, jews and judaism and christians were also part of
The community and eventually
There's a split and eventually it was like if you're not a muslim if you're not
The prophet muhammad is
You know the final prophet if you're not like declaring this
You're not one of us anymore and that that happened over time
From what some academics say. I don't know. It's disputed which comes
It comes back to the abrogation. So the early on
There was no fear jews and christians are good. They're gonna go to heaven and they're
Completely accepted in god's plan
Later on you find different verses that say well, no, no, no, no, they will never go to heaven. They're they're condemned
And then you find the development of the sunnah and hadith
um, telling you that they actually should be fought, um
or
pay the
Jizya, I don't know what's the english word for that, but they they pay this
Money or this fee for the muslim to uh to be the ruler and they have to pay a fee for for muslims
And until they embrace muhammad and they embrace islam
They are there is no salvation for them
So you can see that development happening. So i'm not sure was it really to
unite
Because there are clear condemnation on the other end of this story. So
Yeah, I mean again. Yeah one. I don't know. I mean, I don't know
I just figure i'd throw something out there because
There's different hypotheses of how like how do we understand the quran?
Is it kind of a rolling text that gets established after
30 40 years and then all of a sudden it's like hey, this is the deal
This is how we we see things. I I don't know the answer. I do want to ask you one more
Not as a error thing, but this is the personal thing. I wanted to ask you were muslim
Correct. No, I wasn't I actually was born and raised as a cup to christian in egypt
But then I uh, I had my own faith crisis and I I
became agnostic
agnostic deist kind of thing a number of years ago
And that's when I started the arabic channel
My my first appearance on youtube was my arabic channel, which then grew massively beyond 100,000 subscribers
13 million views and that's what triggered last year to for me to start the english channel
um
That said because I grew up in egypt from a very young age. I studied islam and I studied the quran and
people don't know this but
In order to to study arabic as a subject in school
You have to study the quran regardless of your personal faith. It's just like if you want to study english
You have to study shakespeare and charles dickens
Let's say to study arabic and understand it. You have to memorize chunks of the quran and yes
I was christian, but I knew the quran from a very young age from as young as seven years old
I memorized parts of the quran
Growing up. I was very curious. I
read interpretations. I really
Through myself in the deep so to speak and in recent years after my faith crisis
That's when I really went
Academically and I did a degree in biblical studies and text textual criticism
The focus was on judaeo christian traditions
But I took what I learned in terms of textual criticism and how you apply that and I applied it
Because arabic is my native tongue. I could apply the tools and what I learned on the arabic text on the quran
Yeah, so that's so as far as your
Channel goes I'd like to know your arabic channel and then your english channel
How have you been treated?
overall if you were to put a percentage on
nice
Or the derogatory and nice like how
I know that you have to get a lot of hate
yes
So you say there's more hate than love
I wouldn't say more hate than love. Um, I think I get a lot of comments
on
How respectful and and my style of delivery and I try not to antagonize anyone
The idea is I present an argument and I want you to listen so
the nicer
I can put my argument the more chance you will listen to what I have to say
So I'm very respectful and I try to to remain academic
As much as I can however, you're still challenging someone's faith. Yeah
so some people that line is blurred and I get a lot of
I wouldn't say more than the nice comments, but I get a lot of
Hate speech. I got death threats. Um, I had to report to the police a couple of times
You have
Death threats and I had to report it to the police a number of times. Wow
And yeah, so it can get very nasty, but I wouldn't say that the death threats and the hate
Was more than the nice comments and you know, man, I don't agree with what you say, but I respect you
I get that too. I like that. I I wish more people would do that. That's that's nice the
You being an ex-Christian. I was also a Christian
um different flavor of christian than you but as far as your
criticisms of christianity and islam I see you you do focus a lot on islam here. Tell me what what what is
What is it like in terms of criticizing islam versus criticizing christianity and how have how have you been treated by either?
Have you done a lot of criticisms of christianity?
So I I have two different approaches on the arabic channel and the english channel. So on the arabic channel
I realized that in arabic, there is hardly anyone
Who speaks against?
christianity in an academic sense. So in the arabic world, we don't have
the barth ermine and the
richer dokens or anyone who is
Skeptic or at least academic in biblical studies. We don't have this. So when I started the arabic channel
I was kind of equally criticizing all religions. Uh, I I I do have a good chan
criticizing christianity judaism and islam
But in the english channel that the approach changed because in the english world you have a lot of academic criticism and
um
Foreign against arguments and an apologetic response. The literature is very rich
for christianity and judaism, but you hardly find
Good material to criticize islam from an academic point and those who uh, who do it the
The usual criticism they get. Ah, but you don't speak the language. Uh, you're professor such and such, but you don't understand the quran
Really the guy is a professor and spent his entire life to study the quran
So anyway, I I established the english channel
while I clearly, uh
Show and and and tell that my standards. I i'm not religious. I'm not coming from
My christian background. Yeah, most of my videos focus on islamic criticism because I I think this is what is lacking in the english world
It's more of a pressing need you're saying
Uh, yes, okay
Yes, got it. I figure I'd ask because that I see it as a need as well
um, I think a lot of people who are atheists, uh, who are
You know being critical, uh, don't spend enough time. I think fairly being critical of all the abrahamic faith
uh, that includes islam and so but I also want to be very
respectful as much as possible in that process
I don't have any
Goal and going out and just burning down the house of like, uh, you know, that's not my personal goal
My goal is to show you using your mind being critical
Letting people understand people are going to be emotional because it's sensitive
But like just using evidence and historical research you can walk away and and then you can actually enjoy researching it
If you if you get to where I'm at now
I'm not like axe grinding chip on my shoulder. I just I just want to debunk it all that's fun here and there for me
More of a historical research like I talked about before we went live
I like finding out how the humans came up with their stories and how they
Where they borrowed them and how they were inventive and creative and borrowing ideas or even
Culturally these ideas were in the air. Let's say and they were influenced. I like to do that kind of stuff
So, yeah, um, the same goes for Islam. Like I look at it and I'm like, yeah, I don't not convinced at all like it's not
This is not convincing just to me like hinduism
Okay, like I'm not convinced at all
But I love exploring and learning history and things like that
And I think this is an important part of history along with the rest of the world's religions and myths and things like that
So, um, I just want to make
Huh? It is fascinating
This work the the research and and and drawing the lines and making the connections
It really is it I do understand you completely because it brings me a sense of joy making these links and finding the dots and
That's why I smiled when you made your last video when you started bringing up oceanas
And you're bringing up raw on the sunboat and taking them in
Taking them into the water because you're on the water, you know
You're floating plus they believe that the blue sky was there were waters above the firmament
They believed in a solid dome above us. That was hard. It was solid rock hard
um, and that cosmology
Which is what makes me interested that this cosmology which eventually becomes global in the greek world
And you would think in the roman world
This would have been something that people started spreading
But somehow these ideas still around in the seventh century
Have that more ancient cosmology. That's interesting to me. You know, that's because if it was global
I mean, I guess it would give some apologist a little more because this is what we see in the bible
There are places where I think some of the literature is written later and may may reflect more of a greek
Uh cosmology that comes later and then an earlier cosmology ancient near eastern even ancient greek was not globe
You know, it was later philosophers who discovered this
So you see both and so what happens is well, I found a place in my book
That sounds global
And then what do you do with all the flat stuff? Oh, well, this one interprets all that, you know, and it's like
You'll press the other one. Yeah
I've got some super chats. Can we take questions? Are you okay with that?
Absolutely. Yes
Awesome. Okay, we're going to the beginning here. Yes, shoo it a king. Thanks for the super chat
Always appreciate you popping in the chat. You always do when I'm talking about islam. That's that's something I noticed
Order of creation seems false. Quran suggests earth and its creatures are before the heavens 41 11
Plus we know inhabitants came
After the smoke form
Mm-hmm. You know about this
Yes, um
But I would give the exact same argument now. I'm gonna play the devil's advocate put the islamic scholar hat
It's exactly the same thing. So if you read the book of genesis, you will find that there are two
completely different narratives
Uh for the creation
Um chapter one and chapter three, I think two
But yeah, I know what you mean. Sorry one and two two verse four onward
But yeah
And the order of creating thing god god's creation is not the same order
So so the Quran is the same
Um
If you really want to read it that way you have to read all the verses that talk about the creation
And see how they contradict each other. Um, I wouldn't take just one verse and say well, this is the Quran's
Creation story because it's exactly like the bible. It has more than one creation story and more than one
Set of numbers or set of order of things being created
You have to read it coherently
I gotta just give you a shout out, man
And the reason is is your you do what I do you try to be fair
A lot of people use, you know
Their tools against the faith. They don't like
Uh, especially when it's christian versus muslim, you know, and you see it all the time
And I think that's why many muslims like me even if they think d
I can't disagree with you more. I believe, you know, I'm a muslim whatever
I think they like me and that's because I'm quick to go. Yep. The bible says blah blah blah blah blah
The bible also says and the new testament also says and like you're fair, right? I'm trying to be
Everyone has a bias
But I truly am trying to be honest and fair and respectful along the way because I want to be treated
I hope you want to be treated the same way by subversa golden rule. So great answer. I love it. I agree with you
Um, you've got like the idea of the sun later
Um, you have light and verse one and genesis one you have you have interesting
Problems that come up and then later the order of man being created and anyway
I think man's created first and then animals are created for him and then
All sorts of theologians will come in and go but those animals aren't the animals of genesis one
Those animals were made specifically for adam in that garden at that time, you know, and the list
Yes, shua the king again. Thank you
Quran 30 27
Um says something is easier for god
This word is only used once and everywhere else. It says easy it uses
I don't I can't read this easier and all powerful
Okay, let let me read that says something easier ahoan ahoan means
Easier or lighter for god
This word is only used once and everywhere else. It says easy to use
Say or hyen easier and all powerful
I I agree with you
um
because if you
If we're talking about god being all powerful you wouldn't expect
Words like it was easier for him to do. Why does it even matter if it's easier for him or not if we're talking about an all powerful
uh creator
um
However, the three arabic words here that you put um
So hyen or say here that the the two arabic words on the bottom line
These actually mean easy or light
kind of
While ahoan means easier than
So it's not just easy but easier than and that is the reason for the question
I guess uh, you sure the king is asking
Why would you put easier than if we're talking about an all powerful god? Well, I agree with you to be honest
Um, it's a weird term to use when we're talking about an all powerful god
That's interesting
Show kind of a maybe the author
A human idea, you know to try and understand they're like trying to
Draw this picture, but maybe it's also kind of a mistake if if they're thinking omniscient all powerful
omnipotent the whole nine
And they're the writing in the human's mind
I could see myself making the simple mistake of going like, you know
It was easier for god to do this than it was for that and uh, but not realize like whoops. I'm in
The bible also has again
Plenty of situations where he doesn't know
Uh, and there's theologians who want to come in and go actually he did but it's an anthropomorphic statement
That's trying to make you understand because you wouldn't understand because you're human and like there's always
Same thing in this situation. Uh, most of them apologists will come and say
Well, look the way we humans understand things is this way
But we know that that's not the case for god. You see what i'm saying
Absolutely, but this will take us back to the point that we discussed earlier that you can make that
apologetic response
When we're talking about the bible because yes, these are people who wrote
the book
So
Yes, language is tricky and and you can fall into linguistic mistakes because at the end of the day
Humans are the author
The authors of the of the book
But when when you put the the Quran as god is the author of that
Well, he cannot really fall into it was easier for
What do you mean easier for you like you're you're the person who wrote it?
I see what you mean. Yeah, it becomes more of a difficult
I don't know how you get around
There are some direct things even if humans wrote, uh, but
That's a whole another that's a whole another can of worms biblically speaking of like totally agree questions of
like
They had iron chariots
So we couldn't win the war because they had iron chariots things like these ideas like god couldn't overcome them
Also things so yes, she would a king all these verses
Seemed to contradict four 48 and four 116 basically how many unforgivable sins are there?
Well, I I don't know these verses on top of my hand just looking at the number
I thought you were omniscient
I mean, you know certain things and others for you. I know
Um
Do you know I'm pretty sure argument
So I say again, do you know anything about this argument this
Not really unless I take every verse and put it in google and and pull that first because even that's that's an interesting thing when when we
When we read the Quran in Arabic, we don't usually use the surah numbers. They have names
So you often hear surat al-kaaf or surat al-baqarah
Surah and name while in the English world you will find them more often using the surah number
Surah number four surah number two
So I definitely don't know the surah by the numbers if if you tell me surat al-baqarah
Verses such and such. Maybe I know it. Maybe not
Yeah, I have a limited memory here. I think it's because we have bible verses and chapters and
Yeah, it's much easier that way
Exactly the same format. Yeah, that's interesting. Um, wow. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Sure. I mean
I would but that's a lot of like pulling up every single individual thing if you have a way of like
I don't know
Compressing this into something simplified where the the idea you're trying to get out is is explained
Please feel free to let me know and I'll try and keep my eye out in the chat
He's very interested. Sorry
I was gonna say something about um, yashuda king because he's he's um, his icon is very interesting
It says Aaron son of god
Which is which is a very interesting
thumbnail has arabic writing on it and usually we we would write
Jesus son of god, but it's actually written as Aaron son of god, which is
It was remarkable
Okay, okay. He's behind says this guy's a known liar whether you accept our faith or not
I want to dialogue with him in person or at minimum on camera with no audience
Um, I am open to have um a live chat
um, however
So a few comments here if you really want to have a chat with me
It is not
Good to start your your
Comment but this guy is a known liar
And I want to have a chat with him like why do you want to really have like this guy is a criminal and awful?
And I want to have a chat with him
These two don't really sit together and also my question for you. Um
hazy hines
Why why with no audience like if if you really are
Confident that I am a liar and I present something completely false
and you can
Expose me in a way. Why the no audience so if you can please
Clarify your comment. Um, I would like to know why you want to have a chat with a liar and why no audience if you can prove me wrong
interesting
Yeah, a lot was said in that five dollars. Thank you for this
Callie since the last supper chat called the guest a liar
Oh last super chat supper supper
I told the guest a liar. I'm going to subscribe at least can't want to watch
Thank you so much. Callie
That's funny
Someone's gonna super chat after because callie said no, I'm just kidding
Thank you so much for that. It's so funny. I get a lot of comments on my channel and
They all have this this guy is a liar. I'm like, okay
Please prove me. I like don't just come and make a claim that I'm a liar or I'm delusional or whatever
I completely agree. You have your own right to believe that I am
Uh delusional or I'm wrong
You can say that but at least
Prove that I'm a liar say that he said xyz
while
That doesn't exist or
But making the claim just this guy's a liar. It doesn't do it for me
Right, right. I'm with you. I I agree
It doesn't help the conversation notion slave. Mary sister daughter isn't uncommon
With other figures within close communities are brothers
Check out 765 773 785 if dulcanine is alexander
Jews also have legends about him. You need to do a lot more research
Hmm
So these are two separate
things
Yes, I know that
There is there is a very very, uh famous
Or or well known, uh
How do you say that common saying
That you would say yeah, uh, Arab
Which means you brother of the Arabs
Yes, I know that it is common. I know it's not like it's uncommon, but what is really uncommon and I
Challenge you to give me one example that you get one character
Uh labeled as sister of x
daughter of y
and that was just
A common thing and it's not
It's not a mixed identity. The problem with mary specifically is not
Sister slash daughter. It's actually sister and daughter
That's what makes the case very uncommon and rare
It's sister and daughter not sister slash daughter
If dulcanine is alexander, Jews also have legends about him. I know and and I
We already said this earlier. I'm not sure if there are correct me if I'm wrong
Um, I'm not sure if we said it in the live or before the live
We said that uh alexander the great we had
We we have legends about him that he was trying to spread christianity
And yes, he was trying to present it was before the life
So maybe I needed I don't write that we talked about it
right
We said it was both jewish and like we agree with the super chatter here that
This the legends of alexander the great predated the koran that were jewish and christian ideas
Um, obviously we even see hints of this and jocephus. We know file of alexandria
I think file of alexandria makes sense of this. I know jocephus makes a huge deal
And there is christian and jewish
legend about door or not dulcanine but as alexander the great so you get into the
Koran when I was pulling up just so people know and the person you should look at
This guy right here. That's the face of him
That's just one of the interviews if you're curious to see my old interview with him. It's this one alexander the great
is dulcanine
Um, and we go in and he goes into the sources
But you can you can get his his read his work here on the academia edu
Or you could just I could just read this like thing here real quick
I feel like i'm interrupting you though where you you were trying to get to something
And now I
Basically, I agree with the second half of the comment that yes, there are many legends and alexander romance was really spread in
uh
Nearly every culture in every language before and after
The koran and islam so there is no one figure that had enough
Legends and and myths about him
More than alexander. Um, so yeah, I'm not sure what to make out of this
I I think the koran like any other culture fell into
the same legends and um
mythology about alexander the great and by the way
legends and myth aside
if you read the earliest islamic sources and uh, there are a lot of hadith that sorry a lot a lot of tafsir books
Uh, tafsir means interpretation of the koran
They confirm that dol karnayn is alexander the great
So even the earliest muslims some of them believe dol karnayn to be alexander the great
The idea that now muslim scholars completely reject this is more and more evidence came to prove that alexander the great is a pagan
King and
Of course the koran now cannot fall into the mistake of praising a pagan king
Now it becomes problematic
But in ancient past when he wasn't known to be pagan and he was spreading christianity and spreading judeism
And he was such a righteous man
The koran had no and early muslims had no problems considering dol karnayn uh alexander the great so
Yeah, well, I think um the legend goes something like
The daniel bumps into I think it's daniel
I think
joseph smith is joseph smith gosh joseph
But he mentions something about a prophecy about
alexander the great and supposedly he sees this and he sees the jews and gives them a thumbs up and honors their god
So that that's kind of a nod kind of like syris the great has seen this messiah
Anyone who does any historical research on syris the great will find out like ahura mazda zora astrianism was his
Religion he was not a jew. He did not worship. Yahweh. He did not worship the god of israel
He was worshiping a different god, but because he was so
politically
In some way favoring what the jews wanted by going back and rebuilding the temple and stuff like that
He was seen as a messiah figure
alexander the great gets used that way and I think he's like the best
Military example that they had in the world of being a conqueror
And so they imagined anyone who could do that gods gods got to be with him
So combine the idea that the jews saw him as a figure who bowed down to their god and worshiped their god
Historically, we now know the guy was a
He was a polytheist the guy had all these other gods that he worshiped. He was even made into a god in egypt
um, he had uh, you know
Few male partners so same sex relationships all sorts of stuff and
You wouldn't know that if you're just, you know
Separated from that historical evidence and you don't know this material
And you might think he's an honorable man of god and he has the same ideas that you do because that's what the legend does is
Turns and gives its own spin in its own context. That's what I think is happening here
But come to find out. Oh my gosh. This guy's not what we thought he was
So it couldn't be that guy. It has to be so he's big and
Yeah, now also. Yeah, sorry. No, go ahead
Also, Alexander the great on every single coin that he, uh
What's the word, uh
The numismatic evidence mint minted or yeah, so every every coin he produced he presented himself as do carnain
Do carnain literally means the two horned
One and Alexander the great in all his depictions on all his coins that circulated the globe at that time. He was the two horned
King, so again, that's also another if you want to ignore that
I don't know what you make out of this
This is something that I don't know if viewers knew this
But it's worth pointing out. I I discovered this not too long ago
I was researching Greco-Roman material mainly Greek material
As I was looking in the Near East and understanding why do these kings have horns
Like, you know, we always think of the Vikings with horns on their head. Why do they have horns? Usually animal horns
The horns represent divinity
Yeah
It's the same problem you had like why are they borrowing the concept of Jesus as the messiah?
But then they don't use the concept for what it really meant initially
This is the same problem with the horns because that symbol is a symbol that this person is a god
Or a son of a god in its original context
He claimed I mean the history has it that he claimed to be a descendant of one of the deities
So he was a son of god and who claimed to be one and when he died, of course
They had all these stories about how he did become a god
Um
That again the horns it loses its meaning after seven eight nine hundred years
A thousand years later, and they don't see why the two horned one is actually
In its original context and this guy was cannot be a good man
Huh
Cannot be a good man
It's it's already problematic calling him del carne the two horned man
Already makes it problematic because he cannot be other than pagan
He has to be pagan son of god, which is a concept that on completely rejects
Yet he called him don't name right so
It's a brilliant point that you just raised
Because you need to look at what is the meaning of del carne
Regardless of who he is whether he was alexander syrist
Whoever the hell he was
The fact that he was del carne the two horned one is already problematic in that term
You just got to go back in time and see what the horns symbolize
And then you'll realize whoa, this is a really interesting fact about how people viewed horns on their crowns or as helmets with horns
Uh, they saw themselves as divine figures
maximus
1975 thanks for the video
Thank you very welcome. Yeah, seriously. Thank you for the love today
Um live long legacy you got this. Thank you for the super chat and being a member of our channel. Thank you
Uh, I hope you'll subscribe over adam's channel as well
Thank you mr. Morpheus says and I think the next one also compliments this one
So i'm gonna give you both here if that's okay. Mr. Morpheus says please show the error in dual carne
Sun setting and water please which is the last video that you did we we already kind of covered this but
You know, uh, just for the sake of brevity
Maybe you can recap and then george paul says shout out to my friend adam. Can you please?
I think this is related that start with have you not seen like the people of the elephant or is that a different question?
Uh
Can you please comment on the verse that starts with have you not seen?
I was like the people of the elephant that must be a different question or it's it's a different
It's a different sura. It's a different chapter all together. I while i'm yara as habel
as habel feel
I'm not sure if if george you can put it in arabic just to
Remind me of the actual verse and I will be able to read it in arabic on the screen
Okay, um george i so there's two sections on my on my stream yard
One is the patreon or the uh patreon my brain ain't working today
It's super chat section and then the regular live chat section
I only have the super chat section open but I can open the other one if you want to try and keep my eye out for george's
comment
Um, let's get back to mr. Morpheus just to recap on the dual carnines sun setting in the water
We did cover this earlier
Because this his past past video was on this but can you recap what the argument is and how
You see this as a problem or an error
So and I will elaborate on it more as well. So the the quran details the story of dual carnain
Um, and how he roamed the earth. So he went
As far west as possible and he saw the sun setting in muddy water
Um, he went to the west and wajadah
Taqar Abu Fi Ain in Hama'a find the sun to be setting in muddy pool or muddy water
And then he went all far east to find the sun
Rising on people who did not have any shelter or anything to protect them
The the interesting thing is that the two verses
that says
And dual carnain went west and found the sun setting
And then the following verse verse 90 that says and then he went to the far east and he found the sun rising
The two verses are identical in arabic words. However, if you look at the english translation, you will find the sun setting
He found
Translated as it appeared to him as if setting in water
But the other found in the sunrise he found the sun to be actually rising
On people so so that shows you the manipulation of the translation how the very same word
When it is problematic, let's twist the meaning a bit when it is not problematic
Let's keep the meaning as it is. He found the sun to be rising on people with no shelter
Um, so that is the the problem and of course, we know today that the sun doesn't set in water
It is something that the ancients believed, uh, according to their
cosmology or cosmological
narrative at the time
And it seems like the Quran borrowed
the the same myths and legends about
The water setting the sun setting in water
We we mentioned that was
In greek mythology as god helios
Pulled the sun towards oceanus a body of water and fixed the the sun there
So it was widespread and it seems like it found its way through the to the quran
Thank you for recapping for mr. Morpheus. Thank you so much mr. Morpheus
um
Getting george here. Let me see if george commented down at the bottom here. I'm trying to make triple quadruple. Sure
Oh, here it is. Yep
Um, so literally I'll just translate george's um, my nose is being an ugly and I'm just kidding with you guys
Um, haven't
Haven't you seen what god
Your god have done
by those
As habulfil means those who were riding the elephants or those who came with the elephants
And he makes a funny comment. There's a actually
No, we haven't seen because the verse is actually written
Haven't you seen what happened with those who came on the elephants?
Actually, no, no one saw that
Who's talking here? Just so I know the context god god is talking in the quran
In an actual verse the verse says haven't you seen what happened to those who came on the elephants?
um, and
In fact, it's related to our nine, isn't it? No, it is is related to another incident where
allegedly
this king from ethiopia
somehow came to the kaba in in the arabic peninsula on elephants and
He tried to destroy the the kaba of the muslims and
god intervened
sending
Some form of birds flying and dropping rocks on them killing them and saving the kaba
It's very interesting and ironic because later in in in islamic history that the kaba was destroyed about three times, but
Somehow muslims believe that in this particular incident when they came on the elephants god
Throws to send birds with stones and protected the kaba
But he didn't really bother the three other times that the kaba was completely demolished and destroyed
And yeah, we haven't seen the elephants anyway. It was a funny funny comment from george. Thank you my friend
Thank you
Cult korea. Thank you for the super chat great work by both of you. Please keep going. Thank you
Thank you. I appreciate that wade rogers in the house
Is there a correlation between a law a male deity replacing a lot?
The pre-islamic arabian goddess who was worshiped across arabia was her worship replaced by the worship of Allah
salam
There are arguments for that. Yes, there was uh two very famous deities in the ancient times of
in arabia known as allat wal azza
and
They were female
goddess, so
Is there a correlation?
probably
However, there are many academic arguments where the term Allah came from. There is a there's an argument that it is just a
al aflam, which is the and la is actually
God so it just translates as the god and it has no correlation to allat. Of course, that's the apologetic response
There are a number of arguments, but yes, one of them there is a correlation
between
Allat and Allah
depends which argument you want to embrace or find it more convincing
interesting
I've never really investigated that one
but I definitely have heard that
the
Like philologically the the name Allah does come over from el
Uh in in but there's still a name. I believe in arabic
Name for god that goes back
There might that might be a pagan significance that isn't related to the jewish concept
So I there's so much. There's just I gotta I gotta be my study, you know
Mr. Morpheus is back again
How can Muhammad be born four years after the death of his so-called father and his name is it catam catam?
This is a very slippery slope here
Because I don't want to offend it. So even
Even I if I am criticizing
Islam and the Quran
I don't want to get to this particular argument because it's very dear to muslims and it really
Hurts badly
whenever you talk about a
Very highly respected figure a revered figure and basically you're making an argument for this person to be
A son of sin as they say in arabic it is very offensive for them
So to answer this question actually, I'll I'll put the muslim scholar hat and I'll play the devil's advocate here and say
Um, well, we cannot really
Prove that he was born four years after the death of his father because
This whole narrative came much later in life. So there is
More chance that the narrative is wrong in islamic tradition
Than the prophet to be a son of sin
To be a son of sin
So as far as let me just get this context correct because I have not heard anything related to this before
And I want to relate it to christianity to take it off the hot spot for a second
There is a tradition. There is a well-known one in the jewish world
That is also used by non christians. Um
calces or celsus depending on how you pronounce it they claim that jesus was born by
His mother
Slept with a roman soldier
And so she wasn't a virgin. She conceived out of wedlock
She had a sexual relationship with a roman soldier and then he was born
So this is coming from critics people who don't agree with christianity
Um, is there something like this is going in the direction of what you're suggesting is the argument
That really that's not his dad or what is what is the argument? I don't understand. So the argument it's a
there are narratives that say that
Says that the prophet was born four years after
His father's death if if you work out the dates
His father died at the year such and such he but then mohammed was born
A year such and such with which is four years later. Okay
Now muslims look at it those who believe in that narrative. They look at it as a miracle
Okay, but of course for a non-believer
Clearly it wasn't a miracle if all it could mean that
his mother slept with someone else
who was unknown and
It's like like the story you mentioned about jesus now, right, which is but to muslim
It's it's far more offensive than the jesus story. Wow
Yes, I to to think that prophet mohammed was born
out of a
An adultery act is is a very offensive claim
I don't know how I mean, maybe maybe that's because you're seeing how critical
Like when you're being critical how the reactions are
Christians I
Mostly, I mean there are some that are just toxic if you are pointing out arguments
Like let me be let me be very frank. I was a christian. I believe that jesus was born of a virgin
This you did too
when yes, of course
And I think there was probably a guy who named jesus who was born
I think if that is the case then either joseph is the dad
Or someone else is the dad. I do not believe a miracle happened to make this guy get born
um
I know for a fact that any criticism of the virgin birth
If you think she slept with joseph even
If you think she didn't have the baby as a virgin birth
Is offensive to many christians if you say that some other man that's even more offensive to them
but um, it seems that you're suggesting that the criticisms
You know, there are people that are using this like it's so sensitive
Being critical of islam is way more sensitive than being critical of christianity. Is that what you're trying to hint at?
Yes, yes, so i'm saying that the exact same
Claim is not so hurtful to
A christian's feelings as much as the same claim would be so much hurtful to a muslim person
Why do you think that is are they just not used to criticism?
And that's that's one reason
They are not used to criticism
Well, look at it this way for the majority
of history
Islam persecuted and that's that's clear
In in quran in hadith in sunnah in everything islam persecuted anything that anyone who criticized islam
openly
And i dare anyone to challenge this claim that i'm making anyone who spoke
Against islam or was muslim and left had the ridda they were persecuted they were
Killed basically
Now i would take it further that there are actual hadith that sahih
A number of them not just one that anyone who would
Not criticized would insult the prophet in any way
They should be put to death that is the
Commandment in in islam
There are actual true hadith that there were people who mocked the prophet or insulted him
and
people took revenge and
Killed the the offender
And they were later praised by the prophet himself like good on you for killing that person because they mocked me
We're talking about a different story all together so for centuries and centuries
Those people who dare to mock the prophet or or make fun of him or say anything nasty or
offensive
Disappeared from the face of history and the faith of earth's earth
So yes, muslims are not used to these kind of claims
um
the the narratives tells them that
These people should be killed and it's it's quite hurtful or offensive. It's a big offense
So things when when you read stories like charlie ebdo or any of these attacks
It has very strong merits and roots in islamic traditions and
Doesn't come out of nowhere
I just um, you know wanted you to spell that out and so
I thank you for taking the time to do that. That was what I was thinking you were going to say
I just wanted it to be heard uh from people and
I hope that changes
That is my goal. Um, I don't expect everybody to not be muslim
I can't make christians see that their christianity, you know is is obviously I would say man made
I think the same thing about Islam
but
I hope that we can change that
That's the thing and I know I get a lot of crap from some of the people who are
Who critical of islam who get labeled islamophobic because they're so it's like all they do, you know is is criticize islam
and um
And i'm thinking to myself
Well, I don't just do that if anything that's something I'll occasionally do because I mainly know christianity
I know my bible and i'm really deep into all of that
but
It's sad when
That you know, they feel like they have to be so critical to like destroy islam's existence
Instead of help reform people to think differently
Because I think that islam is so resistant to reformation
That's that that's the problem that we're facing with islam
Christianity when it did all the nasty things and and
Killed a lot of people it was
The abuse of authority by the church
But there weren't really clear commands coming from authoritative texts
That tells anyone that criticizes jesus to be killed right, but we have that for for the prophet. We have that in islam
this is why christianity
Was more open for reformation a few centuries ago while until today islam is very resistant to reformation
And the only way in my opinion for this approach
Is to be very gentle. That's what I try to try to do in my channel is that I always nearly in every video
I say well, I stand for your right to believe I stand for diversity and inclusion
But I also need to criticism this because that's the only way moving forward
Yeah, I'm with you. I agree with you and I'm again
They're you know beliefs aside. I appreciate you being the way you are
being gentle
trying to be polite
and understanding because something I see in you is empathy
you have a very
understanding
Approach you know, not everybody is not everybody may have
Awareness of the things you've learned or they may not be able to there's certain emotional reasons people can't think a certain way
I know and I say this all the time on my channel and you probably would agree with me imagine meeting yourself
When you were at the height of your belief
You met yourself and tried to have that conversation with yourself
How would you?
How would you want to communicate to yourself? Would you yell at yourself? Would you treat yourself bad?
Would you try to insult? No, you wouldn't you wouldn't do that. You know that that would not persuade you
Into seeing the evidence and following through that's not what it did for me
I've heard some people say
Christopher Hitchens or Richard Dawkins very harsh that convinced me it didn't convince me. I didn't like those guys
They were too rough
I only started to hear them later and went actually they're right about that or you know what I mean
Like I I couldn't listen to that when I was first
Like getting into this stuff the apologist that debated them were my my heroes. I agree
I didn't like them
I liked the apologist who debated them and then later on down the road
I realized the evidence wasn't on the apologist's side
But I still wouldn't want to carry that rhetoric
I wouldn't necessarily want that because I want people to change and I don't think
creating that us versus them
tension
helps
That's that's why that's why I think even if people disagree with me to say you're nice, you know
I like that and that's good same for you, man
And I I love that about you too and yes 100% I agree with you and thank you for for acknowledging that
and maybe
Part of that I'm not sure if you you know or or the audience know that
What I do outside of the channel, um, I am a religious trauma therapist
As well as a counselor
so
I try to to
Walk the walk and talk the talk as they say
So I help my clients
Basically what what would they need is hand-holding not a slap on the face
And that's what I try to do
Um, I I'm not in the business of converting anyone. I'm in the business of
Doing healthy criticism if it resonates with you you can embrace it if it doesn't
Be my guest and please stop watching my channel like I'm not forcing anyone
To see something that will make their life miserable
right and when when I get a client who's from um
A muslim background who's still
On the like they did they don't know what to do
My role is not to convert them into an atheist or a christian or anything. My role is to meet you where you are
You make that decision and I'm here to support you. So so that's that's my approach and um
Yeah, if you go on my website, you will find nothing about the channel
You will actually find all about my work in psychology and therapy
That speaks now. I now it makes sense now. I understand why
You are that way you understand people
And I do too not from a clinical research. I didn't go to school
I just lived a really rough tough life and I've gone through drug addiction
um
And I think that that experience of going through and meeting people in a 12 step room from all different backgrounds
But we all had a common
Goal and we could come together on one thing
and it wasn't it wasn't
color race creed politics it was
I'm a recovering alcoholic or a recovering drug addict. My name is derrick and it was like, oh, okay
and we all could hear each other we found a common thing so
Yeah, that's man. It gets deep it gets deep, but I definitely appreciate you for that
I'm glad you told me that and now now I understand
um
A few more here. I got uh notion slave again. Thank you for the super chat my friend. I appreciate that
Uh, if trusted all the new testament about who jesus was you could think
You could think jesus claimed to be god whereas he did not
The same could be of alexander
Whose biographies were written by polytheists some 300 to 400 years later a possibility
I
Let you read again
I have no responses. Yeah, trust. Well, you can go with your response. Um, okay. I really
Let this sink in
So this is I tend to agree with you that I don't think that a jewish guy apocalyptic jewish guy was claiming to be god
um
But I can't say that I know for sure that that wasn't the case. It seems less likely personally
Especially if he was saying the shema and he was believing in one god
I have a hard time thinking a jew would claim
to be a son of god
Um, but they did write legend about him obviously and they portray him as a god
and that could at this time in history it wasn't like the way that
muslims view a law
It was more like there were levels to this so you could be a god and there was still a supreme god
You could call it. He knows theism, but whether jesus himself saw himself that way. I doubt it. I'm with you
As far as the biographies go the same could be of alexander whose biographies were written by polytheist
Some 300 or 400 years later a possibility
Imagine I'm gonna I'm gonna turn it around just just think with me for a second. You can disagree with me. That's fine
But all of the muslim commentaries the muslims who wrote the biographies of muhammad
They wrote them a couple hundred years later. I know I know they they claim they have a chain of command that goes back
But but listen all of these people are hyper monotheist
And they're trying to portray muhammad as if he really was this way
But but to be very honest with you, he wasn't he was another way that you don't know
Now imagine how I know that's insulting to someone who's faithful, but imagine
If I told you that you thinking the sources of people who were greek
Who were polytheist and he was a greek
Who was a polytheist, but he wasn't a polytheist because it was written 300 to 400 years later
you want
Probably if you're muslim you want me to believe we need to go
Almost a thousand years later to trust your account of something that far back
That doesn't make sense to me. It's not the most plausible explanation is my point
So I would rather go here's a greek
Who's a ruler we have actual archaeological evidence of the guy being called and equated with divinities and sons of gods
We have inscriptions stones
Even if the biographies of him are later
We have evidence of him being deified and seen this way right there out the gate
I get it. You say jesus the same way. It only took a decade or two before they wrote these stories about jesus. I understand
Thousand years almost
I mean that's that's
You know, that's not the best approach to me on understanding the material. So
What are your thoughts?
I love your response. That's my first thought
Thank you. Thank you. I love this argument that you made about how
Also, what was written about
prophet Muhammad was written hundreds of years later and yes, if the argument the the chain of
Narration is is a completely broken argument. Just look at the sunnah and the shia two sects of islam. They completely disagree
on the chain of narratives
That's just a quick comment and also
something
slightly different about alexander
That the biographies that were written about him
Three four hundred years later
We have the development of that we had so something like the alexander romance
We have copies from 300 bc all the way to uh year
800 or something like after islam we have
uh the stories and the accounts of
alexander the great over a period of seven
Sorry, not seven about nine
Centuries 900 years of development and we can see what are the earliest accounts?
And how they were were modified and what was written later and how something was taken from josephus and input there and how the quran influenced later
Uh legends that were written after islam we can see the development. So when when you look at it in context, it's not like we
They can choose what we believe about alexander and what's not
We we see how he was perceived at that time at that time at that time
And it's not like we dropped the whole thing because ah they were written three four hundred years later
It's a it's a bit different
Yeah, and I tend to go with like we talk about historical methodology
I'd be curious to know if there's a single expert on alexander the great
The greek and roman empires and just really the greek context here a classicist
A single academic. I know this is a a fallacy of of
You know, what is the consensus here? What does the majority think? But I would be impressed to find a single
Academic ever that's a classicist expert that knows the greek that knows the archaeology that knows all of this
That would ever say that he was not a polytheist
And that would ever say he did not like see himself divine or that would say that the horns don't represent divinity or like
Give me anyone any evidence and i'm i'm interested to hear
I will be like
Whoa, where did this guy come from because every scholar i know
That researches this and they don't do it for religion reasons. They have no
Acts to grind they don't have a reason to make him polytheist
If they found out that he was secretly a monotheist who worshiped only one god
They'd be like wow this king
Wow, what are the odds this guy in this world of of polytheism?
They might could come up with it plato had kind of a polytheistic philosophy
So he had the good the ultimate good in the crafter that was above all even though there were lower gods like zoos and all these other deities
There was an ultimate deity that was one and so in a way he was somewhat
Hino theistic, but
A monotheist and one could argue. Well was alexander the great also in line with plato
But uh, he was worshiped uh while he was alive according to accounts
So i'm i'm really questioning the whole thing and i wouldn't go to nine years later, you know
Even some early church fathers but later as a christian
Yes, they considered him as as a christian and as a as a saint
Uh, so which what happened with alexander to so
Yeah, you you draw the parallels
Play uh, justin martyre actually does that he he's
He was arguing with platinist as well
So he was arguing with these roman greek roman platinist and then yet still equates plato into the school
It's another one of those tactics. I was saying like
I wonder if the karan's author or authors
Had in mind like how do you get i'll give you an example some scholars argue that
The john the baptist sect there was a jewish movement of john the baptist
And they think that the authors of the gospels
Paint this picture for to try and like say hey john the baptist
Look at what jesus said about john the baptist of of men born or of men born of women
None are greater than john
So you guys who followed john the baptist
You you know now that he's dead because he's dead and we have josephus say he was like literally killed
It doesn't say he was beheaded like the gospel, but he was killed
Um by I believe it was hered. I could think it was hered, but josephus accounts us
um
It's it's to convince the people who followed him
Hey, our group we've got room for you
We we actually admire your people and your teachings and your ideas
And then it goes further of course in the context to say but even john the baptist said i'm not worthy to unravel his sandals like he's
So like yeah, we wonder if they're giving here's some context for jews and here's some context for the christian idea
Let's come together
You know, which is exactly what happened between poll and seneca as well that that there are apocryphal
Yeah, well epistles between uh poll and seneca that poll is one of the
Amazing philosophers of greek
again, it's it's just to to elevate the status of
Our guy, but at the same time leave room for others to embrace our guy
Thank you notion slave. I hope that answered the question. Thank you
Cult korea forgive me if i'm butchering your last name
Both of you are really doing a great service. Keep up the good work
Thank you. Thank you so much
Thank you. Thank you for real. I really appreciate that. Um shown quite a lot of love tonight
Mr. Morpheus did muhammad worship idols?
He is told in surah al muddathir
I'm with us. Yes
Stop worshiping idols
Well, if you want to take it at face value, then yes, it says here stop worshiping idols, however
Again, there there are
Arguments that he could have
Worshiped idols
He also
At a later stage in life. He destroyed the idols around the kaba
so
it
When when you say did muhammad worship idols?
What at what age or at what phase?
um
He definitely worshiped idols before uh before he embraced islam or before his 40s basically
Before he became the the prophet muhammad. He was worshiping idols
But is your question saying that after he
Delivered the quran was he still worshiping idols?
possibly not
But it took him some time until he really rejected the idols and dared to go and and
Attack the idols around the kaba and destroyed them
yeah
that's where the
the real controversial
Satanic passages people will bring in
where he some
Not all wonder if they're authentic the ones who might think it's authentic
the way I understood it was
He was trying to persuade
The community that worship these other gods to join islam
But they wanted these I think they're called cranes
Is it they're called cranes? They're goddesses
They they call them cranes or something the three the three goddesses or something
um, and he like accepts it at first and then is like
actually no, uh, he rejects it later and
But after he like wins them over or something he like
Wins them and then he changes his mind and then like they're like well, hold on
What happened here and even some of the people that were on his side were like muhammad. What are you doing?
like you're accepting
So I
I probably butchered that it's been a while since I've read anything on it
But it's something to that effect and it makes you wonder if like is this
I don't know the context of this, but if he was a polytheist or believed in several gods before he was called
Is that what this is referring to? I don't know the context though
Yeah, and there is a there is a very famous story in islamic tradition. Of course some muslim apologists will say it's it's a
It's a hadid laif week
But it's a it's an interesting story that says when muhammad was
Revealing or
Reciting one of the verses
He actually encouraged
People to worship two of the famous idols in in around mecca at that time
and then later
Came the abrogation and he removed these two idols from from the verse and when he was
questioned he then
said that
Any prophet when he got a revelation from god satan would come and throw in
Things that are not meant to be said, but then god will come back and correct these errors and remove
the the ones that are not meant to to be in and and
Protects or seals his verses to be true
So yeah at some point you can argue that
muhammad actually praised some of the idols around the kaba
Uh only to abrogate that at a later point
If that's historical because I
You know me. I don't look. I'm not just here to like just find problems if I like
I like getting into the weeds of what the scholars say about like actually this doesn't seem like it has historical pedigree
Looks like this is propaganda later between debates of various muslims, whatever, but if that is historical and goes back
There's all sorts of questions. I would have
What did you gain by having these two in there? You know, like is there
were you giving these people to give you money or like
Winning more people to your islam and then later on when you have power you say ha ha no no no no god said no
Uh, and you're stuck here now. You can't leave. Uh, you know what I mean? I don't know. I I don't know
You know the answer. I'm just saying
Makes me have just raised this question box. You cannot just ignore the question box
right
Yeah, absolutely. You rock. Thank you
I think we have one more mr. Morpheus is back hadith says gibreel didn't come to his house because of statues idols at his house
I am not familiar of that particular hadith, but I'll try to find the one that I just mentioned
Um
Okay
Help me out. Give me more context mr. Morpheus. I I'm on the chat side now so I can see
Is there somewhere specific like a certain?
Specific hadith you can give or
Just trying to get the context here
Yeah, sarah says uh satanic verses are part of the old islamic narrative. It was extensively talked about in the first decades of islam
It's a touchy subject now because muslims don't read the books
well
I know some critical
scholars who think
Some think that it's more of like a developed theological thing over time and it didn't have actual historical pedigree to the very beginning
Even though it was early and then there are some who say actually this might be a memory because it's in like
All of these early sources when they talk about it. So they feel like they have to speak about it because it's a thing
So I don't know what the answer is
I don't know I don't pretend to know
Still looking for mr. Morpheus here if hold on is he no he hasn't put anything yet
Did you find anything yet
I found yeah, I found the one that I was talking about
So it is
In tafsir ibn kathir one of the very
Major tafsirs or interpretations of the Quran. There is this
story of al gharani
I'm not sure if anyone knew that and basically
It says that the prophet was
reading this verse
52 and
When he came to the word and najma
He then said
Haven't you seen allataw al-awzza we talk about allataw al-awzza earlier in in one of the comments as two of the major
gods and
Whether there is allat
Similar to Allah
women at a thalitha
then
Falka shaitan al-al-sano that the satan put some words on on his
Tongue he's here as the prophet started saying or reciting verses
Actually from the devil not from god
Saying
They are actually revered gods and you can ask them for things and
Whatever they ask for will be granted
so now
You can see that the the prophet actually praising
Idols and eventually if you continue reading ibn kathir he will say that
God came and removed these parts and said odd. No. No. No. No. These are from the devil. These are not from gabriel
It's a very interesting story
but
Weak or not i'm actually
Telling the story from tafsir ibn kathir. This is one of the very major interpretations of the Quran
So it's not i'm making things up
Right at the end of the day even if you refute this story. It's in your
Traditional books that is a problem. I mean imagine if all the early church fathers said something about jesus
Yes, and it doesn't look good
Whether or not it's historical or not the earliest christians who
represent your brand
Are not doing you a favor. That's the analogy i would paint and pretty much. Yes. I personally
Find that's an interesting question. I also find that interesting historically, but then I also
I'm not always just interested in polemics. I'm curious to know really
Like I want to know
If we're looking at joseph smith because we actually have better evidence of his life and things he did
How he kind of manipulated things how he did things to
Empower for women anyone who studies joseph smith knows what i'm talking about if you're not a
Mormon apologist you'll know what i'm talking about this guy came up with so many clever ways to try and get with women
and
He literally even came up with an entire
Today it's doctrine and covenants 132
Like he has an entire in there about polygamy and it's this
Really what the prophet says you need to do or you will be cast into it
Eternal torment and outer darkness and all this and it's what you find out real quick is in this doctrine
He wrote it the history behind it. I actually had a
Mormon descendant who left Mormonism
His dad was um the scribe or grand his great great grandfather was the scribe of joseph smith
Wow, um, what's the name of the scribe? I can't even think of the guy's name right now, but
that day
Joseph smith his brother hyrum smith and the guy his scribe
Came together on how are we going to sell polygamy to imma?
How do we get her in?
How do we figure out how to get her in and that day joseph smith had a revelation?
And they wrote this long revelation and in this revelation, which is still in their doctrines and covenants as part of their scripture today
He addresses imma imma listen to your husband thus saith the lord
He has told you what abraham the
Like and he's using the bible to try and like get imma
To be on board with having him have many wives
Because imma had a conversation with him and his scribe pretty much documents a lot of the history of what was going on around that time
He had an argument with imma when he tried to get her to agree that he could have many wives because he's the prophet and god said so
She goes well, if you have many wives, i'm gonna have many husbands
He was so pissed off and angry that she said this that this revelation comes in and in it
God's condemning imma saying if you have many husbands, I will do like threatening her
So I personally find that interesting and I always ask that question like if this is historical
It's hard because it's so far back. We don't have good evidence, but
If this is historical what was muhammad doing?
As a humanist as a person who's not a supernaturalist. I'm like he's up to something
I want to know the answer. That's how i'm looking at it
You know that this story that you just said about joseph smith is
There is almost a copy and paste with with muhammad's
So there um
There was this woman he wanted to marry
But she was the uh, his daughter-in-law because she was married to his adopted son zade
and then god
Immediately. Well, he got a revelation
saying that one
You can you can have her as a wife as a wife. There is there is no problem and two
This is an actual verse in the Quran. So people
Wouldn't dare to blame you for what god has ordained. So if god gives you something
Basically people shut up. You don't blame the prophet for what god has ordained to him
To the level that in in the hadith then one of the prophet's wives said
Something along the line that uh, it it is so
Strange how every time you have a desire
God sends you a revelation to grant this desire
That is hadith. Where is the true hadith by one of the the the prophet's wife? Hold on man. Are you serious?
I'm serious and it's it's it's not one of the disputed hadith. I can I can find the
I can find the source for you
It will take me like five minutes or something
But you can then put it in the description box under the video if you want that's interesting
I mean, you know what I'm thinking like
That's pretty persuasive sounding to me that
He's getting what he wants by his power. He has power in being the prophet being the leader of the the group
And this is exactly what joseph smith did and in fact the threat was if you don't obey the prophet which was
joseph smith and mormonism if you don't obey you will be
Condemned because you're disobeying god god is the one speaking through him and you're disobeying god
and he was trying to get her on board and
That scribe said that he delivered that message to her later on after they wrote it
She she just crumbled it up or threw it away. She's like I don't give a what you say
She just didn't believe him at all like
But
That's interesting
It's funny how you can parallel
some of the same behaviors humans have
And and it's a heuristic approach
There's no way to prove
Like absolutely, but I wish I could do this with early christianity better
Because there's some scholars who who do look at things
Like the apostle paul and they try to say
You know, there's some weird stuff that happens in paul's letters and in like philemon
There's this freed slave who's trying to run away
Some scholars have done work on it that it looks like he's being sexually abused
And this is a runaway slave
Is one of the christian people sexually abusing their slave?
Like is paul involved in this?
There's and these are academics who like know the greek who are looking at this stuff
There's also a very weird passage in the book of revelation. I think it's chapter four
Where it talks about christ and this is barred airman
He's very very cautious about saying things that he doesn't know anything about and
It says that christ laid her on her sick bed
and
Pretty much rapes her
Now it's a very I'll have to pull this verse up. This is like
It is getting very controversially
This is the point I'm making like I'm looking for things that people aren't gonna tell you at church. Okay, obviously
It's super controversial. Let me find this barred airman. I'm just gonna let you play the video
I
Honestly and on on the other side if you read about from a psychological
Point of view if you read about the the messiah syndrome
um, even though it's it's not in the psychological manual, but a lot of
There's a lot of a ton of research made on that if you read about this
messiah syndrome and its characteristics and behaviors you will find a lot of parallels between
Uh people like jesus, mohammed even joseph smith
that this
It's it's amazing amazing how how you can see certain behaviors replicating
Among these people
You're not joking. It seems like humans are human
Let me share this even if they're son of god
This is gonna be this is not my words. You heard it from the man. So don't blame me when you hear it
Uh starting this back at the beginning. I made it quite a controversial intro, of course
But this is what he says later in the interview and here we go
Let me mute my mic so you don't get an echo
And christ says revelation chapter two that I will take
Jezebel and I will throw her on a bed
Okay, so now some translations say hospital bed or sick bed
No, the word is bed and she doesn't get sick
As in a hospital
Men come and have sex with her
Christ has thrown her in a bed men come and have sex with her
We're not told if they are raping her or if she's willing to have sex with them, but
Um christ says he's going to plague these men
And he's going to kill her babies
christ
He's going to kill her babies
This is revelation chapter two verse 22
I want people to let that sink in for a second
You heard it from him man, don't blame me, but
that
Yeah, so so my wording came across a little bit
But jesus
Said he was gonna kill her children, but like
It's super super, but look anyone who reads revelation
If you go and read that book
You will see how war like how really how rough the language is the horror of Babylon
Listen to the language like
You're calling people whores. It's obviously a symbol for Rome
Don't prostitute. You know, you cannot buy or sell this idea of
Don't cooperate with Rome. Rome is the horror Babylon
So it's just really derogatory sexual language used and
It's it gets really nasty
Absolutely, yeah
And all of a sudden you find all that love and compassionate language that you find all over
the
the gospels
Turns upside down in the book of revelation and it becomes very nasty. Yeah, there's
There's hints of it in the gospels. It's not as vivid though. Yeah, there's hints of it out of darkness
gnashing of teeth
I did not come to bring peace but a sword and then there is like the the wheat in the shaft
There's symbolism of saying like destruction is common, baby. Yeah, but but not in the terms of horror and
There's that blood shit. It's like a blood thirsty
God, yeah
depiction
We're sure for sure. Um, there is a scene where Jesus calls a woman a dog
um, a Phoenician woman, I believe it was but
A syrophoenician, uh, woman calls her a dog
He says well the the food of the the bread of
Uh, the sons of israel cannot be thrown to the dogs
Right. So yeah, but even the dogs get the crumbs lord, you know, and it's like, oh, well, okay
As long as you know, you're a dog numb
That's like literally how the context seems to be
Okay, we have super chats here a couple more and then i'm gonna let you go because you probably are ready to go
Anyway, it's two hours. Uh, mr. Morpheus. I cannot read this name. I'm gonna son an avida wood
Uh clothing kitab al-libas
So son an avida wood is a very authoritative book in in islam and he's uh mentioning a particular section of the book
which is about
How people should be clothed the clothing section
Hadith four one five eight. I wish you copied the hadith
It in in the
In the comment another one here. I don't know if this is related
He's talking about okay, so if you can copy that
link
Derek and and i'm gonna try and see if I can't copy that
Oh my gosh
Hold on. I'm at the titan house
Let me do this
But it's um, it's interesting while you're looking this up because uh, mr. Morpheus in the previous one
He said in son an avida wood
But then I look at the
At the link that is provided here and it is from al-bukhari
Uh, unless al-bukhari is coating
Quoting about avida wood
I am sharing this here
Let's see
All right zoom in I this is what came up
Uh
This is thank you so much mr. Morpheus
This is the hadith that I was talking about earlier
Derek and and mr. Morpheus actually provided the the source here, which is basically about the prophet's wife
When she told him
Basically, oh my god. I I see god always
Rushes literally it says god rushes in fulfilling your desires by sending you revelations whenever you need one
So so that was the actual
Hadith and it's from
Sahih al-bukhari, which means it is not one of the disputed hadith. It's actually one of the
Top hadith, uh, that you cannot
Yeah, you cannot view
Yeah, and you can see at the very bottom
Uh, left part of the english I said to the prophet
I feel that your lord hastens in fulfilling your wishes and desires. That's what literally his wife said
And the reason she she said that
If you read the second line, I used to say can a lady give herself to a man
But Allah revealed such and such and she's like wow. Yeah god always
Now my question is and and you can read the actual arabic here, but like
It's hard to read
The tone
Of this is the tone coming from her
Cooperative
You know, it's hard to know
Huh, the tone is like the the tone. She literally is shaking her head. She's like
I can't believe this likes seriously
God I can't believe that god really rushes to give you what you want every time and it's kind of
It's not angry, but but it's also
Like this
I gotta ask you man, what do you why do you think this is so interesting?
Why would people write about this like
Don't they see how this would look bad or is this just like are we outside of the context like at that time
This didn't bother anybody like this is like, okay. Yeah, so what she she could think what you want
It doesn't bother anybody because they don't care. I mean what would
They had to write these because
Some of the verses so in in in a lot of hadith you will find a verse from the quran
so here in in this hadith you will find a verse between two brackets and
The verses is quoted
So
It was for for early muslims. They needed the context of some verses like why why would god say such and such in the quran
You need a narrative. You need a context
Why would god say in this verse that the prophet can have
more women
Or in other verse that says for for example
So prophet Muhammad
gave
A specific number of wives a man can have right and i'm not going to go into the details of how these numbers are interpreted
But the consensus is that a man can have four wives except the prophet
Illa
Imbratun is a wahhabat nafsari any woman who would come willingly
Offering herself to the prophet
The prophet can take
No marriage
nothing
If if she's willing to give herself in bed to the prophet
The prophet is not to be blamed. He can take her and that rule was only for the prophet not for the
General muslims and people would question. Well, why why this particular verse was
For the prophet because it doesn't benefit humanity in in any way
It's it's one command for the prophet to grant him something
So people needed context
So they had to come up with the hadith and the the narratives that explains. Ah because at that point
The prophet was talking to his wife about such and such and his wife said such and such and
This is how you come to find these hadith to provide context for certain verses in the Qur'an
That
I can't help it
Still controversial, but yeah, I'm just how they exist around and other examples men who take advantage of that power and
How that would be clear over here. Um, thank you mr. Morphers
Yeah, thank you again
This would keep up the great work. Derek Adam. Thanks for doing this
Sorry if it's been addressed on myth vision, but could you address the idea that human gestation is scientifically described in the Qur'an?
Human gestation as in I believe it's eating humans. I know I think it was the idea that
How sperm is is created or something like that. I think help me out chris
Uh, you know how they say, um
I think it's sperm or might be the idea of the the embryo creation
Yeah, you've heard the argument the scientific argument. I'm sure like this is a scientific miracle that we know
How babies are born or I can't remember what the
Damn argument. Well, there are two around this area. There is the how the zygots and the embryos are created in the womb
and they claim that it is
A scientific miracle in the Qur'an, which is absolutely not
Excuse me
And there is another it's a completely different section where the the Qur'an talks about how the
Sperms are created in a in a male's body and and basically
The Qur'an didn't know anything about the glands at the time. So it claims that the the sperms are created
Between your spine and your gut
Somewhere there
Are where the sperms are created and again, it's it's utterly
nonsense and and completely wrong
but then people twist the meanings of things and claim that it is scientifically
Miraculous that the Qur'an mentioned this and there is this major artery that comes from the spine and this major artery
That comes from the stomach and they both
Feed the testicles and this how did the Qur'an knew that the sperms come from these arteries
Like well, that that's not what the Qur'an meant at all. Whether we're talking about the embryo creation or the sperm creation
None of them are scientifically described in the Qur'an
Zero it's actually in the way that people
Twist the Qur'anic verses and read a lot into the text to make it sound scientifically described in the Qur'an
But no it is not
That's the short answer
Thank you. Yeah, I've had people try to make that claim. Mr. Morpheus. The other hadith is about the statues
In the same page there were two hadith, I think if you scroll up a little bit
There is no other there is no other hadith here
It's it's basically the top section is the Qur'anic verse and says in that section explaining this Qur'anic verse
You have the bottom section which reads
So i'm looking for i'm scrolling mr. Morpheus earlier was talking about uh, gabriel
Or gabriel gabriel was
I'm mixing arabic with english now
um angel uh gabriel when he was coming to the prophet apparently there is a hadith that
Gabriel couldn't visit the prophet in his home
Because he had idol
Statues, this is the hadith. I said i'm not familiar with or I cannot remember it
But I cannot say it here in this link unless mr. Morpheus sent um, is it this one 41 58?
Uh, i was on an abidawood possibly so if if you put sonan abidawood and hadith 4158
And that's a different
Oh, gosh
Let me just try 4158 so maybe
Maybe I will do no you have to specify the book. Uh, so let let me try to do it. Uh
Here very gracious
You said it's in the sunnah
Sunnah, which one?
Sunnah abidawood
I gotta pull up here. Let me see
Okay, let's see how they say the fourth one on the left sunnah abidawood. Yes, and then you have the clothing
4158 right somewhere here
clothing
Kitab el lubez. Yes clothing and then we need to find that number which is um
Oh, so 4158. Um, what's the number 4158
4158 thanks pretty long here
Yeah, so where's the number? Where am I looking at fourth four zero three eight? Um
Wow, it's way down here
You know, you could have searched the text
There you go, that's four
No, that's
4146
And then about this is this is the one hang on you got it one if you scroll down a little bit
It's the the one. Yes this one
This is it at any jibreel. Yes at any jibreel
I mean
Wow, I have never read that particular hadith before but it's you can you can read the english translation of it and it's
Wow
So morpheus said they sent two hadith
um
Yes, so he sent two hadith one was about
Aisha the the prophet's wife
Saying that he rushes to
Fulfill your desires and now this is the different hadith a second hadith which talks about how uh angel
Gabriel couldn't
Couldn't go into the prophet's house because he had uh statues
around the house
and
And there's something about a dog
It's i'm trying to read the english now
The dog belonged to al-qasqan
Ordered the dog to be turned out
um
very
Turned out interesting hadith
um, so then that ties with when when he was asking earlier
Mr. Morpheus about
Was was prophet muhammad?
um worshiping
idols
And I said well it depends if you're talking about before his 40s or after his 40s after
Before the revelation of the quran or after the revelation of the quran
So now he's providing this hadith to show that well as it is after the revelation of the quran because it's in the time that angel
Gabriel was coming with the revelations
Yet the prophet still had statues in the house and underlying statues here because statues are idols
And and gabriel didn't feel comfortable coming in with these statues and and a dog on the side
um, but yeah, there seemed to be some evidence that
The prophet wasn't really fully monotheistic
Or at least people were assumed in this yeah, so why would the prophet have uh
Statues in here when when he was obviously against all statues and idols
hmm
Interesting um great one mr. Morpheus again mr. Morpheus strikes again
Mr. Morpheus is doing a lot here tonight and thank you for all that love and support everybody
Let me go ahead and give a final shout out here to you adam all the hard work you're doing
I hope people go and show your english channel some love putting this in the chat
It is in the description if you're watching
Putting this in the chat so you can go subscribe
I hope you check out his work and listen to some of the arguments that he brings up
Do you have anything um to look forward to that uh people can you know
um
Be ready to wait for or that you're about to do is there anything on the uh radar?
uh
Nothing specific at the moment, but i'm
i'm trying to
Create something new on the channel
So most of the videos on the channel at the moment are main talking or or discussing an argument or presenting an argument
What I want to do in the near future is have call-ins where
Muslims would like the comment that came earlier this guy's a liar and I would like to have a chat with him
And prove him wrong but with no audience
So what i'm trying to do on my channel very uh in the very near future i'll try to make uh
Videos where people can call in and
Basically if they want to agree or disagree or expose
Uh something that they think I overlooked or they want to show me how or where I lied
It will be interesting to to have some sort of an interaction
And yeah, I would like to have Muslims have their say and me responding why I disagree with with their point of view
This is something i'm working on at the moment
I really appreciate you giving me your time. Uh, we've been trying to make this work out and we figured out
You're working i'm working. Um, yeah, I'd love to do a documentary at some point going into some material with you and
Diving into the islamic world. So
Stay tuned subscribe any final words from you maybe some words of encouragement to people out there
Uh one thank you so much for having me and thanks for the beautiful audience that attended them and those who will
Watch this after it is a recorded
Uh video
um, I really appreciate the love and um, please subscribe to my channel and yeah
I can't wait to work with you on that documentary together
Looking forward to it my friend. I really appreciate it. Thank you everybody who's watched and shown love even the criticisms
We appreciate the conversation
And allowing that dialogue to take place. Um, I hope you subscribe to his channel
Let him know when you get over there and you comment. Hey myth vision sent me
Myth vision sent me let him know so he can feel like all right. That's interview I did over there was worth it
Yes, please and I will try to respond to these comments if I spot them
Awesome. Thank you so much. Love everybody. Uh, stay positive stay critical and never forget
We
are
myth vision
Love y'all
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this there's no turning back
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
You take the red pill and you stay in wonderland
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes
Remember all I'm offering is the truth nothing more
Oh
Oh
