Dr. Dennis R. McDonald, I think I left a part of my being in this course that we just
a team of amazement. Your course is really, really a shocking course. I've never seen
anything like this on the internet and I was privileged to work with you. You have quite
a background, but I think you're just a gym that's kind of hiding in a haystack and nobody's
ever explored this, this in depth the way that we have. So I want to thank you for
the course and your book, Synopses of Epic Tragedy in the Gospels.
Well, thank you so much. Yeah. Thank you. We know that there's some very strong parallels
to use the term of your work to the Odyssey, the Iliad, Virgil's Aeneid, and then there's
some that aren't quite as strong. But once you see those strong ones, it's difficult
not to think there's more going on.
Oh, I think that's exactly right. And I would agree that there are lots of weak parallels.
The analogy I like to give is I used to live on the front range of the Rocky Mountains
in Denver. And on any day, you can see the front range and you know there's a mountain
range there. But then you look further toward the horizon and you see other peaks. And in
the distance, you can't be sure that there are peaks at all, but maybe just some cloud
cover. But even the faint peaks are a part of the front range of the Rocky Mountains,
when seen from Denver. And so what I think you can say is that, yes, we do know that there's a
mountain range that's called Mimesis of Greek Poetry in the Gospels. And some of the examples
are quite strong and others are not. But the strong ones give credence to the plausibility
that the more faint ones are there nonetheless.
I feel the same way. You know, the biggest criticism I have received since putting your work on the
front lines is the idea that while we know, thus sayeth the Lord, comes from a quotation of the
LXX, the Septuagint. So, duh, we know it's using that as literature. And of course, scholars have
written commentaries, especially on the Gospel of Matthew showing the rewriting of Moses and such.
But the same can be said in Mark that there is a sense in which Elijah is being
a rewritten narratives of Elijah or Moses find their way in this literature. And your work,
if we can swallow the pill and recognizing some of these connections, like the strongest one,
to me, if I were to give it, and I love to go with you on this, is the Polyphemus and Cersei
the Witch comparison. I think there are others that are very strong, but this is the strongest one.
And fill in the gaps. I want to fill them in for the audience here. You've got this lawless naked guy
who's the Cyclops cannibal in the Odyssey story in Book 9 and 10. This is part of their adventures,
their traveling. And here is Odysseus and his men. They end up in this cave. They end up getting,
a lot of them get, you know, eight. They survive after gouging the eye out of this creature,
this big cannibal. And they get in the ship and on their way out, there's taunts from Odysseus. And
there's similarities to what we see going on with Jesus, where they, on their adventure,
which is really weird, as you point out in their course about porphyry,
but it's really weird. Like they're traveling on the Sea of Galilee. Weird. Anyway, to the land of
the garrisons. Anyway, a naked nude man in the caves, in the tombs, that is lawless again. And
he's around swine. And here you have later the soldiers in the Odysseus story get drowned as
well. But in this story, he cast out the demon, which is called Legion. Whereas in the Polyphemus
story, he's named nobody. Well, you have nobody, and then you have many people, which is the Legion
being cast into the swine. And in the Cersei Witch story, you have Cersei transforming these men into
pigs to eat them later. But instead, Jesus cast out these Legion into the pigs, into the swine,
and boom, drowns them, just like the Odysseus story has his soldiers drown in the sea later. So
there's kind of a weird connecting of these stories in their own unique imaginative way.
And the parallels are, as your criteria show, just over and over match in terms of are they
sequential? Did they have this? Are there ancient recognitions by other Christians of this narrative
connecting to the Gospels? All of them get checked in this story. This is like a all seven
criteria meet the expectation. So once we see that, Dennis, isn't it open to now recognizing
other stuff? Well, I think that's the mountain range analogy. You've identified
Pike's Peak and the other stories kind of fall in place because you know that this project is
being done. And I want to tease our audience to let them know this isn't your book, but it's also
spelled out visually. And you and me go through this in the course. So anyone who signs up now
while Early Bird Special's up, but just sign up, you're not going to find this anywhere on the
internet. I want to take you into a little bit of an engagement I had with a Christian apologist.
The Christian apologist is I, he's my friend, Michael Jones. I disagree with what he's doing,
what he believes about this whole thing, how he's approaching New Testament literature.
As most apologists, I know, are looking for the historical reliability. And this is history,
Dennis. This is not great mythology. This isn't historical fiction. They're not trying to like
embellish the narratives. This is really what happened. And I want to play a little section
to get your thoughts about something that really I thought about you right away. I was like,
Dennis needs to hear this because you debated the Christian apologist that is going to be
pointing up these parallels. And I think it went right over Michael's head. I think it goes right
over all of their heads. And they think that they're making a point on their side about parallel
Armenia. So let's play this little clip here. I hope you enjoy. Gospel authors were also aware
of pagan myths about dying and rising gods and wanted to make connections. They most certainly
could have. None of this would actually mean that Jesus never existed or never died and rose from
the dead. Because even if this is what the gospel authors were doing, it is equally possible they
were employing the ancient artistic style of writing about the events one witnessed to fit
with an already existing pattern or already well known stories. Or on the other hand, it could be
that they were not. And it is the modern skeptics who are seeing patterns where they were never
intended to be seen. To explain what I mean, the scholar Michael Akona gives an example of how we
can see patterns in ancient works that were all written independently of each other. None of
these authors were intentionally trying to make similarities between their works. But despite
that, we can read how the death of Hector, which is fictional, paralleled the death of Pompey,
which is historical, as well as the death of Jesus, also historical. Achilles' pursuit Hector and
Pompey and Jesus were also pursued by enemies. The people begged Hector not to go, whereas Pompey's
friends begged him not to go as well, and Peter begged Jesus not to go. Hector quoted what others
might say after his death. Pompey quoted Sophocles, and Jesus said the scriptures must be fulfilled.
Achilles killed Hector by stabbing him with a spear. Pompey was murdered by being stabbed to death
with swords. And the overseer of the assassination was a man called Achilles, odd coincidence.
Not only that, there was a Centurion present. Whereas when Jesus was arrested, they came with
swords and there was a Centurion present at his death. Before the fight, Achilles called Hector
Noble Hector. The Centurion called Pompey Imperator, and Achilles saluted him in Greek.
Jesus was also addressed with titles and praise. Judas called him Rabbi, and Pilate called him
the king of the Jews. Hector thought he recognized his brother there to help him,
but it was a trick caused by Athena. Pompey recognized the Centurion as someone who once
served under him, and Jesus was portrayed by a disciple he recognized. Both Hector and Pompey
resolved that they were probably doomed, and Jesus predicted his betrayal and death.
Achilles killed Hector and dragged his corpse around dishonorably,
but was later given a proper burial. Achilles killed Pompey, decapitated his corpse and left
it there to lie dishonorably, but was later given a proper burial. Jesus was killed dishonorably,
but was also given a proper burial. Jesus also gave out a great cry at his death. People on
Pompey's ship uttered a wailing cry, and Hector's death was followed by shrieking
laments of women. There were also women who mourned after the death of Jesus.
Hector's father begged Achilles for the corpse and it was granted. Achilles permitted Pompey's
freedman Philip to attend to Pompey's corpse. In Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate for Jesus'
corpse. All three bodies were attended to and wrapped properly. And finally, Hector was later
avenged, Pompey was avenged by Caesar, and one could argue Jesus was avenged by the temple's destruction.
Despite all these similarities and plot points, it would be absurd to suggest we have to conclude
both the story of Jesus and Pompey are fictional, because the story of the death of Hector is fiction
and was written first. It is not special pleading to agree there are similarities here,
but still believe the story of Pompey and Jesus are historical accounts.
These similarities came about coincidentally, and this should not be surprising. Given the vast
amount of fictional stories and real life events written down across the span of history, similar
stories are bound to occur. Okay, I want to stop there, Dennis, because I think that was enough
in the example of the rest of the video. He's using historical examples like the shipwreck of
Titanic. And then 14 years before that, there was a fictional novel written about this ship called
the Titan, and they want to see this as some example used to say, look, you can have fiction,
like the Titan, it has no bearing on the Titanic's sinking, and therefore, what a kawinky dink. But
in this example, after talking to you several times, you do think the Gospels are imitating the
Hector narrative, and that's why I called you that one time and said, what about this example of
Pompey? So what do you think about that in your thoughts? Well, I think this is very clever,
and it's a kind of analysis that we need to have. And so I appreciate the attention that's given to
to this work. I think the question of the, I don't deny that Jesus was crucified. And I don't
deny that there might be some historical memory that informs Mark, but I think it doesn't explain
so many of the details. Of course, Plutarch knows Homer as well. And so you have the
heroic death pattern that's established. Now, I'm not sure that he's imitating Homer. I'd have to
check out the text, but let's say that he's not. Let's say that this is kind of in the air.
I think there are a lot of details, though, in Mark's account that require a different
interpretation. The first is that the death of Hector clearly was known and widespread. In fact,
the rescue of his corpse was the best Homeric episode that was repeated in art. And it was so
because so many soldiers died and had sarcophagi that had this pathetic scene of Priam having to
beg for the body of his son. So we know it was imitated. We have lots of details. I'll talk
about those in just a moment. We can see why the author would have compared Jesus' death to Hector
because Hector stays in the tomb and Jesus rises from the dead. But let's take a look at some of
the details that I don't think you can get from a generic understanding of the heroic death.
And, by the way, Plutarch has other examples, not just the Pompeii of heroic deaths. And
they may be driven by some knowledge of the death of Hector. I don't want to make that case yet.
But Jesus says that his God has abandoned him because he sees a sign. Hector says that Apollo
has abandoned him because he sees the sign, namely that a deophobus, his brother, who had
allegedly volunteered to help fight Achilles, was actually Athena, who vanished. You have a
death shout. And apparently, I didn't know this, but apparently Pompeii has a death shout as well.
You have three women who lead the lament. And that occurs in the Iliad with Andromache,
Helen, and Hecuba. You have the rescue of a corpse. Joseph of Arimathea dares to do it.
And then the body is anointed. Hector's body is anointed and placed in a
tomb with rocks piled over it. You know that the city of Troy now is going to be destroyed
because it's a great champion, is dead. And the same thing happens in Mark.
Jesus says that his God has abandoned him. There's a death shout. There's a gloat by the
censurian who says, oh, sure, this man was the son of God. And by the way, I didn't say before,
Achilles gloats over the corpse of Hector. You have three women who watch from a distance
and come to the tomb to anoint Jesus, where you have such anointing also in the Iliad.
You have Joseph of Arimathea is playing the role of Priam in that he dares, and this is only in
Mark, he dares at night to go and ask for the body of Jesus. His name is a name like
Joseph of Nazareth, Jesus's father. So Joseph of Arimathea is playing the role that a father
should play in rescuing the body of his fallen son. But Arimathea in Greek means excellent
discipleship. So Joseph is playing the role of a disciple, whereas the rest of the disciples have
vanished. Now you have this cluster of motifs that actually were recognized by Byzantine scholars
of the death of Jesus and the death of Hector are similar. You have an expansion of this in the
medieval gospel of Nicodemus, so that these criteria that we talk about with Mimesis criticism
are all satisfied. So what I would want to see is an example of a parallel, let's say between
Plutarch's Pompey and Mark's Jesus that accounts for these various other tropes that are found
not in the Pompey story, but they're found in the Homeric story. Now that's not to say that Jesus
was a myth or that the crucifixion wasn't real, but it was mythologized in a certain way, and it's
not mythologized exactly in the same way that you'd find in Plutarch. So that would be an initial
way of dealing with this. Of course, in the end, one would have to compare the texts in Greek and
see what other similarities there may be. But I don't think the Plutarch analogy is sufficiently
accountable to care for the details between these stories. So to be, let's get into the little details
here for a moment, because I hope that our friends watch that we're part of this. I know Michael
Lacona played a significant role, the gentleman that you debated on the resurrection helped
to play a role on those parallels with Michael Jones. So to get into the details here, what you
are saying is, sure, Plutarch knows the Homeric story and is probably inspired by that in his
assessment of Pompey, who was a historical person. We say that Jesus was a historical person. I know
the video that he did initially was actually going at mythicists, but rather than doing this parallel,
trying to show like, look at how many random coincidental parallels we find, because they
have no overlap and no, there's no inspiration between these narratives on concocting what we're
seeing within the Gospels or within Plutarch about Pompey or with the Odyssey or the Iliad.
You're saying that kind of backfires here. If anything, we are finding that that parallel
is significant with your criteria of mimesis in showing not only does the New Testament have
indebtedness to the Homeric Odyssey, but you're saying Plutarch probably also has similar inspiration
and I guess you'd say indebtedness to the Homer's Iliad and Odyssey in his narration of what we're
seeing with Pompey, even though you haven't personally investigated that example so far.
Right. I think that's correct. And of course, the death of Hector because it becomes a template
for the heroic deaths of many people. In Virgil's Iliad, it's Ternus at the end of the Iliad,
who suffers a death that's very much, I mean, it's clearly drawn from the Homeric epic and
the death of Hector. But there's also a passage in Josephus that scholars have said this has got
to be an imitation of the death of Hector. It was a Jew named Niger, I believe it is,
but I may be mistaken even if he's Jewish. But I know scholars have argued that Josephus, too,
is using the Hector paradigm. It's possible that this paradigm also is informing Plutarch. I would
have to investigate it more clearly. But I think you certainly have identified the issues. This
brings two more things before we leave that particular topic. I hope people watching will
get the course because you go into this, we give visuals, we go through your book, we show that
there is definite connection. One of the things that really smacked me in the face while you were
responding to this from Michael Jones was, we're not modern skeptics aren't making this up. I would
imagine that is a big criticism. You're just making this up, Dennis. But you're actually showing
Byzantine Christians were recognizing this as well. So that whole thing can go out the window.
When I hear apologists argue, Dennis, wishful thinking, parallelomania, you're just trying
to find connections as I just heard in that video. You're saying, sorry, you're smacking your own
Christian brethren and their historical analysis from the medieval and earlier times when they're
recognizing this connection and how Jesus is compared to what we're seeing with Hector. So
they were already practicing something of the sort you're saying with Mimesis.
I think you have this also in the Gospels themselves. So when Matthew, Matthew includes
most of the passages in Mark that seem to have a Homeric background, including Jesus' death.
And Matthew deals with it quite conservatively, except when it comes to the guards at the tomb.
So there are guards at the tomb, the tomb is sealed, an angel comes, he rolls back the door
from the tomb, he puts the guards become like dead men, that is, they're incapacitated.
And then they have to report how Jesus got out of the tomb. So what happens in the Iliad when
Priam has to get the body of his son? An angel, an angel named Hermes, takes on the guys of a
Myrmidonian soldier, meets Priam and his herald, Edeus, and guides them into
Achilles' Bivouac. Well, how does he do so? He puts the guards to sleep,
and then he pulls back the heavy bolt from the Bivouac so that Priam can go and make his bid
for his son. So in this case, I suggest that Matthew saw the parallels between the death
of Hector and the death of Jesus, and embellished it by adding the business about the guards that
are asleep, and pulling back the bolt so that the angel, the angel in Mark, in Matthew, pulls back
the stone from the tomb, and the guards become like dead people so that the angel could liberate
the body of Jesus from the tomb. So I think Matthew already understood it. So Matthew understands it,
and Christian apologists don't. Luke's version is different yet, but then we do have several
examples in the history of Christian interpretation that relate the death of Jesus to the death of
Hector, and in fact embellish the story by having their own imitations. So yeah, you can't ignore
the history of scholarship on this. You have this criterion 7. Ancient recognitions suggest that the
death of Hector became also a template for the death of Jesus. And also, don't you show this in
your work as well in the book of Acts of Andrew and other gospel material that obviously didn't
find its way in the canon. We're also doing this, correct? Oh, I have extensive appendices
on the Acts of Andrew, on the Gospel of Nicodemus, and the Homeric Chantones. So
all you have to do is look up the gospel passage you're interested in. You may find a footnote
that sends you to the appendix or the appendices, and the appendices will then give you my
translation of these various later Christian narratives. Thank you for that. I really appreciate
it because there's so much of that that I think is a problem. And just one more thing. I could see
historical kernels or memories possibly playing a role, and I'm with you in thinking there was a
guy named Jesus who was crucified, and all of this mythologizing took place. However, if I were
to ask you which one's more plausible, Dennis, these parallels endlessly find their correlation,
and they have overlap with what we see with Plutarch's death of Pompey, and of course his
end of his narrative or his life, which was a historical person. What's more likely that these
narratives, they're stretching the details to fit narrative details to what we're seeing in Hector
and Pompey maybe doing the same with Hector, or that these are what actually historically happened.
Would you lean on this as more embellishment in narrative? Not saying there wasn't a guy who was
crucified, but trying to get behind the narrative and know what is historical is probably the most
difficult thing you're saying, and you would fit that category more than saying, oh, well,
what we're seeing happened here in the Gospels as it's depicted in Mark is what actually happened
historically, and it just so happened to coincidentally have its correlation or parallel
to what we're seeing in the Odyssey or the Iliad. Let me answer this way. If you were to take
the Gospel of Mark in English or Greek, it doesn't matter, and you were to eliminate
everything in that narrative that doesn't smack of Greek poetry, especially the death of Hector,
you'd have almost nothing left. There was a historical Jesus, yes, he was crucified,
and Mark doesn't know what happened. Mark is creating what happened for theological reasons,
for giving sustenance to his church that is still suffering from the Jewish war,
and Jesus becomes the ideal martyr, and Jesus expects people to carry their own crosses and
suffer as he did, but because of the resurrection, there would be hope for a better afterlife.
So I think if I were to be perfectly honest, but I also want to be humble about this in my judgment,
the only thing that Mark knew about the crucifixion was what he knew from reading Paul,
that is 1 Corinthians 11. Somebody delivered Jesus up, he had a meal with his disciples,
and said, remember this, and that he was crucified. I don't think he knew much more,
because everything else in the narrative can be created by imitation. That doesn't mean that this
text is worthless, it means that it's artistic, and it means that it's significant for the community,
and for the people who are reading it, and I know the idea of community is contested now,
but let's say the readership can benefit from reading this text, especially after the pain of
the Jewish war. So what can people benefit from reading your book and taking your course?
I think they can understand that these texts are written by early Christian intellectuals
who are attempting to make sense of the carnage of the Jewish war, and to do so
are valorizing Jesus as a hero of sorts, who is similar to Odysseus, who dies like Hector,
but who is better, who escapes death with the resurrection, who is compassionate,
and is exemplary. So I think I have myself very much a new appreciation of the gospels,
and I don't have to view them as naive folklore by people who were just kind of spinning yarns.
Surely the gospels are not histories, they're mythological one way or the other,
but I think to make them really venerably mythological is to see them as strategic
rewritings of mythology to support these Christian readers who are facing a difficult time.
And I'll just say this about your work, Dennis. I've worked with you for a long time,
I've been cautious and skeptical about fully buying everything that you had put out,
and even a lot of things, and it was recently in recording this course that I was able to
participate with you in, and I appreciate you allowing me that, that I, you know,
slowly I'd been believing and swallowing the pill that you've been trying to feed,
and it's a big one, it's hard to get out of what you've been taught your whole life,
but I am so convinced now, at least of some of these parallels, without a doubt,
that you could call me an apologist, right, for your position, because there's no better
explanation. I recently interviewed Delcey Allison Jr., who in my eyes is conservative,
to Christian apologist, is probably more liberal and more not as conservative to them.
And when I asked him about Mark, and I did a history or not lecture series with him on Luke,
John, Matthew, Mark, and then I get to Paul, which I haven't made public yet, in Mark,
he looks at what's going on in this story about the demoniac, and he goes,
I don't know, I don't know what to do with this. And in my head, because he's the scholar,
I'm respectful in allowing them, I'm going, I do know what to do with this.
And it sounds conceited, but it's really not, because he has told me, in person, when I saw
him at Princeton University, that he's been trained since 1970, something to look mainly at the
LXX. Now he's known Greek since then too, but their focus, as you said, is to look only at
Bible, mainly to explain scripture, or Jewish literature. They're not to look outside of that
and really explore Homer's, Iliad the Odyssey, Euripides, or we're even looking at Latin work,
like Virgil's Aeneid or whatever. They're like explicitly looking at scripture only. And he always,
even in our discussions, tries to find a parallel that matches Hebrew Bible or
Septuagint and never tries to go outside and he goes, I don't know what to do with this.
And I don't blame him. I understand. But I hope that the audience watching will take
accountability and really take your course, get the book, and check out these connections,
because I've never seen anything like this on the internet before.
Well, thank you. And by the way, I'm a fan of Dale Ellison. I use his work frequently in my own,
in his name, appears several times in the synopses of epic tragedy and the Gospels, which is the
new consolidation of my work. But of course, mimesis is bicultural. It's not to deny the
importance of Jewish scriptures. I mean, it's all over the place. But it also is contesting the
canonical past of the Greeks. And that is embodied mostly in poetry, some in philosophy, to be sure.
But mimesis criticism is an equal opportunity, imitation, invitation, so that it includes
Jewish texts, to be sure. But you can't exclude Greek poetry when there are so many
parallels in when we know that such mimesis was important in Greek education and literary production.
I hope you sign up today. And we will see you at the Q&A when that time comes. Those who sign up,
we will do a follow up after you've taken the course, after you've been reading along with us.
And we'll ask the deeper questions to Dennis. I hope to see you today. This is one of the most
important courses I have done so far with MVP courses. And I ask anyone watching,
you will not regret taking this course. So hope to see you there. Dennis, thank you so much for your time.
And it was astonishing what I saw. Jesus sails the sea with a crew that is his disciples,
that are not nearly as noble as he is, like Odysseus. Like Odysseus, Jesus keeps his identity a secret,
so his enemies can't kill him. The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope's suitors.
They love the best seats in synagogues, and they're willing to kill in order to win the inheritance.
Judas plays the role of Melantheus, Jesus' turncoats slave. Jesus has his feet anointed by a woman,
like Odysseus, having his feet anointed by his nurse, Euryclea, and she recognizes him from
his scar. And the name Euryclea means renowned far and wide. And it said of this woman who anoints
Jesus that wherever the gospel is proclaimed, it'll be in her memory. So these parallels
were so striking that I dared not give a new lecture on it, because it hadn't been digested.
And so I spent another summer working through the Gospel of Mark, creating criteria that
where I might be able to make a claim that there's a literary connection. And at point,
after point, after point, it became clear that Mark was imitating not just the Odyssey,
but also the Iliad and also some Tragedian plays. And I translated Homer, Enduripides,
and Plato for myself in order to compare the Greek of the Gospel of Mark with the Greek
of these stories. And it was unbelievable what I was finding. I also turned to a study of Greek
rhetoric and understood better how literary imitation or mimesis worked. And it was that people
were taught how to write by imitating recognized models and to compare heroes in an activity
called synchrosis. Synchrosis is simply a comparison to show that one character is similar, but better
than another. And of course, that's what's going on in Mark. Jesus is like Odysseus, but he's better
than Odysseus. He's like Hector in his death, but he's he comes back to life. So that's a
synchrosis, and it goes on and on.
