When I was a really young boy, I had a dream about aliens coming into my house.
I was hiding behind a staircase where I could see between the actual case
and the alien walks in and it looks straight at me like it could see in the dark.
I woke up, it was a nightmare as a child.
In this conversation, we're going to be discussing the recent sightings of these
unidentified objects by three aircrafts, if you will, that are picking them up on their cameras.
And it's a big hype in the news right now.
Even my own blood brother, my best friend Kurt, he thinks there's something more going on.
And I understand why even Dr. Robert Price has made mention of this on our own channel.
But I'm highly skeptical.
I'm very cautious to draw conclusions that don't make sense in the reality that we live in.
Now, someone might say you're too cautious,
meaning you're going to be ruling out evidence that might work in the favor of some other option.
And that's possible. That can happen.
But in these cases, you let me know if I'm doing that or if what he says,
McWest makes the best sense.
MythVision, welcome back to MythVision podcast. Derek Lambert, your host, ladies and gentlemen,
there is some controversial stuff going on right now.
It's been going on for decades, right?
The idea of unidentified objects, aliens, greens, and blues, and grays,
and people being abducted, and you name it.
Well, right now, on the news, it's like a hot thing.
And people who are open to these ideas are convinced that this is real.
These are real sightings.
So I want to introduce a, if I can use the word skeptic,
someone who's going to critically analyze some of the videos that have been out there on the news
saying we have sightings of UFOs.
We have, I'll say aliens for some people.
McWest, you, welcome to MythVision podcast.
I appreciate you joining me.
But this is something you've been doing for a while.
It sounds.
It is.
Although I've kind of only been into aliens for maybe the last like four or five years
in a kind of a big way.
I say aliens, it's really UFOs that I'm interested in.
I've historically been more interested in various other conspiracy theories.
And I kind of got into the whole UFO investigation thing via looking into chemtrails,
that conspiracy theory about, you know, spraying in the sky.
And a lot of that was about identifying what you're looking at in the sky and looking at planes.
And so I kind of got good at tracking down planes.
And now I'm getting better at tracking down various unidentified objects in the sky.
Well, I have quite a bit of friends who they don't care for the word conspiracy theorist,
but it seems derogatory, but they definitely think, you know, the earth's flat or vaccines
are fake or this whole COVID things fake or microchips or 9 11, you know, the list goes on
and everyone has their own flavor.
So someone might go, yeah, all those guys are crazy, but 9 11 was an insight, you know,
everyone has a different degree of conspiracy they're willing to accept.
And today we're going to talk about these unidentified objects that are, you know,
aliens coming to visit us and that they're going to declassify all this material supposedly.
So the whole world will know the truth of aliens.
My brother actually thinks that aliens are real Kurt Lambert.
You're watching this now.
Stay tuned, my friend.
I hope you enjoy hearing what Mick says.
And ladies and gentlemen, if you will, go subscribe to his channel.
He has so much material on various conspiracy ideas.
Of course, the recent UFO sightings and other things like that.
And you, you dealt with 9 11, you deal with you name it.
And you probably talk about it here on the channel on YouTube and make sure you guys hit that bell.
Hit all so you're notified whenever he drops another video.
He also has a book here on Amazon escaping the rabbit hole.
How to debunk conspiracy theories.
Are you the one who reads your own audio book?
No, they found an English actor.
So it's someone with a posh English accent, but it's not actually me.
Okay. Well, you can listen to it as well as read it.
If you guys are interested in that, that's something worth doing.
Metabunk.org is a website also where you probably know somebody.
I know I do that could use listening to someone who's critical and explaining
what's probably happening in these scenarios.
What's most likely to occur.
And that's something I'm big into.
And for those of you tuning in, this has been released early on my patron.
So if you haven't joined patron, you want early access to everything.
And I plan on doing new things.
There are so many scholars and different people that I talked to join the patron.
You guys help us grow, keep the lights on.
All right. Mr. West, how do we begin this?
I'd like to have you maybe introduce us into what's currently happening
and take us into the big problem.
Well, I guess the big story right now is that sometime this month,
there's supposed to be a report released into what the government knows
and what it is doing about UAPs.
And UAPs is basically the more politically correct term for UFOs.
Because the term UFOs has been used for many years to indicate flying sources
or alien spaceships and things.
People who actually study things that are unidentified in the sky
feel like it gives them a bad rap,
like the people who don't like the term conspiracy theorists.
They think it's kind of a slander, in a way.
So they changed the name to UAPs.
And this is something that came from the British, actually.
I think maybe, I don't know, 15, 20 years ago,
they started using this term just as a more specific and less hyperbolic term.
So anyway, does this report coming out on UAPs?
The way it came about was at the end of last year,
some language was inserted into a bill by Marco Rubio, essentially.
He was the then chair of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I believe.
And that bill was just, it's like one of those bills where it just
they slot in a bunch of stuff and it gets carried along.
It's not like Congress voted on this or anything.
I mean, they did, but they voted on it as part of a big omnibus bill where they
they just said, oh, yeah, we got to get $1.6 trillion out.
So who cares about this little thing in the corner?
So anyway, Marco Rubio gets this language in the bill.
Now we've got this report coming up.
And supposedly it is going to tell us what the government knows about UAPs.
I think that's probably not going to be that much.
I think what's really going on is that we have reports of unidentified flying objects.
And that's just something that naturally happens
regardless of whether they are visiting aliens or not.
You're going to have reports of unidentified flying objects
because some things are just going to be too far away to tell what they are.
We're going to have too little information.
Sometimes equipment is going to malfunction.
And sometimes people are going to see things
that they can't immediately understand what they are.
I think there's things like visual illusions or actual atmospheric effects
or sometimes actual flying objects that look like they're one thing
when they're actually another because of perspective,
you can't tell exactly what's going on.
So we're going to get these reports of unidentified flying objects.
There are also very real issues.
There's the real issue of a foreign power sending a spy aircraft of some sort to spy on us.
Possibly small ones like drones or even slightly bigger things like larger drones
like the drones that we use to spy on people.
So there are real issues as well mixed in with that.
But it's kind of got this kind of association now with the idea of aliens.
So there's a whole bunch of things at play here and it's very interesting.
The way you phrase that, you are well articulating exactly the issue here.
And I confidently say this on my channel all the time.
I'm biasly looking for a natural explanation.
Not trying to do that because I don't want to believe in something that's
what everyone else is saying.
God, aliens, angels, demons, devils, whatever it might be, leprechauns, you name it.
But it's because it seems the least likely for me as well as other people who,
you know, do people rise from the dead?
I'd like to see it and know that it happened.
And I don't want to knock people, but I'm saying this same thing goes over to UFOs.
To me, it's more likely than people rising from the dead that there's life on other planets
and that somehow possibly they're more advanced or capable of coming here.
However, I'm not convinced.
I've seen so many different videos of so many different things,
but this what we're going to show today, I think actually shows up on the news.
This is like actual big news right now, unlike what we've seen in the past maybe.
Yeah, it is.
And I think this is part of a culmination of a process that's been going on for a number of years.
There are people who since the 1940s, I mean, obviously not the same people,
but there's been a stream of people who believe that UFOs represent something
of immense significance to humankind, which generally means that they think it's
some kind of aliens or some kind of what they call ultra terrestrials,
like some kind of people from another dimension or people from the future,
or even another race of people living within the earth or a race of creatures
living within the earth or nearby or something like that.
But something really, really significant.
And they feel that this is something that has been going on kind of under our noses
since the dawn of aviation, essentially, but probably even longer than that.
You can go back to the book of the dead and probably find references to things flying
around in the sky, just if you look hard enough.
But really, we're talking about UFOs and the UFO kind of thing started in the 1940s,
the late 1940s, I think 1947, there was the very first reports where someone described
something flying along, skipping along like a saucer, I think they said it was.
And they described the shape as I think kind of an arc shape, but the media actually picked
up on the saucer thing and described it as a flying saucer.
And ever since then, we've seen more things that are actually saucer shaped.
So it's kind of like one of those things you see what you're looking for.
You look for flying saucers, you'll see flying saucers.
If you look for flying bananas, you'll probably see flying bananas.
But yeah, this is something that's been going on for a long time.
And what happened, I think, in, let's see,
2017 was kind of the turning point in some ways, because we've got this story in the New York Times,
which is where these videos were first released or publicized when I'd been out for a lot longer.
But they were kind of released to the public as if these are official Navy videos of UFOs,
which kind of the media took to mean that this is the Navy, the US government,
admitting that UFOs are real and hence probably aliens are real.
When all it was was the Navy had these videos of things that they couldn't actually identify.
And they said, yes, this was taken by the Navy and we're not going to tell you anything at all
about them because our investigations would be classified because it involves classified systems.
And the interesting thing about the videos is they're all shot with the same type of camera.
It's called an ATFLEAR, ATFLEAR camera as advanced targeting forward looking infrared camera.
It's a pod, I think it costs like, you know, $10 million per pod or something like that.
And they hang on the underneath of the plane.
And it's made by Raytheon and it's a top secret system.
If you look for videos that were taken with this system, you won't find any.
Because it's so classified that the very best videos we have from this system are these UFO videos.
Especially the two latest ones. There's nothing at all out there that's of comparable quality.
So that's kind of a leak of a classified bit of information that the government wouldn't want
out there. And so they also wouldn't want to share the analysis they do on these videos,
which is kind of unfortunate because now it's led to people like me.
Huh. This is awesome. I have to say a question.
So you're telling me the Anunnaki aliens who came down didn't build the pyramids?
I'm just kidding. No, I mean, obviously that you're approaching this skeptically.
People have been saying that gods come down, you know, to earth and they say, well, that might be
aliens. I think it'll be interesting to hear your take on these particular videos and kind of
wrapping our head around someone who's saying there's probably a natural explanation for this
is something else, not not requiring green or gray aliens necessarily or demons or gods or
whatever it might be. Would you be interested in me going ahead and playing one of these clips?
Sure. Sure. I just pick one and we can have a look. All right. So the gimbal video is an infrared
video right here. We're showing that white is hot. So we're looking at a white hot object in the
distance. Looks like it's skimming over the clouds. It's a weird shape at the start, but it
switches in a second to the black hot mode. So now you can see it looks more kind of saucer-shaped,
almost like a top. You see a little pointy bits on it. You see a white glow around it.
And it looks like a flying saucer. This is shot from a military jet. You can see all the numbers
on screen. They all make sense and they all mean something. Now it looks like it's rotating.
And the rotation is kind of aerodynamically impossible. So that rotation that you just saw
there, if that was actually a flying craft and that it was actually doing that, that is something
that indicates advanced technology. But I think if you kind of set back a little bit and see what
we're actually looking at here, we're looking at an infrared image. And the image we're seeing on
screen right now, we see a black shape. And you can see it's kind of got these little spikes
through like the short axis and a little bit in the long axis. And that kind of indicates to me
that what we're looking at isn't actually the shape of the object. We're not looking at some kind of
spinning top type object, especially as it looks different earlier in the video. I think
the shape we're seeing here, the black shape is actually the shape of infrared glare. Now what
is glare? Glare is just simply spill over light. Like if you take a flashlight and you do it
shining to the camera, then you get this very large shape around it. It's like 10 times as
large as the actual light itself. And that is glare. It's basically just like the spilling over.
And it's going to spread out just from imperfections and the optics and perhaps
the glass in front of the camera. And I think what's happening here is we're getting the same
thing. We're getting a little bit of glare. We have digital zoom, which makes it look a lot bigger
than it actually is. The glare is probably actually quite small, something more like this,
just off in the distance. And the rotation, I think, comes from the rotation of the camera,
which is a little bit of a confusing thing for people to try to understand. Like if the camera
is rotating, you'd kind of expect to see the horizon rotate. But what's actually happening is
the way the camera is mounted is this kind of gimbal mounted camera, which can go up, down,
and kind of rotate. It can't traverse from left to right without doing what's called a gimbal
roll or a gimbal correction, which means it has to actually do this kind of 90 degree or 180 degree
turn at some point in the video. So it has to rotate. But the pilot who's operating it does not
want the picture to move. So you've got this this this conflict here, the camera's hardware has to
rotate. But the pilot doesn't want the picture to rotate, there's no point having a picture that's
upside down, you want the horizon to stay in exactly the same place. So inside these cameras,
there's a thing called a derotation mechanism. So when the camera goes along, it pounds and it
gets close to zero degrees, it has to do this turn, the picture rotates. But the glare, the shape
of the glare is actually always relative to the camera so that the glare doesn't actually move.
But the horizon rotates. But so now we've got a rotated horizon, we don't want that rotated horizon.
So we rotate the entire picture back, there's a thing inside the camera called a derotation
mechanism. It's just built in part of the camera, derotates the entire picture, glare and horizon.
Since the glare hasn't moved, what happens is it looks like the horizon doesn't move because
we've never rotated it back, but the glare does rotate. It's a confusing thing to wrap your head
around. But it's it's it's not it's not impossible to understand. You can kind of get a little sense
of it if you if you try it with with your phone, if you take just like just your regular old
iPhone or whatever, let me just pull up the camera on this.
Figure out how to pull up the camera. But yeah, so you take your phone like this and you
point point the light at it. Now if you rotate this, I mean, just smudge my lens a bit so I get
a little bit more. Okay, so there we've got a directional glare. If I rotate the phone, it's
a bit hard to do. You can see the that's probably not a good example, actually. It's hard to see
because you can't see the background in this one. But the the background is rotating, but the the
glare itself doesn't rotate relative to the background. It's a little yes, it's harder to
demonstrate in real time. Probably a better example is to use an actual kind of glass window like
this one here, which if you shine the light through the window, and then you rotate the window,
you can kind of see the shape of the glare is rotating. You see that little line there?
Yes. If I rotate the window, you see that is rotating so my screen is backwards here.
Right, even though the object's not moving at all. Yeah, the object this isn't moving,
it's just a just a point source. So excellent. Yeah, it's something that's because it's a very
complicated thing to understand, it's been a significant challenge to explain to people.
And most people will not get very far with the explanation, because it is it is difficult
to understand. And so they will they will tend to just not listen to the rest of it.
And they will they will just then go with the experts. But there's other things in the video
that you can talk about if you could just bring up the video just real quick to so you can see
the black shape. Okay, so what we're looking at here is a black shape with kind of a white glow
around it. Now, because we're looking at it in infrared, the black is hot, it actually says
at the bottom of the screen BLK, which means that you know, anything that's black is hot.
Yes, so that means that anything that's white is cold or at least colder than
than things that are darker. So you're looking at air, ostensibly, you're looking at air around
a hot shape, which is colder than the air further out. So it's something very hot and then something
cold and then the air, which is very, very confusing as well. This is something how do you
wrap your head around that? What could it possibly be? And people start coming out with like crazy
explanations, or extreme explanations, like that is some kind of space warp and it's warping space
and that either makes it cold or it makes it look like it's cold. But if you actually do a bit of
research and look at thermal camera images, you will find that this white glow around a black
object is just a simple common artifact of thermal camera images. It's a thing called an
unsharp mask, which is a standard photography filter. You can any, any photography editing
program you've got will have an unsharp mask filter. And if you set it to high values,
you will get this exact same effect. Like you could take this little shape like that,
stick it in Photoshop, turn on unsharp mask and crank it up. You get this exact same effect.
You see it in other videos. And yet, and this is kind of a curious and important point,
when this video was originally released to the New York Times, by people who knew about it,
they titled the story Glowing Auras and Black Money. The Black Money was a reference to the
kind of secret funding of this program. But the Glowing Auras was about something that they
thought was really interesting, which is this white aura around this black shape. And they didn't
know, the New York Times people didn't know that this wasn't a thing. The people who gave them
the video, Lou Elizondo and Chris Mellon, who went on to join the Two The Stars Academy,
they didn't know. And Chris, Lou Elizondo used to be, he says, the head of ATIP, the head of this
program that was studying these things. And yet they didn't realize that this white glow around
this object was just a standard artifact of a thermal camera system. So it's very curious that
you've got all these people supposedly studying these things and having a big budget like $22
million over five years. And yet they can't figure out a really simple thing like this.
This brings me to the conclusion of asking you on this particular video. Since obviously,
there's been gurus who are claimed gurus who come on and say, this is definitely something we
can't figure out. Well, you've done quite a good job of making a good analysis of this.
What do you think it is? I mean, obviously it's an object of some sort, but what is this object?
I think it is probably a distance jet plane. And it's flying away. It's probably at least
12, 15 miles away, possibly more. And it's not doing anything special. It's just simply
flying away. And the apparent motion is just parallax. The jet that the cameras in that we're
in, if you see these two lines in the middle of the screen here, that is showing you the angle of
the wings, which is nearly like 35 degrees or so there. And that means that the jet is banking
to the left in this position, because the horizon is that way. So the jet is banking
kind of into the horizon. So what you're seeing, the clouds are moving simply because the plane
itself is moving relative to this jet. You can see it's actually looking at this point 25 degrees
out of the left hand window. So it's like you're driving down a road, you're looking at a tree in
a field, say, off to the right. And as you go past it, it kind of looks like it's moving relative
to the clouds. And if you were to train your camera on it, as you went past this tree in a field,
and there was some other trees way behind it or some mountains behind it, it would look like it
was moving along. And it would look like the the mountains of the trees were moving the same way
that you were moving. And that's what we're seeing here. So here it looks like the the clouds are
moving to the right. And it looks like the thing is moving to the left. But really, it's just the
plane flying along. The object is closer to us than those clouds, those clouds are way off in the
distance. And so it's just a simple parallax effect. And when it slows down and stops at the end,
what's happening is that the plane has come around, and it's now flying basically directly
towards this object. So it's that you don't have any of this this parallax effect anymore.
Do we do we know where this was filmed? Like, do we? And do you think that whoever flew this or
the people that were involved figured out what that object was? It's difficult. Well, we don't
roughly where it was filmed. It was somewhere off the off the east coast. I think the Virginia Beach
training range is was mentioned. And it's just a fairly large area, basically off Virginia Beach,
hundreds of square miles out there where they practice and do their training. So this was
probably on a training run with someone and maybe just familiarizing themselves
with the At Flare system. It may well have been the very first time they've ever used it. And so
they're experimenting with just locking on to different things. Maybe, maybe not. Maybe it's
they had more experience. But it kind of sounds like they're kind of having fun. We'll see in
the other video, they get really excited when they box a moving target. They're very curious
about this other thing. Let me know. And I'll make sure to try and keep the audio from being too
loud. Because these are obviously really loud recordings, if I have them on the max. Yeah.
Awesome. Yeah. So it's, we don't know what happened here. That's the thing. Like, people kind of
assume that this is something that the Navy has investigated for years, and they couldn't figure
it out. We don't know what investigation was actually done. It could have been just, you know,
the guy took it, two people in the plane, they took this video, and they couldn't figure out at
the time what it was. And so at the end, they do their debrief, and they then they move on.
And other people take the video and say, this was reported as unidentified. And other people
look at it and say, I don't know what that is. That's just file it as one of the unidentified
things. And who knows what actual analysis they actually did. You know, I've been looking at these
videos for years. So I'm very familiar with them. But we have no idea what the Navy's done. And if
the Navy has done some detailed analysis, they've actually specifically said that they're not going
to tell us what the result of that analysis is. Because it pertains to classified information.
This video would never be released normally. Because, you know, like I said, it's a very high
resolution video of the ATFLEAR system that kind of demonstrates some of the capabilities and some
of the pitfalls of that system. And you don't want an adversary knowing exactly how the ATFLEAR
system can go wrong. So if this if this is just, you know, an artifact of the camera that has
confused the pilots, we don't want to talk about that, because that's an advantage the enemy could
have over us. Wow. Well said. Yeah. So you don't require, it doesn't require this kind of mentality
that, well, this must be a deeper, it's always something that we just don't have the context.
And when you just don't have the context, well enough context understand, reserve your opinion.
I don't think it's a good idea to practice having conclusions without actual context. So thank you
so much on that. The GoFast. Okay. All right. So again, we're seeing infrared video here.
And we're seeing the camera looking down at 24 degrees at the ocean surface. And we see kind
of moving around this little white dot.
You know, it's an interesting video because it shows something fairly simple looking.
It looks like something moving very, very fast across the surface of the ocean.
And it looks like it captures it and then tracks it and then continues to see it moving. But
on this video, we actually have some numbers on screen that we can use to do some very simple
trigonometry. Like right here, you'll see in the bottom right, just kind of covered by the
bar a little bit. You can see it says 25,000 feet. That is the altitude of the plane.
And above that kind of in the middle, middle, middle right,
it says 3.8 range. That's the distance from the camera to the target to this little object,
probably being tracked by radar, but we're not entirely sure what it's tracking. It could be
radar, they have laser laser range finders as well. But I'm thinking it's probably just the
it's been tracked by radio radar, the radar picked up the target when it acquired it on the
auto track here. We also have a slant angle, which is the angle down, which is minus 28 at this
point. So you can take the numbers that are on screen, your altitude, the slant angle, and then
the distance from the plane to the object. You can do some very, very simple trigonometry,
which I have in just a very simple diagram here. Here's the angle. Here is the range,
and here is our altitude above the surface of the water. And from that, we can calculate how high
this object is. And it turns out it's actually about 1300 feet. It's actually not down by the
water itself. It's actually halfway between the plane and the water. So what we're seeing here
isn't something skimming over the surface of the water. It's something that's much,
much higher up halfway up. It is still moving fast. Well, we can kind of do the math there
as well. We can recreate things because we can look at the horizontal angle, the angle at the
top of the screen. That's like 50, 49 there. So you can draw a diagram of where the plane is,
figure out how far the plane moves. It's got this little bank angle. So you have to account for that.
You can then draw a line at a certain angle and the range and see where the object is,
then move the plane forward like 10, 20 seconds, take the angles there again, and move them along.
And then you'll see where the object is again. So you get two positions where the objects are,
two positions where the plane is, and you can see how far the plane, how far the object has moved
in the same time it took the plane to move. And you just then just distance divided by time equals
speed. Very, very simple thing. Do that math turns out it's around 40, 50 knots, which is about wind
speed. It's not moving very fast at all. It's probably just drifting in the wind. Another thing
you can get from the video is that it's cold. When it's in white hot mode, the object is black.
When it's in black hot mode, the object is white, which means that it's a cold object colder than
the surface of the ocean, which will be pretty cold, which probably means that it's a high up
object. There's just simply at ambient temperature, the air temperature up there, like whatever that
would be, like minus 10 degrees or something. Probably not that low, but yes, some low temperature
around freezing, perhaps. Which means that we've got something that's smallish, it's cold, it's
drifting at wind speed. The most likely thing is that it's probably just a balloon
and not moving very fast and not very interesting.
Really? You know what you're doing? You're stilling all the fun, Mr West.
Yeah. Well, the thing is though, if there is fun in the world, which there is, then we don't have
to, I know, but this is an important point though. What I'm doing is debunking, which isn't to try
to prove a certain thing to be wrong. I'm not trying to say aliens are not real. I'm not trying to
say that UFOs don't exist. I'm not setting out to do that. I'm setting out to find where there is
bunk. Find where there are things that are wrong and remove those things. If I go in there and I
find the cases that are bunk and need debunking, then that means that what remains after I remove
that is going to be much closer to the truth. If there is something really interesting out there,
right now, it's all being obscured by all this bunk. If I'm stripping away the bunk,
you're going to get a much clearer view of what's really there. If there is something amazing and
wonderful, what I'm doing should be helping. Yeah. I'm with you. I think it's interesting what
you actually do versus you can go on YouTube, look up this alien thing, listen to someone who just
is really charismatic. They play this clip to prove that this has been something that was foretold
in an ancient text or it's known in millions of subscribers, millions of views. You come on
showing what's probably most likely the case in reality. Nobody wants to hear and not say nobody,
but it's not the popular. It's not the fun. I do the same thing with my biblical stuff.
I'm always showing what is probably really going on in these texts and in antiquity. Someone comes
along and goes, the end of the world was prophesied in the book of Revelation, Donald Trump. It's
like, oh my gosh, and there's millions of views. You go, that was put out last month, millions of
people liked this, but they don't take the time to really want to know what's actually going on.
It's kind of weird. A lot of what people like to consume online is for entertainment purposes,
essentially. It's a lot more entertaining to think about ancient aliens than it is to think
about trigonometry. My explanations to some degree are a little hard to follow and I try to make them
as easy to follow as possible, but Joe Rogan once said that I perform mental gymnastics.
You were on his show before? Yeah, a few times. He's become much more of a UFO believer recently
and he's aware of these explanations, but I think a lot of people, he looks at them and then kind
of zones out after a while because they are complicated and they are difficult to get your
head around. I try to make them easy, but even then, you still have to, the idea of a derotation
mechanism making a glare rotate. A lot of people just can't wrap their heads around that and so
it gets viewed as mental gymnastics, especially if you have somebody else telling you something
that sounds easier to understand. Oh yeah, it's an alcubierre drive, like warping the fabric of
space-time. That sounds simpler in a way than it's, or the glare is being rotated by a derotation
mechanism inside the camera because of the gimbal lock problem. The one is actually this really
mundane, simple, actual physical thing and the other one is essentially a fantasy that just simply
sounds easier to understand. Like if you say it's angels, that's a great explanation. Angels,
wonderful explanation is so simple. God has sent some angels down and they look like
black flying saucers and that explains everything. Just because something is simple doesn't mean
it's the best explanation. Right, that's true. Good point. You mind if I share the last one?
Sure, go for it. This is super exciting and I really appreciate your time and taking us through this.
I have a lot in common with you on this. All right, no audio in this one, so you can play away.
Well, let me do this. Yeah, I'll just play it like this. Go ahead.
So this is the oldest one. This was actually taken in 2004. It's a very blurry video. At the start,
we're seeing the glare of some kind of very hot object off in the distance, which I think,
straight away, that would suggest like a distant plane, like you're looking at the engine. There
you see it's star shape. That's just the glare, like we were talking about this type of thing.
Then he switches to TV mode. Now, this is visible light mode, so we're seeing a dark
shape. So we're probably seeing something that's backlit. It looks like it's out of focus to me,
and it kind of looks like it turns a little bit if you actually scrub the video over this section.
You kind of see it turning a little bit to the left. To me, I think what we're looking at here
is possibly another plane again, but it's very out of focus. It's hard to see. Flipping back for
infrared, we saw the glare again for a second there, but now we're looking at infrared. That
little roll there was interesting. That's a gimbal correction. Yeah, just go back about 10
seconds. Coming up is a gimbal roll correction, which is kind of related to what we see in the
gimbal video. There you go. See the whole field rotated, but that's really just the glare inside
the camera rotating. Nothing's actually rotating in the scene there. The object didn't actually
rotate. But we're following something. It's off in the distance, and it's kind of tracking
to the left. You see the number at the top is changing. It's getting bigger and bigger.
Six degrees, seven degrees. We're going like one degree left, two degrees left,
three degrees left. Every so often, what happens is the guy is changing camera mode,
and you'll see he'll change between TV and IR or that gimbal roll, or he'll change the zoom level.
Every time he does that, it loses lock a little bit. You see these bars, these targeting bars on
either side of the object. When he changes modes, like everything gets out of whack, and the object
itself keeps moving over to the left, and then the targeting bar is wide, and then they zoom back
in again. Then right at the end of the video, we see a couple of interesting things. He changes
modes, camera modes from a narrow field of view to a wider field of view. He's kind of zooming back
out. At one point, you see the objects zoom off down to the bottom left corner. Then a bit after
that, we see the object appear to kind of fly off to the left side of the screen. What's happening
there is it's not very complicated. It went down to the bottom left. That was him changing cameras.
After that, it goes back, but it's lost lock, and it doesn't regain lock. This is just simply the
one time that it doesn't regain the lock. The camera is now no longer moving, but since the
object was moving to the right, being tracked to the right at a certain rate, it just simply
continues off to the side. During that continuation off to the side, he also switches the zoom level
from one times to two times, which is the exact opposite thing you would want to do if you were
trying to maintain a lock on the object. He does that, and it makes the object seem to kind of jump
off to the side, because it's like you're in this zoom level, and then you immediately switch to
this zoom level. It looks like the object moves from here to here, and you see it get twice as big
as well. There's all these illusions of motion throughout the video. They're all down to the
camera. What we're looking at appears to be an object that is hot, has an engine like a jet plane
flying away from us and to the left, and we're simply following it, and he's cycling through
all these camera modes, and eventually he loses it. That's all there is to it, really. However,
a lot of people look at this video and they see a tic-tac. Here is a tic-tac. Of course, if you
look at it here in this video, it doesn't really look a tic-tac. It looks like two shapes, like a
dumbbell shape, almost, and it's got this bit pointing off to the left side. It doesn't actually
look like a tic-tac. It's right at the start. It looks like a star. That's not like a tic-tac either.
I think this is probably the part that closely resembles the plane that you talk about.
Right. This is visible light. You can see it's kind of turning to the left there. It's a little
hard to see, but if you could zoom back and forward along that particular portion of it,
you can see it turning. People like to interpret this as being the tic-tac that was something
that Commander David Fravor and Lieutenant Commander Alex Dietrich saw earlier that day.
It's not the same incident. It's a different incident. Way back then, when this was filmed,
this was a plane flying out of the Nimitz aircraft carrier. Earlier, two other planes had encountered
what they thought to be a large flying tic-tac. Then they reported back and apparently they asked
the pilot to try to get footage of it, and he did. They thought it was the same thing. People
tried to interpret what they're seeing as a giant flying tic-tac-shaped thing, like a giant propane
tank-shaped thing, something like this kind of shape, essentially, tic-tac. To me, it doesn't
look like it. Another thing about the tic-tac encounter is that they described it making these
very rapid movements, like it would actually zoom off like this, or it would go up down left, right,
or something like that, or it would tumble into nonsensical angles. There's various different
descriptions of it. People try to look for that in the video, but when you look at the video frame
by frame and look at what's actually going on with the camera, there's nothing really going on.
You're following this object. It's just off in the distance. It's bouncing around like this because
the plane is bouncing around a little bit from turbulence, not the distant plane, the plane
with the camera. Small movements of the camera translate to smaller, larger things like this.
Then when he changes the mode of the camera itself, it has to swing in a new lens or something,
so it loses lock, and it has to regain lock. Everything we're seeing is all camera motion.
There's no actual sudden moves, and the video isn't showing anything really amazing.
How does Joe Rogan take this criticism of these topics?
He's annoyed by it. He thinks that I am not taking into account the
accounts of the eyewitnesses, and I ignore them. Although I did actually
interview Alex Dietrich last night and talked to her for like an hour or so about this besides
topic. It turns out her account isn't really the same as David Fravers. She only remembers
seeing the object for 10 seconds, and David Fravers remembers seeing it for five minutes,
which is quite a strange discrepancy. She tried to explain it as perhaps
she was seeing the end of the encounter, but it doesn't really make sense because
Dave Fraver would have been saying things over the radio, and apparently he was talking about
seeing this object down below, and they saw it together down below. It's hard to reconcile
their accounts, which is why I focus more on things like the videos. I think that we do have to
take these eyewitness accounts into account, but we can't rely upon them as being 100% accurate
because memories have changed over time, and we do have these different recollections that are
quite difficult to reconcile. Why would Fraver be looking at something for five minutes
before she even knew that he was looking at it? It doesn't really make sense,
but obviously it's possible, and obviously maybe neither of them have the right memory,
or maybe they just had different perceptions of what happened at the time.
Joe Rogan gets annoyed that essentially he's getting annoyed that I don't agree with
his current worldview regarding UFOs. He thinks that UFOs are a real thing. He believes the
account of Bob Lazar, who is this guy who claims to have worked on actual flying sources,
and claims to have even flown them, and had samples of the fuel that he took home with him,
this element 115, and claims that he went to Stanford or Harvard, and his records of being
there have been erased by the government. All kinds of nonsensical claims, which are not really
backed up by any evidence whatsoever, and just sound like fabulations are things that Joe seems to
believe. That's nothing new in the stuff I do, the research I do. We listen to these accounts.
A lot of people want to argue, for example, the books that I'm looking at, this might be
eyewitness testimony, and even if you wanted to try and say that they knew somebody who claimed to
be eyewitness testimony, and that's the best you have, it's not good enough. I'm with you on that.
I wonder, it's kind of weird, the worldview of UFOs is something that he's really harped on.
He also has a psychedelic type of worldview as well. Consciousness, this is really reality.
If you go under the trip of DMT or something, you're actually seeing what real reality is,
and stuff. I'm sure it seems like real reality. I've never done it myself, so obviously I can't
I'm not knocking it either, I'm just saying. That's an interesting thing.
I think the latest issue of Skeptic Magazine actually talks about this
some length, but there's this theory that you're accessing some kind of true reality
when you go on a DMT trip, which if there is actually some kind of weird substrate of reality
that exists below this one, then how do these UFOs fit into it? It becomes even more complicated.
Some people actually think that UFOs come from another dimension, and not in a straightforward
way that they're flying ships from another dimension. They think that there are other people
that have come from another dimension, and they're using UFOs to cover up their interdimensional
travel. The UFOs are fake, but they're faked by people from another dimension.
Wow. I believe this is the theory proposed by Jacques Vallée, who is a famous UFO researcher.
Or at least something like that, this interdimensional hypothesis. You start getting into these things
UFOs are faked by really powerful beings from another dimension. What can you do with that?
Why are they could be doing anything? It could be using magic to fake these things. It could be
like this weird warping of reality or dimensional portholes or something. You're just basically
positing magic as an explanation. If you don't really have any evidence for that, it's very easy
to say, oh yeah, they're just interdimensional travelers goofing off, but that's not a good
explanation. What about Bob Lazar? I don't want you, obviously, I don't know the guy,
I have nothing against him. I heard his testimony multiple times in various ways from different
places and stuff, and I know how people are. A story sells, period, point blank, stories sell.
He's had some practice to really figure out how he wants to go about it, and he kept getting
strange migraines while pressured under certain questions. But anyway, what are your thoughts
particularly on him? I think he's just made up a fun story and stuck with it over the years.
I think he enjoys telling the story. He kind of says like he doesn't, but that's
part of the story. Yeah, that's a good way of making it seem realistic. He enjoys
fooling people. It's not like he's been shying away from things. He's been interacting with
the George Knapp since, I don't know, was it the early 2000s or the 1990s? A long time ago,
like this thing came out, and him and George Knapp have been thick as thieves like promoting
this story. George Knapp probably believes him. He's been convinced by him because he's got the
gift of the gab, and he's very good at telling the story and very good at convincing people.
He's very glib and quick with explanations. But all the stuff he's saying, it doesn't really
make sense. It isn't backed by any corroborating evidence. Why do people believe him? Just because
he tells a good story and he sounds convincing. You find a guy who sounds convincing. If a guy
who says like, here, there's a magic machine here that prints money, would you like to buy it for
$100? It prints all the money you like, and he sounds really convincing. You don't buy the machine,
do you? That's what's going on here. It's essentially, it's conning people by telling
the story. The same story is told for many, many years, so he's very, very good at it.
He's not producing any evidence to back it up, but he's convinced people and they're now helping him
promote this story. Story sell. There was a guy, I saw a video a while back, I'd say five, six years
ago, where he was literally talking about freedom. It seemed very political in the presentation.
He's talking about underground bases. He's helped build, and they materialized the walls,
and he's fighting aliens underground, and his fingers got blasted off. What in the world is,
that was crazy. It's a cool story, bro, that you can't produce any evidence or corroborating
witnesses or anything. You know about this story, don't you? I've heard things like it. I'm not sure
exactly the guy you're talking about, but yeah, I've heard about the materializing walls and
things like that. The idea is that we have aliens living in underground bases, and we're in league
with them, and they're helping us, and there's various levels of these theories. Sometimes
it's like they actually have a direct connection to the civilization. Sometimes it's kidnapped
aliens who have been held prisoner and being used to get information out of them. There's
all kinds of different stories, and I'm sure you can talk to different people and get different
versions of it, but again, it's just a cool, fun story. It's science fiction.
It's like Men in Black has been right all along.
Well, that's what Men in Black is based on, stories like that. People tell stories there,
and they become cool stories, like the stories around Roswell, the alien autopsy stories. Any
kind of story you can make about aliens is fun. All the stories in the X-Files, you've got this
kind of, I guess, a Jungian archetype of alien stories running through human
entertainment media. Is that based on an actual reality, or is it just what people find entertaining?
Interesting. I guess Roswell will be the last question I would like to ask, because there's
so many more examples we could probably pull up. People talk about cigar-shaped UFOs, guy with
snowboarding in the mountains, and I wonder how much tampering to these videos they've done as well.
That's another big issue. Did you ask a question there? Well, it's Roswell and maybe the cigars,
the cigar shape, which is the tic-tac type of shaped objects. How much tampering have you
found that you think is going on with a lot of these videos? Then how do you explain Roswell?
There's thousands of UFO videos online, and a lot of them are fake, but the vast majority are not.
They're just really boring. They're pictures of a white dot or a light in the sky that some guy
saw and didn't understand what they were looking at. I guess if you're asking me about
whether videos are fake or not, you've got to tell me which video you're talking about.
These videos that we just looked at, they're not fake. They're real videos that were taken by the
US Navy of unidentified objects. At least they were unidentified at the time. Maybe there still
are, but they don't show what people say that they show. Historically speaking, we've got lots of old
photos, and a lot of those I'm sure are fake. There's just things that basically if someone
took a pie dish and they threw it up in the air, and they take a photograph of it and say that's
a UFO, or they dangle something from a string. It's really, really easy to get a fake photo even
back in the day. Roswell, I think, the official story is probably, the current official story
is probably the right one. At the time, it was covered up because what seemed to be happened was
it was this project mogul, which was a program that was using balloons to
put sensitive microphones at a certain altitude in the atmosphere that would be able to detect
the sound of a nuclear explosion. Because the long distance sound can travel, very, very loud
sounds can travel through what's called atmospheric ducting at certain altitudes. It kind of like
bounces around the globe, and they thought that if they had these microphones, they would be able
to tell when the Russians were doing tests of nuclear bombs. Because this was back in the 40s,
they didn't have satellites to look for these things, so they had to try to figure out how to
do it. And one of these balloons crashed, and somebody found it. Because it was a top secret
thing, they didn't want the Russians to know what they were talking about, they didn't explain what
it was. And they allowed this UFO story to grow. And once something grows, it gets a certain amount
of momentum. People jump on the bandwagon, people start interpreting things in a certain way.
And over the decades, people's memories change. People might start to believe that they saw
something or that they have something. But you look back to the original debris that was found,
it had this sticky tape on it, which had these little symbols on, which it turned out to be some
child's tape or something for gift wrapping that someone had just used to attach something.
It had this mysterious foil that could not be torn, which was just the standard type of foil
that you use for throwing whatever that type of balloon was, weather balloon. So there was really
nothing really there. But because it started out with this big flurry of media attention,
people latch onto it as being this iconic case, because it was for a number of times. But eventually,
we figured out what it was, the declassified project mogul, it was explained what was going on,
and it matched exactly with these balloons lofting these microphones into the air.
So interesting how they find dead bodies of aliens and all this crazy stuff.
Do they? That's the thing. We get an event that happened. We know that something fell into the
desert at some point, and it looked like a crashed balloon with a bit of balsa wood.
And then people start layering on these stories on top of it. So eventually, because this balsa
wood and sticky tape thing is not very impressive, people are now claiming that that was planted
to cover up the real thing. So we move from an actual bit of real physical evidence,
which doesn't hold up to being very interesting, to some stories. Now we've got stories about
somebody finding an actual flying source or somebody discovering an alien, an alien body,
then there's an alien autopsy, and then there's this technology that's developed from it,
it's just stories and stories and stories. So the actual evidence itself was weak,
balsa wood and sticky tape, and a government cover up. The story is amazing. So everyone
goes with the story and kind of ignores the fact that the evidence is nothing, basically.
Has Joe Rogan made any comments to you about your recent thing with this thing that's coming out
on the news with these aliens?
Not especially. I think when he was talking to Chris Mellon, he said I'm a guy who just debunks
everything. But yeah, he thinks, I don't know, he's done with me for now, I think.
Really?
I think he's kind of dismissed me as a guy who's got my mind set on UFOs not being real,
and so I'm not worth talking to because I don't think anything is real, which isn't true. I'd
love to find out if aliens were real. When I was growing up, I was a big fan of aliens and UFOs
because I used to read science fiction pretty much solidly from my early teens up until my
mid-20s. I was just reading all kinds of science fiction. My dad had this big collection of
Marvel comics and science fiction books, so I was reading all kinds of classic science fiction,
stuff like Arthur C. Clarke's Rendezvous with Rama, as Robert Forwood's Dragon's Egg. Stories
about alien spaceships coming into our civil system and the interactions we have with these
aliens, Arthur C. Clarke's Childhood End, Robert Niven's Ringworld, is classic stories about alien
civilizations. Ian Banks, the player of games, the culture series, I love it. I love the idea
of aliens, and I love the science of interstellar travel and the anthropology of alien contacts.
It's just this amazing, fun stuff that I really enjoy entertaining and thinking about what it
might be like, and discovering an alien civilization would be the most interesting thing that's
happened in all of human history pretty much. Yeah, absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen,
Mick West, go and subscribe to his YouTube channel. All the links are down in the description.
Tons and tons of videos. I seriously appreciate you taking your time out to come over here on
MythVision and actually help, if you will, expose another myth. I'd be happy to find out that there
are life on other planets or even get visited and, you know, it'd be cool to find that out. But
hate to say it, it's like all of the other claims I ever deal with. It's the same stuff.
It's in the same vein that Michael Shermer talks about in The Brain that we all are doing these
things. We're always assuming agency. We always assume something beyond what is actually there.
It's just natural. I think we evolved to have these kind of tendencies. And I'm with you. I
appreciate you giving us your analysis of these three, you know, films that tons of people right
now hook, line, and sink are just and they're following the idea that's that's an alien. They're
here. And I want to really show this to people so that people aren't afraid as well, because too
many people actually believe this and are terrified. They actually believe this stuff to a point where
they're terrified. It's like the idea of hell for people. And it's like, when you start exposing
and showing like what's going on in antiquity, and you kind of stop fearing those superstitions,
and I want the same to be done. So I thank you and commend you for what you do, sir.
Well, thank you. It's been an interesting conversation.
Well, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. Make sure you do check him out. And don't forget,
I'm kind of an alien myself, and you can be too. If you'd like to join, we are MythVision.
