Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis Armand-Thonone and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
We just like came off an amazing mythos deep dive onto some- oh my gosh, anyway.
You mentioned Blade Runner and you want to slap me and I don't blame you because I've
never seen the-
I was astonished.
Richard, what is Blade Runner?
I don't know.
And then I was like, oh my god, I have to explain the plot to Blade Runner to even get
to the point I wanted to make.
So for those who have not seen Blade Runner, this is a movie in the 80s starring Harrison
Ford, Set in the Future, and there are these replicants, androids, artificial people that
were built to be slaves.
And so there's basically a slave society, right?
So there's a whole narrative here about slave societies and how we privilege and so on.
But of course slaves have a tendency to rebel, nobody wants to be a slave, so one of their
solutions is to not give them emotions, so if they don't have emotions then they can
control them is their idea.
The problem is that they started to grow emotions, they started to figure emotions out over time
and so they said, oh we got another problem, so they like solve that by giving them a limited
life span, four years.
They terminate, automatically they die after four years.
The thing is of course they still build emotions up to that point.
So in the movie, the premise of the movie is that one group of these androids is about
to die, they know their time is up, it's coming up and they've grown emotions and they have
their...
And they're basically children, you think like they're four year olds essentially in
terms of their emotional development, and they're not these slave synthetic people are
not allowed to be on earth, but so they for some reason kill people, kill their masters
and steal a ship and go to earth, we don't know why, they don't know why.
They just know they're there and they've got to get rid of them so they hire a blade
runner, basically coerce a blade runner, it's someone who goes around killing synthetic
humans who rebel, hire him to go kill them all, basically you'll find them and kill them.
That's Harrison Ford's job, his character's job in the movie.
So basically you've got the hero of the movie, his job is to go kill a bunch of children who
are escaped slaves in defense of the slave owning society.
So this is very much an anti-hero type narrative, there's a lot of other aspects of the movie
where he is not a heroic character really if you actually pay attention to what's going
on in the movie.
The actual heroes are these child slaves basically, and even though they do terrible things too,
they're doing them in pursuit of, well the pursuit of trying to, they're trying to find
a solution to their determination, they want to live longer than four years, and their
whole mission really turns out is they're trying to get to the corporation, the head
of the corporation who built them to make him take away the whatever it is that's causing
them to die.
Anyway so meanwhile Harrison Ford's character's killing them all, and they're trying their
best to achieve their objective, and finally the lead synthetic played by Ricker Howe finally
gets to the corporate leader and goes through this whole tense conversation about can you
save me, basically the guy explains scientifically point by point, it's like there's nothing
we can do, you're just going to die, I'm sorry.
And so Batty, Roy Batty, this synthetic character kills him, right, and so basically this whole
narrative of a man enraged by his mortality going to bitch about it to God, God can't
do anything about it so he kills his God, basically man kills God, it's very much a
narrative for civilization, right.
So anyway so that happens and then there's a final confrontation where Harrison Ford's
character Deckard is trying to kill this one last synthetic, Roy Batty, and so they have
this, but these slaves are built to be superhuman so this is a really challenging thing to do,
right.
So Deckard's getting his ass kicked, like he's doomed basically at one point where
he like jumps across the building and he's literally dangling by his fingers, 40 stories
below he's going to die, he's done for.
Roy Batty easily leaps over the same chasm, right, it's because he's superhuman, no problem.
And you see it's a scene where he's looking down at the guy who's murdered everybody he
loves, he's defending the slave society and he's finally defeated him and he's about
to die, you expect him to like stomp on his fingers or watch him fall or whatever, right.
And what happens is like he does lose his grip and he's going to fall but he saves him,
he rescues him, he pulls him up and he puts him down and he explains why he just saved
him, like why he did that.
And it's an extremely like emotionally moving scene and he gives this whole narrative, it's
probably one of the most famous like final death scene narratives in cinema.
And I won't do it justice, you've got to watch it to really get it.
I'll summarize, the basic justice is like I've been fighting like hell for more life to not
die and it would be a betrayal of my values if I were to let you die, like that would
be like why should I be fighting so hard for my life if I'm not going to fight for anyone
else's life, essentially life is valuable, so I'm not going to let that happen.
And so it was an expression of his values, the reason why I saved you is because I want
to save something, you know, it's like this is an expression of my values basically.
If I can't save myself, I might as well try to save someone.
Oh yeah, like if I let you die, how is that any different from you letting me die?
Like that's basically, now he doesn't put it in those terms, it's a much more poetic
ending.
Right, right.
So he basically gives this speech and he talks about, he gives this really passionate
speech about all these wonderful things he's seen in his life, how fantastic life has
been and how sad it is that it's going to go away and he's, you know, what the famous
line that he says is like, all those memories that I have are all going to disappear like
tears and rain, essentially, and this is in rain, by the way it's raining when this happens.
And as soon as he finishes explaining this, he expires because he knew for a fact that
he was going to die in a few minutes, so he was looking down at the guy that he had every
reason to kill, he represents the entire system that's been killing him and he knows he's
going to be dead himself in 30 seconds or a minute or whatever.
And so he says, I'm going to realize the values that your fricking society wouldn't realize
for me, basically, is the message that he did.
And for me, that is such a beautiful expression of why humanism believes in morality, why
we believe it is important to be moral, what actually is the moral source for us, it is
that kind of thinking.
So we don't need this story to be true, I don't need there to be a real Roy Batty who
said this.
The story and the narrative is still powerful.
All of the messaging of it is still true, if in these circumstances, if that happened,
that's exactly right.
That is how someone should behave in the end.
If I may, and I'd love to get your take on this, this is wonderful, by the way.
Just you telling that got me emotional, just so you know.
Right.
And by the way, I'll emphasize, I am doing a shitty job of, right, the artist does it
very beautifully.
I really empathize to that, and I could feel, I got to watch it now, you really got me thinking,
is the newer version something?
They're both very excellent for very different reasons.
Both films are excellent.
But the one I'm talking about is the original 80s version.
I do recommend seeing the final edit, there's, what do they call it now?
The final cut.
I think they call it the final cut.
It was an upgraded version of the old one?
So it's a long story of how the studio forced them to do certain things in the movie, the
director didn't like it.
The stakes made in the movie that they wanted to fix, etc.
So there's been many versions.
Oh, wow.
They'll try to fix these things.
And so the final cut, I think, is the best one of all of them.
I'll look it up.
Darren Brown, he's a mentalist.
One of my favorite examples in modern times right now, he debunks in the most.
He takes a scalpel.
It's like, I don't know if you've heard about, I used to term scalpel when someone's really
critically doing something, you don't even realize it, because it's such a clean cut.
It's already open.
There's a BBC show that he does, right?
Yes, multiple shows, by the way.
I don't know if you've seen this, but he shows how con artists work, basically, showing
the psychology, showing how you can trick people into thinking things, how you can trick
people into remembering things.
Okay, so he's a real magician, right?
He's up there with the best, but he's also a mentalist.
So he knows how to make you think what he wants you to think, and then acts like he's
reading your mind.
But really, everything he does, he knows what he's doing, and this is how good he is.
He did episodes where he went to real tarot card and people who were really saying they
are talking to dead people, and he's going on this audition, and he does better than
them in this group of people, and they're crying, and this experience, he gives them.
So I'll tell you the best one, my favorite one.
I don't want to get into all of it, but I want to get your take on this, to get the
idea going, to have you part of this conversation, because I love this.
Darren Brown did an episode on converting an atheist, and he found this woman, he got
like four or five people who went down to the bottom of this church, pitch black, right?
Has a camera on them, they don't know it's there.
It's completely like, it looks like a little like torture dungeon down there, there's like
bricks falling on the walls, it's so black and dark, and they're in there and they're
like, what was that?
They're starting to freak out, like there's things there, and they're starting to experience
things, pitch black, nothing's going on, nothing's there, you see the room with the
camera, but they're panicking, and like something was right behind me, and like they're all
freaking out, but this one girl comes in, she goes, I feel very comfortable, I feel at
home, I feel at peace, and he's like, okay, so she's a skeptic, finds out she's an atheist,
she's a scientist too, she works in some thing as a, she's more of a naturalist, right?
He gets her into this church, he plays that, he's this kind of figure that's not only very
charismatic, but an emotional guy who might be connected to a deity like Jesus, but he
doesn't come out like a Jesus freak or anything, and he starts to talk about her, so part of
this documentary we're doing, they're filming the whole time, tell us about your dad, he
starts to bring up real things, real things about her life, and she's getting worked up
and he's tapping things, not even knowing that he's doing things to her, she doesn't
even realize it, about her dad being her hero, and like the most amazing real stuff, but
then he's taking you through the process of saying, now this is where I'm gonna plant
the God seed, watch what happens, and like he literally does this thing where he's like,
you ever just, at that moment you felt like it was just time, it was just, it was at that
moment that you knew, like he does something, right, then he gets up and he's like, I'm
gonna go get some water, he walks away, she's sitting down and she stands up and she just
starts to cry, and she's like looking up at Jesus on this cross right in front of her,
and she starts to cry, an atheist in less than 15 minutes he converts her to become
a believer, it was the most real thing I've ever seen, so then he brings her on the show,
and he says, now I want you to know everything you felt was real, I gave that to you though,
all of it was real things that I tapped into, and no God needed, I want you to know that
you attached it to the thing I wanted you to have it attached to, so the things Christians
are doing they do it sincere, but they're attaching it to the wrong things that aren't
factual in that sense, so if they learned a way in their world, and this is the difficult
part about the in group, out group, social identity, all that, how can we bridge that gap
of tearing down the social identity that causes racism, that causes the hate groups to end the
out and all that, and still give people a mythos that they can believe in? I want to come at this
very important question from a little different angle, and then I'd like you both to respond to
it in terms, I want to define how I understand my atheism, my atheism is the opposite of theism for
me is not materialism, the opposite of theism is not nihilism, the opposite of theism is humanism,
and human life gets shaped meaningfully by art, by the blade runner for you, for this thing for you,
and I don't know how the universe comes about, and I trust physicists to help me understand it,
and I also don't know that I understand everything about transcendence or life, I do know
that the typical way of talking about intelligence or metaphysics and so on
is just not interesting to me, and it's not because I'm a materialist, and it's not because
I'm a nihilist, it's because I'm a humanist, and I want to understand the role of art and beauty,
and so for me aesthetics is the most important moral ingredient to understanding human life,
and to put a finer point on your question, I think it's fair to say that racism is ugly,
I think economic disparity and poverty is ugly, I think war is ugly, and I think we learn about
that because of art, and the value of life, and the danger of deception in these things,
and I'm sorry if I sound like a preacher, but I am so tired of people thinking that I'm an atheist
because I'm a nihilist or a relativist or a materialist, that is not the opposite of theism,
the opposite of theism is humanism, and by the way this goes way back into Greek philosophy,
this is not a new idea, this is pre-sacratic, and I think we need to have a recovery
of moral beauty as humanists, and to say I'm not going to give any ground to you fucking
theists on issues of morality, because your theism right now is causing more problems in the
world than my humanism. Yeah, you go first Richard, I just got done talking before him,
I'd love to hear your, no I agree with everything you just said, yeah I don't think any of us are
nihilist, and you know you're 100% right about the way you approach this, and I think for me
my atheism is obviously realizing this expanded, remember I told you my deconversion came at
realizing we're all trying to touch the same thing, so I thought oh that's evidence it got,
but then I said okay maybe theism or pantheism right, I started getting in the weird areas to
try and understand it, possibly it could be true, but then I said to myself hold on what's the
difference between atheism and deism for me, one is I think something started the damn thing and
then turned away and went somewhere else, but I have no evidence of that thing other than I look
around in the wild, this is awe-inspiring and I can't put it together, because you know as Neil
deGrasse Tyson says the universe does not have the requirement to make sense to you, it's not
it's not like you're born and it's like oh hi I'm the universe and I need to make sense to you,
no we won't make sense, right there's too much we don't quite grasp, but for me I'm an atheist
because I have no evidence of God, like for me right, and then the next step though is okay so
here we are what do we do with this, and humanism evolves from answering that question with what
is actually factually available, which is us helping each other build a better society,
and I think that's really all there is, there's nothing left, there's no one coming to save us,
we have to save ourselves so we better get on that, is basically, and that requires understanding
the truth of the world, if you want to figure out a solution to a problem you have to know what the
problem really is, you have to know that it exists, so you know you can't solve racism if you keep
denying that it even exists for example, you have to understand what actually does solve racism,
like empirically what is actually going to help, you know so that's and that's the humanist mode,
that's right, to figure that out, and then so that's why like when you see art you can see,
so I have a model in the idea of good and bad art, is your good and bad music, good and bad
religion, well you can say in terms of like there's good and bad in terms of technical measures,
right, and you can make a lousy movie because you just suck at holding a camera or whatever,
but there's a different sense of good and bad which is, is the values that are represented
in the story and the narrative that you're telling, do they correspond to reality, is this,
is this, if that really happened, is that how it would proceed, or is that the value of what we
want to proceed, or is that what we should want to proceed, versus for example you look, you know
people are super fond, some people are super fond of Ein Rand, right, and she wrote these novels,
these, and that was her view of art too, was through fiction she could represent her ideal
society, right, but if you read like Atlas Shrugged or whatever, like it's so contrary to reality,
none of the stuff that happens in there would actually happen, right, it's so ignorant of
how economic laws work, how human psychology works, what people actually even think for real,
so it's, it's this art that I think it's bad art in the sense that it's selling a view of the world
and a way of fixing the world that is completely false and will not work, and in fact will make
everything worse, whereas good art, like the best art, is the kind that gets it right,
that represents, and it's like Blade Runner is an example of that, like that will never happen,
I doubt there'll ever be such a society that's those specific people, none of those specific
things are likely to ever happen, but if they did, like if all of the stuff presented in that movie
happened, the course of events is, is plausible, but also it represents what you would want to
occur, right, like like by the resolution of it, it's like this really does represent where
things should have gone, now you might even say I could have fixed this earlier on by,
you know, teaching some people some stuff earlier on and so on, but of course we know that's not
how reality works, reality works is you have to go through this struggle and make these mistakes
to figure out what is it that you're supposed to actually understand about life and how you
should behave, and its ultimate, you know, moral message is correct, I think, so I think it's really
nailing how you get to that point, and notice, you know, Roy Batty didn't think he was going to
live forever, he didn't believe in Jesus, he didn't believe in God, but he still did the
right thing in the end, like he finally came to that realization is that this is the kind of person
I want to be for these reasons, and the reasons are real, they actually correspond to reasons that
correspond to us, and so to me that's how art can be very powerfully, you have this totally fictional,
completely radically fictional, made-up story that accurately captures the reality of the lessons
that we want people to learn, and that would make the world better if they did learn, and
actually would, not just that we believe they would, but they really would, and so that to me
is like the difference between like art that is actually caustic and toxic versus art that is
actually positive and accurate and helpful for moving society forward. I think that's perfect,
well said, and then the humanism thing is what I believe in now, so like it's based on reality,
it's based on evidence, and you know, I watched this really interesting clip, I had to download it
and put it on my Facebook, MythVision, with Christopher Hitchens, he was asked during his
debate with Frank Turrick by one of the audience members, and the audience member, when you see
him ask the question, you can tell he's a theist, number one, and not just any normal regular,
oh I'm a theist, this guy looked like he was ready to hurt Hitchens, and he's rocking his chair,
kind of asking the question, has his leg over, moving frantically, and he says,
if you don't believe in God, what's the point, why are you here tonight, why are you wasting your
time, go home, but that's kind of the way he asked it, and he's like, what did he say,
Christopher's laughing like that, what did he say, because he thinks it's funny, you know, like
he's he's not afraid of anyone with their their crazy obsessive ideas, and then he jabbed very
hard into Christianity, Islam, and these other religions, these theism religions, in a way that
I have to say, it was very militant in the sense of, he was aggressive in what he said in his tone,
not as if like, we need to do this, and militarily go and attack these people or anything like that,
but he said, when your cult preaches death, and the idea that the end is soon, and you can't wait
for this world to be over, because all you worry about is the next one, and all you're
concerned about is that next world, to a point where you're ready for an apocalypse to happen,
or like what we see in Islam, things that happen, because these death cults and these ideas,
of course I want to get rid of them, they're evil, and he's like looking and he's getting
militant, like aggressive, letting the guy like, you're not scaring me buddy, your beliefs are
not good beliefs to have, and that's my hope is to take someone from me, where I was nine years ago,
to where I am now, I'm not only so much more balanced in my life, I understand why I thought
what I thought nine years ago, but I know, I wish I could just turn that switch off for people and
go, okay, they think you just want everyone to stop believing in anything, and it's like,
right, no, no, no, we want you to replace it, the slot needs to be filled, you still need that
operating software, you just need a better software instead of this buggy stuff, we don't
want to shut you off and like turn and remove all the software, no, we want a better operating
system is what we want, and humanism is the one that we think is going to work.
Of course our understandings of the good and the beautiful are going to be subjective and
different, and evolve over time as we learn, and they evolve over time, but I'm reminded of
some of the dialogues of Socrates in Plato, where there's a concern, you can't, in translating
Plato, you sometimes don't know whether Carlos means the morally good or the beautiful,
and it's because I became convinced that Socrates did not make a distinction between them,
that the good and the beautiful are the same, but he knows that that is a subjective judgment,
he's not claiming divine revelation, that he knows what's there, and then you have this
wonderful passage in the symposium where the highest love is the love of transcendence,
and where it's not a physical love, it's not the world, but it's this, and he's taught it by
an old prostitute, by the way, who knows about love, right, but it's this highest love,
and I think that that kind of, I don't know what the good is, but I know what is beautiful for me,
and one of the reasons that I miss the social organization of a church is I want to have
more organizations that are, that share my values and my sense of beauty that we can change,
and I think society, and especially in American society, which I know the best,
has to evolve new institutions of identity that have political clout and so on,
where certain values of beauty, of getting rid of white supremacy, for example, or economic,
I mean, we all know what this little agenda is, but it really is hard to know what
the social adhesive is going to be to hold us together, to get us done politically, I mean,
we can think about the Supreme Court in Texas. Oh my gosh, I don't even want to know that right
now, but I think what your experience was is really valuable, almost as a metaphor
for this conversation, namely, you found a new freedom and an ability to find beauty in life,
and to break the chains of a bondage, of a theism that was bad religion, and by the way,
I'm not against religion, I'm happy for good religion, I'm so fucking tired of bad religion,
I can't tell you, and so, but I think your experience is kind of a metaphor of an awakening
to your own sense of what life is for you, what is beautiful for you.
I felt like it was an addiction, I really did, I mean, my heroin addiction and painkillers and
everything else I had struggled with all these years, every time I'd get off of them, I'd go
right back to Jesus, and just be obsessive about that, and I couldn't figure out a balance.
Now I've figured it out when I let go, when I found comfort in the unknown, and like literally
took a leap when I was afraid, and then found out it wasn't scary, it's the craziest thing I
can't imagine, imagine if this is all like, imagine you die, and you're just terrified at that moment,
you're dying, and you know, and this is it, like blood runner, and then all of a sudden,
just imagine, I mean this is speculation of course, completely, I'm not trying to play a
theistic idea, but you go to the other side and you're like, that wasn't bad at all,
that wasn't bad, whatever the hell the other side is, what was I afraid of? That's how it felt for
me when I left theism, I thought of death, it was a death to my world, like heroin was going to
kill me, I had to stop shooting up heroin, I was dying, and I went through a symbolic death in my
life, and I'm talking to myself all the time in my lives on Mythish and saying, Derek, nine years
ago, listen to me, yeah, you know what I'm saying, and I'm trying to say today, I want Derek to be
symbolic of all the theists that watch my channel to go, I understand if you want to believe that's
fine, like you talk about good religion, I have a hard time knowing what that is, I don't know what
that is, but you know it is what it is for you, you know, if it's, you know, you have values enough
to know if it's destructive, yes, but here, I guess my own experience with religion, I know good
people who are religious people, I don't know of good religion from my own experience, I know good
people, that's fair enough, yeah, but I also wanted to say that people who do ethics say that
it's very, and this goes also back to Plato in his republic, right, it's very difficult to know
what justice is, it's very easy to know what injustice is, why, because it's ugly,
and I think we have to, instead of saying what is the beautiful, we have to have a new sensitivity
to what is not beautiful, what is the ugly, what do we, what do we need to struggle for
to have our values reflected in the world, if I may end on this, because we got one minute left,
it's a minute and like 20 seconds, I think humans, I'm a humanist, you're humanist, you're humanist,
I think humans are inherently good, and I think personally, most religions, I'm not gonna say
all, I don't know this, I haven't studied everything there is under the sun, there's wonderful people
who practice religions and they paint a good picture for those religions, I don't think
religions in and of themselves are good or bad, I think people are good, but a lot of the ideologies
that they do practice and believe corrupt people, and so it's my opinion and if we all got on this
the same bandwagon, we're talking about here and we're able to evolve and educate ourselves a little,
I think we would stop letting go of, we start letting go of these ridiculous,
really absurd ideas, to me people are good and they don't need religion in order to be that,
that's my opinion, I agree, yep, absolutely, I agree, thank you
So
