There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube, on Patreon. Make
sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. We are MythVision. Welcome back to
MythVision Podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking to an
ex-Jehovah's Witness, Ashley Campbell. And she's going to share her story and some of the things
that happened while she was still in the cult of the Jehovah's Witnesses, as well as what let her
out, some of the ideas that may have let her out. And so I want you guys first, before this video
starts, hit that subscribe button here. Also, Ashley has a channel. It's her name, Ashley Campbell.
And she's doing ex-Jehovah's Witness content. So go over and subscribe to her and be on the
lookout for any content she might publish. Hit that subscribe, like the channel, comment on her
stuff. Help it grow. Some more people are getting their voice heard about this content. Welcome
to the channel, Ashley. Thanks for having me. Thank you for joining me. I really appreciate it.
Let's start with how did you get involved? What were you born into this? Your parents?
Usually that's what happens. But tell us a little bit about yourself, if you don't mind.
Yeah, I was born in. Both of my parents had converted in their 20s. So and that's how they
met. I was born into a congregation in Maine. And I was pretty active, I think as a kid,
but especially in my early teen years. My parents were in, my dad was considered inactive,
which is when someone is in good standing within the congregation, but they're not
actively participating, going to meetings and out in service. But they're also not doing anything
that would get them punished, which would be like disfellowshift or reproved or anything. So he was
in good standing, but he didn't go. So it was me and my mom. And I was really trying my best as a
kid. As a teen, I studied with a couple in my congregation, which is something that a lot of
people do. They'll, they'll kind of seek someone out for people in their teens or people who they
want to develop to study with. So I did that. I auxiliary pioneered, which is, I feel like I have
to like explain all these terms. Go ahead. So pioneering is something people can kind of sign
up for to go out and field service, which is the, the going door to door thing that Joe's
witnesses are known for. And you sign up for a certain amount of hours per month. So people who
are regular pioneers do that month after month after month. And they often will work part time,
or they'll find kind of odd jobs and some way to make it work. Because you're doing, you know,
so many hours a week going door to door. So I did that for one month. And it was tough.
How does that go? Tell me, like, for the one month you were out there, how did that go?
Did you have anyone like slam the door in your face? Did you get uncomfortable?
Yeah, it's not fun. I mean, you do it as a kid who's born in, you do it from the time
you're able to walk on. So it wasn't anything I hadn't done before that I wasn't used to, but
doing it so much, it definitely kind of makes you realize how much work it is. You know, when
you're just doing it once in a while, it's not so bad. You kind of have fun. You can get through it.
But doing it back to back days, it's rough, especially because a lot of people aren't
receptive. A lot of people aren't nice. And I don't blame them. But it's tough as a kid, I think.
Does it make you feel, when they're rejecting you and your religion, because really you feel,
it's probably personal in some sense at times, did that affect you in any way? Like people who are
like, listen, you guys are out of your mind, or did you guys get so brainwashed into the religion
that you were like feeling bad for them? Even though they're shut the door and you're feeling
bad for you, you're feeling bad for them in your own mind going, Satan's got these these
poor people. Is that how you guys were thinking? Yeah, I think that's what you're taught to feel
is that Satan has his grasp on these people. And if they reject what what you're handing them on a
silver platter, they're not going to make it through them again. And so yeah, you feel bad for
those people. I think at the same time, though, being born in, you, it's a tough place to be
because converting, you have your own set of beliefs before you go into it, right? So it's
more authentic when you convert, because you you know what's out there. But when you're born in,
you get it's like, switched, you know, you're learning as you grow older. So I definitely had
feelings of like, am I the am I the abnormal one? Like, are these people real? Are they legit?
Or am I am I crazy? So you definitely have a little bit of like, both going on in your head,
I think, at least. That's interesting. Armageddon is a huge thing in the Jehovah's Witness camp.
It was a huge thing in the New Testament. I must admit, you know, the New Testament is all about
this doomsday Armageddon, the wheat in the chaff, the sheep in the goat, you know, it's coming fire
is coming. And the Jehovah's Witnesses are anticipating this event to take place. And
all the unrighteous are going to be in big trouble. Did you have dreams growing up like I did,
as a child, about the end and like, maybe the rapture, did they teach the rapture?
It's been so long. I don't think so. Yeah, something different.
Um, as a kid, the witnesses also have a lot of publications. I'm sure, you know, about the
Watchtower and Awake, these magazines that they study every week and hand out to people.
They depict a lot of what's coming. So there are a lot of pictures of Armageddon. There's even a
book called My Book of Bible Stories for Kids that has a lot of images I would never show
my child if I had a kid. Right. And you don't even have to imagine it. Like, it's there for you
to see. So yeah, you dream about that stuff. It's pretty messed up. That's a little kid thinking
about fireballs coming down from the sky, killing all your classmates. Yeah, it's kind of a crazy
place to be. Yeah, it's sad. The same thing I experienced as a Christian. And, you know,
they've set quite a few dates that have come not to pass, so to speak. They've failed predictions.
And I wanted to ask you, we know now you're not a Jehovah's Witness. So something happened,
something like drastic happened, and I don't know. Most of the guys I've talked to,
they say leaving it was gradual for them. They couldn't just like one day they snap the fingers
and they're out. But there were a few things that started to add up for them in their little
deconversion scenario. What was it that started to set you on that path on questioning everything
and going through that little faith crisis? Yeah. I think that, you know, like I said,
being born in, I kind of always had doubts. I did innately believe what I was taught from birth,
of course. And when I thought about not being a Jehovah's Witness, I definitely had,
like butterflies in my stomach, you know, that's the only way I can describe it. When I thought
about, oh man, if I'm not a Jehovah's Witness, when Armageddon comes, like I'm fucked. And I think that
it did add up over time for me. And there wasn't anything, any one thing that made me go, like,
this, I can't, like, this is not it. It was just a decision that I knew I had to make. And I wasn't
fully deconverted when I left. I still kind of believed, or at least I wasn't sure.
What is the acronym for that? When you're out, but you still believe? There's an acronym.
P-O-M-I, I think. Mentally, physically, elementally, and you can, like,
vary those, those letters. But that was kind of you, kind of?
Kind of, for a very short time. When I left, it was kind of a thing of, like, I don't care if
I die at Armageddon. Like, I'll sign, I'll sign the Duster in myself. Because I was so miserable
that I just, I couldn't do it anymore. But yeah, I did think if Armageddon comes, I'm not going to
make it through. But shortly after I left, like, the further you get away from it,
the more clarity you have. And the more you can look back and say, like, that shit's whack.
Right. What was it that, is there something, I mean, you said you were miserable, where there's
certain things, like, the lifestyle itself, and you're seeing everyone else, like, happy and,
and living a life that wasn't, like, constructed by this cult that made you kind of influenced in a
way? Do you think that? Who was a friend at school or other people? Or what was it? Yeah,
because I left when I was, like, 19 or 20. So the majority of my experience was as a kid and a teenager.
And it always, always hurt to, to not be able to associate with people who are my friends,
people who I would use to be my friends. And to see them leading normal lives, being involved in
sports, holidays, you know, having what looked like a good life. And I'm not saying I didn't. But it is
very isolating, for sure. Your screen went yellow. There you are. I don't know what happened there.
No biggie, no biggie. Were you, did you date while you were in the Jehovah's Witnesses? Was
that something that you did while you were young? Or was it, was it not something you worried about
till you left? I, you're not really supposed to do much of that. But I was, like, a boy crazy
teenager. So I did as much as I could get away with. Yeah. So, yeah, I did, when I was 17,
I did meet someone. And we actually got married when I was freshly 18. But, you know, didn't
last long. And it wasn't, it wasn't meant to, I don't think. Was he a Jehovah's Witness? Yeah.
Yep. Oh, wow. Wow. What is he, if you don't want me to ask him, is he still in Jehovah's Witness,
or is he still part of it? As far as I know, yeah, he has a big family who are all in it and had a
big presence in their kingdom hall. So I think it's harder to leave when you're the only one,
when you have a big family and they're all in, and they might, they might shun you. Worst case
scenario, they might act like you don't exist. You don't want that. That's, that's not something
you want to go through. So I don't, I wouldn't be surprised if he was still in, but not believing.
Wow. So you have no contact with him really? No, not really. I just think that's one of those,
those doors that I've closed. And that, I think, event in my life was what really prompted me
leaving, because before we got married, you know, 17, I was, I was going through it. I was going
through it in a lot of ways, just being a 17 year old kid, but also really struggling with my beliefs,
because here's this thing that I've been taught from birth, that I just don't agree with. It's,
and I can see how shitty it is and how people are treated, and what it's done for my life,
which is jack shit. So I'm like, you know, I feel like I should be in it, but it sucks. And then,
I'm going to get married. This is going to like steer me on a good path. And after we did that,
I just realized I wasn't any happier. I was actually even more miserable. And it was just
something that I couldn't do anymore. So that's when it led me to the thing of like, if I die in
Armageddon, so be it. Wow. You had pretty much come to like, I'm done, just I'm just done. And
I need to ask these questions, because it's important to try and understand maybe the influence
that might have taken place, because leaving a cult that powerful, mentally speaking, the way that
it controls your even thinking process to a point where, no, no, no, I can't like people question.
Oh, I'm not supposed to question doubting is bad. I shouldn't question that kind of stuff. Did your
family, you said they were Jehovah's Witness, or at least your dad was out, but still a believer,
your mom was active member. So what happened there? Did are they still active members and you
just left and they were willing to allow what's going on there? Well, they're not in any longer,
but that's a more recent thing. They were still in when I left. And it took them a while to kind of
realize and separate themselves. But I am happy to say that they're not in it anymore. Wow. Okay,
that's good. They're like, Yeah, they're probably thinking like, Yeah, this was definitely a bad
idea. But I'm sure there's some good morals you guys learned and picked up. But there's a lot of
harmful stuff that happens in the process. I asked that because a lot of people I've talked to
aren't in connection with their family like fifth. You know, he was on that Leah Remini show with
Lloyd Evans and stuff. And they were talking about extra Jehovah's Witnesses. And he was saying his
parents literally disowned him. So serious. But your parents were, I guess you could call them
Luke Warm Jehovah's Witnesses. And they're like, I'm not getting rid of my kid. I mean, no matter
what anyone says, that's my child, right? Yeah, I'm so lucky because I was disfellowshipped.
After I left my husband, I made it clear, like, I'm leaving the religion. This isn't what I want
to do. So I didn't I didn't disassociate myself. I was kind of just going to leave. Right. But
in order that he wanted to stay in, and in order for him to move on and get remarried,
the yoke would have to be broken. There's that scripture in the Bible that says what God has
yoke together, let no man pull apart, I think is the wording. And so as a witness, you're technically
allowed to get divorced. It's kind of frowned upon. But technically, you're allowed to you're not
going to get punished. But you can't move on and remarry. Because it would be in God's eyes
considered adultery. So what has to happen, and this is like the complexity of the rules that are
just so stupid. What has to happen is someone has to commit adultery first. Right. And so obviously,
like, that was going to have to be me so that he could remarry. So
I kind of relent like he asked me if I would go to the elders and say that I had committed adultery,
I had not. But I just kind of he was kind of he wanted it. And so I just went to the elders,
I was like, Oh, yeah, cheated on him. And then they just fellowship me. I didn't really care much
about it because I was leaving. I was like, What the fuck do I care if I'm just fellowshiped?
Right. Then I don't remember how long it took me to kind of realize this. But I started thinking
about my mom, who is going to have to be at the meetings alone, and, you know, lose her support
there. Because when someone's just fellowshiped, it's really just gross. Like you don't,
you look, it's looked down on. So I knew my mom was going to be sitting at the meetings and people
were going to be judging her and probably start treating her shitty because she had a
disfellowship kid. Yeah. So I was like, I made a mistake. So, so I decided to get reinstated.
And I had to go to every meeting for a year before they would reinstate me,
which was a crazy experience. I look back now and I'm like,
I don't know how I did that. I don't think I could do it again.
You got to tell me more about this because I have tried, it's pretty much church discipline
is what it is. It's, it's a way of disciplinary way to prove that you're going to show new
actions that are going to change. So I went through similar things, the Presbyterian church
that I, before I got excommunicated for leaving and just not coming back. But when you're
psychologically feeling like that, why would you want to go and feel the shameful weight of
others' eyes on you? It's just, it's just not a comfortable environment. But tell me more about
your experience over that year. Did they finally reinstate you and then back up and just tell us
some, was it like that? You walk in and there's people legitimately looking down and you know
that they're talking about you. They're judging you. They're all of that. Well, and they won't even,
they won't even look at you. They won't make eye contact with you because they're supposed to act
like you don't exist. You're under Satan's control. So that's even more scary than if you were a
worldly person, a person who's not in the faith. I would even, you know, I'd have to go and sit
there and like act like I was paying attention because I'm supposed to be repentant while at
the time I'm like, this is a bunch of bullshit. Like these people are crazy and I'm having to sit
here and just like, yeah, like I'm so into this. But I'm, you know, I'm in a crowded congregation.
I'm sitting next to someone and I have to like make sure my, my shoulder doesn't actually accidentally
brush theirs because I know they're going to be like freaked out about it. You know, it's like
that kind of thing. Like I'm disgusting to them. So yeah, that really sucked. It sucked.
Wow. And you did that for your mom pretty much? I mean, yeah, you want, there's more to it than
just that. Of course you, you love your mom. So there's like that level of like, I don't want to
let my mom down. I want her to be proud of her daughter. But at the same time, there's still
the faith factor. I'm sure that played some role. What if this is right? What if I've been doing
wrong? I'm trying to do right, but this doesn't feel right. But I'm trying in my mind, you know,
that's got to be a mental hell that you've gone, that you went through in that time phrase.
I think, I think the mental hell was like my entire life leading up to that point. So at that
point, I was like, fuck this, this is wrong. These people are wrong. What they're teaching is wrong.
And I was completely like, unconvinced. I think I never, you know, I was taught from birth. So I
never went through the process of finding it for myself. And there were times, you know, I really
tried to believe and to be a good witness. There was definitely, you know, that innate feeling,
like all this other bullshit might be bullshit, but like the fundamental teaching of paradise,
like that could be real. So I better get my shit together and be a good witness.
But I knew at that point, I was done with it. I didn't believe in God anymore. I didn't believe
in the paradise. But I did really love my mom and she believed and she still believes in God.
And I think I had been through the mental gymnastics of my beliefs, but it was hell in the
sense that I then had to sit there and be present for something that I truly despise and listen to
the propaganda and not say anything about it and not act disgusted, even though I was.
But I was lucky because my parents never stopped loving me and being parents. They never shunned
me, even when I was dispatched. Which was lucky. Yeah. A lot of parents, you know, it's the thing of
you can't say that if you really loved your kids, you wouldn't shun them because
you're shunning them so that they'll come back and they'll get everlasting life. So I don't think,
I can't say that parents who shun their kids are 100% bad parents because they really think that
if they don't get their kid to come back in using the technique of shunning them and making them
feel bad so they'll come back, you know, they're going to miss out on paradise. So you want to do
that. And that's a technique that the witnesses use and they preach to their followers. So
yeah, glad they didn't. And I say that because as a parent, it comes natural to not do something
like that naturally. So the witnesses are pushing something that doesn't come natural.
And you got to be a faithful witness to do something like that on a next level. So
I'm glad the curiosity you had kept you searching. And were there any things when you left the
Jehovah's Witnesses? Like, it sounds like you had an interest in like trying to kind of figure
out how it was wrong in some way. Did you do any research when you left and said, hold on, I don't
look this thing up and look at the what everyone's saying about this thing. Did you do some of that?
Well, I left almost 12 years ago. So in 2009, there wasn't a ton of stuff out there.
There were websites, but it wasn't like today, like even now there's not a ton out there,
but there's a heck of a lot more than there was when I left. So I did for the first time kind
of go on these these apostate websites, which when you're when you're in it, they tell you that
apostate material, it's the worst. It's basically Satan through apostates. So I remember being a
kid and going on a website one time, what that was an extra hope is what witness website,
like opening it up and then getting so freaked out because I thought Satan was going to come
through my screen. So I immediately shut down. But yeah, after I left, I did, I did a lot of
research. And there were things that I discovered about the organization that I did not know my
entire life growing up. I didn't know about all of the predictions leading up from the, well,
first of all, I didn't know that it was kind of started by this one guy. Didn't know that I didn't
know that they had predicted the end over and over and over again. And the last time being in 1975,
had no idea. I had no idea about this thing called Beth Serim. So I should have looked this up before
coming on here. So I'm people are going to come after me because I'm not like
information. Right. Basically, one of the founders was just profiting immensely
off of the organization. This was when there was one founder or one, you know, now there's a
governing body of like seven or eight guys, but this was when there was just one. And but I think
he was like the second one to come in. Yeah, people can like correct during the comment section.
So he had this mansion built in, I think, California. He's like, okay, guys, all these dudes
are going to come back. There's going to be like a resurrection of all these apostles. So we need
a place for them to live. So we got to we got to build like a pretty sweet mansion for them. We
got to get a couple of Rolls Royces in the driveway. And I'm just going to stay here and like keep
watch over the mansion for when they come back, which is like pretty slick, I got to say, because
he was living large. And now they got the TV preacher who say they have to have their own private
jet. I saw something funny where there's all these evil spirits and demons with all the people so
that he had to have his own private jet so he doesn't get close to people who have spirits.
You know, whatever, you can come up with all sorts of stuff. I need to start doing that too. You
know, I need to start figuring out. No, I think it's crazy. The more you research and find out how
human the movement is, because we thought it was all hocus pocus. And what I mean by that isn't
in a way like a derogatory thing, but we all thought it was magical. We thought this was
also supernatural, that it's really divine. And the more you find out these are just men
with ideas like men who want power and control. And sometimes there's legitimate, you know,
belief in these books that manipulate their thinking and the thinking the way they think.
But I kind of am torn between are they just delusional in to reading these texts and then
thinking this is true and reinterpreting them? Or is it kind of like a selfish thing? Like how
do I benefit? How do I make it better for myself? That kind of thing. So I'm torn between the two
things. But yeah, I have a hard time believing that they truly believe because look, they're using
techniques that if Jesus and God were real, they wouldn't be shunning people. If God is love,
they wouldn't be doing that. They're doing things that they know will keep their members kind of
in line. So maybe they believe a little bit, but I'm 100% convinced that they're well aware of what
they're doing and that they are using techniques that they've come up with that they knew works.
The organization has changed so much over time. They're subtle. You know, they're not like this
dude, you know, back in the day with the mansion. They're not, they know what they're doing, you
know, but they're not overtly fucking with people. They're doing it very subtly.
Ashley, what do you believe now? I mean, like, where are you at now? Are you an atheist?
Are you, what is your, do you have a, do you put yourself a label or where are you at?
Yeah, I'm in the IDGAF religion. Yeah, I kind of figured that it sounds like that. Yeah. No,
I mean, so technically you finally just left it all alone and moved on. You don't really get involved
much with any of the religious stuff at all anymore. No, I think that I think there are two
types of people. I think I don't need a God. I have no innate desire to worship or believe in a
creator or anything beyond what I'm experiencing here and now, but I think that some people do.
And I, I can't, you know, I can't be mad at those people. Some people need that, especially I think
the people who, who have a reason to, if they had lost loved ones. If I got sick and was dying,
I might think differently. I might be like, okay, now I gotta like, I can't believe something before
I go. But right now, I just, I'm not interested. It doesn't, it doesn't bother me to think that
there is no God or no afterlife. I think I just spent so much of my life worrying and obsessing
over it that I have nothing left to give. So yeah, I can relate to that whole, if I was dying or
something, you know, that experience of hoping. It's not that you think there's a God or I'm
trying to get right with something before I go. It's the idea of like, for me, it's not a fear
of a God or a fear of a place. For me, it would be more like a hope that there's somewhere to go
where we can be with our loved ones that we love. That's it. That's all it is. And it's, it's almost
like a hope. No, I personally don't believe it's, it's, I don't think it's bad to wish there was
a place where you could spend the rest of your time, you know, with the people you love. I mean,
there's nothing wrong with wishing something like that, but I'm also not going to create a delusion
in my mind. As I know, matter of fact, Lee, I'm going to a place and so are you. And we know this.
No, no, no. I mean, it's not not wrong with wishing and hoping, but that's all kind of like the same
way we get into fiction today. And we enjoy fantasizing certain things and stuff. So yeah,
I am, if you were to tell someone who's sitting on the fence right now,
they're like, they're just watching this because they're curious to hear why you aren't a
Jebus witness. What would you say to them? What would you want to say to them now that you're
not, that you're out? What's life like? Life is good. It's a lot better.
You know, that's a tough one because I think, and I think we touched on this a little bit when we
were talking before the podcast started, that everyone has their own trigger. I think what I
would need to say to someone to get them to understand what is happening to them, I think
is different for everyone. Right. You know, I think the best thing that you can do is to do
research. It's not Satan's not going to come through your screen. Like nothing bad is going to happen
to you if you do research, you're educating yourself. And the organization that makes you
censor yourself because they know that if you do outside research and find out the things that I
found out after I left, you're going to start questioning things. Your faith is going to be
shaken. You're going to have doubts. You're going to wonder, is this really the true religion?
Is what I'm investing my entire life in really worth it? And, you know, that's for you to decide.
No one can tell you what to believe, not even the witnesses.
Research, research, research. Okay. So if you were to tell an atheist, someone who's never been a
Jehovah's Witness, let's say, or even someone else from a different faith that's ever looking
at Jehovah's Witnesses, and you were trying to explain to them, you know, I guess, how would
you ask them to go about trying to help someone who's in the cult? You know, I think that there's
a lot to be said for the presentation of oneself outside of the religion. So when you are in the
religion, you have this sense of us versus them. There's witnesses and there's non-witnesses. And
I've said this in one of my videos and I got a lot of pushback on it, but I firmly believe,
and I know what I was taught and what I believed is that when you leave, you are going to be subject
to Satan's whim, so you're going to do drugs, you're going to dye your hair crazy colors,
you're going to pierce every place that you can, and you're going to go crazy, you're going to be
under Satan's grasp, you're going to be under demonic influence. So I think that, you know,
it says a lot to show people like, I'm normal as all ghetto, like my life is fine, I'm not crazy,
I'm not like worshiping Satan, I'm not doing drugs, everything is good, I'm not like hurting
myself in any way, I'm not letting Satan control me, and you know, you really believe that if you
leave, your life is just going to go downhill. And the thing is, it often does because you were
in a cult, like I struggled big time when I left, it took me a long time to get to where I am now,
but it wasn't because I'm under some influence, it was because I, you know, I grew up in a cult,
I had to leave and be just thrown into the real world, and which I wasn't equipped for,
so I think a lot of times people do struggle a lot with their mental health, and I think that
as an outsider, as an atheist, if you're talking to a Jehovah's Witness, you know,
just show them you can be reasonable, you can be level-headed, you're not one or the other.
Yeah, because dyeing your hair is a sure sign that demons and evil spirits are in you, that's
for sure. Keep that in mind, ladies and gentlemen, do not dye your hair. Well, you can't dye your hair
unnatural colors, let's put it that way. If it's natural, your spirits are good, if it's unnatural,
we know what's going on, okay, we know the spirits are there. No, I think this was really,
really fun, and this was really educational. Is there anything that we didn't cover, Ashley, that
you're hiding from us? No, I'm just kidding. No, but is there anything you can think of that we
didn't touch on that might be valuable in light of your experience as a Jehovah's Witness exiting
the Jehovah's Witness and living life again? Is there something you can think of? Yeah, I think
that when you leave, because there's so little out there in terms of deprogramming from a cult,
I think there's a struggle to kind of understand what you've gone through, what has happened to
you and what the effects are and will be. So I just wanted to like plug this book. It is so
good, Combating Cult Mind Control by Steve Hassan. This guy was in a cult and he knows what's up.
He doesn't mention the Jehovah's Witnesses in this book, he was actually in a cult called the Mooneys,
but I don't even know when this was written, but it's so relatable and it just goes to show
that a lot of these cults are created by the same design. So many of the things that he talks about
in here are, I'm like, oh yeah, like it's just checking all of the boxes of what I went through.
He talks about how people get brainwashed. And when I read this, it really blew my mind
because I realized like I was brainwashed. I didn't consent to that. I thought, you know,
he talks about the four components of Mind Control and he says that it's behavior control,
thought control, emotional control, and information control. So anyone who's been in a cult can easily
start listing like the methods of control under each of those categories, but the one that really
stuck out to me was the thought control because it's like, I have my own thoughts, like no one's
in my head, you know, I'm my own person, I have my own personality. And I think that a lot of cult
members think that, I know that a lot of cult members think that, that they're not under some
sort of control, they're not brainwashed because you're cognizant through the whole thing, you
think that you're aware. But he specifically, under the thought control piece, he talks about
having a loaded language of words and expressions as a technique that destructive cults use. And he
says that since language provides the symbols we use for thinking, controlling certain words
helps to control thoughts, which is so like just having to explain all of the things like
auxiliary pioneering, worldly people, it's so relevant for the Jehovah's Witnesses, I think.
That's wonderful, actually. And another thing that I think plays into that, he mentioned the four
categories. This is coming from my own experience as a recovering drug addict who's gone through a
serious hardcore addiction. They say to change one's thinking, you have to change one's actions.
You can't think your way into new thinking, they said. It requires new actions to rewire the thinking.
So when they control what you can do and cannot do, they're creating boundaries on your thinking
on what you're allowed to do and what you're allowed to not do, creates what you're allowed
to think, what you're allowed to not think. So when you're used to living a certain pattern
lifestyle, it's like, no, you're not controlling my thinking, I want to do this because it's what
you're doing. When I was a drug addict doing things I knew were wrong, but still did them to
keep my substances and to do what I wanted to keep getting high. That pattern in my mind,
it was like, you're not forcing me, but looking back, I was being driven by an uncontrollable,
if you will, addiction that's over. And I feel like religion touches the same
instincts, the same things as addiction. Absolutely. Yeah, I 100% agree with that.
And it's not just that they're words, like this author says, they symbolize something.
So when you think about worldly people, they're just people, you know, but to witnesses, they're
this class of people, they're, you know, it's us versus them. When you think about the term kingdom
hall, it's just a church, it's just, it's the physical structure that you go to to worship your
God. But to them, it's special. They're not going to church, they're going to the kingdom hall.
So it's kind of like this differentiator, even another fun thing that I had almost forgotten
about is that they call each other brother and sister. So I was Sister Campbell. And it sounds
nice, but if you're not a witness, you're not my brother or sister, you know, so it's another one
of those things that creates the mentality of I'm, I'm better than you. I have the knowledge.
I'm, I'm getting through paradise. I'm like, sorry, you're not, you're not my brother or sister.
So I think it, it, it's almost like they have this, this huge set of terms that creates this
mentality that yeah, you don't realize it's, it's happening. Wow. Yeah, that's powerful. And that's
what all the other cults do. And they do the same thing that this guy's talking about. Some might be more
brainwashing and more, I guess you'd say affect people in the worst way than other
cults maybe. But I do personally draw that the cult, that cult mentality, it drives its force
through most all of Christianity. Some don't have, you know, gates at the door saying, hey, hey, hey,
you can't leave. What do you think you're doing? Others might say, no, no, no, go ahead and leave.
They're free, you know, you're free to come and go, but there's still this like psychological
warfare that they're playing on the crowd that walks in about how you were born a broken human.
You need fixing and only God can give you that remedy. We have that. We sell that. You can,
you can buy that for free. You can buy that for free. Just accept it now. We know you feel the
guilt and shame. Play that harp again. Play that drum again. Get the music going. You know,
you feel the guilt. You feel the guilt and they're probably harping on basic things that we all as
humans naturally feel all the time. So I feel like it works at different degrees, but I really
appreciate you saying that because I still use the term brother and sister all the time, but I
do it for everyone. Yeah, that's the difference. Yeah, I do it for everyone. And I know what you're
talking about because brother is like brother in the Lord, you know, you're my brother in the Lord,
you know, and what if he's not in the Lord? Whoa, is he still your brother? Well, I would make up
excuses. Yeah, brother of humanity. We're all brothers and sisters. You know, I'd come up with
a way to try and like make it work. But now I'm like, yeah, what's up, man? How are you doing,
brother? You know, and I just literally, that's how I am now. So I like that. I think it's nice.
We've got to be inclusive of everyone though. That's exactly right. Now you got to be careful.
Now you might call someone a brother who's not a brother or a sister who's not a sister. They
might be a they or, you know, they might not want to be. Yeah, maybe we can do away with the brother
and sister thing just all together. Yeah, I figure something else. I don't know. I'm never going to
fit in. I'm just kidding. But yeah, I really do appreciate that. That book again, what is the
name of that book? Yeah, it's combating cult mind control by Steven Hassan. Okay. Well, ladies and
gentlemen, I think that's worth checking out. Ashley, is there anything else we can think of?
You know, there's a couple of things that I wanted to talk about that were just like fun,
kind of wacky things that you might not know about that I think you're going to appreciate.
So there are a lot of rules, obviously, as a two of us witness that are written in the publications
and backed up with reasoning or justification that's written down. But there are a lot of unwritten
rules that are the most fun and the most it's like the most wacky shit that you might not even believe.
So there's stuff that like circulates through the religion. And I want to see if people will
will know what I'm talking about and like comment if you do. Because so the unwritten rules are kind
of based off real stuff. So you're not supposed to be involved in magic. That's in the publications.
It's satanic this and that. So there was a particular show that was very popular in the 80s
that, you know, there's a whole there's a whole group of shows that you're not allowed to watch.
You're not allowed to play things like Magic the Gathering and whatnot. But there was one show
that was the most feared show out of them all. And it started from, I think, from a rumor that
some kid had a doll from this show and it came to life. It was like possessed by Satan or something.
And people are going to know by now it's the Smurfs. So there was a huge thing against the
Smurfs. I don't know how it came to be. But it was so scary as a kid. You couldn't have anything to
do with the Smurfs. You couldn't watch the show. So funny because they're so cute. And like I don't
even know it's from I don't even know what they are. They're like little gnome things or something.
Gnomes. That's because when you I mean, and this is just something I've been researching with a guy
who's actually into the mythology and the Norse Celtic and the like going into Indo-European
stuff. He mentioned that in Odin in the creation myths, they they had little gnomes which are
technically witches is what they are. So that's probably why they knew stay away from gnomes.
They're little magic spellbinding type witches, but they don't seem like females. So, you know,
it's just that's what they are. They're witches. Were you allowed to watch the Smurfs in American?
I was allowed to do as long as it was like not anything inappropriate for a child to watch.
My mom and dad weren't like that. My dad was Roman Catholic and my mom, she was more religious.
She was a Pentecostal, like a speaking in tongues Pentecostal from where she went from.
And so, yeah, we had a different kind of upbringing, but we're military. My father's,
you know, military always moving around. And I didn't have that mom wanted to bribe us to go
to church on Sunday and she'd tell me she'd take me to a buffet if I went to church. So I'd go to
church, you know, but then as I got older, like life starts getting tough. And when tough things
happen in life, especially with my dad being an alcoholic and all this stuff, I really turned
to religion. Like, I'm talking, I got lost in deep for many years until I researched my way out.
It was like a deep dive into the researching that started to make me question,
and would the combination of real life like, or why is my, why can't I live this perfect life
according to your laws and all these things? And I kept feeling like a shame, guilt, remorse,
God's watching my actions. And I could never live up to what he expected. It was like a
father I could never impress, you know, and then, but I would pretend just to have faith and just
believe Jesus took all of that. Don't worry about that. But then part of the Christian mumbo jumbo
is, well, if you're not living in perfect in line, as if you have the spirit, you may not have the
spirit, you may not actually be born again, or you may not have salvation. So I'd always go back
and forth because I also struggled with drug addiction. So how can a drug addict like me
ever be God's child? Yes, feeling like you can't do it. Yeah. And then I would do it,
but then I fall. And when I fell, I fell hard. And then I do it again, and it fell, and it just
kept happening to me, which that played a huge psychological role in what happened my last relapse,
or one of the last prior to my last relapse, which was over five years ago, I began to
say, man, this isn't working. Like, practically, like, I'm not going to live much longer if I
keep doing this, because it got to point where I was doing heroin. I mean, like, injecting heroin
and stuff. Like, that's how far it got. And I ended up literally saying to myself and believing,
like, maybe you don't have all the answers. Maybe you're wrong. What if you're wrong about this?
So I started to research. And during that time, I was going to 12 step meetings, which talk about
a higher power and stuff. Try and, like, figure out something. I didn't know what the hell that was.
Some say it could be a doorknob. Some say the higher power could be God, a group of drunks.
And, you know, and I'd go and I just, like, believe that together we can do this. And then
I started studying. When I studied, I found good reasons to see Christianity, Judaism,
all of these religions were culturally related. And, you know, there were culturally
religions that borrowed even from other religious views and other stories like the
Epic of Gilgamesh. I started to get deep, deep dive into like, well, I realized that NOAA,
for example, wasn't the first flood account that there are hundreds of flood accounts.
But I saw NOAA was borrowing from the Epic of Gilgamesh, for example. I saw the author of
Genesis was actually hijacking the story somewhat from another story that was older.
What was this sort of God? How, I thought this was the end, of course, Christians still to this
day argue, no, no, no, no, no, the Bible was first, they stole from that. But that's a whole
another debate and discussion. But I started to realize stuff that this was more human than divine.
And that maybe that worked back then for certain people. But today, no, we're not okay with slavery,
you know, we're not okay with stoning a homosexual or, you know, like, you know, we're not okay
with that. We're not okay with if you have your period, you must leave the city because you're
unclean. Yeah, when you're clean. It's like, there's so many things to you. You're wearing
probably more than one type of clothing. You're not supposed to do that according to Torah.
Yeah, my fabrics are mixed. So definitely not getting through the gates of heaven now.
Yeah. And in your view, Jehovah's Witness, heaven is going to be here, right? So, or at least as
supposed, or is heaven a place that you go only the 144,000 go something like that?
Yeah. Yeah. Yep. That's it. Yeah. The rest of us are here on earth. So I thought that was full a
long time ago. And then we're still thinking they're going to go there. All right. I don't know.
That's one of those things like, that's a very small number.
Right. Well, you brought up the Smurfs and I, and I ravaged you on a soft topic.
Was there anything else goofy that you were thinking of? Or was that it?
Yeah, there's one thing. There's one more thing that is kind of crazy. So they think that
there's this big belief in demons and how they can kind of get you. And they're always trying.
And they're always waiting for you to open the door. So there's this thing about second hand
possessions. Again, this is not a written rule. And maybe they have it somewhere in a
wash tower somewhere saying like, you could get, you could get Satan's influence from a, a toaster.
But there were stories, stories that would circulate like the same stories about these
items that people got second hand. I remember one where the story was a woman got a rice cooker
from a yard sale and she brought it home and she was sick for weeks. She finally realized
is that damn rice cooker? She got rid of it and she would butter.
Oh my gosh.
So as a witness, you would like, if you were going to yard sales and getting second hand stuff,
going to Goodwill, it was a risk. It was a true risk. I remember another story.
I was actually studying with this couple in my hall at the time who were like really good
witnesses. They didn't, they didn't come at you with the bullshit. So I was really surprised to
hear this story from them, but they said there was a kingdom hall that was experiencing demon
attacks and they did a complete reno. They took everything out of this kingdom hall,
brought all new stuff in. They were still having these demon attacks. What do you know?
It was a penny under the floorboards that was, uh, it was, uh, possessed. So
And how did they determine this? Do they just guess that? Yeah, see what I'm saying?
I, I just think it's funny because where I, this is so amazing. You're like the fourth
extra hope is witness that I've actually like done a show with and there's so much overlap
between that cult and the house church cult I began in. We spoke in tongues, which you guys
probably don't do that, but we spoke in tongues, prophesied and pretended like we had knowledge
directly from God and tongues is the language of angels. So we were gibberish.
You know what I mean? The whole night. And we believe like, I remember when I was burning
all my slipknot, mud, vein, hardcore heavy metal, um, rock and roll CDs, because gracious,
those are spirits, all sorts of spirits and demons attached themselves to these things.
And when I was burning it, I saw colors coming out of the, you know, fire and he's my buddy that
was part of this. You see that? Those are the demons. And I'm like, I see it. That's true.
Really, you know, there's chemicals that are, but I believe that, you know, those are the types of
things or touch someone who has a demon, unless you're ready to battle him by laying on your hands
and like speaking in tongues and trying to cast the demon out. They would do that kind of stuff
at this church. So whereas you guys don't go that far where people are casting demons out in
the Jehovah's Witness Kingdom hall, we were doing crazy stuff like that, but you guys still were
very superstitious in the weirdest ways, like all these other cults that I love. It's more subtle,
I think, which is why I think they have so many members because you can look at someone speaking
in tongues and be like, that's crazy. Like I would never do that. But then you see the witnesses
and they seem all nice. They seem like they know what they're doing. They're happy. They're not
doing any overtly crazy shit. So it's like, oh, these people are kind of normal when really
they're like the craziest motherfuckers of them all. Wow. Okay. We don't want to be beating them up,
but it's like religion does make us crazy. You know what I mean? And it makes us believe in
things that are irrational. And so when you say that, I know you don't mean it. I know you don't
mean it, mean spirit, because you were one. I was one. Like, so anyone watching this don't
take this offensive because I know I was crazy in the way I thought. I just
were crazy. Yeah. And I don't, and especially people who have converted. I really do want to
make a point that I am not trying to bash people. It really is the belief system that I'm bashing
because people are just people. And even though in the religion, like a lot of
extra of his witnesses, I've noticed, will be upset with things that other witnesses did to them
while they were in, like elders, for instance, who will have committee meetings and past
judgment and disfellowship people. A lot of people are pissed at elders for doing that stuff.
But, and rightfully so, you know, because it's a shitty thing to have done to you. It really hurts.
But everyone is just doing what they think they're supposed to do. I did it. I was of that
mentality that I'm better than you. I judged people. I shunned people. And it isn't that
you're personally crazy. Like, please don't take it that way. The system is just, it's not normal.
I'm picking up what you're putting down because anyone who's watched,
Leah Remini, the aftermath, will realize Mike Render was the right hand man.
He had done so much dirt on people. He still apologizes today, you know, to people that he
meets and says, but he says flat out, I was doing what I honestly believe Elron Hubbard
was actually teaching. I was being very strict and true to his words. And I was following what I
believe my religion was, Scientology, to the T. So he is very sorrow, you know, filled, if you
will. He's very, he feels bad about those things. But he wants anyone who's feeling that way about
him. You know, I don't like you because what you did, a lot of them realize like, okay, you are
trying to do your best and it hurt me. It damaged me what you did. But hearing you say that makes a
lot of resentments go away, go away. And I really do appreciate you saying that because I want
anyone who watches this to not just say, this is a Jehovah's Witness bashing show. No, no, it's not
the people. We're actually trying to help people come out. We want people to open up their eyes
and realize that there is life outside. There is a way to live in peace and happiness and not
wake up every morning wondering, you know, am I doing things the right way? Like this strict
regimen of like the invisible father looking down on you going, are you doing the right thing today?
And I felt that pressure psychologically. So you seem happy. You seem like you go on about your life
and you don't really have any worries. And there's no problem when it comes to these things. So that's
what we want them to see. Yeah. And I think it's important to not feel bad about and not to regret
your past. Just move on. You're not a bad person for being a witness. I've made peace with my past
and the things that I did in the religion. Because, you know, like we said, you're just doing what you
think is right. So like, please to anyone who's watching this who is a witness or is a former
witness, don't feel bad. It's not you. It doesn't make you a bad person. Just move on and be happy
and try to be a good person in your new life. And I think it's it's it's tough for me because,
like I said, the further you get away from it, the more clarity you have and the more I can see
like this stuff, I like I can't believe I believe this. But it takes getting out of it and and being
away from it all to realize that that's not normal. It's normalized for you. But the further you get
away from it, you realize it's it's just not right. That is so true. I look back and wonder
how I believed in the things I did too. So you're not alone. If you're watching this,
love you. And I want you to know that I mean that you're my brother and my sister for real.
No matter what and sister Ashley agrees. But seriously, thank you so much, Ashley. I really
do appreciate it. I want everybody who's watching this, please go over to Ashley Campbell's YouTube
channel. And and that channel is spelled her name is unique here. So let me get you guys the actual
YouTube channel here. This is how her name is spelled A S H I L I sorry Campbell. So here's a
video right here. Do objective research, go and hit that bell on her channel. Hit all that way
everybody get you get notified when she drops another video on the Jehovah's Witness, of course.
And I look forward to hearing more from you, Ashley. This is really cool. Maybe we could do
like a group thing. I can get a bunch of extra Jehovah's Witnesses to come on and have you hang
out. That would be so fun. Awesome. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
I have hundreds of videos on the Patreon become a patron and get early access to everything I
ever launched. Join the Twitter. I've got a Discord chat room. You guys can help grow the
community one time PayPal or cash app. If you want to help us out with a donation and join our
Facebook groups, man, let's make this thing happen.
