All right, we are live myth-vision podcast.
If you've been asking yourself the question,
Dr. Carl A.P. Rock, who's a Harvard classicist,
he's got a background at Yale.
I mean, he's been a PhD longer than I've been alive.
He knows a thing or two about the ancient Greek mysteries,
the ancient Greek stories, Greek literature in general.
And he said on one of the podcasts in the past
that Jesus is probably just a story.
If you wanna hear the answers to that,
if you wanna dive in, if you have questions,
you can super chat those questions
and we will get to them.
I appreciate all the support.
I'm back for my trip from California
with Egyptologist Karakuni
and of course, classicist and New Testament scholar,
Richard C. Miller, who I imagine would have a lot of agreement
with what might be said today in some ways.
And let me go ahead and introduce our guest
by popping all of them up on the screen at the same time.
We have Gnostic Informant right next to me.
We have Dr. Carl Ruck underneath me
and Dr. Amon in the bottom right-hand corner.
Both of these gentlemen are classicists.
They love, love, love the Greek world.
And at some point, I'll probably be taking classes
with Amon to figure out the Greek language
to try and understand what's going on.
So shout out, plug up front.
Dr. Ruck has written several books over the years.
If you're interested in diving into the Greek world,
this is just some of them.
Just type his name in on Amazon and you'll find it.
There's also a link down in the description
to get you straight over to Amazon
and you can type up Carl Ruck
and you will find several of his books.
When's the last time you published, Dr. Ruck?
I think it was within the past year.
Oh, wow. Okay.
What was the latest?
Matricide and Sunshine.
Sunshine and Matricide.
I don't see it in here.
So maybe they haven't popped it
into the latest greatest here, Road to Alucis.
Anyway, I figure I'd find it, but you can go and find it.
Road to Alucis is the,
and that one in Apples of Apollo are my two favorites.
That one even has the translation
of the Homeric hymn to Demeter in there.
So it's pretty nice to have that in your library.
In my opinion.
Check out his books.
Go subscribe to Dr. Amon.
He prefers, I call him Amon.
I just figure I'd refer to his credentials
so you understand he knows Greek quite well
and he can speak it fluently, read it fluently,
the whole nine.
And he has several books.
He loves diving into the books, sorry.
He has some books, sorry.
He has several videos here on his YouTube videos
on his channel.
Go subscribe to the YouTube Lady Babylon.
And he does Greek courses, Greek lectures.
Greek teaches you in Greek, if you will.
What do they need to do to do that, Amon?
How do they get initiated into the Greek world?
Yeah, you're welcome to enroll in my intensive course.
I do a 20 week using the Hansen and Quinn text.
And students that are serious
and want to commit to that 20 weeks
can get me on whizzing.
It's a rigorous program.
It's classical Greek.
You said we speak it, but Dr. Ruck would know
that we translate it to the best of our ability
and it's a continuous process of learning.
I know I've been doing this for 30 years
and I know my range of classical texts
is always broadening.
And so if you're interested, you're never at the top.
Carl Ruck is right at the top of that ladder.
And he knows, he knows that the more you dive deeper
into those sources, the more you learn.
And Dr. Carl Ruck, I'm sure has forgotten
more Greek than most seminarians ever learned.
That is amen and amen to that.
All right, let's get our intro.
Everybody come in, hit the like button.
Please do check out our guest stuff
and we're gonna dive into the deep stuff here soon.
So stay tuned.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
All right. Love it. I love the intro. Yeah, we're waking up. We're awake and I figure- The purple pill! The purple pill!
I know, now I realize after I made that cartoon
that there's a whole culture war going on
with different color pills.
And I'm like, listen, I've taken plenty of pills,
different kinds, I promise you.
So don't hold it against me.
Dr. Ruck, we're bringing you on,
specifically wanting to put you on a pedestal here
because your work has been extremely influential,
not only did Nostik inform it here,
my buddy that's on my side, but also Dr. Amon,
and your classicist.
And there's something interesting
about the way classicists who decide to tread
across that treacherous line of New Testament stuff
that you're actually told not to cross into,
or at least it's often encouraged among classicists,
don't venture into that New Testament area.
There's a lot of crazy stuff going on over there
and like, you really don't wanna go over there.
Well, we're hoping that we can get you
before your apotheosis happens,
before you are metamorphized, as we call it,
that we can get you to kind of cross that boundary with us.
How does that sound today?
Sure.
He's like, bring it, I will take it, let's do this.
Awesome, I figure I'd start off teasing people,
letting them like wait for the Jesus stuff.
And that is, Neil discovered something interesting
and he wanted to throw it at you.
So did you wanna bring the pentheus stuff up, Neil?
Yeah, I'll start off with my question
and then we can, there's a whole bunch of,
I think there's a lot of questions in the chat already,
but my question is about pentheus,
the death of pentheus, Dr. Ruck,
do you think it's possible that the death of pentheus
is being taken into consideration
with the scene of the death of Jesus?
As the antithesis, so Dionysus,
I would rather see Jesus as Dionysus.
Yeah, because pentheus does kind of seem
like the Pharisee figure, the authority,
he's trying to keep the order
and Dionysus is coming in and changing things up.
Yeah, now the reason why I brought that up,
and we can move on to this,
but it does seem a little,
like the scene of pentheus being put up on a tree
and then like cast down and his mother's there
and his mother gets possessed by Dionysus
and now she's killing him with all the other women.
I don't know, I just, for some reason,
that scene felt like really powerful
and I don't know, it just seems like there's like
something about this death that seemed kind of...
No, you're right there.
I mean, I think the most uncanny moment
in your previous play is when Dionysus
says to pentheus, you don't know who you are.
And he says, yes, I do.
And he gives his identification.
And the thing is pentheus doesn't know what he's saying.
And Dionysus does, you don't realize that you are me
and you are the suffering half of the joy that I bring,
that we belong together.
You're the darker half of ecstasy.
And it's your task to be sacrificed.
In the Christian story, the reason that Christ is sacrificed
is that he kicks upon himself the sufferings
to liberate his followers from that.
It makes me already wanna get to the point,
but I don't wanna get to the point yet on purpose.
We have a detour we have to take.
We've told ourselves before the stream
that we must keep people hanging just a little while longer
and we'll get to their Q and A at the end.
And that is, I wanna bring up the scholarship issue.
We talk about suffering of Dionysus, Jesus.
There seems to be a persecution complex in America,
of course, with Christians.
Christians in power, by the way, who feel persecuted.
Really, really odd situation in my opinion.
But my question is in your situation,
the way that you were treated in your scholarship,
it wasn't taken seriously, I guess, at one point.
They kind of wrote you off.
Amon has a story that I can't say is identical,
but it's similar.
And I'll let him explain it
and see how this might overlap with your work, Dr. Roep.
So, my background was I was going into the medicine
and pharmacy and as everybody knows and as Karl Ruck knows,
I was ingloriously dismissed from the university
after an inquiry into my state of demon possession
by the Catholic church.
There was an investigation.
There were reports that I had flown through buildings
and hovered over poor students who had been raped.
Yeah, believe it or not, that's the kind of thing
that happens when you bring out this type of material.
I was just there for the drugs
and I met Karl Ruck after he endorsed the chemical muse.
And I learned through my interaction with him
that he really was ignored.
He really was, people tended to take his research
and say, well, that's just the whole mushroom thing, right?
Okay, okay, mushrooms.
It wasn't taken as seriously as he should be.
And now that we're sitting with a Bronze Age find of hair
from the Norca that has hallucinogenic drugs in it,
I think Dr. Karl Ruck should be reconsidered
and vindicated, that's just my position.
It's all there.
Dr. Ruck knows that I do the drugs, that that's my area.
I do the pharmacology and he knows it's there
and but it's not taken seriously.
And I don't know if it still is Dr. Ruck
or if you feel like you're becoming vindicated.
By the way, real quick, there's an article
about what happened with Dr. Amon
and this was written by a lawyer.
Her name is Alex Mori.
This is, she's the one who wrote this article
about you, Amon, about what happened to you at St. Mary's,
how you were one of the most requested teachers
in this university for students taking classes
in ancient history in Greek and Latin
and you were teaching them this truth
about ancient Greek, ancient Greek stuff.
And a lot of that stuff can be dark,
like there's phalluses in ancient Greece,
that's part of the ancient Greek world.
And they tried to-
I don't know if that's dark, that's the problem,
but please continue, I think it's normal.
What I'm saying is they saw it that way.
Right.
They see it as, that's not Christian,
like we should be teaching them about the gospels,
which you're teaching them about Jesus
and you're teaching them the ancient classical Greek world.
You're teaching them all this amazing Greek stuff
and they loved it and they literally tried to take you down
and fired you for that.
And then wrote up like some weird theological charges
about portals and demon possession.
And so you even fired back and tried suing them
and you were successful, that's a whole other story.
But anyways, I just wanted to let people know
there's an article out there, you got people can read it.
I'll throw that in the comments.
So I wanna-
I'm very proud of, if I can just say I'm sorry
and I'll be quiet.
I'm very proud that the American Association
of University Professors sent a team to investigate
and found that I was unlawfully or inappropriately terminated.
So Amon loves this, obviously he loves his work,
he loves the Greek world.
And when I first was introduced to him,
he died for that.
So like he literally lives and is ready to die for that.
Dr. Ruck, how has your work been accepted
or has it been demonized in academia?
How do you feel like the situation is right now?
Well, at present, I guess it's become accepted.
And Amon was a road marker along the way
of people taking it seriously.
And then more recently, Brian Muralesco,
the immortality key.
And he's publicizing the fact that a provincial
Dionysian sanctuary, there were small vessels,
very small, you wouldn't use it for drinking anything
other than a couple of tablespoons of a drug.
And the archeologists noticed that there was a residue
and tested the residue and found that it tested positive
for ergot.
And so we have a vessel for a mystery initiation,
a provincial version of the Ellicinian mystery
where you're drinking something which is obviously
too small to do anything other than deliver a dosage
or something.
And apparently what they were drinking was something
that contained ergot.
And ergot is potentially, depending on how you access it,
the source of an entheogen very similar to LSD,
LSD is not a natural substance.
Real quick, just to get everybody on the same page,
this is a term called entheogen.
And believe it or not, this is a term that everyone knows
now, but this term was actually coined by you, Professor Ruck.
The entheogen coined in 1979 by a group of ethnobotanists
and a scholar of mythology, Kyle Ruck, Jeremy Bigwood.
So this word, it comes from the Greek,
inspired, possessed by the God.
And so this, we're talking about hallucinogenic drugs
that are taken in the mystery cults of ancient Greece.
And so you pretty much, you contributed this to academia
and now this is like, you literally like made this a staple
in the study of ancient psychedelics
and ancient mystery cults and stuff like that.
Can you, how did that start off?
Like did you, when you came up with all this terminology,
was there a pushback at first?
And how does it, how did that play out?
And now that the words has been accepted,
it's obvious that I can't claim that I'm neglected.
It didn't take much effort to come up with the term,
but I was asked to, it was because we were talking
about shamanism and altered consciousness
accessed by a psychoactive sacrament.
And it was in the midst of widespread drug abuse
and addiction.
And we didn't want to, we wanted to separate
what we were doing from the contemporary drug problem.
And the connotations of drug are that you are sluggish,
you're not in your right mind.
Whereas we're talking about something that activates
your imagination and puts you in a superior frame of mind.
And so I was asked after we published the road to Lucis
to come up with the term.
And I immediately recall that Entheus is a Greek adjective
which is used to describe people who are possessed
by the God Dionysus.
The God comes to have a shared identity,
which is obvious if you eat a deity in some kind of sacrament,
that means that you have the deity within yourself.
And I put that adjective together with the Greek
verbal idea of generating that condition.
It came up with Entheogen.
It's an easy word and it's got good credentials.
And it quite accurately describes what happens
when one becomes mystically possessed
by the spirit of the deity by the act of ingesting that,
something that is a sacrament of that deity.
It could be purely symbolic as it often has become,
but the original term Entheus meant that you had drunk
the potion of the God Dionysus.
And so he came to dwell within you,
you come to share an identity with God.
Oh, go ahead, Derek.
So I was gonna say this idea leads me to the thumbnail
we created for this live stream.
You've got Mary next to Jesus.
And we don't wanna get to the historicity yet.
I wanna tiptoe around Jesus for just a moment.
Mary, in one of the scenes,
there's a woman who's possessed by seven demons.
So we have to backtrack a little.
I've never seen in the revival anyone demon possessed.
There is no demons in that respect.
I mean, not clearly.
You could argue that there are spirits like Azazel
and other things in late Second Temple Judaism
that maybe start creeping in,
but the New Testament has these demons possessing people.
Very odd thing.
I don't see anywhere else.
And Amon has mentioned this whole possession thing
in passing.
I don't know how far to take it.
I'm not as learned on this,
but the idea that this woman is possessed by seven spirits,
seven demons, if you will,
is there in some way a connection in your mind
as a classicist, Dr. Ruck,
between the possessions that take place
within the New Testament literature,
which is Greek as well,
and what we're finding in Greek literature
like the Bacchai or being possessed by Dionysus
in a Bacchic frenzy and whatnot.
Yes, I mean, you're using the term the Bacchant
that refers to the troops of females
who honor the God Dionysus.
He has two names.
Dionysus is a name that identifies him
as a civilizer, the son of Zeus.
The name Bacchus is named after the ritual staff,
which is the Bacchus,
and the ritual staff is also known as the Thersus.
Thersus is cognate with the word torso,
so that although it's a staff,
it supposedly represents the body of someone,
represents the body of the God.
And we know that that was the emblem used
by herb gatherers, people gathering magical plants.
They stuffed them into the top of this hollow fennel stalk.
So you think the woman being possessed though, Mary,
there's this like story of her?
Yeah, the other term for them,
they can be called Bacchants.
That means that they are associated with this Bacchus
and the ritual plant gathering.
But the other name for them is that they were mad women
or minettes, Romania.
I'm thinking of how Mary was promiscuous,
according to many tales.
And they're, of course,
we were just dealing with this earlier
about when Neil used the word, oh, well, it's kind of dark.
And I'm like, oh, it seems normal, actually.
What I find Christianity doing
is they're becoming more ascetic in their practices.
So they're demonizing the flesh and activities like that.
But it's not only is this woman possessed by demons,
as we would say a minad is possessed by Dionysus,
but she's supposedly a promiscuous woman.
And she's an adulterous woman
or she's a sexually active woman outside of the law
of what you're supposed to do.
Were the minads also practicing in such activities?
It's hard to have an ethical judgment
on a person who had an experience of ecstasy,
which is traditionally experienced as orgasm with a deity.
But that hardly can be prurient
because the person is having a orgasm
with a spiritual power.
I mean, orgasm is used as a metaphor
for this intense experience.
And what a mystic experience is when it contacts the deity.
And it's also mythologized as having sex with the deity.
And I know like Clement of Alexandria,
who writes about how the orgia is central to the...
Yeah, you can hardly judge it as prurient
because the person is having sex with...
If you're not a believer.
Religious.
Or whether you exist.
Interesting.
Interesting.
And it sounds like the mystic Paul teachings.
Amon.
Can I throw it?
Thank you, Derek.
I just want to throw in the lady Babylon
she is hated because of her cup of porneia.
And what's hilarious is if you turn back to those
and Dr. Ruck knows this,
but if you turn back to those Victorians
who defined, who worked on the Oxford lexicon,
you'll see that they define porneia as fornication
or idolatry.
And it's funny.
It's funny that you would call the idolatry
and the sexual intercourse the same word.
So, yeah.
There's something going on there that's deep
that I don't think we're allowed to talk about,
but the sex drugs that they're using
allow us to bring that in.
Because Mary, the very same woman was pardoned
by Pope Gregory for having sex drugs on her.
Yeah, isn't that something?
And it makes you wonder if those seven devils
that he casted on her were those same seven devils
that teach us all that.
All those goodies about the sex and the drugs.
I don't think you can distinguish them.
I don't think you can distinguish the sex and the cult,
especially on Cyprus, for example.
I don't think sex and healing are all using
the same language, right?
You really can't distinguish.
Well, you know how in the secret mark,
they talk about the deep things of Satan.
And they're talking about these mystery cults.
They're talking about these rituals,
orgia, taking part in these rites.
And I'm wondering if, as Christianity progresses,
it becomes more dogmatic and more doctrinal.
It's, everything that we look at as what we call pagan,
which they didn't call themselves pagan,
they're just different rites,
because they're polytheistic rites.
But the pagans that the Christians are talking about,
all that stuff becomes evil and demonized and wicked.
So later on, they get charged with witchcraft
for just being polytheistic.
But all the stuff that we,
I guess what I'm saying is we look back at it
through the lens of Christianity,
not realizing that stuff was all sacred and fine
before Christianity came along.
What do you guys think about that?
I think Amin wants to say something.
Oh, I'm sitting here thinking,
I want to ask you about that Menorca find.
But I think what you're describing is real, Neil.
I think it's a real phenomenon.
What about the hair?
What about the drug and the hair, Dr. Rock?
This is from Bronze Age.
They found that Hyosciamine, Scopolamine,
we know these are those inducers
of the hallucinogenic nightmares.
Where do you put these people?
Are these Medusae?
We have to go back to Diascortes and say,
look, he says they're using these things
as aeropoisons for killing and paralyzing.
What are they doing with this?
If we could reach out to that archeological team
and explain to them, where would you put us, Bronze Age,
the use of psychotropics that are frightening hallucinogens?
It really shows that it's a natural impulse
of mankind to alter consciousness.
I mean, we have no trouble with our present day
fascination with the wider range of,
a wide array of chemicals that are used
to treat illnesses and so on.
And it's only part of that interest in the experience
ability of certain plants or substances
to affect and suddenly change upon the body.
That some of those experiences would be felt
as pleasant or gasmic and interpreted
metaphysically as a union with the spirit world.
Okay.
When I say that, I mean, I'm speaking
from this side of rationality.
Interpreter as contact with the spirit world,
but there's no reason for us to be so blind
as to dogmatically know that the spirit world doesn't exist.
Sure.
I'm with you.
I wanna bring us to Jesus since we're 30 minutes in here
and we have several questions from our audience
that are interested in getting Dr. Ruck to answer
and we can have some fun throughout that.
Talking about the historicity,
before I ask you simply to dive deeper into this, Dr. Ruck,
on my channel several years ago, I started this channel
and what inspired me was when I was a fundamentalist,
I thought Jesus literally was God in the flesh,
Trinity, the whole nine, you know,
you're kind of told a story and you believe.
And then, you know, you start to find out there's problems,
there's holes in what I was told.
Once you find out there's some holes
and you say, hold on, hold on,
Jesus seems to have something common with other legends
and myths of people, deities and such.
I don't think those are truths.
You start going, well, Jesus probably didn't do those
as well and those figures in often cases never existed.
So there were scholars I started to look at
that said Jesus never existed.
And so I started to go, wow,
maybe this guy didn't exist at all.
And I really had been on this journey
to try and figure out,
well, can we know if there is a guy?
Well, over time, I think Gnostic could form it,
would maybe share some commonality to me.
I've come to a conclusion where I think
that there might have been some dude,
I'll just use the term,
some Jewish guy who is at the basis of this thing.
And he's mythologized.
And the reason I do that is I'm looking at Paul.
But you said you think he's just a story.
And so I'm really open and curious
to get information from you.
Why do you think he was just a story
if you can go into more detail than on that topic?
As a historical event,
the reported events are not what one would accept
as ordinary factual events.
They are, there may have been something
that as it was told became mythologized,
that it is a mythical story of someone experiencing
orgasmic mysticism, a mystical communion with deity.
So even in Paul, you're saying,
like we get the gospels are extremely,
I'll use the term fiction.
They're loaded with legend, myth, however you wanna put it.
But even in Paul's letters, you see that in Paul.
Yeah, I think the telling item of evidence
is the fact that Jews are not Christians.
And that is because Jesus is not Jewish.
Whatever he was, he must have been,
if there was an event, it would have been a Jewish person.
And so there may not have been an event,
but if there was an event, and it's possible
that there was an event, it was a Jew who was Jesus.
But the story of his divinity is not conformed
to the Jewish expectations of divinity.
Whereas it conforms exactly to the
the Greco-Roman idea of deity.
And it's a diagnosis.
And the telling piece of evidence is the fact
that our texts of Ippurapiti's Bacchai
is mutilated at the end.
But in the 12th century, I believe it was,
someone lifted lines from ancient tragedies
to tell the story, a worthwhile story
rather than one of those pagan stories.
The story of Jesus.
And lifted a great number of those lines
from Ippurapiti's Bacchai.
And the missing end of Ippurapiti's Bacchai
is restored by scholars, by recognizing what lines
from this story of Jesus were lifted
to tell the story of Dionysus.
Okay, so I got a-
I got a-
I got a-
Let's practice.
So let me dig a little deeper on you here.
I wanna be a little, I wanna push back to get your thoughts.
So, and correct me if I'm wrong.
First, I wanna make sure that we're on the same page.
You're saying there could have been
a historical Jewish guy named Jesus,
an event where he got crucified.
But the cult that followed him,
evolved and mythologized him in such a manner
that they adopted kind of the Dionysian rights and such
in their practice of Jesus.
Are you saying that's probably the case?
Or are you saying you probably lean toward
there wasn't even a guy and they invented the story
about a Jewish guy who was crucified,
born in the sea to David and all that kind of stuff?
Well, I think the Desi Scrolls strongly suggests
there was a guy who could have
a historical figure who could have been
the nucleus of the Jesus story.
Okay, so you would look at the Desi Scrolls analogy
to something like Jesus.
Trying to make sure we're on the same page.
Because when you said you were a mythicist,
the way that people online understand that,
and maybe I would say most of the academic community
that I'm aware of,
they think that means there wasn't even a historical guy
at all.
You're not suggesting that much,
or are you saying there was never a guy?
That actually goes farther than that.
There may have been no guy, but if there was a guy,
the story was co-ed in a manner that was believable.
Sure.
Let me ask, can we jump in?
Ask you a question.
Do you think that there's Jewish people?
Do you think that it's possible
that there's a tradition of Christianity
that we lost that predates Paul and goes back before
the time Jesus even existed, basically?
Like early Jesus, angelical celestial deity.
I mean, the reason why I'm asking that,
that's really what mythicism actually is.
I mean, I don't know how much you want to even get into that,
but you might know what I'm even getting at.
You might be like, what are you even talking about?
This is a totally, like way out in the fringes land
of scholarship.
Some people, people who watch this channel
know exactly what I'm talking about.
But I don't know if you ever,
are you aware of this at all,
or what do you think about that?
Yes, I think there have been traditions
throughout the ages of mysticism and Christianity.
And in those traditions of mysticism,
I think there has been a psychoactive sacrament.
I mean, it is not an ordinary sort of thing for a deity
to say, this bread is my body, eat it.
Whereas everyone knows that the grain goddess
involves the Elysianian mystery with Demeter,
Persephone and Hades.
And it is not an ordinary thing to say.
And this cup of wine is my blood, drink it.
And everyone knows that that's a cup of wine
is really Dionysus.
So you're saying, if I was living in the first century,
in the Greek speaking world of the Mediterranean,
somebody came to me and said, drink this, this is my blood,
you would say, you would write,
your spidey senses would go off and you would know,
this is a Bacchic ritual.
This is the Elysianian mysteries of Demeter and Persephone.
You're putting together the two great mysteries
of antiquity, the Dionysian mysteries
and the Elysianian mystery.
Of course, this is a great religion.
I love it.
You can go further back and find this
in ancient Egypt, of course,
but that's actually what the Egyptologist
was telling me, Karakuni, when I was at her house recently.
And so there's a very deep, deep rooted tradition
in this whole digesting of the deity.
And that's what really gets me,
what strikes me as odd is how much foreign,
I'm using the word foreign, it wouldn't have been foreign,
but foreign material we don't find in the Hebrew Bible
or in the Old Testament, as it's always referred to.
But we do find in this New Testament material
that I'm really fascinated by,
including this whole ingesting the deity
as part of the Ritual Act of becoming,
in becoming more like the deity that you're ingesting.
So if I were to ask you,
if you had to answer which one you think
is more likely in your head,
there was probably a guy or probably not a guy
at the basis of this whole thing.
What do you lean?
You might drink a cup of coffee and say,
oh, there was a guy.
You might not drink that cup of coffee
and say, oh, there probably wasn't a guy.
I'm just saying, where do you land on that?
I think there probably was a historical event
that's mythologized and it's the leader of righteousness,
the dead sea.
Oh, so you actually do think that, that's interesting.
That's what I was trying to say about that,
but it certainly is a convenient event
and it seems to fit the bill perfectly.
I think that's interesting, but I also start,
I'm also at the point now where I think the question
of if there's a guy or not is so,
it's almost pointless because we're never gonna be able
to know for sure.
It's just, what I'm more concerned about
is what he's talking about with the Eucharist
and the Ba'kiq stuff and how these rites come about.
I don't care if there was a guy that got killed.
I care about how does Christian theology come about?
Why is there a trinity?
Why are they drinking wine and eating bread?
I care about why they're doing all that shit
and what Rux wrote about, and I think what he focuses on
is a lot of this stuff comes from the mystery world,
the Elozenian mysteries, the Ba'kiqs and Demeter
and all that stuff.
I think that's way more fascinating than like,
well, do you think there was a guy or not?
Like, I'm just throwing that out there.
I'm with you.
Dr. Ruck, if I may just one more thing
and then if Amon has one more thing,
sure, let's get into the super chats
so we don't leave our initiates waiting too long
to ingest their Elozenian conclusions.
What is the problem?
What is the problem with New Testament studies?
As a classicist, you're approaching this material.
Do you think that they're so focused on kind of approaching
this through either a Jewish lens focused on
through a church history lens?
They're kind of, I'd say tainted by orthodoxy
to the point where like Neil painted it really well
just a minute ago, and I really thought about that
where he's saying in a Greek world,
this would have been so obvious.
Eat my flesh, drink my blood,
would have been the biggest scream from any papyri
of I am doing something like Dionysus here.
Why is that not like, there's very few scholars I know.
Dennis MacDonald wrote an entire book,
The Dionysian Gospel, emphasizing this point
that this is Dionysian and there's other scholars
who I'd say that would echo that.
What is the problem with New Testament scholarship, sir?
Yeah, in order to find evidence
that there may well have been a psychoactive sacrament
in Christianity, you have to look at some of the great works
of art of the medieval Renaissance period
where the artist is not an artist as we now can think
of artists expressing himself or herself in creativity,
but it is a technician fulfilling an order
and that if you interpret these,
some of them are very great works of art
as to what they're actually depicting,
it would seem to imply that the patron wanted
to display the fact that there was a psychoactive sacrament.
Wow.
Now, let me ask you this, is there,
when you, I know you've written books about this,
this isn't, you're not just saying this now,
you've been right, you've been focusing on this
for decades, this exact topic.
In the Bible scholar seminary world,
no one says this ever, why is there such a divide
between philologists and classicists like you
who write all this really amazing stuff
that I think makes a lot of sense?
And is there a pushback?
Is there some sort of, is there no connection?
Is there no contact between the seminarians
and the classicists?
Like, why is it such a different world
when I talk to a classicist about these rights
compared to the Bible scholars who are more
just looking at like the text like this?
I think if you are consorting with the correct level
of Christian hierarchy,
you find that there is great understanding
for what we're saying.
Brian Moralesca ends his book with the idea
that he and I are off to have a conversation with the Pope.
And we really feel that if we had such a conversation,
it would be amicable and it would be understanding.
No, that's just, that's interesting what you just said.
You mean like, you think that these bringing
these rights back to their original form
could make religion something more better for people
or it would bring it back to some sort of like
real, tangible, positive thing
where it's something that's lacking right now, maybe?
Except that any religion has a system of thought
and any system of thought is limiting
with respect to the experience we're talking about.
And so I don't think that we can really
revitalize religion by reintroducing perhaps
what has been a long forgotten tradition
of psychoactive induced mystical communion
because it would come with the dogma
of that particularly religious system
and dogma is limiting with respect
to what we're talking about.
The possibilities are infinite.
This isn't a new idea.
Plato wrote that everything that he has written
is not wrong, but it's not the truth
because the truth is something that can't be expressed.
If you expressed it, you falsify it.
Everything's gonna flux.
Yes, it puts you in the direction of where truth might be.
But once you express it, you falsified it.
I mean, we simplify it by saying a spiritual realm.
And I said before that there's no reason
to automatically think that the spiritual realm
doesn't exist.
But once you call it the spirit realm, you've limited it
and you end up with demons and saints and so forth.
And that's just an attempt to understand
and control something which is infinite.
And that kind of reminds you of like
what the scientific method actually is.
You're never, nothing can just be established as
solid fact that can't, everything should always be questioned
and examined and redefined and rebuilt upon.
And you should, the idea of dogma itself is just flawed.
It just brings flaws.
Yeah.
Amon.
Omusumus, the story.
I love that what you said there,
I think we're all storytelling creatures.
We're pattern-seeking and we're looking for a story
and we're all telling ourself stories.
Even the most staunch rationalist
tells themselves a story.
Amon, did you have something else
before we get to super chats that you wanted to say?
I didn't want to cut you off, so.
As Dr. Ruck is the good classical cop,
I'll be the bad classical cop
and give you my answers to those questions just briefly.
Biblical scholars suck.
They suck and their Greek is terrible
and classicists laugh at them.
They laugh at them at the work that they do
because you cannot possibly focus on learning Greek,
interlinear translation of a text.
It's been translated over and over and over again.
If you guys want to know what those texts say,
go out and read the stuff around it
so that when Jesus steps into the garden
and the Roman authorities get there to arrest him
and they've got all the heavy equipment with him,
he's like, wait, wait, wait,
this naked boy is standing right next to him, right?
He says, wait, wait, wait, why'd you come out armed?
You think I'm a leistace?
And what is that Greek word leistace?
It's translated as pirate.
It's pirate, but if you look in lycophron,
you'll find out that this word pirate
is used for those who pirate the children.
Traffickers, we have this whole group of women
mourning and lycophron, mourning about the pirate
that has come and taken their children
from them to sell in the marketplace.
So when Jesus is standing there,
you don't need theories to explain what's going on.
Just that language, and that's Karl Ruck knows.
That's what a philologist is, man.
You're rooted in that language.
Africanus stepped up and said, there is no Hebrew text.
There is no Hebrew text.
This stuff is native Greek idiom.
And right there, boom, all of a sudden, we shift.
We shift into a different world.
We have all this detritus that follows it.
I as a classicist is a bad cop.
I wanna find out what is that interdimensional warrant
that is out for Jesus?
What words is he using?
I don't care if he's real or fake.
The inside of me wants to know the reality.
So the only place I can get that is the language.
And when he calls himself a child trafficker,
standing next to a naked kid at 4 a.m. in a cemetery.
And I think the best way to explain it,
it's like if we know that the old,
we know the New Testament's drawing
from Old Testament motifs,
but like all the extra stuff
that we see in the New Testament,
which is in most of it, that's not drawing from the old,
is probably drawing from somewhere in the world.
The world, the middle Platonist world,
the peripatetic world of the Eastern Roman Empire,
meaning Syria and Judea and North Africa and Turkey,
these people have a culture.
There is a culture there.
And that's the, there are things that are in the air,
the zeitgeist at the time that nobody can escape from.
And it's in the language.
Like I'm saying, you read the Greek,
there's certain idioms being thrown around
and only a philologist can point that stuff out sometimes.
It's, I find this ironic that before we get
to our first super chat,
because I really do want to get on
and let everybody watching be able to jump in.
When I've asked recently with Christian apologists,
and you know what their job is to do,
keep the house from falling apart and catching on fire.
And they, I ask them like the ascension of Jesus
in Acts chapter one, where did this come from?
Like, where did they get these ideas from?
Well, they'll go to the Jewish scriptures
and they'll be like, oh, you know, Elijah,
or we'll find Enoch or something.
And I'm going, no, Romulus.
Like Romulus actually floats up in a cloud.
This is Greek, this is Roman, this is Greek.
Like this is not Jewish.
This is the closest example.
Yeah, he goes to the right hand of God, Jupiter,
goes to the right hand of them.
And not, not only that.
Very specific thing to do though.
This is the right hand of the God.
Like, why would that?
Romulus appears to Proculus Julius on a road,
and Damascus Road for Paul in the same book.
He appears to him on a road, right?
Like, so you have this eyewitness testimony
about Romulus being a deity now.
You have this eyewitness testimony from Paul
of this deity named Jesus.
I mean, to me, it was so obvious
and it's like, let's divorce the Greek and Roman world.
So that's what I see happening often
among New Testament scholars.
They're not really paying attention to that detail.
And just to add to what you said,
it's not even just Christian
that are intermixing Judaism and Greek stuff.
We have, like one of my favorite resources
is this, the Pseudo-Pigreful text that James Charles
put together, and it's filled with Greek stuff.
Like, Judaism at the time period,
what we call Judaism now, there was Orphic fragments,
there's Sybilene oracles, they're mentioning Zeus,
they're mentioning Diana, the goddess.
It's all, everything's, and then to even,
like the icing on the cake is when you start looking
at the PGM, the collection of texts
that are put together by Scarborough and Morton Smith
and others who found these fragments of texts
that are in Greek and Coptic from all over the Greek,
from all over the Greco-Roman world,
from the second century BCE,
up to the fourth century, the common era.
And these are, there's no, you can't divide Jewish
from pagan, there is no such thing.
They're blended, right.
It's all one, it's just all cultural, it's all the same.
Well, as one person put it,
if you were to compare Sargon and Moses' birth,
imagine that there's a comparison here.
Sargon's birth is far older,
and the empires that ruled,
the influence typically works from top down, if anything.
So the ruling nation, Greek nation, the Greek empire,
if you will, Alexander the Great, that influenced
their stories, their Hellenism,
is what is gonna penetrate the pores
of everyone that is under their control.
Same goes for Rome.
So to imagine that it's the other way around,
that's just not what serious scholars are doing.
They're saying, hey, we see that the Roman world,
the Greek world's influencing the Jewish world
far more than the other way around.
That doesn't mean there isn't some influence,
it's just not making the impact the other way around.
Okay, let me jump to these super chats
because I wanna make sure everybody gets a chance here.
A couple of them disappeared
because it refreshes after a while.
Yellow Psych asks, do you think,
and I'm gonna ask this if Dr.-
Did you save those, the old ones you still had those?
I have them up here, but I can't pop them up.
So it's just two.
And then we're, I think we're caught up to,
oh no, sorry, it's four.
Yellow Psych says, do you think Demeter and Bacchus
represent the body and blood of the mysteries,
grain and wine?
I'll ask Dr. Ruck and then-
Yeah, Dr. Ruck, what do you think about that?
Yes, it's quite obvious, isn't it?
I love how he's so, right to the point.
Like a lot of scholars will say,
well, you know, and there might be some nuance.
He's just like, yeah, yeah.
It's obvious.
I love it, I love it.
So just to reiterate,
to anyone who doesn't know what we're talking about,
Demeter in the Ellosinian Mysteries
was the central goddess in these rites,
and she represents the grain mother.
She represents fertility and grain.
And then Bacchus,
who's also central in the Ellosinian Mysteries,
is the vine and the cup of wine.
And they would drink this cup called Caikian.
And the Caikian is a mixture of wine
and fermented ergot, which is the entheogen.
And they would, it was a hallucinogenic drink.
And they would drink this drink
and they would go and do their rites
and get initiated and get salvation.
There was a salvation Eucharist involved
in these rites that are right next to Athens.
Thank you so much for that.
Our next one is Imnag,
here to expand my knowledge and show some love.
Thank you so much for that, Super Chat, my friend.
Drawing down the stars,
are there any references to drinking cow
or bull urine within the mysteries?
Cows can process ergot into ergotamine,
wow.
That's very interesting, Amit.
About cow urine, I drank cow urine,
it's not bad, it's not that bad.
But the only references as a scholar,
I can only tell you as a scholar
that I have seen personally with the milking,
mostly of goat milk.
Think of goat milk and the different types of milk.
There's horse urine, oh, God, if you're Scythian,
and you wanna enter that place where you're fumigating
and drinking the urine of the horse,
immediately postpartum with that call on its head.
We've got antidotes for stuff like that,
because that stuff can get you to that maniac area, right?
With those drugs that induce the mania.
And that's something I don't think
the modern world comprehends yet.
We take our drugs, like hippies, to feel better, right?
They're taking their drugs in order to induce a state
that ultimately will bring them to a higher health,
a higher understanding.
So when they've got that scopolamine on board,
and you know, dude, these guys are going through,
they're going through intense psychotherapy.
Diascortis tells us, he says, you modulate,
you regulate with the antifarmaca, right?
You have the pharmacone and the antifarmacone.
And so you can take this hellebore,
and you can, after you've gotten the mandrake on board,
and you've gotten the myoskeimine to the level
where you need it, and you're starting to rage,
you can regulate that with the hellebore.
Isn't that neat?
You know, and then we get the myths.
It's so in King What's' name,
who nobody cares about, getting his daughters crazy,
and next thing you know,
they're having to get the hellebore to lower it.
It's that, they're the drugs, man.
That's where the drugs meet the road.
I'm sorry, but that's not that tradition.
Carl Rock, don't you feel that finding,
finding these hallucination,
these hallucinatory substances,
or hallucination inducing substances
in the hair of the Bronze Age people.
What, how does that make you feel?
What is that, how does that resonate with you?
It demonstrates that it has been a natural activity
of human kind going back to far prehistory.
We got one more by drawing down the stars.
Were priests using drugs to transition
their gender in the mysteries?
Any chance that Jesus used drugs to become a hermaphrodite?
So I guess the first question I think would be asking,
put Jesus aside, because that's obviously the one
so many people have a problem trying to answer.
Did people induce or ingest drugs
to change their sex in the mysteries?
That seems the first half of that question.
I do know that planning the elder in the first century
writes about people changing their genders.
I'm not sure how much about in the drugs he gets into,
but he does write about it.
He does clearly state that this was being done
in the ancient world.
I can pull it up if you guys want.
You're muted, Amon.
It was a dislike in the Middle Ages as well,
about the gender swapping that you could change gender.
It was an accusation leveled against the witches
for what they were doing.
Is when you take that Thracian pirate
and he grabs that boy and he cuts off his testicles
and the boy wakes up.
You can do that with Mandrake, by the way.
And the boy wakes up and he enters
into that understanding of who he is now, this eunuch.
It's a process of converting, of changing that gender.
I would say from the shot, from the top of the rooftop,
yes, it's there in antiquity.
We have myths about changing gender.
So, yeah, yeah, it's there.
To what extent are they performing it?
When a golly, Karl Ruck, when one of the golly cuts off,
is, you know, emasculates himself
and then takes on the kid of the woman.
Are they going through that transition?
Do we need to, you know, we balkans, we wear dresses, right?
And don't nicest dresses a woman.
There's no doubt that the body underneath is masculine.
But he dresses as a female when he wears clothing.
Yes, book seven, book seven, Applying to the Elder,
where you can write, you can read about that,
those transitions happening.
And I just want to say thank you to Drawing Down the Stars.
That was the last one that I didn't have available
to pop up on the screen.
So I apologize that it refreshed
and didn't allow me to pop them up.
I can pop up from here on out,
I think leaving that question
with our modern contemporary struggles with people
who are afraid of change, they act like,
this is something that's never happened before.
Not the gates, consider history.
Why do humans have the natural tendency,
as Dr. Ruck says, to put these chemicals in them?
What are they trying to achieve?
What are they trying to do?
What are they trying to experience?
I would say the same thing is said about the actions
that I'm on might be expressing here.
And that is, why are people doing this?
What are they trying to achieve?
What do they get from this?
And look at modern times where people are doing this as well.
They may do it under a different kind of context.
It may not be through a psychedelic use of something,
but humans are trying to do something.
And I think that it's time that we try to get over that.
Anyway, moving forward, Gaius Julius Windex says,
do you think Jesus and Jason are connected?
Dr. Ruck and I'm on.
Say it again, I was fascinated by the 499.
What was your question again?
Jason, do you think Jesus and Jason are connected?
Years ago, I wrote an essay about the fact that,
as is often the case, people change their names
to fit in with the ethnic environment
that they find themselves in,
and Jews who had the name Jesus.
Which wasn't a name that was commonly used,
changed their name to Jason.
And Jason, in his mythology,
and in the etymology of his name,
means that he is the man of the drug, the drug man.
Yeah, Jason of Cyrene changed his name from,
this is in Josephus, where he Josephus says,
his real name is Jesus,
but he wanted to call himself Jason
to be more, you know, Hellenized or whatever.
Yeah.
The ancient dope dealer.
Copy.
Both mean healer, basically.
Yeah, yeah, I'm just teasing.
I'll go ahead and give a bad guy, a bad cop classicist answer.
It's a title.
He also is a title, right?
The one that brings that drug or that poison.
And not only is Jason the same as Jesus,
because his father and his bride are going to be burned, right?
They're going to be burned.
Why does Medea do that?
Why does she bring them both into a conflagration of flames
and burning?
Because Lady Babylon, or the ruler of Babylon,
which we have great sources that tell us,
oh, by the way, Medea also ruled Babylon, excuse me, right?
Because these mysteries are overlapping.
It's not, you know, people didn't make these up on the spot, right?
They're part of traditions.
And for Jesus to be that yasun,
that bringer of that medicine is central, right?
He's standing there with the woman at the well,
and he's like, listen, baby, listen,
he's totally rude to her.
He's totally rude and condescending.
I don't know why nobody ever points that out.
But Jesus is rude and condescending.
And when he tells her, he's like, if you'd asked me,
I'd have given you the water of life.
What's he talking about, right?
He's not walking around making metaphors.
Oh, holy man, making metaphors, right?
He's using what's in his environment.
So from the bad cop response, yeah, this is a sham.
This is a sham.
And this guy needs to be brought down.
Look, if you go to Book 12 of Antiquities,
you could see Joshua Jesus being called Jason.
Interesting.
Thank you so much for that.
Where am I at here?
Oh, here we are.
Constellation Pegasus.
Who was Apollos Paul mentioned?
Hmm.
Do you have any particular difference?
I don't understand the question.
You remember where Paul talks about Apollos?
I am a Paul.
I'm of Apollos.
I'm of Christ.
Sounds like an alternative cult.
Like leader or something.
You have an answer.
Yeah, some, some dude, but I'll tell you this once, you know,
it's more interesting about Paul, that drug using SOB who got
bitten by a viper and it didn't touch him.
And everybody was like, that dude's going to die.
That dude's all the locals were like, that dude's going to die.
Look up.
He didn't die.
Notice that they weren't shocked.
They were like, Oh, wait a minute.
He's one of those, right?
Jesus is walking around that pirate kid trafficker is walking
around saying, I'm going to give you phenoms and you'll be able
to consume them and they will not hurt you.
I give you that power, right?
He's a, he was a drug using pirate guys.
You think he had the antidote?
Is that what you're getting at?
You think there was some cultic stuff happened?
There's some language and of cultic stuff going on there.
Is that what you're getting at?
Dr. Ruck, you know that the Geoponica has a section of a dude
who's called Zoroaster, right?
It's just a name, whatever.
It's probably not Zoroastrian, but that's his name.
And he says, um, he says, Hey, uh, the thing that they call
vinegar, the auxus, that is actually a remedy for, um,
dipsass, uh, in Venomation, right?
And how do you get in Venomated by a dipsass, a horned viper
from North Africa?
You do so through the rectum.
You get it through the rectum kitties and that's where they're
taking these medicines.
And notice says that stuff they tried to give Jesus on the
cross was an antidote.
He uses the word in Greek, antidote.
I'm sorry to get all excited, but the evidence is there.
It's all there sitting there.
Why don't we understand Jesus is casting out demons?
He's using meds that could feed people.
It's there for a reason that could feed people.
He's using the meds on the alabaster.
And what's it doing with me?
And the big thing is the big thing is this Mark, especially
when we're looking at Mark, the earliest gospel, there is no,
this is mythology.
We all agree.
This is mythologized text.
This isn't like a historical, for Mark to throw in there that
they brought vinegar on a stick.
There's something going on there.
It means something.
It's not just some random thing that we just, okay, they did
that.
No, no, Mark is saying something with that.
It was something.
He's trying to do something.
I mean, vinegar is soured wine.
And administering it on a stick, you'd have to be awfully
blind not to realize that that's phallic.
Oh, okay.
Interesting.
See, obvious little things right in front of our faces.
Many, Vantisen, forgive me if I mispronounce your name.
When you said you think gospels are just stories, do you think
that Jesus never existed at all?
Or was, okay, so this, we answered this, but you think if I were
to pin you down, Dr. Ruck, you would say you probably think
there might have been some guy.
Yeah, he must have asked this question before we talked about
it.
It's possible that there was someone, but the Jesus story is
mythologized.
There may have been an event, but the Jesus story is mythologized
for another.
There may not have been an event because the mythologized
stories are typal.
And so it's a natural reflex of the human mind.
But it's quite possible that there was an event and what we
have is a mythologized account of it.
So to put that in another way for someone like me who might be
thinking, like, what's he mean by typal?
That is, if this, it's interesting how the events might
have corresponded with this new breakaway from the temple's
destruction.
Another way of putting it maybe is this.
It's not strange that you have this religion spawning up and
taking off in the non-Jewish world post-destruction of the
central religion of Jewish people.
So there might be an actual symbolic kind of meaning to the
narrative in a better, newer religion that is having continuity
to the ancient one.
I would say that that might be a way of taking off.
There's some people who actually hypothesized this as well.
But so it's either there was some guy who was mythologized.
Oh, go ahead.
Dr. Ruck, you were saying something?
I wasn't going to say anything.
I thought I was.
Oh, my apologies.
Okay.
Padre, the madman.
North Africans has mushroom shamans.
Finland has mushroom shamans.
Japan and China documented laughing gym mushrooms.
I am but a madman who rambles.
Yeah.
I think Amon can.
Amon's tipping the hat to him like, all right.
Got over.
Got a response.
Chat talking about almonds on mushrooms and somebody said
something about smoking my shirt a while ago.
I want to appreciate that because I realize you're engaging.
You're engaging at a level.
And if you can talk about almond doing these things, you can
talk about Jesus and that naked kid, right?
Is a, there's a reason Karl Ruck knows there's a reason the
biblical scholars would laugh that because they're arguing for
the sake of propping something up that they can't prop up.
And that's going to cost life and blood and honesty.
And they don't know we need to.
And the one thing that he has done, all of you are out there,
Derek's audience, if I could say one thing today, this man worked.
This man worked to show people that in antiquity,
drug use was a process of religion and right and life medicine.
And he is just now.
He's just now vindicated.
He's just now being vindicated.
Now we've got the scientific evidence and all of you who sat
back, I was there at that dinner.
I was there at that dinner in Boston.
I listened to you and I heard you mock.
Shame on you.
You did not know these sources like Karl Ruck did.
Hold your heads down.
You did not know these sources.
Congratulations Karl Ruck.
You know, and they don't, and the seminary types, they might
not know.
They might hear you speak and go, what is he talking about?
Smoking scorpions.
What kind of purple dye?
What?
And I, when I first met Amon, I thought, I didn't know what he
was.
I don't know if he was legit or not.
And I would challenge him like, what do you mean smoking
scorpions?
Show me this text.
Within seconds, he'd drop a link and it'd be a perseus tough
source.
There'd be a, sure enough, there's smoking scorpions.
I'm like, well, he's right.
This is real.
So just like, there's a lot of sources out there and a lot of
that stuff really can add context to the ancient world that
you might not know about.
Thank you so much.
Interested in the scorpions.
We're going to find out.
All right.
Constellation Pegasus was Amon considered a conservative.
How can normal people bring up demon possession?
This is way out of the normal state of mind.
So I think the way you define that, I think would be quite
different.
Amon, correct me if I'm wrong.
When you, when you talk about demon possession, you're not
thinking the way that Christians today have exorcists running
around as if there's just some like metaphysical boogeyman and
his little minions running around.
You're saying through the ingestion of substances or whatever
might be the mental state of someone, right?
I'm just interested why the person who went right to political
conservative.
I don't know where that came from.
I don't think, ignore that part because that has nothing to do
with what the other part has.
How can normal people, how can normal people bring up demon
possession?
Carl Rock coined the term entheogen, right?
Because that is that possessed state.
That's the ecstasy.
These people's, these people's cults in life were built around
ecstatic processions.
So how can we talk about demon possession?
How can you not talk about demon possession?
Shame on you.
If it were for people like you, we would never get those seven
cast out of Mary and then gangster Jesus wouldn't be able to
preach down on the dirt and write the sign of the gang there
that everybody stood back and went, whoa, okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Pimp Master G, right?
Okay.
We got it.
We got it.
It's bad cop.
I know it's bad cop, but people, please understand me.
I've been to some of the worst places.
I've been to the purple anus and I've seen, I've seen the purple
anus and what it does.
I have seen a priestess slide a, from antiquity, Dr.
Rut knows the satiricon as well as anybody.
I've seen priestess slide a leather dildo into a man's
bottle.
Be careful.
Be careful.
In order to apply medicines, right?
I'm a medicated dildo.
I'm talking about medicated implements and in order to get
that person to be able to come to the state of mania to have
that possession, right?
Oh God.
People talk about Ovid.
Ovid, Ovid, Ovid.
You know, Ovid complains of not being able to get an erection
because he's been using too many aphrodisiacs.
Think about that, people.
I can go down to the Roman marketplace.
I can buy something that will give me an erection for six
hours.
Right?
Right?
This is the world they're living in.
This is not a private fairytale world that you think it is.
Yeah.
No, you're right.
Thank you for that.
And the person with the super chat right here is on the same page.
Look, Demeter, the bread, Bacchus, the wine.
You put those two together.
You got a Eucharist.
And this is a big thing.
And Stephanie, great super chat because that is literally what
would, the God, ingesting the God, the idea of you ingesting
a God, that is not new to Christianity.
That is something that the Ellisonian Mysteries already had
in place, ingesting the God.
I mean, am I right or am I right, Dr.
Ruck?
Or maybe I'm wrong.
Am I wrong?
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you, Stephanie, for that super chat.
Gettysburg, demoniac on linguistic grounds.
How much credibility can we give to John Marco Allegro's work,
The Sacred Mushroom in the Cross?
Was Jesus originally a mushroom?
Dr. Ruck?
Probably yes.
Allegro probably focuses attention on mushrooms
because of our Gordon Lawson.
I've looked into where he could have gotten,
the fantastic idea.
Obviously, erroneous.
It's from my colleague, Lawson,
who brought everyone's attention to the fact that we have
a strange attitude towards mushrooms.
And once we go into the complexity of that subject,
we realize that there's every reason why we should have
a fascination with mushrooms because they are a special
category, neither animal nor plant.
And they have a strange manner of growth.
And amongst them are some exemplars which alter
consciousness profoundly.
So let me get this straight.
Are you saying that he may be on the right track,
but you're not sure?
You're not convinced of his particular hypothesis?
Or are you saying?
I think that his book was sensational.
But I think that what he's saying is true,
that the Jesus story belongs to the mythology of the mushroom.
So the mushroom you're saying may have been the Eucharist?
Jesus was a mushroom.
Yeah, so was Dionysus.
And Dionysus is two forms of mushroom,
the wild version of wild plants,
amongst them the wildest being the mushroom,
which is ritualized in the Minatic Bacchic ceremony.
And then the cultivated version of that ultimate wild,
which is the yeast fermentation upon which you can grow
upon the juice of a fruit, which is another unusual story,
because the vine has to be pruned in order to fruit.
So you can't let it be in this natural state.
You have to intervene and tame it.
And then from the fruit upon its juice,
you can grow an intoxicant, a cellulose intoxicant.
But the ancient wine wasn't drunk as wine.
It was drunk as the medium in which wild exemplars
of the same intoxicating agents were added as so-called flavoring agents.
And so wine is a symbolic drink,
representing the triumph of cultivation with commemorations
of the primitivism of which we grow.
So Jesus is an agricultural deity like Dionysus, in a way?
Yeah.
That I understand.
It's not the same as saying that my blood is wine and my flesh is bread.
Sure. Yeah, I get that.
Now, the thing about people, you lose people,
you lose people right away when you just go to Jesus being a mushroom.
I think because there's a difference between what is actually being said
in the text versus what the actual rites and rituals are of Christians
in the second, third century, that we're talking centuries spanning,
different ideas, different people, different locations.
You can all lump this into one thing.
And especially, this is where Allegro loses me when he starts pointing to medieval art
that have things that look like mushrooms in the art.
And somehow that has to do with the text.
We're talking about 10 different centuries of time and different...
These are different people with different agendas happening.
But you brought it back to reality when you said,
Jesus, in this fact that his blood and his body are being eaten in the text,
that is agricultural like Dionysus.
Stemming from that, you get all these ideas like this mushroom idea.
Neil, it's like the story on the road to Emmaus.
This is from what I understood.
I never knew this until some scholar told me.
I can't remember who it was.
Jesus is walking with them and they don't recognize him.
Finally, they get to their destination after talking with him all day long.
He's right there, but they don't know he's there.
He breaks the bread with them in the house that night,
breaking the bread, pretty much performing the sacrament.
Next thing you know, through that performance, they recognize him.
And so what a lot of scholars point out is,
that is an actual story that Christ will always be with you
as long as you're practicing the ingestion of the sacrament.
So it's a symbol, it's a narrative symbol about keeping the Christ,
the deity in you and among you through that ritual act.
And I guess what I'm trying to wrap my head around,
because it's pretty complex as you pointed it to Dionysus,
you're not saying Jesus is a mushroom,
like just simple, equivocate the same.
You're saying through the ritual act of eating the sacrament,
and it may have been a mushroom or some type of substance
that they were ingesting, they were participating in that deity
in that particular cultic practice, and it may have been a mushroom.
Is that what I'm hearing you say?
That Jesus symbolically represents the drug that they're ingesting
through the eat my flesh, drink my blood.
It's like saying, here's a mushroom and here's some wine,
and Jesus is saying, eat me.
It's more of a ritual act and the experience,
the mystical experience rather than just saying,
Jesus is that mushroom.
Am I right or wrong? I'm curious to know.
Jesus shares their density with botanical exemplars.
That's some complex, because I can see why this would turn someone up.
Oh, you think he's just a mushroom.
Oh, how stupid.
But when you explained it in depth,
like you were doing there and showing the agricultural,
that makes a lot of sense if you're comparing this
to the Bacchic tradition and whatnot.
I mean, we are very prejudicial in thinking
that plants don't have consciousness.
How do we know?
I have no idea.
Interesting.
The olive tree priest.
Thank you for that super sticker, my friend.
I really appreciate that.
Constellation Pagasus is back.
It's so evidently some serious drugs.
We're a basic part of worshiping certain gods back then.
What's a cult back then,
since there were so many gods all over?
What's a cult?
A cult is the way that you cultivate your relationship
with the deity.
So it involves a whole system of rituals.
We're back to agriculturalism.
The agricultural deities.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's not like maybe how we see it today.
I mean, we would obviously have different definitions to say
that there's a cult in a pejorative way,
and then there's a cult that just might be a group of
followers who kind of like a religion,
or it might not be religion.
It might be political or whatever it might be.
And there's a variation to think that deity or god,
deity is better because it doesn't,
so strongly imply a male deity.
But there's no reason to think that,
and that is an adequate description of whatever
the other version of reality might be.
I think that to personify it as a deity is a limitation.
Maybe we should think of spiritualism or consciousness.
How about Carl Rock?
How about the cults?
The Baptist.
The Baptist.
Why do they have a penis-shaped cup that they carry around?
You know the reason why.
Hold on.
Who's doing this?
Who's this?
There's a delay.
And when you mute and unmute, it takes like two seconds for it.
Sorry.
No, you're fine.
There's juvenile tells us that the Baptists are known for walking around
with the Vitruvian or the glass penises.
There's a whole thing about baptism.
There's a deeper level of baptism that you might not be familiar with.
And when you cross over into the Phrygian Mysteries,
you've got your little Addis with you,
and you're performing your rites of purification.
Is there sex involved?
Is it pederasty?
Yes.
Remember the tutors?
What are all the tutors called?
Oh, they're the centaurs with the horse-sized penises.
And what do they do?
That word for centaurs is the word for pederast.
Right?
Pederasty.
So there's an implied education there.
You want cult?
Go back to Cersei and watch your turn men into pigs with drugs.
Pigs that you can teach the way of Sodom.
You know what I mean?
So those are the drugs.
And the only reason I'm saying this guy's is those are the drugs
that are in diascortes.
He talks about using these things.
Right?
Galen talks about you.
Galen talks about the semen of the boy who is pre-puberty.
When you're collecting that as a medical application, right?
What is it?
Well, first of all, it's cirrus.
It's not as cloudy, right?
As a post-puberty boy's serum, ejaculate.
So, yeah, you got to realize, oh my God, these people are deep
into this stuff.
And there's a lot of fight business.
Don't throw away all the classics.
When I had the head of my department tell me, you need to remove
that chapter on recreational drugs and your dissertation
because the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
Right?
That is what bad cop says.
And Carl Ruck knows this.
Good cop knows this.
He knows that wall is out there.
And he knows he's come up against it, you know?
And you've broken through.
Ultimately, you've broken through, Dr. Ruck.
Gettysburg, Demoni XS, where psychedelic drugs used in the
Last Supper Eucharist in the early church.
That's actually what Dr. Ruck thinks.
And in the, I would say, the book that immortality key would be
the place to go if you're trying to get into the Christian
Eucharist having psychedelic.
And Hippolytus, when he talks with the Valentinians,
he says that they have this different Eucharist that
involves a lot more.
And it even gets into like semen and stuff, dude.
It's in there.
I'm just saying, this is what the heresiologists are saying.
I'm on, you know what I'm saying.
You've seen this text before.
It's in Hippolytus.
It's in the Bible, man.
It's in the Bible.
And by the way, Lip was written about this.
Lip, what knows about this, dude?
So basically what I'm getting at, so anyone who doesn't like,
what Hippolytus is one of the church fathers who accuses
other Christians, Valentinians, he's talking about,
of doing a strange Eucharist that involves a lot more than
just bread and wine.
So I just want to throw that out there.
It's in, just read Hippolytus.
Reputation of all heresiologists in there.
Derek's like, what is going on in my channel right now?
I'm just, hey, no, I know the ancients did some wild stuff.
I just, I'm, I'm just trying to make sure I get through all
these super chats because there's so many people who've asked
questions and then I definitely want to, you know,
make sure everybody gets the plug for you guys and go
check out your links.
Gettysburg Domanius says if psychedelics were used in the
origin of Christianity, what psychedelic was most likely
used?
So this is an interesting one.
Dr. Ruck, you think there's something going on?
What substance do you think they're using?
Well, I mean, it's openly acknowledged that it was wine.
But, and it's very hard to be unaware of the fact that,
that wine is in intoxicant.
But I think that amongst the various substances that were
used, the mushroom had great antiquity and was probably
prominent.
You think the ergot on the wheat, is that, do you think
Christians are dealing with that or is that just
Ellisonian stuff?
It's quite possible that ergot became popularized, yeah.
That's a fungus that grows on wheat for anyone who doesn't
know.
But I think it was an intoxicating mushroom that was
used.
And we know that Jesus was in the company of very popular
and expensive drug.
And that was that combo that Mary Magdalene had that everybody
got so mad about.
And the Pope Gregory later said it's okay that she had this
sex drug.
I would say the only drugs we know for sure that Jesus was
around were the sex drugs.
And, you know, he's screaming from the cross.
Oh, God, I'm thirsty.
I'm so thirsty.
He's like, oh, help me.
And then they poke him with the spear because he's dead prematurely.
Dr. Ruck, why?
Jesus didn't die from crucifixion.
You know that he's dead early and they don't have to break his
legs and they just poke him and out comes a whole bunch of
water, right?
What is the sex maniac doing that on the cross he's suffering
from these extreme side effects of the drugs that we know in
our text, they're saying, well, you know what, there's antidotes
for these and there's antifarmaca for these that you can use to
balance.
It couldn't be the case.
Look, guys, he just...
It's not like we don't know.
We can't psychoanalyze like this.
Who knows what?
I mean, I don't know, you know, who knows just speculation at
that point.
It's the evidence though, Neil.
You know, we're going to have the evidence.
The only evidence we have for is directly for that drug that
Mary's working with, right?
And that's it.
Remember, Jesus has given drugs by the magi.
They're all like, here, you know, here.
Frankincense and Mer, guess what?
Those are not what you think they are.
Those are bases.
Frankincense and Mer are bases for making the good stuff.
Yeah.
You know?
So, yeah.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
Sammy Sweetheart says, Bacchus died and rose.
Dr. Rutt.
He dies every time the vine is harvested.
And he rises every time the blood of the grape is transformed
into the spiritual drink of ethanol mixture.
If you just read the Bacchus, the Euripides, you won't catch
the resurrection.
There's two different traditions.
One of them is about Zagreus.
Zagreus gets ripped apart by the main ads.
He goes down in the underworld.
He comes back up as Bacchus.
That's the start of the Euripides play when he comes back.
Knowness, later on, puts those two stories together
in what's called the Dionysia.
The Dionysia has the whole story from the birth of Zagreus
to him getting ripped apart by the main ads,
to him going down in the Hades, to him rising back up
and then being born a second birth under Semele,
his earth-born woman, his earthly mother.
And then that's when he has a second birth.
So, he does die and rise.
Absolutely.
So, I want to, this is going to sound odd,
but I do want to get your thoughts on this whole dying
and rising of Bacchus.
In Hebrews, there's this passage when I was an evangelical
where I used to debate with the Christians
that you can't lose your salvation.
And then they'd find these places.
It was like, yes, you can.
And this came to mind when you just said what you said,
Dr. Ruck, that was, all right.
It is impossible for those who have once been enlightened
who have tasted, look, listen to this,
who have tasted the heavenly gift,
who have shared in the Holy Spirit,
Hebrews chapter six, verse four,
who have tasted, verse five,
the goodness of the word of God
and the powers of the coming age,
and who have fallen away to be brought back to repentance.
To their loss, this is what's interesting.
They are crucifying the Son of God
all over again and subjecting him to public disgrace.
If Bacchus, or if Dionysus dies every time
the grape or the vine is withered and rises
at spring or whatever you want to say,
is there in some way reading of this Hebrews
that they're crucifying Jesus again?
And I don't know.
I'm wondering if there's something to this
here in Hebrews chapter six about tasting
and then crucifying him again?
It's like, dude, he died once already.
What do you mean he needs to be?
How are you crucifying this guy again?
He's already died.
I don't understand.
Yeah.
Any thoughts?
I'm just throwing curveballs at myself
because I read this early material
and I think maybe there was a guy and he's mythologized,
but this is weird to think about it.
It's kind of weird language.
For sure.
I mean, Penteas is Dionysus.
Yeah.
He's the reflection of him.
Yes.
I've noticed that.
And they are depicted the same looking.
You have this idea of Penteas
basically being the mirror earthly self.
Like he's reflecting himself on the Dionysus.
Dionysus is reflecting himself.
And so, yeah, there's something.
There's something interesting about that.
Thank you for that.
Constellation Pegasus, why did Mithras die out?
Was it because of Roman corruption screwing up the military?
Soldiers didn't like the downgrading and decline
and thus Christians got popular?
I don't know.
Why did Mithras die out?
Well, the Mithras thing becomes part of the
central Sol Invictus cult of the third century Roman religion.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
So it's not that it died out.
It's that Christianity replaces it.
Mithras is part of the Mithras liturgy.
You could see it in Latin all over the Roman Empire,
all over the place.
And that's part of the Sol Invictus.
That's part of the Neo, the new Roman religion,
post-Aurelian.
They're done with the whole Jupiter and Romulus.
That's old religion.
They're done with that.
That's the first century in Augustan times.
But once you get to the second century and the crisis
in the third century, that gets replaced by this new religion
of Sol Invictus.
It's heavily using Neoplatonist philosophy
where it's almost monotheistic in a way.
You had this major Sol Invictus and he's basically
like Mithras, Jupiter, and Helios rolled into one.
Hmm.
So just to heads up, no more super chat questions
because I want to try and get through these
so we can let Dr. Ruck be on his way.
He's been so kind to even give us this much time.
We've been hanging out, diving into the mystery.
So I'll try to get through these.
If you guys want to help me get through them,
that would be awesome.
Graves174, do you have any takes on weather?
And I don't know the Greek word here.
Aonius.
Aonius.
Yeah.
Does it mean you go to hell forever or not?
I think it means eternity.
Ionic.
Yeah.
Yeah, Jesus.
Am I going to hell forever?
You shut up, bro.
Listen to me.
There's no such thing as eternal life.
It doesn't exist.
Jesus says I offer you Ionic life.
Life in the ion, baby.
Smoke that.
Thank you so much, Graves.
Yellow psych.
Can you go over the roles of women in the mysteries
and what that means about the power they yielded
over those initiated into the mystery cults?
So interesting questions tonight.
Yeah.
The role of female is very important.
And there's a reason why I dye nice dresses as a woman.
And it is in secret ceremonies.
Celebrated by the Bacchus mad women in rituals of plant
gathering.
And the only males that are ever shown in depictions of
the the magnetic ceremony are extremely phallic creatures,
which belong to our realm of reality.
They're fantasies.
They're isophoic goat men or isophoic horsemen.
But they're not creatures that you find in ordinary reality.
So the the the wild irrepressible phallus belongs to the
the spiritual realm, the wild realm.
Thank you.
Interesting.
Gettysburg.
Is there just as much psychedelic use in the Hebrew Bible?
I think exodus 16 manna tree of good and evil burning bush
shrine incense.
Yes.
I think all religions have the tradition of the psychoactive
sacrament.
All religions.
I mean, at least in antiquity at least, right?
I think it's the it's the origin of religious experience.
The the sudden awareness that there is a whole another way
that you can construe what you thought was reality.
That was the point of the point of initiating the
Palestinian was to just no longer fear death.
That was part of that was part of the deal.
And that's that's what a lot of these ancient Roman writers
would say when people get initiated in the elusis,
they would they would be saved from death.
And then you even have the story of the guy from India
traveling all the way to meet Augustus.
And he asked Augustus to let's get initiated in Athens.
He's like, all right, I'll take you over there.
It's out of season.
Let's go.
And they get initiated.
And Nicholas Damascus says he was so fulfilled that he killed
himself.
He jumped into a fire and died.
There must have been some recommend some really powerful
those drugs that he wanted to kill himself after.
Well, I'm not afraid.
Honey, shoot me.
It's a little bit too far.
But you know, it's the ancient world, man.
Hey, I guess if you do face the reality that we're all going
to die anyway at some point, maybe some people just decide
to go for it, whatever.
And they do it in some way.
They think is heroic or whatnot.
I don't know.
It's an interesting thing to ponder.
Oh, sorry.
It's more complicated than that because you're quite convinced
that you're alive.
But how do you know that?
Right.
You don't know anything.
MNAC says, I agree with Dr. Amon, given the fact that the new
test was written in Greek.
They would incorporate Greek and Roman beliefs.
It's well known that boy loving was very common in the ancient
Greek world.
Am I correct in thinking this?
That's a big super chat, too.
Try to keep it PG 17, Amon, when you answer this one, please.
Yeah.
Remember that we have to be very objective.
We have to be scientific, right?
I'm a molecular biologist by training.
So all of the evidence that we have is what we're going to be
able to use to reconstruct the picture only from the evidence.
Don't give me any ideas.
Don't give me.
Yeah, because the Greeks understood what pedorasty is.
Jesus must have been a pedorast.
No, not necessarily.
Because Clement says that Jesus was in a relationship with a boy
and that this involved something to do with teaching him the
mysteries in the cemetery.
And you say, wait a minute.
This is Pseudo-Clement, right?
I don't care if it's Pseudo or not.
We have an ancient text that says Jesus was flesh on flesh, baby.
Then we've got the context to build it up and to say, well,
the Greeks are doing nothing different, right?
They're doing nothing different.
I stood in a synagogue from the second century.
Second century synagogue, Greek, all over the place.
There wasn't a lick of Hebrew anywhere to be seen.
And they had ionic life.
There was an ion, right?
An ion mosaic, right?
So yeah, we're not getting the context.
And that's why to us, we have to sit here and say, oh, maybe it was
that there was something going on, right?
If you'd have known the flavor, if you'd have tasted that country,
if you'd have been there, right?
It wouldn't be a problem.
For us, it's a problem.
It's the same thing with sex.
Somebody just asked about the women.
Somebody just asked about the women and their role.
The earliest role on the drug side is back with the gynecology
and obstetrics.
These drugs are coming from that tradition.
They're coming.
When Jesus, when the people get cast out of the Garden of Eden,
the punishment is painful childbirth, right?
Like it wasn't before.
Well, it doesn't have to be.
You can have the oysters and have that painless childbirth.
And the midwives will be the ones to take.
There's always something grounding this stuff.
Is there something grounding Minnag?
Is there something grounding Jesus's pedorasty between you and me?
He's arrested in the public park with an angry kid, right?
That is as far as we can take him in trial.
We have to rely on a jury to step back and to say,
what is this necessarily indicating?
When Jesus is touching those children,
remember, people don't think about this,
but Jesus got in big trouble for touching children.
He's touching children.
And the disciples come to him and say,
the parents are yelling at us saying,
why are you letting him touch the children?
Don't touch the children.
The disciples are like, what are we doing?
Jesus is like, brah, you're not going to scandalize me, right?
Don't scandalize.
Just like the Pope.
Don't scandalize me.
Don't scandalize me.
Why?
Right?
We have to be detectives.
We have to take that higher ground,
be scientific about this.
I think there's a lot of evidence,
Minnag, for Jesus being involved with prostitution,
with child trafficking, with accounting of this,
the business side.
He's hanging around all the accounts.
If he existed, you're coming up with all these scandalous events.
That's what I keep saying.
We're talking about mythology,
so it's like we can speculate all day on what he wants.
I care about what the text says,
but I'm also on the side with Amon where it's like,
the text does say the boy ran off and his sin don't fell off.
It does say that.
As far as what was going on, it's all theories, man.
We don't know.
It's not, these aren't historical accounts.
We've got to remember that.
That's all.
That's mine.
I agree with Amon, though.
Grace174 says,
how much of revelation do you think was real vision
that someone saw with their eyes and wrote about?
I mean, give my thoughts.
Yeah, I think it was.
Yeah, I tend to think it's more literarily like literary rather
than it being, because it's so repetitive about, say what?
Literary just means that it's been turned into a story.
That's what we're talking about.
It's always turned into a story.
It's turned into a myth.
Right.
I'm not saying the guy didn't have visions.
People have dreams all the time.
People do that.
And I wouldn't put it past someone having that.
He's also drawing from Daniel and Zechariah.
Right.
Zechariah has the horseman thing.
He's obviously writing.
And the sibling oracles.
I mean, the guy's literally.
Exactly.
It's a genre.
Yeah.
So I think that's playing a part.
That doesn't mean there wasn't a guy actually having dreams.
Sure.
Who thought that, you know,
Rome was going to get the butt kicked soon.
And it turns out he was wrong.
That's my thoughts.
Yeah, I agree.
Gettysburg.
Demoniak again.
How much green influence is being left out of contemporary
scholarship?
Does your theory help support Dennis McDonald's theory of
Greek tragedies?
So do you know Dennis McDonald, correct?
Dr. Rowe?
Yeah.
Do you think that your work complements his?
Probably.
I think so.
That's why I brought them together.
Yeah.
Because I think they're both getting at different things that
are coming that have the same conclusion.
Like Rock is talking about the rights and the rituals and the
the world that the Christianity is inside of.
And then McDonald's talking about the mimesis and like
actually using Homer as like a system of how to write this
text down.
And so you put those two together.
You're like, dude, this is a world.
This is a world of of the religious ideas that are all
pretty much in in.
How do I say this?
There's those connections everywhere, basically.
Thank you so much.
Savage Henry says, can you comment on Tiresias gender
transition and the significance of twin columns, twin snake
mytheme?
Also Salinos character if you want.
Thank you.
My.
Gender transition has to do with crossing boundaries.
Which is characteristic of.
Inspired vision.
And so a profit.
Would.
Have an ambiguous gender or density.
And so Tiresias would, would obviously fit into this profit
category.
Yes.
Okay.
And then Salinos, I guess is the same.
I don't know.
He says, is the leader of the centaurs.
So he is a horse.
If the fellow course man.
Wow.
Okay.
But he, but he, he also source work right there by Savage Henry
because pulling up the sources on us.
The thing about horses is, is we have the metaphor of horse
sense.
But as a matter of fact, the horse is.
Was considered an irrational.
Animal.
In Greek, it's the alogo.
The, the, the irrational thing.
And that really has to do with the fact that it's a huge animal.
That can be tamed.
But some small unexpected sound will spook it and it becomes
completely wild.
Like a mouse too.
Like little mice, little.
Thank you so much for that constellation Pegasus.
I got lost somewhere.
I thought I'm on was accused of demon possession and fired.
Ah, so remember earlier, our friend constellation sent in a
super chat.
So yes, he was accused.
Okay.
So I'm on, he wasn't, he was addressing the accusers of you
in court and whatnot.
So that's what was going on.
So there's a little misunderstanding.
It wasn't just the situation in general, but that your particular
one.
So I'll come back to that one next, but did you want to make a
brief comment or did we want to move on to the next super chat?
I just want to say when somebody talked about revelation there,
everybody remember those laws and just those trojisco that you
use, you break before you have the vision.
Those are repositories.
So every angel's middle finger is stinky.
Okay.
Constellation Pegasus studies in ancient history is actually like
physics.
Things about the universe are confusing because it's so far
removed from our, from human experience.
The ancient line of thoughts and practices are so far removed
from us.
It's alien.
I would say it's alien.
If you haven't done them, you know, my wife, before me and my
wife ever tried anything as we were young and then we did try
them and someone might ask, well, what's that like?
I'll give you an example.
I've rolled on ecstasy.
I've done a lot of different things in my life, but if someone
asked me, how was that?
Tell me what it's like.
You realize then that's like trying to, you know, break the
enigma code.
Language can't do justice.
You can't.
Words cannot even begin.
I mean, okay, so it's, you get a warmth.
Okay, so it's static.
Okay, so it's orgasmic.
It feels like you're having a climax.
Oh, it's combined with the warmth, comfort, security and
confidence with an orgasmic, climatic, strength-filling.
And then you, it's relaxing at the same time.
And then you're like, but none of that, none of it.
Even if you try to mesh those words together can even come
close to actually giving you what it was like.
So I think if you've never done them or never done a substance
like that, you know, then, then that's why it would sound so
foreign.
But I think if you have, then it may not be so foreign.
Anyway, my, my thoughts.
Cannabis-infused Torah with a super sticker.
I thank you so much for that.
You said, holy anointing oil is cannabis infused.
Carl knows this.
Yeah, probably.
We did find the cannabis on the altar.
So there's good reason to think that.
Thank you so much.
Yellow psych aren't frankincense and Mer also used in death.
So our dead and death interconnected here.
That's a good question.
The mysteries have essentially the pattern of,
the pattern of, the pattern of,
the pattern of death.
Mysteries have essentially the pattern of dying before you die.
So that you merge the possibility of existence in your present
state and in whatever state you're going to be after your
present state and the possibility,
the confusion that maybe you think that you're alive,
but you're actually dead.
This is big with the Egyptians with anointing the dead,
the burial and making sure that they're going to be,
they'll be taken care of.
And then there's saints later on.
When you test out for someone for being a saint,
I just learned this from a scholar who I just had on,
Kyle Smith.
If the body smelled funky, they can't be a saint.
That means they have sins in them.
So they had to make sure when you're about to die,
if you're qualified to be a saint,
let's say you, you're, whatever, you're a saint.
I don't know, saint Nicholas or saint whoever, saint Nicholas.
Great, great example.
Everyone knows saint Nicholas.
But when he, before, I bet you, this is what I'm speculating here,
but I bet you before he died, he had people embalming him up real good
with the myrrh and frankincense.
So that when he went, went out with that test and smelled his body
and corpse, he smells good.
He's a saint.
All right, everyone cheer.
Yay.
But like he, Kyle Smith told me sometimes the bodies would smell.
They would have like some sort of, like something wrong with them.
They had a disease or something.
And after they died, their stink would be so bad that they would say,
no, that's not a saint.
That's mind blowing to think that this is how they would thought of it,
like the people being saints or not.
It's kind of crazy.
You think about it.
I'm going to be bad cop here and bad cop.
I'm going to say there's a fairy tale world out there that Christians
want you to believe in.
And that is the, the myrrh and frankincense were for the anointing
and burial.
Right.
Jesus Christ.
Right.
You know what I've seen done with myrrh?
I've seen it made into a compound.
They call Smyrna.
I know Smyrna is a place, but call it Smyrna.
And they take the Smyrna and they put it into the vagina of the witch
and the witch then urinates on your face with it.
Oh my gosh.
You can see this in a surgery.
People know that.
That's not like, that's not, that's not an unknown thing.
The medieval painters painted the image of Cersei taking out the vial
out of her bottom part.
Like, I don't know if you guys saw that.
You know what I'm talking about, right?
Yeah.
Apuleus guys.
Apuleus.
Right.
He openly depicts this whole thing and he says the guy comes away
smelling like a brothel, which makes me think the thing that we've been
translating urine there is probably ejaculate.
Maybe it's a combination or it could be that Smyrna, which shows up
in Aristophanes, right?
When that's Smyrna, maybe it, I don't know, maybe it has a certain odor
to it that smells like what the brothels do because they're using
those combos to keep off venereal disease.
Think about it.
If you're a prostitute, right, you want some kind of lubricant that
is going to be medicated, right?
Maybe keep you safe from getting something.
And if nothing else induce an abortion, these are the same basic
compounds that are used to create abortifations.
And you know, then you can go into the cult drinking of that, right?
What happens when you drink that ejaculate or abortifation plus
any fetal tissue that you get in there?
All of a sudden you're drinking that blood.
And hyma in Greek, hyma in Greek is what we translate as blood,
but you can translate it as semen.
And in the Bible, you have to.
When u'ula and u'ulabah in Ezekiel are imagining that big
Egyptian guy with his big Egyptian penis.
This is in the Bible, right?
This is in the Bible.
Ezekiel.
And he's there ejaculating.
He says he's putting his hyma on her, right?
That's what that is, yeah.
This goes into, it doesn't go into the ejaculation part,
but she does explain how El in the Canaanite religion is
masturbating on the shore, literally the God of the Bible
that ends up getting kind of replaced with the name Yahweh
because it says in Exodus 6 something like,
we did not tell your ancestors his name was Yahweh.
He was known as El Shadair El-Yan,
but Francesca Stavrakapulu,
she really nails this ancient Near Eastern corporeal deity down.
I just figured I'd give her a shout out.
A couple more super chats,
and then I'm gonna do a little plug in here.
So former Christian says,
today's video has been very enlightening,
and I'd like to just say thank you for our scholars
and thank you for making this content available to the masses.
Well, thank you.
I really appreciate the support.
It helps us to do this,
and this also means a lot to the panel,
so we all know that what we're saying is valuable
and it's helpful, and it's fun.
I'm enjoying, I really, every time I'm on goes to talk,
I'm like, oh my gosh, what are we about to get next?
And you know what's funny?
A lot of this stuff, like, you know, you might think,
oh, this is way over your head, this is too much, too much,
and yeah, for YouTube, I could see it being that way for monetization.
I hope this one doesn't get demonetized.
But the Greeks, the Romans,
you go back into that material,
and this is exactly how a lot of that material was,
and a lot of how they were.
And let me just say this,
the way you talk sometimes,
you'll be throwing out sources left and right,
and it could be quick,
and sometimes you might, if you actually sat down with Amon,
and you actually had him cite everything he's saying,
it's all there.
He's not just making this up.
I will stand by that,
because I used to challenge him on this shit all the time
when I first met him.
Like, you're out of your mind, this is not real.
And if you slow him down
and go one thing at a time, it's all there.
But he throws it all at you real quick, that's the thing.
Sometimes it's hard to like, you're like, whoa, what did he just say?
Well, last super chat,
we got two more, this one and one more,
but this one's the last question one.
And so my thoughts bring me straight here.
Would there be a connection to the Catholic problem
with sex abuse of minors?
Could it be their crooked interpretation of Jesus?
Personally, I don't think it has anything to do
with their interpretation of Jesus.
This is my thoughts.
I think that they are kind of set up for failure.
They have people who are working
and making a lifelong vow
who are frustrated.
And that's why they're releasing
in whatever manner possible.
I mean, it's almost like the recent debacle
with Daniel Hikikachu.
So I'll give you an example.
Dr. Ruck may not know this,
and Amon, you may not have heard,
but there's like an apologist in the Muslim world.
Who's trying to debate that underage,
prepubescent girls should be allowed to marry,
and it's like a good thing.
And the reason that they're doing it
is because they have found in their tradition
that Muhammad married a nine-year-old.
So they're trying to make him get off scot-free
and say that there's nothing wrong here.
He's innocent.
So they're trying to also say,
we mimic our prophet,
so we should be allowed to do the same thing.
Long story short, you can see how
some teaching like that,
or trying to put that out there,
will give any man
who is driven for underage,
prepubescent girls to go and join that religion.
Because now they could go somewhere
and actually do the things
that is not lawful for the rest of society,
or at least in the West, to do.
And so I say the same thing for the Catholic Church.
It is against their rules,
but you got to imagine the kind of way
that this is so prevalent.
It's almost like there's an inside talk
amongst themselves.
Like, hey, if you're in a boys,
this is a good way to get away with it.
I don't know.
I mean, it's hard for me to imagine.
It's so prevalent.
Why are you...
What are your thoughts, Dr. Ruckum?
Why priests over and over and over
have been caught doing this to young boys?
You have a celibate priesthood,
but celibacy does not mean
that you abstain from sex.
It means you can't get married.
And I think you're right
that the manner of life
that some celibates would be confronting
would be conducive
to what we'd consider sexual perversion.
I'm on your mute.
Oh, there you go.
Dr. Carl Ruck invited me to Gloucester
to give a talk.
And at that talk,
you remember,
came forward a gentleman who had been abused,
and he was part of that.
They made a movie about him.
I don't remember what his name was even.
I only met him one night.
But he came after my talk,
and he had tears in his eyes.
And I thought my research was, you know,
I was doing the academic thing,
and I was trying to be honest with my sources,
until that night.
And he came to me,
and he said in front of everybody,
he said, I was abused.
This is what he did.
And I want you to know
that there was something in your presentation
that captured the spirit
that was in his eyes completely.
That's never left me.
That's never left me.
Is there, is the Catholic Church,
is there something about the priests
that is attracting them to this,
is it just because they're celibate?
I don't know.
But I know that the victim,
at least one victim,
let me know that this same spirit
is in them, is in their priesthood.
So I don't know.
It's a metaphysics indictment, I guess.
Thank you.
And then last was Bilal.
Thank you so much, Bilal,
for that super chat.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah, I seriously appreciate the panel.
Everybody in the chat for hitting the like button.
I want to give another plug of Dr. Almon's Greek.
If you're interested in taking some of his Greek classes,
you think he's a hoot here?
He's very professional.
Trust me, he'll teach you the Greek.
Five stars, perfect ratings.
Look at how many ratings he's got.
404.
So that's a lot of people who've rated him.
Top-notch Greek professor on teaching you
how to understand the ancient Greek,
and then you can go scour the sources
like Neil has been doing.
He gets obsessed with it, and I love it.
And he'll bring some interesting stuff to the forefront.
I'm sure that Almon's even helped him with this.
Three times a week, we go intensive Greek.
We call it the gym.
We do chin-ups.
Get your workout in if you want to.
Three days a week.
I'm learning, too.
Almon, how am I doing, by the way?
Tell them.
Honestly, don't lie.
Tell us the truth.
I want to know how bad he's doing.
You got a 95 on your first exam.
So that shows me that you're able to continue
with basic training.
And that's how the intensive course is, right?
Every level you get up to, you got to pass it
to get to the next.
So, yeah.
And I'm willing to work with people.
Yeah.
Well, I want everybody to know they can go
and check out Almon's website in the description.
He also has a YouTube channel.
So if you want to go over there to Lady Babylon,
you can go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
I pinned it at the top of the chat if you haven't done so.
If you're watching this later, it's also in the description.
And then last of all, we have, and I should have done this
first, but either way is Dr. Carl Ruck.
He's a legend.
How old are you, Dr. Ruck?
Usually, that's rude when you ask a woman,
but we're a bunch of guys here.
And I'm curious to know how long have you been around
on this earth?
87, almost 88.
Wow.
So you're getting close to apotheosis, I'm telling you.
You know, I really, I told the guys earlier
when we were hanging out before the stream,
I said, he's not going to be around forever.
And I want to make history and have you join us for a panel.
So we needed you here.
And I was going to reschedule to whenever we needed
to make this happen because you're a legend
and you have a similar chapter in your life
to what Almon has in terms of the kind of scrutiny
you've received for your work.
Now, Almon's been like thoroughly rejected.
He was kicked out and had to go work a job that was humbling,
but he's not beneath or he's not above anything
to provide for his family.
And so I value your scholarship.
I appreciate your awareness of things.
And your answers are very to the point.
You aren't going on and on.
You're like, it's obvious that you know the answer to that.
It's simple.
So is there any final assessment,
synopses of what we've discussed today
that you would want to leave people with?
Yeah, this is just the beginning of a long journey.
Absolutely.
Hmm.
What happened to your Apollo statue?
Is it somewhere else?
Oh, I noticed.
So there I turned back around.
All right.
There's a wooden saint on the windows.
I will say this.
The one thing you put out so far is like you said,
it's just the beginning.
And we have to build off of that and keep going
because there's so much to learn about this ancient world.
That's all amazing stuff.
And it helps us understand Christianity as well.
And everybody should know how brave Carl Rock is
that he stood against the tide.
Right.
I watched just the tail end of it before his vindication,
but it takes a special person to stand up like that.
And people know when they walk up, he's very culty.
When people walk up to him and meet him,
they can tell there's something different.
And not only that, but his performance,
his performance is, I don't know,
if you were a piano player, he'd be playing list, right?
Yeah.
He pushes in a way that is gorgeous.
And I revere you, Dr. Rock.
I revere you.
Not for being a Boston professor,
not for being a Harvard graduate,
but for being somebody who refused to give in
when the pressure was not to study this area,
not to talk about it.
You pioneered it.
And for that, sir, it's been an extreme honor
for me to know you.
And I just want to thank you for all the times
that you've allowed us to engage in conversation.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Any words from you, Neil?
I'm just glad to be in the presence of a legend, Dr. Rock.
I love your stuff.
I read your books.
And I'm happy to be here and be able to help
have this conversation.
Same here.
I'm quite lucky to have come across you and to give your time
to us like you have.
And for those who are interested in diving deeper,
you've written several books.
And the more there's something that I've learned,
and this is just for,
I'd say most people in the audience would probably be where I'm
at in the sense that we're not immersed in absolutely absorbed
in the Greek world, but we have interest.
We have excitement that comes from certain things about it.
I'll tell you like this.
It's almost addictive.
The more you get into it, the more you get into it.
So it's like the more you start studying and finding out about
the depth of the Greek culture and the practices
and their language and what was going on,
you start to become obsessed with it.
And it's quite interesting how that happens.
I hope people will get initiated in diving deeper into the Greek
world because its impact, it's still here today.
Its impact is with us now.
It's alive.
It's not something that just happened to pass on.
Hellenism touched everything.
So I hope that you all have a wonderful day.
Any final words?
Hell Satan.
Bacchus.
What if I call you guys, it's been fun.
Thank you Dr. Ruck.
I appreciate you.
Hit the like button, check out our description.
We've got all the links and there's ways to support what we do here as well.
And never forget, we are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
