All right. We are live, myth-vision podcast. Are you tired of the same old boring discussions
about the Bible pertaining to what we've been hearing for centuries, if you will? Today
you're gonna hear something I'm certain is radically different, interpretive-wise, than
what you typically hear among Bible research and Bible students, is what we're reading
in the Bible to be taken at face value. Or are there interpretive models that might
actually be talking about other things like the heavens, the sun, moon, the stars, astrology,
and the ancient world as you saw in the thumbnail? You're seeing a zodiac sign on the floor,
a mosaic on the floor, on a Jewish synagogue right there at the break of the first century,
3rd, 4th century AD. So we're gonna be diving deep today and I hope that you will stay tuned.
Cherry pick what you hear and what makes the most sense to you, but maybe you hear something
you've never heard and things just click. So I hope you enjoy. Hit the like button,
check out the description, subscribe to our guest, and stay tuned. Here we go.
Alright, welcome back to MythVision and our guest today is Micah Denk. Welcome
my friend. Hey buddy, that was a fantastic introduction. It almost sounds like someone else
might have wrote it. Actually, I took the first sentence and ran with it myself, but it was such
a catchy thing. I used the chat GPI GPT, sorry, and I was like, alright, and I was with Micah
showing him that that was a catchy phrase. Like, are you tired of the same old interpretations
that you hear? And that's actually relevant to what we'll be doing today. You have a presentation
for us and just for a moment for everybody who's tuning in. You have a YouTube channel. I hope
people will go subscribe to, you've been doing this for a little while. Go show them some love.
Subscribe to the YouTube channel. What do you have going on here at this YouTube channel? Like,
what specifically? Here's how it's basically the YouTube channel is broken down. So all the
information that I've had stored in my head, I have a book deal, and it's basically an open-ended
book deal. But my eighth book just came out. I have eight book series called Into the Rabbit Hole,
and I have a ninth book called As for Aries. That's a children's astral theology book for
six to 11 year olds. Even with all that that I wrote, all the information in my head, I still
had more. So I started a YouTube channel a few months ago. Okay, what I have is I have three
playlists. If you want to just go to the playlist real quick. Your first playlist is The Interviews.
I do interviews on my channel, but I don't consider myself a podcaster. I just get interesting people
on and I want to hear their stories. So I've had a lot of interesting people on. My second one is
my astral theology section. As you can see in the astral theology, there's 30 videos. I have,
I have, it'll blow your mind as you go through these videos to see the cipher that I came up
with how it's found in all the ancient holy texts. My third video, my third playlist right there is
the short bombs where basically in anywhere from two to eight minutes, I just try and blow your
mind with information you might not have heard about. And those are my three playlists. I would
suggest people come by and watch the short bombs first if you want to see what I'm all about.
And my book series is basically an amalgamation of all that information in story in story
foundation. When you're talking about astral theology, a lot of people don't know about it,
but it is getting more popular. And what I've done is I've written a, it's going to be a nine book
series. I have to write the last book, but it's going to be a nine book series, which is basically
a mix between like Dan Brown's Da Vinci code and how Dan Brown writes with all the cryptograms and
anagrams and that the mind blowing information that I drop and astral theology. It's a way to
teach people who are new so that it's kind of soft, right? Pilling people in a way.
Okay. Okay. So you also have, or actually, well, I hope people will go subscribe. I want to let
everybody know, of course, join the Patreon, everybody. I give a lot of content that I'm going
to be editing here soon with lots of scholars who've been meeting in person. I've got another one,
Kip Davis, Dead Sea Scroll scholar, Hebrew Bible scholar, who is coming to my house here in the
next week. So don't miss out on being able to ask your question and me recording that in 4K.
So I hope people will stay tuned, go subscribe, join us, support us so that we can keep doing
what we're doing. All right. So what we, what we planned on doing today is you're going to be
giving a presentation. We'll probably stop around halfway. I don't want to get lost in superchats
to a point where we can't continue the presentation to try and hang out the other half, but you're
saying we'll take a short break to try and address any questions that are in
superchats. What I'm going to do, so a lot of it is biblical decoding with the codex that I've
come based on the Zodiac. Then after the book of Matthew, it kind of switches gears and goes
back more into the historical information while still decoding things. So it kind of switches
at that point. So I figured that was a good midpoint. That sounds good. So I want to let
everybody know. Don't judge till you're here. And then once you're here, make your own mind up.
I am in no way trying to tell you that you need to think the way that Micah thinks. And in fact,
I told Micah before, I've dabbled in astrothiology for a while. And there are some things that I
still do think are the case, but we also need to define what it is, right? So I imagine you'll go
into this and explain. I'll give it to you right now. I'll give it to you right now. Astrothiology
for you people who don't know, and even for you people who do know, who want to hear a refresher
since I'll start from the beginning. Astrothiology is the mythology of the zodiac and how it applies
to hidden codes within the ancient holy texts. Now my cipher that I've come up with, based on the
12 signs of the zodiac, which I'm going to teach you, can be used to break down any books,
any biblical passage, any ancient, I've done this to the Epic of Gilgamesh. I've done this to other
Sumerian tablets. I've done this to the Emuma Elish. That's Babylonian, the Egyptian Book of
the Dead, the Code of Hammurabi, where we get our law structure from. I've done this to the Quran.
I've done this to the Book of Mormon, the Apocrypha, the Gnostic text, the Colburn Bible, pretty much
any ancient text that you think is holy. I can touch base with this and use it to decode. And
I'm going to teach it to you. I'm going to teach this. So I am obviously letting everybody know,
I'm interested in seeing what you have to say. I am a skeptic, right? And I'm very cautious about
how far we can do certain things. But I want to see what you do, how you're bringing this
information. And at the end, we'll take Q&A, we'll ask questions of the audience. And I myself might
tell you where I lie and what I think about it at the end. So let me just give everybody a background
on myself. I am not a theologian. I am not an academic. I'm just the guy that's been studying
the Bible for 30 years, the occult and the esoteric for 20, and astrothiology for 11 years.
And what I'm going to show you is what I believe to be the case that the most interesting people
and the people that can provide the most amount of knowledge to things are people who are self-taught,
as opposed to people who have to work within an academic scenario. Now, with that being said,
I've done this presentation on over 200 podcasts, over 550 times. I'm excited to bring it here today.
Derek, because you're a little skeptical, but you have the background in the Bible, so I can
bring you into the conversation because you have the background where you still believe some of it
makes sense. What I'm going to do is I'm going to teach you this, like I would teach a child this,
and it has nothing to do with how intelligent I think you are. It has to do with the fact that
I bring people who know nothing about this, and I bring them along, and then by the end
of this presentation, they have a good idea of what we're looking at. Okay, let's do it.
Let's do it. Okay, so let me share.
And you tell me when you have this, and if you put this up so everyone can see.
Yes. We're good? Yep. I start by saying, employ your time in improving yourself by other men's
writings so that you shall come easily by what others have laid hard for. Now, are you going to
be sharing the screen? Like, is it going to fill up the screen, or are we going to be seeing your,
because I see all the slides on the side as well. Yeah, I need that. I need that. Okay. Okay.
So this was Socrates, and this is what I just told you. You know, I've been studying
for about 60 years these, if you add it all up 60 years, these things, I teach something called
syncretism, which is how all the sciences fit together. I have a Jewish background. I grew up
in a conservative Jewish household. I never took to it. I can read Hebrew, and I can understand
a lot of the stuff that was going on at the time. So let me just show you this real quick,
which right away, let's get something a little controversial. The scriptures are made up of
holy sciences, metaphysics, astrological, which you're going to learn all about today, everyone,
anatomical, alchemical, spiritual, esoteric, and mythology. It's also a gamatria, an etymology,
and a numerology book. There's 10 holy sciences in the Bible. Each one of these sciences requires
you to study them as long as I've been studying astrology. There's more information. I am making
the case that there is more information in this holy Bible than there is years in your life to
understand it, and it's meant to humble you. However, I stick to the fact that they are not
literal, they are not historical, they are not reality, and they are not original, and we're
going to get into that. So this is the zodiac wheel right here, okay, with capricorn at the bottom
and cancer on top. This is how the zodiac wheel looks, because at the very top of cancer is
the longest day of the year. That's the summer solstice, okay, and Aries on the left and Libra
on the right. This is how the zodiac wheel should look. If you see a variation on it,
it doesn't mean it's incorrect, but this is how it properly looks in the heavens.
Now, astrothiology, or astrology, I have traced back 17,000 years to the Lascaux Caves.
It survived the previous dryest cataclysm. This survived the cataclysm. Here you see an article
that says the Lascaux Cave paintings are 17,000 years ago, and world's oldest cave paintings
show that humans understood complex astronomy 40,000 years ago. So what happened? They're these
caves in Lascaux, France. That's why it's called the Lascaux Caves. It's nothing any specific reason
other than that. They just happen to be in Lascaux, France. Some teenagers went into it,
and it's very similar to the story of the shepherd's boy who went in to tell the Dead Sea Scrolls.
They went into a cave. When they went into the back, here's an example of what they saw
on the wall. Now, on the top, you see the two bulls. On the right, you see the lions, and on the
bottom, you see the horse. Now, they quickly realized that the bulls were tourists. The lion is Leo,
and the horse is Sagittarius. It's just missing the guy with the bow and the arrow. So what they did
was they called in some people, and they called in some people, and then they called in some scientists
who carbon-dated these bulls. Now, carbon-dating, I agree with Christians, is inaccurate. Carbon-14
dating. However, up to 50,000 years carbon-dating, half-life dating, is incredibly accurate.
Beyond that, you need some uranium-datings or some different form of carbon-datings. So this came
out to 17,000 years ago. So what they did was they noticed the signs. They brought an astrologer
with a computer, because we have the technology to do this now. They ran a program that wound the
sky back from where they were located, 17,000 years, and they printed it out just to see. And what
they did was they printed it out, and they superimposed it on the wall, and all the constellations
lined up. So they had an understanding of astrology 17,000 years ago. More importantly,
too, or not more importantly, but just as importantly, the cave that they went into,
on the summer solstice, June 21st, the sun shone into the cave and bounced off the back
of the wall, illuminating these pictures, and only on that one day. So it was a man-made cave
because of that, and these are man-made drawings that lined up with the constellations. Now,
in the Bible, there are questions you can ask. How Jesus was able to heal the blind,
how he walked on water, how he turned water into wine, why he had 12 disciples, why he was
portrayed with a kiss by Judas, why he was dead for three days, why is his birthday on December
25th? Now, all that is going to be answered before we take our break for, this is all astrology.
Now, Genesis 1.14 says, let lights appear in the sky to separate the day from the night.
Let them be signs to mark the seasons, days, and years, and that's basically what this is. It's
just an amalgamation of that. Now, each zodiac sign is called a house. There's other words for it,
too, an era, an eon, a sign. There are many words for it, but calling it a house is one of them.
So at this point right now, I'm going to go through the 12 signs of the zodiac. I'm going to give you
keywords in each sign that represent the sign that you can connect logically to the sign,
and then we're going to use that cipher, those keywords, to decode everything.
So I start with Aquarius, which is the first sign that I talk about, which is
the man with the water picture. Now, technically Aries begins the astrological year. However,
because it's kind of our new year, I just start by explaining Aquarius because it's right around
our new year. It goes back to the story of Zeus and the young boy. The explanation for Aquarius
is a Greek story. Zeus saw a 14-year-old boy on heaven who he absolutely adored, and he wanted
him, a 14-year-old boy on earth, who he absolutely wanted in heaven. The boy's father wouldn't give
him up. So what Zeus ended up doing was bargaining with the dad. He gave him land animals and all
sorts of things. The boy ended up going to heaven. While in heaven, he's having this water picture,
and he would feed the god something called ambrosia, which was the nectar of the gods. It's what the
gods drank. One day he got fed up with doing that. He went to the side of heaven, just like in this
picture, and he poured it out onto earth, causing a flood. That's where the Greeks get their flood
story from. Zeus, who is erratic and very sexual and very difficult, had a problem with this,
and he was going to punish the boy. But in a rare moment for Zeus, of self-reflection, he realized
he kind of bullied the boy up into heaven. So instead of punishing him, he just immortalized
him as the constellation Aquarius. So here are the keywords. You have son of man and man, because
Aquarius is the sign of the man, whereas Virgo is the sign of the woman. Baptism, because this is how
you baptize someone. Water picture, because there's a water picture. Fountain, stream, river, pond,
lake, ocean, sea. Water bodies, because there's water in the picture, can be used to speak about
Aquarius. Now in astrology, for those of you who know, Aquarius is actually an air sign. It's not
a water sign. However, because there's water in the picture, the ancients encoded the Bible
with water as Aquarius. Now Pisces is the sign of the two fish in the water. Pisces is a mutable
sign. They're a water sign. So stream, river, pond, lake, sea, ocean, all the water bodies
are Pisces. So what you'll know is the first two are water. And the way that you can differentiate
between which sign they're talking about is the patterns they make in the sky, which I'll show you.
Now Aries is the ram, and in Aries you have March 21st, which is the spring equinox. It's a 12-hour
day and a 12-hour night. There's also three pass-overs that happen in Aries. The first pass-over is
the astrothiological one. When the sun passes over the equator and starts its way back onto its height
in the summer solstice. In Christianity, the pass-over is changed, and it's called the resurrection
of God's Son, S-U-N. God's Son, S-O-N, is resurrected during Easter. This is the story
that we get it from. And the Jewish pass-over is when the angel of death passes over all the houses.
And anyone that doesn't have the ram or the lamb, Aries the ram, doesn't have the ram's blood smeared
on their doorposts. Their firstborn sons get killed. So there's three pass-overs that take place in
Aries. Now whenever you hear ram, lamb, shepherd, or ram's horn, you're talking about Aries.
Then Taurus is the bull. And when you look at the sky and you see Taurus during the season where
it's supposed to be, you know you need to put the plow on the bull so that you can plant the
seeds so you can harvest in Virgo and Libra. So whenever you hear bull, ox, calf, or cow,
cow being the female bull, you're talking about Taurus. Then Gemini is the twins. It's the story
of Caster and Pollock's Troy whose sister was Helen Troy. It's the story of Achilles. This is
another Greek story. Whenever you hear twins or brothers, you're talking about Gemini. Then Cancer
is the crab and it's the sideways moving creature. So we don't move. We don't move like this. We don't
shuffle from side to side unless we're doing the sports trip. We walk front to back or diagonal.
That's it. However, the crab walks side to side. And that's important because the sun does that in
Cancer. So starting on December 25th, the sun rises a degree on its axis. The next day, an
additional degree. The next day, an additional degree. And it keeps doing this every single day
till it hits June 21st. When it hits June 21st, that's the summer solstice. It's the longest day
of the year, the shortest night of the year. Then what it does on the 22nd is it doesn't rise an
additional degree or lower a degree, but it stays at that height. In fact, it stays at that height
for three days. Hence walking sideways. Where then on June 25th, it lowers a degree. And then the
26th, it lowers an additional degree. Now the nights are getting longer. The days are getting
shorter. And when it hits December 21st, the last day of Sagittarius, that's the winter solstice.
Where it then walks sideways for three more days and then comes back to life December 25th.
So whenever you hear crab or beetle, and the reason beetle is because the crab in ancient
Egyptian time was known as the scarab. You even get the word crab from scarab.
So crab or beetle, that's cancer. Then Leo is the king. He's the lion. He's the king of the jungle.
The rule or the savannah, whatever you want to call it. The ruling planet of Leo is actually
the sun. So whenever you're talking about lion, lioness, or cub, you're talking about Leo.
Then Virgo is the woman holding the wheat stalk. Remember before when we said you plant in Taurus?
Well the virgins would cultivate the wheat and Virgo in order to make the bread for the year.
So whenever you hear virgin, wheat, grain, seed, barley, corn, woman, you're talking about Virgo.
The Libra is the justice. It's the scales. It's the balance. It's the just one. The reason it's
the justice is because it judges God's son. As it passes over the fall equinox, it begins its
descent into winter and to cold and to death. The Jews always celebrate the new year around
the fall equinox, and eight days after the Jewish new year, they celebrate a day called Yom Kippur,
which is the day of judgment. Well of course the day of judgment happens in the Libra of the judge.
So Libra is also wine season, which is when you plant for the grapes in Taurus, you could press
the wine here. Libra is also olive oil season. That's when you press the olives to get the oil.
So whenever you hear law, judge, justice, the just one, divorce marriage court, wine, vineyard,
wine press, grapes, olive oil or olive oil, you're talking about Libra. So all law related things,
all wine related things, and all olive related things. Now Scorpio is the betrayer. He's the
scorpion. When a scorpion bites you, it leaves an imprint in your skin that looks like a pair of lips.
It's why the mafia has the kiss of death, and it's why Jesus was betrayed by Jews with a kiss.
Each one of the disciples represents one of the zodiac signs. We'll get into that.
The sun is judged in Libra, remember with the scales, and it's betrayed in Scorpio. Finally in
Sagittarius, this is where the bow and the arrow shoot the sun and inflict further punishment on
the sun. This is where the sun dies. Why? Because on December 21st, the last day of Sagittarius,
the sun is at its lowest point. It cannot rise any lower. It was dead. The ancients used to look
out into the horizon, and they would notice the sun didn't rise above the horizon on December 21st.
So they would say God's son was dead. Then it walks sideways like the crab in cancer for three days,
so suddenly God's son was dead for three days. When on December 25th or the birth of God's son,
it rises another degree and starts to make its way up to the top.
So whenever you hear horse, bow and arrow, spear, or horseman, you're talking about Sagittarius.
Then finally is Capricorn the goat. Now if you look at the zodiac wheel on the right,
Capricorn's at the very bottom, okay? And the goat climbs the mountain better than any animal,
on like a two inch ledge. I don't know if you've ever seen it, Derek. You ever see a goat actually
climb a mountain before? Yes. You have? Yes. It's absurd. It's absurd. They're like on death's edge,
24-7. It's ridiculous. Yes. So the goat climbs the mountain. Just like the sun starts to climb
the great mountain for the great year, starting in Capricorn. And those are the 12 signs. So have
you heard them explain that way before I move on? No, but I definitely have heard the crab stuff
and the things that you're describing on those things, but I haven't heard that in particular.
Okay. Now there's some names that are given to Jesus in church or for Jesus in church
that are all astrological based and the church goers have no idea. And they keep using these
names over and over again. Let's go over them. Remember Jesus is the sun. I'm making the argument
he's the sun in the sky. When the sun is in Capricorn, the goat, his name is the scapegoat of
Israel. When the sun is in the sign of the man, Aquarius, he's the son of man. When the sun is in
Pisces, the two fish, he's known as the fisherman of man. And it's also why he feeds the masses with
two fish. When the sun is in Aries, the ram, he's called the lamb of God or the good shepherd.
In Gemini, the twins, Jesus had a brother, James, but he also had a twin, Thomas. Now Thomas,
Toa'am in Hebrew, it was Thomas Didymus. Toa'am in Hebrew means twin. Whereas Didymus in Greek
means twin. Remember the Greeks and the Jews were very, were influencing each other at the time.
Now when the sun is in Cancer, the scarab, the beetle, St. Augustine called Jesus the good beetle.
When the sun is in Leo, the lion, he's called the lion of Judah. When the sun is in Virgo,
the lady holding the stalk of wheat, he is born of a virgin and he's called the bread of life.
When the sun is in Libra, the scales of justice, he is known as the just one. Then he's betrayed
in Scorpio, he dies in Sagittarius on December 21st, and it's why he's worshiped on the Sunday.
Now if you look at this picture of Jesus that I have here, it's a stereotypical one that I ripped
off the internet. Honestly, I could change it, it's interchangeable. But I'm going to draw your
attention to a couple of things. You're going to see the sun behind his head, you're going to see
that white face, that stereotypical face that we've come to understand Jesus is. The two fingers up
like this, the heart and the crown of thorns wrapped around it outside the body. Hearts always
outside the body, it's very interesting. And the white and the red robe. So let me explain
the white and the red robe. Do you remember at the beginning how I told you the book is also an
alchemy book? Well, the white and the red is a marriage in alchemy. It's the marriage of the
red king and the white queen. It's just a fancy way of talking about mixing sulfur and mercury.
That's why he wears the red and the white always. Okay, now the sun is always behind Jesus because
he represents the sun. Find a picture of Jesus on the internet where the sun is not behind his head.
Now the two fingers up like this are an ancient comedic peace sign. Now this that I'm doing right
now that you're seeing, this V, this is Church Hill's V for victory. It's a war sign. It's a British
war sign. This is the ancient peace sign. So when you see Jesus doing this or you see Buddha doing
this or you see Vishnu or you even see Baphomet doing this, they're telling you they're peaceful.
Now the white Jesus face, the picture is actually a guy named Caesar Borgia, who is the bastard son
of Rodrigo Borgia, Pope Alexander VI. See, Rodrigo Borgia is part of the 13 Illuminati families
and he bought his way to the papacy. And what happened was the printing press came out about
80 years before he ascended. So what they did was he mass produced his son's face and his son was
a bastard in life and in general. In life because popes never got married, so all their kids were
bastards, but Caesar Borgia also killed his brother and slept with his sister. He was an awful person
but he is the face that is made of Jesus. Now the crown of thorns wrapped around the heart on the
outside of the body and the heart is always on the outside, represents the rays of the sun.
The heart outside the body represents the human toroidal field. These are four pictures of Jesus
I pulled from the internet. Honestly, I could have done a thousand pictures. You'll see the sun, the sun,
the sun, the sun, the same face. In the second from left, you'll see a knight's temple across in
the sun. The two fingers up, the two fingers up. You'll see the heart and the crown of thorns
outside the body. Now even in baby Jesus pictures, look at this. You'll see the north star right there
always shining bright. You'll see the son of God, Jesus, with the sun behind his head in every picture.
Now the toroidal field I was talking to you about is an electromagnetic field of
the heart. This is what it looks like basically. You're the core of the apple and it extends around
you six feet. They know this. They can measure it. Some people call it an aura. There's definitely
this photography that you can measure this. It's a six-foot electrochemical or electromagnetic
field of the heart. The reason they tried to keep you six feet apart in this pandemic, not to go
into a conspiracy theory, is because they wanted to keep you isolated because they knew Derek,
when someone comes up behind you and you know they're there, even if they're a few feet away
or they weren't making any noise, they broke your toroidal field. They're not a psychic. When you
interact with someone, it looks like this. It even forms a vesica pisces in the middle. This is what
two toroidal fields interacting look like. Now the guy on the left is the picture of Jesus,
and the guy on the right is the early picture of Caesar Borgia. Can you kind of see where he gets
his facial features from? Well, I can definitely, if I'm trying to compare the two, I can definitely
see similarities. Yes. But I'm connecting those. That's something we'd probably have to like dive
into much more material to try and find some genealogical connection. Like I said, man,
I'm extremely skeptical, you know what I mean, on a lot of this stuff. That's fine. I just wanted
you to admit that you see similarities. That's all I was looking for. I mean, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I
mean, to be fair, right, I could go get 10 other pictures of 10 other people and then go, I think
there's similarities between, you know, you know what I mean. There has been some deep studies into
this. Honestly, comparing Caesar Borgia to Jesus is at my fight. I'm an astrothiologist, but I just
wanted to show this picture to everyone. You guys can make up your own minds or decide to look into
it deeper if you wanted. Now, before the Shroud of Turn was discovered in 525 AD, almost all paintings
and drawings of Jesus were shown as a young, beardless man. So now let's use the cipher that I came
up with to start decoding passages. In Micah 5-2, my name's safe, but you, Bethlehem Ephrata, though
you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me, one who will be ruler over
Israel, whose origins are from old from ancient times. However, Bethlehem is not a place. It's a
two-word combination in Hebrew. Bet means house, and lehem means bread. So the house of bread. Well,
I told you each zodiac sign was called a house. Who is the house of bread? It's Virgo, the lady
with the wheat stalk. So astrothiologically, this passage is telling you that the Savior will come
from the virgin. Does that make sense? I definitely get your interpretation of it,
and I understand what you're doing. I definitely, I don't want to sidetrack from the discussion,
but I, geographically, you know, I would say there's definitely a place of Bethlehem, but
I understand- No, no, no, I know there is a place called Bethlehem. Yeah, but I understand that, like,
you're pulling from the etymology here to try and say, like, hey, hold on, they have an astrological
significance to naming this as well, so. Right. So I'm going to read you Deuteronomy 32.
He gave them honey from the cliffs and olive oil from the rocky ground.
He gave people butter from the herd and milk from the flock. He gave them lambs and goats.
They had the best rams from Bishon in the finest wheat. They drank the best wine made from the
juice of red grapes, but Jeshron became fat and kicked like a bullet. So let's use the cipher.
First, he gave them honey from the cliffs. Now, in the signed cancer, there's a group of stars
called the beehive cluster. So that's where the honey comes from. It's an asterism. It's a closely
in a group of stars like the Pleiades seven sisters are. So he gave them honey from the cliffs. So
the honey is cancer and olive oil. We know olive oil is lever. That's when it's harvested. He gave
us people butter from the herd and milk from the flock. Well, the milk comes from the milky way
galaxy, who's been called the milky way galaxy as far back as the Egyptian book of the dead.
The middle of the milky way galaxy is in Sagittarius. So you have the honey and cancer and the milk in
Sagittarius. That half of the zodiac, the right half of the zodiac is your land of milk and honey.
It's not a place on earth. It's a place in the heavens. He gave them lambs. That's Aries and
goats. The goat is Capricorn. They had the best rams. That's Aries from Bishon in the finest wheat.
Lady with the wheat stock, Virgo. They drank the best wine made from the juice of red grapes.
That's lever. That's when you press the wine. But Jesperon became fat and kicked like a bolt.
That's Taurus. Now, if you look at this, the Mount of Olives. Jesus led his disciples to
the Mount of Olives after his last Passover. So he could teach them a few more things, pray,
then wait for Judas to betray him. While walking to the Mount of Olive, he gave the parable of the
true vine. So look at the zodiac wheel on the left. So after Passover, Passover takes place in Aries,
which is all the way on the left. Right after that, he walks to the Mount of Olives. Well,
I told you olives are lever. How do you get from Aries to lever on the wheel? You go cross. They're
cross signs. They're opposing signs. You will notice that the patterns I'm going to show you today,
they're always going to be talking about their neighboring signs, which are the two signs that
hug it. And they're opposing signs. It's always going to make those patterns. So Passover is in
Aries. He walks to the Mount of Olives. That's Libra. While in Libra, they're waiting for Judas to
betray him. Well, I told you the betrayer happens in Scorpio. The scorpion is the betrayer. So you
go from Aries to Libra, and then you're waiting for the next sign over. So right now you have it
a cross pattern and a next pattern. And while he's in Libra, he gave the parable of the true vine,
which goes back to grapes, which goes back to the vine, which goes back to Libra again.
Do you see how you can start to figure this out using the Zodiac? Because that's basically what
I'm going to be showing you. I definitely see what you're doing. And I think, so I even created a poll
just to get everyone's opinion in the chat on what they think about astro-theology and whether
or not they think it explains everything. And I definitely can, I see personally when I read,
I do think that there is astrology in the theological sense built into some of the stuff
we're finding biblically. And this is what I was telling you before the show, the interactions,
right? When you ask me, I definitely see what you're saying, if that's what you're asking me.
I'm very cautious about using this as an interpretation for everything.
Everything becomes the model by which we should try to see astro-theology.
Well, hold on a second, because I did tell you that the Bible was made up of 10 holy
sciences and I only teach one of them. So I'm just showing you one of them.
Right. I'm just making the point that, for example, Deuteronomy 32 is known for poetry.
It's like a well-known poetic passage. And when you read it, you could see even in other passages,
the one that you brought up, for example. I would just carefully be looking at this and saying,
okay, as we said before the show, you know, I think there's some astro-theology there, for sure.
I just don't know about using this as a tool for everything. And I imagine using that kind of
methodology, right? Even the Zodiac, because we know they use the Zodiac. When I go and,
let's say, I open up any ancient text, whether it's biblical, whether it's a holy book,
whether it's maybe I open up an ancient historian text. If I grab certain things that you're using
some of these tools to try and understand, I could kind of come up with an interpretation
where it sounds like an astro-theology. Well, he mentioned a river, or he mentioned a, you know,
a lake, or whatever, when we're talking about Aquarius, or whatever it might be. That methodology
by which we're trying to interpret, and this is the difficult problem I've tried to explain to
Christians as we've discussed this with them for so long here on Mythision, is interpretation is like,
it's like a rubber band. It stretches. You could do anything with it. And if we don't have good
methodology to ground it, you know, that's that's one of my concerns. It's like, are we going too
far? This is just my thought process as we're going. But I get what you're saying, because
if I was an ancient Israelite who's worshiping, and I'm thinking of a Zodiac, am I, am I tracking
my world like this? Maybe, you know, maybe there is this, this process. I don't know if the common
Israelite in the world would know this. Maybe the priest would know some of this stuff. But anyway,
this is just me voice in my opinion. Since you asked me to jump in and like give my thoughts,
and I'm just throwing it out there, and I'm writing questions along the way. So at the end,
I can have that conversation with you and then give you my thoughts, right? So everybody can make
up their own mind on where they're at. And of course, since I'm speaking, feel free to super
chat questions or comments, whether you agree, disagree, whatever you'd like to highlight. Of
course, that helps support us here on Mythvision. But anyway, this is just me throwing it out there.
But I do track what you're saying and following the houses, understanding that these people are
seeing it that way. You know what I mean? Okay, great. Wonderful. Cool. So we're not like completely
in disagreement here. But I'm also, you know, cautious about a lot of the things that makes
sense. Well, I'm going to use this methodology to just show you how prevalent it is. I'll just
explain it that way. So Genesis one, seven, and God made the firmament and divided the waters
which were under the firmament, from the waters which are above the firmament, and it was so.
So the firmament, you see this dividing line between the zodiac signs that doesn't actually exist.
What it is is called, some people call them cusp, some people call them handover dates.
What it is is three days in each sign, three days in Aquarius, hands over to three days in Pisces,
those are the cusps. The firmament or the dividing lines. The firmament is not the dome over a flat
earth. That's not what it is. And I'm going to show you other verses with this. So the firmament
is the dividing line between zodiac signs. Now the two water signs Aquarius and Pisces.
So in God made the firmament and divided the waters which are under the firmament, so that's
Pisces, from the waters which are above the firmament, and it was so. Now you're absolutely
right, there's a hundred different ways you could take this. I'm just showing you one way.
So Revelation 4-7, the first living creature was like a lion. The second was like a man.
I'm sorry, the second was like an ox. The third had a face like a man. The fourth was like a flying
eagle. This is in Revelation. We get Astro Theology in Revelation 2. So the first living creature was
like a lion, that's Leo. The second was like an ox, that's Taurus. The third had a face like a man,
that's Aquarius. The fourth was like a flying eagle. Now in Astro Theology, the Scorpio Scorpion
is the belly crawling creature. It's the lowest form of life on earth. Having to crawl on your belly
slither is a punishment. That's why the first thing in the Garden of Eden after the deception,
God takes away the legs of the snake. In fact, in Santa de la Muerte, in Mexico, people dress up in
suits on the holiday, and they crawl on their bellies in suits to church. It's a form of punishment.
It's a humbling experience. The evolved form, also known as the Ascendant of the Scorpion, is
the eagle, which is the highest flying form of life on earth. So the eagle, and it evolves one more
time from the eagle and becomes the phoenix. So the eagle is actually the Scorpio as well. So Leo
Taurus, Aquarius and Scorpio are the four fixed signs of the zodiac. You have what's known as
fixed signs. You have cardinal signs, fixed signs, and mutable signs. In Astro Theology, you have
three signs in each season. The first sign in the season is the cardinal sign. That's why churches
have cardinals. The sign can be broken down into three 10-day segments called deacons. That's why
church has cardinals and deacons. The second sign is the fixed sign because it's fixed in their
season. Leo is in the middle of summer, Taurus spring, Aquarius winter, and the eagle, or Scorpio,
is in the fall. So these are the four fixed signs of the zodiac. Now it goes even further than that
because the man Aquarius and the lion Leo are opposing signs. The ox Taurus and the eagle,
Scorpion, are opposing signs. So when you read this, the first living creature was like a lion.
The second was like an ox. The third had a face like a man. The fourth was like a flying eagle.
There's either a four-headed, it's called the tetromorph that's going to be in the heavens,
or they're literally just talking about this zodiac pattern right here, where it makes a cross
because of the opposing signs. Now if we go into Ezekiel 1014, each of the cherubim had four faces.
One face was that of a cherub, the second the face of a human being, the third the face of a
lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle, it's the same thing. Now Revelation 12, a great sign
appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and a crown of 12
stars on her head. She was pregnant and cried out in pain as she was about to give birth. Then
another sign appeared in heaven, an enormous red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven
crowns on its head. It's tail swept the third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to earth.
So a woman clothed with the sun is the sun clothed in Virgo, it's just a metaphor for the sun being
in Virgo. Now if the sun's in Virgo, the moon will be at her feet. So there's 12 zodiac signs and
it's well it need four hour or a day clock. So the sun spends two hours a day in each sign if the sun
is in Virgo in the day. That's between four and six p.m. the sun is still out. So if the sun is out,
the moon is metaphorically at her feet. These are just metaphors. Whereas if the moon is up,
the sun is at her feet. Now another sign appeared in heaven, an enormous dragon. It's tail swept the
third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to earth. The constellation Draco is the dragon.
Its tail goes from Aries to Sagittarius, which is four twelfths of the signs or one third of the
stars out of the sky. Now if we talk about Revelation 7.4, then I heard the number of those
who were sealed, 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel. This is used by Christians to mention the
fact that, and especially Jehovah's Witnesses, to mention the fact that 144,000 people get to go to
heaven and that's it. But that's not what they're talking about. There's influences from the outside
too. There are seven chakras. The root has four petals, the sacral has six, the solar plexus has
ten, the heart has twelve, and the throat has sixteen, which equals 48. The third eye chakra is
represented by 96 and only has two petals because it's two times as powerful as the lower chakras.
So 48 times two is 96. The crown chakra is a thousand times more powerful than the lower six
chakras. When you add the lower six, you get 96 plus 48 equals 144. The times that by a thousand,
you get your 144,000. When you've activated all your chakras, that is when you get to go see God,
that is when you go to heaven. These are influenced by the East as well. Matthew 10, 16. Behold,
I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. For the sheep is Ares and the wolf is the constellation
Lupus, who borders the Libra line. Look at the pattern that makes their opposing signs. You're
always going to see the opposing signs or the neighboring signs. I can understand if you were
skeptical, if you were talking about, let's say, Gemini, so you're talking about the twins
and the fish because they don't make any patterns in the zodiac. But all these patterns I'm showing
you are either opposing signs or neighboring signs. They're very deliberate. So I've given
examples of astro-theology in the Old Testament as well as the New Testament. I've been accused of
cherry picking verses from the Bible to prove the point. So let's take a much longer passage and see
if we can decode it as well. So I get to the story of Job. So Job was basically, he was a righteous
man who had everything. He had land, he had money, he had family, he had animals. And Satan went up
to God and said, the only reason he's so faithful to you is because he has everything. You take it
away, he'll lose it. And God said, I'll take the bet. I don't believe that'll happen. He says,
I'll take the bet. You can do whatever you want to him, but you can't take his life. So little
by little, Job starts losing everything. And at one point, I believe he has boils
and he is sitting on a rock and he's calling out to God. What I'm going to read to you is,
God's replied to him. Whereas the first sentence is going to be what God says, the second sentence
is going to be the astrological decoding. So Job 38-32, the first thing he says is,
can you need forth the Masaroth? The Masaroth literally means the Zodiac. Okay, you could trace
the etymology for that word. Masaroth literally means Zodiac. The first thing he asks is,
do you know your Zodiac? Masaroth over time becomes Masalot, which survives in Judaism today,
is mazalto, which is good fortune from the stars. So what is the Lord's challenge to Job? The first
two are blatantly star poetry. Can you bind the chains of the Pleiades? Can you loosen Orion's
belt? Well, those are obvious. Then the next is, can you bring forth the constellations in their
seasons or lead out the bear with its cubs? The constellations are the Zodiac above,
the bear and its cubs are Ursa Major, the Great Bear, and Ursa Minor, part of the Big Dipper.
Who can tip over the water jars of the heavens? Well, that's literally a man with a water pitcher
that's Aquarius, tipping it over. Do you hunt the prey for the lioness and satisfy the hunger
of the lions? That's Leo. Who provides food for the raven? That's the constellation Corvus,
which means raven, and was bordering on Virgo. Do you watch where the doe bears her fun? Marigha,
meaning deer, is located in Orion, which is between Taurus and Gemini. Who let the wild donkey go free?
That's a cellis borealis, meaning donkey, and is located in Cancer. Will the wild ox consent to
serve you? That's Taurus. The wings of the ostrich flap joyfully. Lambda Achille or Althellimon,
which means two ostriches in Arabic. I don't know why this came off like this. Do you give the horse
its strength? It laughs at fear afraid of nothing. It does not shy away from the sword, the quiver.
So there we know it's a horse, and the quiver is what holds the arrows next to the horse,
Sagittarius with the bow and arrow. Does the eagle sort your command and build its nest on high?
That's Aquila, which is the Latin name for eagle, and is a constellation a few degrees above the
celestial equator. Finally, he says, can you pull on Leviathan with a fish hook? And at the time,
there were competing fish gods that were going on. You had Dagonism. You had Mithraism. Leviathan
was an ancient fish gods, and the fish are Pisces. So as you see here in Job 3832, he first asks him,
do you know your zodiac? And then he proceeds to quiz him on it. That's all he does.
That's his entire reply. And if you notice, I've been jumping from book to book to book throughout
the Old Testament, the New Testament, Revelation, Genesis, I've been doing everything to show you
that these codes are in all of them. If you go to the book of Psalms 104, he sends forth springs
in their valleys. The wild donkeys quench their thirst. He causes the grass to grow for the cattle,
and wine which makes man's heart glad, so that he may make his face glisten with oil. The high
mountains are for the wild goats. He made the moon for the seasons. The sun knows the place of its
setting. The young lions were after their prey. The springs are Aquarius. The wild donkeys are
Salis borealis, which are in cancer. The cattle is Taurus the bull. The wine is Libra. The oil is
Libra. The wild goats are Capricorn. The moon for the seasons, and the sun knows the place of its
setting is openly talking about the sun and the moon. The lions were after their prey are Leo.
So that's Psalms. So answers to the questions at the beginning. Hold on a sec.
How Jesus was able to heal the blind. The story in the Bible. The blind man comes up to Jesus.
Jesus licks his fingers and touches his eyes, and he can see. However, Jesus, the sun, S-U-N,
does the same exact thing. Right now it's getting dark outside, so I've lost my sight. I can't see
anything when I look outside. However, when the sun comes up and touches my eyes, I'm given the gift
of sight. It heals the blind. How he walked on water. The story is Jesus walked on water.
Well, the sun does the same thing, too. You've ever been on a fishing boat, and you see the sun
walk alongside the ocean as it sets. Now, Jesus was known as Christ. Christ is a title. It's not a
name. In Greek, because we were talking about the Greeks before, Christos means oil. Well, the oil,
any oil, walks on water as well. See, it's a double entendre. How he turned water into wine.
This is not a parlor trick. This is part of the sky clock that I'm talking about. The reason God
is considered a man and Mother Earth is considered a woman has to do with one thing only, and that
has to do with the sacred fluid that comes down from the heavens, God's reign. In Hebrew, it's
called shemen. We get the word semen from it. So what happens is in Taurus, as above so below,
we look at the sky, you see the bowl, you have to put the plow on the bowl to plant, and then you
plant the grapes or you plant the seeds, and then it rains, and it rains, and it rains. And then what
happens is in Libra, you pick the grapes and you make it into wine. That's how you turn God's water
into wine. Why he had 12 disciples? Why he was betrayed? Why he had 12 disciples, for example?
We went over that. Judas would be Scorpio. I mean, John the Baptist, the man with the water
pitcher baptize, people would be Aquarius. Thomas Didimus, we went over that, the twins, Jim and I.
There's a story for all of them. Why he was betrayed with a kiss by Judas, we went over that.
Why he was dead for three days, we went over that. Why is his birthday on December 25th,
we went over that. Now, this science only works for people in the northern hemisphere,
and there is a reason for that. The Egyptians, Jews, Christians, and Muslims are all based out of
the northern hemisphere. For example, June 21st, the summer solstice is actually the winter solstice
in Australia and New Zealand, much of South Africa and South America. See, if these ancient
holy texts had come from the south, it would be in reverse. So, it doesn't stop there. It's not
just random passages in the Bible that can be decoded this way. We're going to go through the
entire book of Matthew to show how deep these funds. So, do we have any super chats or anything
before I get into this? I want to kind of know where everybody's thinking right now.
Yeah. So, there's a lot of back and forth. I think most of our audience thinks there can be
definite evidence of astrothiology, biblically speaking. If you take the Israelites as people
who are in captivity in Babylon, we know in Babylon they had these things. They had an
astrological sense of heavens and calendars and such that might have impacted Jewish literature.
But a lot of people are skeptical of certain details and some of the things that you might
be mentioning, they're not agreeing with on those. But we do have a few super chats.
Imdug says, do you think that the editors of the Bible adjusted stories to fit
with the similar Greek motifs?
It's a very interesting question. What I'm trying to show right now is I'm talking about
the sun going through the twelve signs of the zodiac in what's known as Joseph Campbell's
hero's journey, the sun going through it. And from what I gather, it's the same thing throughout
every single culture, throughout time, throughout every single culture. And I've used this cipher
that I've already given you guys a taste of. I've used this to decode all these ancient texts
with astrothiology to show these patterns, to show this. And I firmly believe that it's always
been sun worship. See, what happened with the Greeks and everybody else is basically,
they looked at the heavens and they saw this craziness going on in the heavens. They saw
shooting stars, they saw planets doing this, they saw this. And what they did was they tell
their kids stories about it. This is how it started in Suma, by the way. They would tell
their kids stories about it and then they would tell their kids stories. It got passed down,
then eventually they figured out how to write on clay tablets and things of that nature. It got
written down and then eventually it got passed down and then eventually every new zodiac sign
it got updated and the whole mythology completely changed. But there's a common thread. The universe
has a way of being very orderly. The universe has a way of being very orderly. Things end up making
sense. You just have to find it. If it's too complicated for you, if explaining something
is too complicated or you need to use 50 different million things to describe something,
then it's usually not the right answer. There tends to be a unifying answer there.
Okay, so just on Imdug's note, I think he specifically was asking you, I don't know if I'd
word it that way, but do I think that Greek literature, let's put it that way in the Greek
mythology, influenced biblical stories, I would say yes in some way, depending on the text, depending
on the story. But this is, you know, one thing that, and look, I really, really like you. You
know that. We've talked. I mean, I may not agree with some of the conclusions, but I hope that
people will be respectful because some people in the chat are annoyed or not agreeing and stuff,
and that's fine. You don't have to. Some of them are like, no, Astro theology is true and right,
but he's not representing it right or he's not presenting it right or whatever. This is stuff
that I'm seeing in the chat. At the end of the day, this is something that I find interesting in
light of this discussion is that you can, interpretations, you can almost make any
interpretation about some of these things. And this is just one example, because Christians
will go and you ask them, hey, what's this mean? And they'll find a way to make things make sense.
For example, I have one that you mentioned equating the 144,000 with chakras, right?
Right. Well, the way I understood this, right, when I was reading this is,
in the end, you've got a new creation. The New Testament keeps talking about a new creation
coming on. The Book of Revelation mentions new Jerusalem, new heavens, and these Israelite
warriors that are coming, 12,000 from each tribe, because there's 12 tribes, and the list of the
tribes aren't the same as some of the listed that you see in the Old Testament. But the chakras
thing, I wouldn't insert that. Could it be? I guess. I just personally wouldn't jump to that
conclusion, because I could probably find something else that might be 144,000. And to give you an
example, if you do six days, man is created on the sixth day, there's 24 hours in a day, 24 times
six is 144. And you wonder, okay, is this kind of a time thing, along with what you're talking about,
calendar time, we're talking about time, while on the sixth day, man is created,
is this a representation of the new man, right? New creation. And so I just wouldn't jump the
chakras. And I think that that's a leap, right? For me, I'm like, unless I had early interpretive,
like people were telling me in early literature, this is how they were reading this material,
I personally would be cautious before jumping to those kind of conclusions. If I found historical
precedents for an interpretation like that, which is something I think we'll get to at the end of
this, that's when I would go, okay, hold up. There were people who actually understood this
that way. And that would be a good methodology, I would think. The problem is, if we say, well,
people understood it that way, but they didn't write it, it's unfalsifiable in many ways to try
and prove that that's how people understood this literature. That makes sense. And I'm looking
for falsifiable information to try and go, oh, can I test it? Can I observe that this is how
people understood this? But a lot of the things, there are things that jump out at me and I go,
yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, you brought up Job. I'm like, yeah, okay, this is definitely talking
about astrology. When was Job written? Where these are questions I have, right? And I'd like to dive
into. But I'm also very careful about how far I would use that, the tool that you're bringing
to the table to describe all of this. You get what I'm saying? Like, I would be very cautious.
We do have more super chats, but I just want to throw that out there. And at the end, I'm just
putting more questions together. We'll go over some of those things and talk about the differences
here. Paul Kickling, Androgynous Adam, Aries, Torn Taurus, into two genders, Gemini. Cancer is
eating the fruit, then they have sex, Leo Virgo, like Milton's Paradise Lost. So I don't know if
you are familiar with this. I'm sure you've heard of Milton's Paradise, right? What do you think
about that super chat? Do you agree with that conclusion about Adam and Eve or?
I don't really see things that way, to be honest.
But okay, this is good. So this is a good example. Paul Kickling is looking, and I have another friend
who thinks that it's literally sun worship all the way through the Bible, starting with Adam all
the way to the end. I kind of leaned towards that. Yeah, I'm just saying that you can make
interpretations. And that's the problem with interpretations is like,
we can all come to the table with one. And like, it could sound and make sense in our heads, but
it's like, how do we anchor it to knowing exactly what is being said is the hard part.
That's that's the hard part. Okay, Paul, thank you so much for that, man. Really appreciate that.
Imneg says, I believe astrology has been greatly overlooked when it comes to the Bible, and it
deserves a much more serious look into no or sorry, look, serious look, it's no coincidence.
There's a lot of astrology scattered all over the Bible. I agree. I think you agree as well.
Tunnels, can you explain the resurrection symbolism with astrology, meaning crux and the
sign in the sun? I imagine you're going to get into that, right?
I'm trying to think if I do get into it as far as this, I pretty much where the cross in the sky,
the celestial symbol, I don't know if you go into that, I know that that was on some,
that's been an astrothiology explanation, even Robert Price at one point, when I asked him,
I said, Hey, what do you think the crucifixion means? He took an approach that Richard Carrier
did not on trying to explain this in some way. He said that maybe it's the, I don't know,
talk about equinox and what not going on in the heavens.
Do you take that interpretation?
I just, I kind of see it like, basically the way that I described the 12 signs,
is that December 25th is his birthday because the sun comes back to life. That's why all the
ancient gods are born, ancient sun gods or the ancient gods are born on December 25th.
They're all dead for three days prior to because of the sun, because it stays at that low point and
it doesn't rise or lower. It just stays there for three days. It's just, it's basically what I
had explained before. That's kind of the way I see it. Okay, so tunnels, I hope that answers your
question. I think tunnels is in favor of astrothiology. Constellation Pegasus in the house, thank you.
Anyone here of the book, sacred knowledge of the Essenes, primitive Christians saw a video on how
the zodiac played a big part early Christianity. I am, and don't take it the wrong way, Micah.
I literally do believe that they have obviously a calendar, a sacred calendar in mind, especially
when you look at the floors of a lot of these synagogues and such, the timekeeping and Enoch.
Enoch's very solar in their calendar keeping rather than lunar. So there's 100%. Nobody should
walk away from this and think there's nothing to it. And when I'm critical, it's not me being rude.
I promise you, I'm literally simply pointing out that I want to anchor this stuff with solid data
so that we, we, we're hearing an interpretation and I'm asking our audience as we set up front,
right? We told them like you can think something stronger or not disagree. That's cool. I'm looking
for something to solidly anchor astral theology to it and that I just haven't, I haven't, I haven't
read this book. Let's just put it that way. So I hope more people will consider, you know, taking
a serious look, even if you don't agree with some of the things that Micah's saying, because there
is some validity to calendar keeping, solar astronomy. And one of the accusations I've heard
early on when I got into this was, no, they only worship God. God is not a son, right? He is the
God of the sun. He creates the sun in Genesis. So there's no way they would be that into astral
theology. I'm sure you've heard this, right? Yeah, of course. Yeah. And I'm like, uh, no, actually,
you know, they still had calendar keeping. And of course, while they worshiped one God,
there were many gods. They recognized this. And um, thank you. I haven't read that book,
constellation, but I haven't heard, let me see, sacred knowledge of the unseen. No, I haven't
heard of it. Have you? No. No. Um, Marx in the house says, would you say all religions use
astral theology, but they have different stories? Any comments? Good question. The stories are
different. The, the, the, the, the, these are Jungian archetypes. These are archetypes that are
in the stories. That's what they are. They're archetypes. They're not real people. They're
stories. Like I, I explain it like this, like you wouldn't read the Odyssey or the Iliad. I think
these are real people or Beowulf, for example. You wouldn't read that and think there's a literal
thing that happened, but something happened along the way that people take the Bible literally.
And that's not the case at all. When it, when it goes back to the other ancient, um,
the stories change. The, the holy stories that they follow change, but it's just a different way
of talking about the sun going through the zodiac and the 12 zodiac signs and through the hero's
journey where it will then be, uh, judged, betrayed, killed and resurrected just like the sun.
Let me ask you this. You got me thinking here because I've been picking up the Odyssey and
the Iliad a little more and I'm not so sure that the Greeks would have thought this didn't happen
at all. Right. Common folks would have probably believed it's literally true. Um, some of the
philosophers might have said, well, we don't think this literally happened in so many respects,
but the author's intending to tell you a story about a war that happened in ancient Troy and
Greeks are involved in this battle. I think we're missing the bigger question here. I think we're
missing the entirely bigger question here. The bigger question is here is it's not that these
are encoded because whether you agree with my decodings or not, honestly, you know, I'm still
going to teach what I do and you know, it's not for everyone. Honestly, I'm not offended if you
guys don't like it or if some of you don't like it. Well, some do, some don't. Please don't get
disappointed. I want, you know, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not. Um, when you do bigger shows,
you have more white, more, more weighing opinions. Right. I'm fine with it. I'm not upset. My point
is I think we're missing the bigger question. The bigger question is not what do these people think
of these stories? The bigger question is this, we can all at least agree that these are encoded in
some way. The question is why does every ancient tribe feel the need to not just come out and
say what they're saying. They feel the need to deeply encode this. Yeah. I wonder if there's an
art in the authors. There's an art in their, in their literature in which they express the
sacredness of the heavens in their, in their writing of things here. Because I feel like what we
should do rather than completely encoding, right, on some of those things is to try and incorporate
how the historical setting, not saying the things literally happen that are described,
but there is a historical setting. For example, Philistines, we talked about Samson. I am a hook,
line, and... Well, when we talk about Samson, Samson in Hebrew is Shemshon, which means little sun.
Right. Whereas Delilah in Hebrew, the root of Delilah is Lila, which means night. What does she
do? She cuts his hair, he gouges his out. It's a metaphorical story of the sun being overtaken
by the night. I agree, by the way. This is like a 100%. I think you and me are in total agreement here.
And they're incorporating things that are relevant to people here on earth and stuff
in a coded way. Do you understand, do you understand why the cutting of the hair is significant?
The rays of the sun and the power of the sun are being cut, right? No, there's nothing to do with the
rays of the sun. When you think of, when you, when they talk about the ancient Indians, right,
that lived on earth before they were forced to join the military, they used to have long hair.
And they used to tell people that having a long hair was like having a sixth sense. They could
hear people coming up behind them. They gave them extra sensory powers that when they cut their hair
for the military to start fighting, they lost it. So the ancients must have known this because having
long hair, in the Bible, they talk about it in another place. You know, this woman talks about
how if God gives her this, then she will never take a razor to her man's head or to her baby's head,
because having long hair, they knew about these extra sensory powers.
We don't give the ancients enough credit. That's another thing. We go through something called
chronological ethnocentrism. And that's just a big fancy way of saying that because people are,
from the past, they must be dumber than us because we're in the future and we know everything.
And that's bullshit. Excuse my language. But now I hear you. Now, the reason I said it was hair is
he has seven locks. The story literally describes seven locks and they have a seven week cycle.
So being the small son who has his seven days cut short, so to speak. I'm thinking this is
entering the winter solstice, which is why I'm thinking Delilah symbolically the whole narrative
is to cut the hair immediately after the hair is cut. The eyes are gouge of darkness comes on him.
He now is grinding mill like in the winter. You would imagine we harvest for the winter.
And then eventually his hair grows back and the next thing pillars to the Dagon temple.
But notice how you disagree with the interpretation and you have a different reason
for why that interpretation is something else. It's really slippery to pin down what is the real
deal. It is fun. And I hope people will exercise that more. But what it tells me is that the people
who want to run around and I think you would agree with me on this and act like the Bible is
the truth and we've got the understanding and we know what it actually teaching and slamming it
in people's faces and tell them they're going to go to a literal place called hell is just wild.
I mean, it tells you that it's so open for interpretation. It's like who has the capital
T on knowing all of this? No, there's a quote that I like to quote from a guy named John Dominic
Crissan. I don't know if you've heard of him before. Yeah, I hear of him all the time.
You really? Yeah. Yeah. He's got this quote that I just love and I use it all the time.
He says that it's not to be ancient people wrote literal stories and we're now smart enough to
take them symbolically, but that they wrote them symbolically and we're now dumb enough to take
them literally. I've heard him. He has a power of parables book that actually goes into that.
Great point. Great point, Micah. I really appreciate you, man. Constellation Pegasus,
it takes a lot of work and mathematics to make a zodiac somewhere. I heard mankind is not old
enough and developed to make one in an astronomer to answer this, possibly evidence that humans are
more than 6000 years old. Of course, we're older than that, but yeah, constellation is
mattered at the beginning. You can't argue the last cow caves. I mean, they carbon dated
it was 17,000 years old. It survived the previous cataclysm. All the constellations were in the
exact same place that they would have been 17,000 years ago in that exact same location.
We've understifted astrology. In fact, it's almost as if, look, I'm just in love with it.
Okay. So I just talk about it. I know that I don't have the only answer. And right at the beginning
of the podcast, right at the beginning, I told you, I know of at least 10 holy sciences that are
just as in depth as what I do. Okay. So I don't go around explaining telling people that I know
the truth. I know. And you know what? For what I do know, I know I don't know anything, which is,
again, that's what they say intelligence is, right? Is to realize that the dumb person thinks
they haven't figured out. And the smart person realizes that they're born knowing nothing,
and then they'll never end up learning anything anyway. Always, always keep learning, right?
Yeah. Well, that's it. That's the people who have the drive. And this is why I told you, Derek,
before, I think that the most interesting people in the world are self taught, you know, you're,
you're, what's it called? What was that movie with?
What was that movie with Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, the first one they did?
Oh, you're talking about where he's like, how do you like them apples?
Yeah, he's a janitor, right? But he's brilliant. Because the most interesting people and the most
intelligent people aren't going to go through academia because it's so rigid. And I don't know.
This is something I wrote down. I think it's worth having the conversation about it. So you said
how much academic research. So I asked how much academic research, right? And I understand the
notion of wanting to be self taught and learn these things. When I first got into this, I was like,
okay, hold up, how come I need to, I need to look and learn. And I was learning from Freemason.
What is his name? 32nd degree Freemason. He might have been 33rd degree, but he was teaching
astro theology on YouTube. Yeah, Manly P Hall. Yeah, I loved watching his stuff, listening to him
and, and other people, right, trying to figure out what's going on biblically, very esoteric,
very symbolic, Jungian in many ways, things like that. But I, I, I wouldn't be the guy trying to
say that academia is not a path of trying to pursue knowledge because what academia has done,
and I've realized this from being someone who went from Manly P Hall to trying to take the academic
approach, I think it's important to have a very solid methodology in how we're trying to come
to a conclusion because look, you and me could pick up a Bible. We could have lived on a stranded
island. We're born on the stranded island, taught a language from somebody and then translated it
into English. You and me could pick it up and come up with meaning of our own by reading this text.
And that meaning may not have anything to do with what it actually originally was saying or whatever,
but in our minds, we're right. And we think we've understood and grasped it. It's made sense to us
and things like that. And I'm looking for tools to try and ground it, anchor it to not what it
means to people in the 1500s, not what it meant to people, you know, today or even at some point
in history, more about like, I want to get back for me, my drive is, what did this mean
to the original listeners as much as I can, which by the way, that mission is not always
something that can happen. That's why you have so many disagreements even in academia
on what something means or whatnot. And that's my drive.
That's my original point that I made. Why was it so necessary for every single civilization
to encode their sacred texts? I think it's because
say it. Well, I think the reason now encoding, that's the practice that I was saying,
I think they see time and the calendars sacred. I mean, it's how they survive. We went from
hunter-gatherers to agricultural. And I think we saw the sacredness in keeping the calendars and
the heavens incorporated into timekeeping and when to plant, when to do all this stuff.
So that's why I think you're right. Like it's funny, Jesus, the Bible never mentions Jesus
being born on December the 25th, right? You bring this up. Well, in fact, Christians will tell you
who's born on September 11th or the Feast of the Tabernacles or around Passover, they'll throw
and I'm saying, look, you can have those interpretations. That's fine. What I'm teaching
you is the sun science as to why everything is December 25th.
Well, that's that's the thing. Like it's, I think they're incorporating that date and there is some
reason that that date finds its way in and it's not. I don't think that this is something that
we're fine biblically, but I think it's something that you find people who practice and believe in
Jesus, incorporate that science like the way that you are interpreting some of the images of Jesus
with the heart on the outside and stuff. That's something I would imagine a Freemason doing.
There's symbolism there because there is symbolism in the art. You can ask the same question. Why did
Michelangelo incorporate some of the symbolic stuff into his art? Freemasons, right? You can look at
them and whatever the craft is that they do, they put the divine that they think into that craft.
Preserving that you saw KRS-1's explanation of the Freemasons and it was not.
Yes, yes. Where you got that from?
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah. He'll talk about the ship, right? But anything. It's not just about a ship and
this is the God's mind and the cell is God's wings or whatever it might be. I'm just, you know,
throwing. I know what you're trying to say, but when you said that, it just jogged my memory because
I absolutely love that clip. Yeah, that was a really good clip. And I think people have written
symbolically in that way. And I think it's hard to take the devil's pulpit, right?
The book, The Devil's Pulpit. He goes into the Astro Theology. He talks about calendars this
and that. He's trying to interpret the narratives of Jesus throughout this calendar thing.
That's one interpretation. And for me, it would be better if we had early voices somewhere
expressing and explaining these things and not...
Well, let me ask you a question. Can I just say one thing real quick?
Yeah.
I'm having way more fun having this discussion than doing my presentation.
Dude, let's frickin' talk. I think you've got a lot of it out, too. And I know there's...
Bro, I know. Just to tell our audience, go subscribe. If you like what Micah's saying,
he's got a lot of content on this. You've written books on this, so they can go deeper
into hearing your explanations and what you've discovered. But yeah, let's have a conversation.
And we'll take Q&A, too, because we've got super chats.
Yeah, that's great. So let me ask you a question, though.
Yeah.
Do you think that sometimes the original intention... What if, as time goes on,
the intention, or not the intention, the original intention is there?
What they meant to say is there. But what if, over time, it evolves into something that is
way more useful and better for everyone? Then would you agree that the newer interpretation
kind of supersedes the original one when things kind of take a life on their own?
So this is a really good question, Micah. And I'm glad that you asked me this.
And I hope the audience is tracking along here. By the way, the reason I'm wearing my Dragon Ball
Z hat is because I don't want my Super Saiyan hair to all this blah. And then you guys see that I'm
actually Helios, the center of the zodiac. But anyway, no, seriously, Micah, we're doing this
before. The sun was so bright that I was like blinding white. Anyway, yes, I think that...
So here's my personal, personal, right? We all have our personal. I think we evolved.
And I think in that process, we're continuing to evolve ethically. We're continuing to evolve in
terms of how we perceive the world, things like that. If we look at the analogy of the ancient
Greeks, the philosophers, they were some smart cookies, especially for their date. I mean,
even till today, we quote Socrates, we quote, we're looking at these people going, wow,
very smart people, Plato, all of them. We could disagree with them, but we could cherry pick,
eat the meat, spit out the bone. What they... People still talk about Plato's cave.
Yeah, I use the analogy all the time. I'm not using it in the terms of platonic forms,
the way he does. I use it in my own interpretation about drug addiction, escaping fundamentalist
Christianity. And I'm going to be giving a presentation, actually, it's funny you say that,
at GCRR, some conference where I'm using Plato's cave to try and give the analogy of what it was
like leaving and where I'm at today and why. But yeah, it's like recycling this is amazing and
important. I think it's good to recycle. The philosophers who were smart, the very upper
echelon of intelligence stopped believing Zeus actually had sex with women, raping them, whatever.
Boys are involved in that as well. Zeus didn't do that. These are stories. So they found a way to
allegorize much of what we find. And so I don't think that Odysseus and the Iliad are
completely allegories. I think that they're writing narratives. However, interpretation changes over
time and how I think philosophers look back on that and try to explain that even down into the
first century. We've got some smart wizards like Jason Sobeck in the chat and stuff. They'll talk
about like Plutarch, his writings, the way he understood Plato was born from a virgin birth
literally of the Numa of God. Anyway, the time goes by and the way they perceive the stories
becomes more sophisticated. Even if the original intent of the narrative wasn't that way. So if
you hold sacred to the Greek story, all of a sudden later on, you have found a way, a science in your
own interpretive models to make these more complex. And that's why when you started out of the gate,
and we mentioned like waters, right? We know Aquarius is equated with water. But if I went into
the Bible or anywhere and I found waters in ancient literature, rivers, lakes, sea, you name it,
right? Which the Sea of Galilee, I've got a bombshell course coming up with Dennis MacDonald
to point out, porphyry attacks or is writing critically of the Christians. And he's like,
by the way, nowhere ever was this lake called a sea till you guys wrote your text in Mark.
So he's already attacking saying this is not the case. You guys most likely are attaching
to the Mediterranean mythologies and the seafaring of Greek stories by equating this
lake to a sea. It's not it's a lake. You could see if you're standing on one side,
you could see the other side like it's not a sea. Anyway, I think that the models that Christians
are starting to do. Notice there's a big trend in Christians today that are trying to become
universalist. There are early voices like origin who thought at the end, everyone goes back to the
source and Christ will be all and all and have a pretty optimistic outlook at the end. But
people are ethically and sophisticatedly changing a lot like Christian mysticism to me.
And that's a thing that is happening. I think that they are becoming more
over time, even with the Gnostics, look at how they do things with the New Testament. They're
already starting to make more sophisticated interpretations and finding ways to make sense
of evil. They have dualism. There's all sorts of stuff they're trying to do. Your question is a
really good one. And you can see I'm excited about it because I think it's important to know
anyone can have an interpretation. And yeah, yeah, I'll show that.
That's basically the thing because what if the new interpretation supersedes the old
interpretation? And in the other way around, what if it doesn't? What if the new interpretation
gives you the swastika, for example? Right. The swastika goes all the way back. Ask your theology.
The swastika is the North Star Polaris. And the big dipper on the solstices and equinoxes wrapped
around it. And you can see in ancient Hindu iconography and whatnot. So yeah, but look at
it now, right? You're like, ooh, we don't really want that symbol to be used. And it's sad that
that is what it's become because you look back and everybody's triggered immediately seeing the
image. But yeah, I get what you're saying. It has dominated the modern interpretation of what that
becomes associated with, ends up taking over. But I'm wanting, for me, like I like to sweep away
and get, and I'm sure you're the same way, I want to get back and try to figure out what that
original intent was. And if you look at the original intent of a swastika, you're not going to think
Hitler, you're not going to see it through the ugliness of what happened to the Jews.
Right. That makes complete sense, for sure. Yeah. You're very interested in what were people
thinking when they wrote this down. I am. The reason why is... You think intention matters.
I think if we're going to know what something meant, the only way to do that is this. I mean,
I understand, like one of the issues, the reason why, I'm glad you're asking this too, man,
you're bringing it out of me. I was a fundamentalist, right? And when I had a specific point of view,
I was right. And I used to harm others verbally. I used to harm people with my words about,
they're going to go to hell. Other Christians weren't really Christian. Like my understanding
was the right one. I was either this or that kind of Christian. My brand of Christianity
changed and shift. I wanted to know what was meant. I was into systematic theology books.
I was reading commentaries. I was into the Reformers for a while, became a Calvinist,
got into eschatology. I really realized, oh my gosh, one day, you know, you're studying this
up, but it doesn't dawn on you. It was like an epiphany. It was like, everyone has a different
thing. What the heck? And so I'll never get to what it meant by reading the interpretation
of everyone else. I need to try and get back to what was meant if I'm going to understand what
this was. You could see the same text being read by Gnostics, let's say, and then the same text
read by Heresiologists, let's just say, and you go, they're interpreting this completely different.
I got to get behind the curtain as much as I can. So I am trying to find that out,
and I know that sometimes that's not probably possible, because we just don't have
their voices on the side saying, this is what I meant. We just have the text, and then we have
to try and understand that text. I want to get into what scholars say about it. But in that vein
of the question, I had a phone conversation one time. I called a scholar, and his name's
blanking probably because I need to eat at some point. And he pretty much argued with me on the
phone. I was like, hey, I'd love to have you come on the show. You're a wonderful PhD. I'd love to
learn from you about the New Testament. He goes, do you really care why Beethoven wrote his first
symphony? Now, I don't care much about Beethoven personally. It's not my interest. So no, it was
a bad analogy. But nonetheless, he was trying to point out, or do you care about how Beethoven's
used today? Everyone doesn't care about why. I mean, there's very few people in the world who go,
why did he write that? And what inspired him, influenced him? What are the mechanisms behind
his first symphony? It's about the interpretation of that symphony that only matters. Everyone
today is listening to Beethoven through their own lens and how they understand it. For me,
as someone who came out of a fundamentalist world, who wanted to get to the bottom of it,
you had a thousand interpretations from a thousand different Christians who claimed they
all knew what the heck they were reading. And while that's interesting, knowing how Athanasius
allegorized the book of Revelation in the fourth century, knowing how Irenaeus found a way to
interpret it, or Martin Luther, when he's getting persecuted by the Roman Catholic Church during
the Reformation period, he first thought it wasn't part of the New Testament. Then, because he was
being persecuted by Rome, started to interpret the Pope and the Roman Church potentially as this
beast in Revelation, then it becomes part of his canon. He says, no, no, no, actually, because it
meant something to him. I'm more curious about who's John on the island of Patmos? Why is he
writing this text? To whom would this have mattered? Who are the seven churches in Asia Minor
in the first century, the late first century, who are probably dealing with demission persecution,
which we know from other letters right there out the gate in the early second century?
That's what I want to do. I don't want to personally go, well, the seven churches of Asia Minor
actually symbols and run off into the La La Land, because you could do that. You could do anything
you want with these texts. I want to get to the core, the historical matter. I know, no matter
what I say or do with this channel, millions of interpretations will fly. Well, let me put it
to you this way. So, Derek, I guarantee you, you were on the phone with your mom when we were talking
before we accessed that recording, right? So, you got your mom, you got your wife. She came in earlier
too. These are people that you desperately love. However, I guarantee you, and this goes for your
followers too, or your support is your listeners. On my channel, I call them supporters. I don't
call them fans because fan is short or fanatic. And I hope nobody's going to like misery me.
But what I was just trying to say is, when it comes down to it, no two people
see you or think of you in the exact same way. Right. At all. So, why would literature be any
different? Well, ultimately, you can do anything with literature. You can. That's why I was saying
methodology and how we're going to anchor this stuff down. And I think we have common ground.
There is astrology. There is absolutely a science involved in the ancient world where
Jews, Babylonians, Persians, Greeks, you name it, all thought of sacred calendars and stuff like
this, bringing it back, bringing your point back to what we're doing. Could I be wrong for sure?
I mean, like, in fact, I know that I'm not right about probably tons of stuff. And I know that
there's limitations to what I can know. But I also know that if we don't have a methodology,
then I could go hand a translated Bible to a Hindu, right? And they will read it if they read it in
Indian, let's say their particular dialect. And they read it, they would then interpret it through
their own perceptions and give you their analysis, probably incorporating some of their religious
background. I imagine I have biases, right? So, I'll probably bring my own stuff to the table.
The only way I can get down to the meaning of a lot of this literature is to try and do this with
good methodology. So, if one of my family members goes, Derek's actually a wonderful guy. He's a
great person who does no wrong. How could they show that isn't the case? Well, he argues with his
wife or he doesn't spend enough time with his kids or he doesn't pay bills or he, whatever, you know,
you can use whatever example, you can find things to try and rule that out. And I guess I'm using
that as my epistemology to the world. If I don't have grounded reasons to base something in reality
and to know with good reason, this interpretation makes sense in the cultural, historical, who,
what, when, where, how, then I'll say it's an interpretation, but I won't follow that lead
if that makes sense. How do you prove anything? Well, that's what I'm saying. I'm trying to ground
it using historical methodology. And if we aren't using those tools, we can't really come to what
the text was actually trying to say is what I'm saying. You can say that you think that's what
it's saying and you can do that by using some things. You're using some of these tools actually
even in your presentation. For example, we talked to the 144,000 though, and we went from 144,000
to chakras, right? Now, if I were to ask you like to press further, why did you leap from 144,000
Israelite virgins that are 12,000 from each tribe to chakras? What, what, where's the bridge between
that and the interpretation of it being chakras? It just, it fits the overall esotericism that
I keep seeing throughout everything, just an amalgamation of Eastern and Western philosophies.
And it just, it seems like it's the most powerful thing that could be said. And I go on the basis
that The Bible was a book where people tried to say some pretty powerful things.
We can agree, at the very least, we can agree that taking it literally gets you nowhere.
Well, yeah, I would, I mean, yes, at the end of the day, there's a lot of stuff that I think people
are taking literal that is not. But then there are some things that I think there is a historical
basis for. For example, I think that Lukacs used Josephus in creating the Book of Acts. Josephus
is a historian from the first century. If we use the same interpretive model that you're discussing,
for example, biblically, and we go to Josephus, or we go to Philo, or we go to wherever, we'll never
really know what these historians might be trying to say. If we interpreted them using water, he
said water, he said a lake, he said this and that, he must be talking about Aquarius or something.
I would not jump to that conclusion. I had imagined you would be there.
It's just one interpretation of many. Right. But if we, we won't know anything
if we jump to those kind of interpretations, is my point. Well, why can't the Bible be a bunch of
different holy sciences? Oh, I'm not saying it. For example, Jesus is crucified in Golgotha, right?
Well, Golgotha is the skull, the place of the skull. What's at the base of the two?
The base of the two hemispheres. Right. I've heard that. Now, here's the question.
That's astronomical. That could make sense. That could make sense, right? Now, here's my question.
Has anyone ever documented that kind of interpretation, particularly on that?
Well, I can give that. I could show you the picture of the Egyptian, the Eye of Horus,
which basically mimics the pineal gland. So this is the leap. This is the leap. I'm not,
look, don't take this as I'm saying this. I'm not. Listen, this is a friendly conversation.
Yeah. But I want this to be an important point of where I'm coming from. Could it be?
Sure. Because I also do think that Osiris is almost like a, you could almost say,
Osiris had some impact. Okay. I think that Christianity early on had a serious rise in
Alexandria, Egypt. So there, I imagine some Egyptian influence plays a role. How it happened?
Genealogically, in the culture, I don't know. But my point is, is I wouldn't jump from that
to Osiris or in the Egyptian mythology and say, here's what I found over here. Therefore,
this is what this is saying. I would want more concrete connections to know that that is what
was being said. Well, what I try to do in my work is show you that you could argue, you could argue
that it's a bit of a leap to say Aquarius. I mean, man, baptism, water picture, those you could,
you could agree with. But then the water bodies, maybe you don't fully agree with that. That's
fine. But when you go through the passages as I have, and I show these continual, it's just not
random signs in the zodiac. The fact that they're signs in the zodiac is one thing. But the fact
that they are constantly making the exact same patterns with the neighboring signs and the cross
sign or the four, the solstices in the equinoxes or the fixed signs or the, it's definitely there.
Yeah, I'm not denying there aren't things there. I'm saying what we can, how we would come to some
of the conclusions. I'd be a lot more cautious before I jump to them. I mean, let me, let me
defend you here for a second. Early on in the church, when the four gospels come up, one of the
reasons they chose and stuck with four only is there's four cardinal, you know, directions,
northeast, south and west. So, and they would have, you know, if you look at some of the church
throughout time, they would have the symbol of either a lion for this gospel, Leo for Matthew,
you'd look at Mark, you know, and so there is, I'm not denying any way, shape or form, that there
aren't people thinking in this way. Well, would you also know that the book of Mark is the oldest
gospel, right? Yeah, early in my 70 AD. Do you know what happened in 100 AD at the Senate of Jamia?
No. You never heard of the Senate of Jamia? So, for a lot of people, you want to read up on it,
you can literally Google it because it's the encyclopedia Britannica. You know, they had the
Council of Nicea in 325 AD, right? It's a similar thing, but what this was is the reason in 100 AD
they had the Senate of Jamia and it was in Jamia in Israel. The reason they had this was because
the Old Testament, believe it or not, wasn't canonized in 100 AD. Right. Books were all over the
place. They didn't have them in order. In fact, the book of Genesis isn't the oldest book, the book
of Job is. And it's not, it's by far the book of Job is the oldest book in the Bible. It's just placed
in its location because they decided at this council that a bunch of politicians and early
rabbis to do that. Now, one of the things they discussed that they were going to do
is because the Gospel of Mark came out 30 years earlier on the time of the destruction of the
Second Temple of Israel. And what they were going to do was they were discussing whether or not to
put it in the Old Testament or create a New Testament with it. So, okay, this sounds a little
bit, I've not read this, so I don't want to make any judgment calls on this, but I would need to look
into this and find the source for this because I've never heard any of the academics mentioning this.
And so what, and I know that when we started off, it sounds like you're a little bit
suspect of academics in terms of their interpretation. I'm suspect of academics. I just
think that the more interesting, I think that you have better syncretism with the sciences
if you're able to free think as opposed to you this way, Derek, like I'm not a mathematician,
I can't think in terms of higher level physics, but I understand quantum physics.
I just don't, I just can't do the math with it, right? So, I can't think in those terms.
So, yeah, I get it, but this, my encouragement, while you're encouraging me to look at these
other sciences more, and I should continue trying to look at these other sciences more,
my encouragement would be also to look and try and ground and see what the academics are actually
saying more. Because I think you're right, there's stuff I'm not, but I'm also limited in how much
I can read at once, how much I can take in at once. I know that's a problem, believe me. People
send me books all the time, and book titles all the time. I have so much to do. I'm just very
cautious about a conspiracy to invent and create the New Testament type of thing when we don't
even have a New Testament that I'm aware of until Marcian. Marcian's the first guy that at least
has a compiled... Which, by the way, the Gospel of Marcian de Sinope, I also ran this cipher that
I came up with through it, and it shows patterns everywhere. This is, okay, this brings us back
to another point, and I am suspect, okay, I wonder if what you're, the tools you're using can work
with almost anything. That's why I'm saying methodology, because if I use your methodology,
and let's just say I go open up a book anywhere, and I start reading a modern book off the shelf,
but you have to understand, what I'm showing you too, I'm not showing you just a single mention of
twins. I'm not showing you just a single mention of a cow. I don't put those in slides. What I'm
showing you is when they have eight, nine, 10 in a row that are all, that all have to do with it.
I mean, I have one here. Genesis 49 rules out the list of the sons of Jacob and things like that.
I definitely think there's some overlap with that, and the describing them as animals that are
particularly found in a zodiac. I would need to do a lot more research diving into this,
to be able to solidify more of my position on astrothiology. I put it aside early on on
MythVision after listening to it for a year and a half or so before MythVision started taking off,
but it's something I, at some point, I'd like to dig deeper into so that I could actually
make up my own mind about what I think is or isn't. I don't think the whole Bible, this is my
thoughts, I don't think the whole Bible is astrothiology. I think that there's astrothiology
that finds its way in this literature here and there, plus I also see that there are various
genres, right? So I wouldn't take the poetry to mean the law codes. I wouldn't take the law codes to
be Gospels. You know what I mean? And so I would subset. Well, this is why I start showing people
when I explain the Lascaux Caves to show that we understood complex astrology 17,000 years ago.
I start with that and then show you that it's only natural that you look at Go Blacky Tappy,
right? There was a section of it that was the astronomical observatory. You look at the
anti-Cathero mechanism, which has been recently shown to be a astronomical computer. You could
look at all these ancient sites. I've actually seen that. The Greeks had a... The Greek computer,
right? It's crazy. You could see all this stuff and you have to realize, I'm just drawing how
important astrology and astronomy is. Do you know why? Because the Roman Catholic Catechism 2116.
You want to pull it up and read it real quick? Sure.
Because we can at least agree, if we don't agree on the scope 2116, the scope and the mass
of Astro Theology, we can at least agree that it's in there, right?
Yeah, I think it's there. All forms of divination are to be rejected, recourse to Satan or demons
conjuring up the dead or other practices falsely supposed to unveil the future, consulting
horoscopes, astrology, palm reading, interpretation of omens and lots, the phenomena of clairvoyance
and recourse to mediums all conceal a desire for power over time history. And in the last
analysis, other human beings as well as a wish to consulate hidden powers, they contradict the
honor, respect and loving fear that we owe to God alone. So let me ask you this question. If they
know that there's astrology in the books, then why is the Catholic Church putting in their edict
telling you not to look into it because it's of the devil? I would imagine, and I'm throwing this
out there, I don't know. This is my methodology. When was this Catechism written? What was going
on at the time that this was written? Because I would imagine just like the laws of the Bible,
that I shall have no other gods before me. They had other gods before you. So somebody's doing this
and people who are politically in control at the time in the church want to enforce this to say,
stop. The same reason I would go, why does the Roman Catholic Church believe that Mary was perpetually
a virgin? When in the gospel, she births Jesus as a virgin in Matthew and Luke,
yet she immediately knows Joseph. In the gospel, she comes to know Joseph after Jesus.
Yeah, because that's what it meant when it says she knew him. That's what they meant.
Right, sex. So why would the Catholic Church say she's a virgin forever, yet she has sex with Joseph
according to the gospel? And so what I'm saying is they have their own interpretation, and through
time, they want to control the narrative, and it's sacred to them. I would want to know when that was
written. What was the circumstance? Are there people doing this stuff that you're writing?
You know how I tell you, you're familiar that Aries is the beginning of the year, right?
Nissan 14. It's spring. It's the new year. Did you know that in the Egyptian times,
the new year was actually in Virgo, the beginning of the harvest season, whereas it was in
spring now, and now we have it in January, which is, who has a new year in the winter?
But why in Egypt? Where does the story come from? Well, the sun comes out of
Leo. Okay. And then
so the newborn sun comes from Virgo, a virgin.
Right. I have heard this and that Mary would be Virgo and such to interpret Jesus being the sun
born out of Virgo. If you've ever looked at any picture of her, of her, you know, Mary in a half
shelf, if you've got any look at any of those pictures of her on the, on the internet of her,
it's a vagina. Right. I don't know if you've ever noticed that too. I have seen, I have seen pictures
of what you're talking about. And part of me wonders if this is how things later get interpreted
when people like Michelangelo who have a way of esoteric way in which they're portraying some
of the figures and whatnot. I don't know. I mean, you find mushrooms in stained glass art and imagery
in the church over time. And I've heard some people go, well, that's evidence that Jesus
was a mushroom. And I'm like, well, you know, let's not do it. Have you read the mushroom in the
Sacred Cross? I have not read it. I've heard it's super complicated. I have it. But I could tell
you this much right now. You know what manna is? In Hebrew, manna, when you say manna, it means
what's this? How did they describe it in the Bible? It was a small, round, white thing. They'd walk
up to it and say, manna, they would eat it and they'd talk to God. Even make small use of magic
mushrooms. Yeah, that's an argument that some people will make is that manna is psilocybin that
appears out of nowhere in the morning and then it disappears and it comes back the next day.
We got a couple of super chats and let's hit these super chats here because I don't
want to leave people hanging for too long. Constellation Pegasus in the house, question,
how long does it take to observe to make a zodiac? Oh my God. Okay, so this is how it works.
Pegasus, I love all your comments keeping me busy. This is how it basically works with the zodiac.
You have your 12 signs. Each one of them are roughly 30 days. So you have your 12 signs and it
goes from Aquarius to Pisces to Aries to Taurus as you go through the year. However, when you're
talking about the great year, the zodiac year, it goes backwards. It's a procession. So go Taurus
to Aries to Pisces to Aquarius. I'm going to answer the question. Each zodiac sign is 2,160
years. You multiply by 12, you get 25,920. That's called the great year. It would take
at least that to fully understand. And the way that you understand the zodiac, by the way,
the way you understand what age we're in, whereas we're in the age of Aquarius right now,
is you go to the equator. I'm not saying do this because this is like very complicated and time
consuming and expensive. You go to the equator and then on March 21st on the spring equinox,
the sun is going to rise. The sun is going to rise. The sign behind the sun that it rises against,
that's the age we're in. So how long to observe to make a zodiac?
You could observe it in a year's time, but to understand the great year would be 25,920 years.
Thank you, Constellation. I'm curious to know if they've mathematically figured out a way
measuring small to get to that grand explanation there. But yeah, you're talking about the wobble
of the earth on its axis. Constellation, Pegasus, again, you need to get Aaron Adair on how long
it took the Sumerian zodiac to be completed. I don't know if he in particular knows about that,
but it wouldn't hurt to ask him. He's a good friend of mine. He's also a scientist. I'd be happy
to have him on and see what he says in particular on that. Thank you so much, Constellation. Vesper
in the house, can you show us exactly how you're using the hero's journey or any other cypher
gamatria used for decrypting astrotheology in the Bible, please? Can you show us exactly how
you're using the hero's journey or any other cypher gamatria is used for decrypting astrotheology?
So, gamatria.
You can invite any other cypher gamatria. I'm not a gamatria expert. In fact, I hate seeing that
on Twitter where they're like Michael Jordan's dad died. He was 33.33 years old. You know what
I'm talking about, Derek, right? Yeah, that's the problem, right? Like anything can go. Yeah.
I'm not a fan of that. That's why I'm not, that's why I'm, you understand, I hope at least respect.
But at the very least, I hope that I'm a little more believable or it makes a little bit more
sense. I mean, look, I think that if you, if you couldn't follow or if you thought that it made zero
sense, you would have let me know immediately. I think you see this. I'm a nice guy, man. I've had
Jesus on my channel. And what I mean by that is I'm not kidding. The guy from Australia who claims
to be Jesus, I interviewed. Is it Viserion? No, it's that's the Russian one, I think.
The guy from Australia, AJ, he goes by, I don't know his actual name. I forgot it's been so long,
but him and his wife, he believes that he was Jesus and Mary Magdalene was his wife. I've
interviewed, I've literally interviewed Jesus. Now, I'm not saying you're Jesus. I'm saying I'm
too nice. I'm a nice guy, okay? But I'm saying I could disagree with people and have conversations.
And I also, I believe my audience has good critical thinking skills and they can make up their mind.
Plus, I'm not here to control a narrative. I'm not here to tell people what they can think and
what they can't think. There are some things I just don't do because it's just so far to me. It's
almost like you're feeding into a troll, which would be the flatter thing we were talking about
before the episode. But no, like, I don't think that you're anything like those guys, but I'm not
the guy who's just going to cut you off and be sitting here trying to make you look dumb or
anything like that either. No, it's not my goal. You gotta watch that episode. If you haven't watched
that episode, I encourage you to get a laugh because this guy is serious as all get out.
And he looks you in the eyes and goes, I am Jesus. And when I was there, he says some stuff that
really was really weird to me. I will. I'll send it on Messenger when we're done. For sure.
I think I'm going to take an edible and watch it. It's going to freak you out because I allow him
to say what he and when you listen, you're going to wonder like, dude, am I tripping? Like, is this
guy like what's wrong? You know, is this what's wrong with the guy? You know what I found out
there that freaks me out? What? This is totally off topic, by the way. Do you know that I think
it's up to 50% of people in the world don't have an inner monologue? I didn't know that.
Like you haven't that little communication with themselves, you mean? Yeah. Yeah, it's just like
and I've had I've had people that watch my channel that have emailed me and been like,
this is what it's like to me. To them, it's like they have a general idea what they're doing,
but everything is like brand new. You ever see the movie Memento? No. Oh, it's where it's about
short term memory where you're like, you don't know what you're doing or you lose it every five
seconds. Oh, they explain it to me. It freaks me out. 50% of people do 50% don't have inner monologues.
I have never heard of that. That's interesting. Constellation Pegasus says, isn't it suspicious
the fish was used to identify Christians? Perfect timing for the zodiac sign.
Yeah, absolutely. You're talking about you were talking about going to
going to in Israel, right? You saw a bunch of floors. Well, there's let me show you one real
quick. I think it's on the thumbnail too. Let me share this again real quick. I don't like my
presentation. No, there's some people who do. I'm just I'm just voicing that there's definitely
different thoughts. Here we go. All right, hold on. Let me find it real quick.
There's that, there's that.
If you're watching, hit the like button everybody and subscribe to the guest if you like what you hear.
We're subscribed to the guest and tell them off whatever you want to do. You can do that too.
You can go over there and tell them what you think. I'll just tell you.
Let me make that. I wish you could make that bigger, but yeah, there are tons of fish symbols.
Yeah, so there's a town in Israel called Megida where a third century church was found under
another church. Basically, someone put their foot through the floor and like they found a whole
other church under it. It's one of the oldest churches known to man. This is from the 200s in
the center of the floor. Mosaic was a the two fish Pisces right there. And if you look at
if you're talking about, for example, I'll give you another example that you're going to say,
I want to see the interpretation, but I'll give it to you anyway, just to see if you do it.
When Jesus is walking along the beach and they're fishing and they can't catch anything,
he tells them to throw the net to the other side and they do and they bring in 153 fish.
Well, if you ever see two circles before that overlap, it forms a Vesica Pisces,
that's the Jesus fish. They catch 153 fish. They're very specific with that number.
Right. Mathematical equation of the Vesica Pisces, Jesus fish is 265 over 153.
I've actually dug deep into this one. And so yeah, I'm aware of it also potentially sounds
similar to Pythagoras story. And he of course is mathematics and stuff all day long. So
and 153 is a perfect triangular number. There's all sorts of cool things about 153.
And I don't know. I actually had a scholar come in and we went deep on 153. I don't think it was
like a 200 or sorry, two hour, two and a half hour episode where we dug into various interpretations
of the meaning. And he points out after he gives me like eight very complex arguments.
And I'm like, what the, and he's like, at the end of the day, like you can grab one of these
and say, that one makes sense. But you do so knowing these other models could make sense of
the data. And I'm like, Oh man, you're killing me with this interpretation. Thank you so much.
I really appreciate you comment on that. Gary Stone, my buddy Gary's coming out here,
and we're going to be getting his story of leaving Mormonism, his family actually
goes back to the scribe. He's literally genealogical descendant of the scribe of Joseph Smith.
So this is, yeah, man, look at that smile on your face, but I'm going to be interviewing him
and getting his story. And that's going to be coming up in the next couple of months. He'll
be out here in March. Original interpretations of the US constitution verse applying current
understanding to the text is a constant debate. It's the same phenomena with religious text.
One is conservative, the other progressive. And for me, Gary, I know you're going to relate to
this. And Micah, you may relate. I hope you do. To me, knowing an original oftentimes shows you
how people have taken it and like ran with their own. And oftentimes that helps free people from
this fundamentalist. We have the correct understanding of the text. Because once you
discover what it meant, I'll give you an example. This book right here, God and Anatomy. Anyone
who reads this book, I promise you, you're going to have a new respect for like how wild
the ancient Near Eastern deities were and how this God, we call the God of the Bible,
is another ancient Near Eastern deity. God of the Bible, I'm going to be very explicit here.
The God of the Bible had sex, had children, had a wife, was a son of a father named El Yahweh.
And like once you start to see the literature and like go through what is going on,
your mind will be blown. And God has some serious talk. It's really these people writing these
stories and saying, thus saith the Lord. But like, there's all sorts of stuff that when you start to
read it, you'll go, what? The Hebrew is a euphemism to mean God's dick. God has a huge one. According
to the Bible, he has a huge one. But you got to read the book, right? According to the Bible,
he also shows Moses his ass. So yes, actually, she points out that that is a euphemism
for like this area down here. And I had to stand up just to give you more example.
I know that it says back parts and you would think, but and it could, but she pointed out that a lot
of these terms are euphemisms in the Hebrew language to mean a very private part and like
what in the world? So I go back and I want to know the original, right? And you might call it
conservative. But in fact, this is the funny part psychologically, Christians consider this
liberal scholarship. They're not conservative. And the funny thing is, is the modern interpretations
are actually the ones who are liberal and not actually trying to get back to what the actual
original was. So it's a very funny way in which we're trying to make sense of this. But I think
it's very freeing to be free to interpret and go and try to find and discover how to understand
these ancient texts. It's a great journey in, I don't know, I'm a weirdo and a nerd. So I like
to do all this. Eric, we got to finish up the super chats, man, because I got to run an interview.
Okay, okay. Gary, appreciate you, man. Constellation Pegasus, again,
evidently, it takes 25,772 years for the Zodiac to cycle where humans able to see enough and
calculate the cycle before it completed once. I think so, you probably don't, but I do.
There might have been there might have been some math they could do at the time, but you have to also
Yeah, well, it's 25,920. They always tell you different. The 25,772, I think, is if you
have her 26, and then I've heard, yeah, we're humans able to see it enough again. I'm not going
to lie. Look, this is speculative. But to be honest with you, we knew about this 17,000 years ago.
I think that this was given to us by someone, because I find it so prevalent in everything
that I read. And I honestly think it was given to us by someone. I know that's probably going to
sound a little wild or so, but it is. I mean, there's a lot of people who think, you know,
Why do you think? Yeah. Yeah. So isn't the reason that you should code? William Orens isn't the
reason that the ancient code to the meaning of life is similar in many cultures because the
universe to them had a cosmos that seemed to them the same size as the lands and waters of the earth
or of earth. Thank you for that super chat, William. And constellation. Thank you.
I have no idea. I'm not going to lie. Like I have no problem telling people I have no idea.
Isn't the reason the ancient code to the meaning of life is similar in many cultures?
I would imagine, I mean, it doesn't have to be about, I mean, I would imagine they all had cosmos,
right? We can agree. They all had a cosmos in their mind. They all had lands and water and somehow
this factor. There was no air, there was no air and noise pollution back then. There was no industrial
era. There was no machines just pumping out smoke. There was no chemtrails, quark contrails. There was
none of that kind of stuff. They could go out and it was like aurora borealis. They would just see
everything. So I don't think for me that that in answering this question, because to me that's a
whole different topic. I would say I think the reason people have similar codes and narratives is
because humans tend to have similar experiences physiologically, psychologically, I would say
environmentally. But you also see differences in their stories and depending on where they're from,
but you'll find commonality because we're all human. I mean, we're all humans trying to work
this thing out. We call life. You'll find out, you'll find too that the sun tells the hour of the day,
the moon tells the day of the month, and the zodiac tells the month of the year. So where we're
located in the middle of the Milky Way galaxy, kind of on the corner to the left in the middle
of the nowhere, certainly not the middle of the universe. Where we're located in the Milky
Way galaxy, there is a perfect solar calendar that we have figured out.
Thank you, Giacca Latte. Latte, Giacca Latte. Thank you for the super chat. I really appreciate it. I
didn't see, I wanted to make sure I didn't leave you hanging before we go, that you had a comment
or something, but you're just throwing a five at us. I really appreciate that. Look, I really do
appreciate your time coming on here, and thanks for just deciding to have a conversation for the
next hour. Listen, Bush, and I would, you know, I know you're a super busy dude, but maybe in a
couple months we could just come on and just have a conversation. I would like, what I would like is,
I would like to read more on this topic, and then dive into astro theology again, giving it what I
think is solid, and then, you know, go from there. I mean, we could have a conversation, but I'd
like to, I'd like to get versed, and it's been a long time since I was in my manly key hall phase,
and going through all that, but I'd like to read before we end up doing an episode so that we could
find common ground, and I can go in and, you know, we can talk about where we're in agreement.
Yeah, just give me a couple topic ideas. I'll do some research too.
Okay.
Just hit me up, man. Derek, man, it's been, like I said, way more fun to talk to you. You're an
awesome dude.
Well, thank you, and I'm thankful that you're not, like, hating me at this point for being just poking
and, like, giving my thoughts. I hope people check you out. Like, if you like what you heard,
or you didn't, go harass him in a problem or negative way. Go harass him. Show him some love
on the YouTube channel. Mike is just on a journey, like everyone, trying to figure things out,
and you can't hate the guy, even if you disagree with him, right? I mean, you could hate him,
but come on. Why would you want to do that?
Don't hate me.
Show love. Show love.
I'm harmless.
But yeah, go check him out. Go show him some love, and then show him critical. I mean, look,
Micah, you're willing to learn, right? If someone in the chat thinks they got something you don't,
or they found something out you haven't, go let him know. I mean, don't let him stay in the dark.
If you know something and you want to approach that conversation, please feel free to. Also,
though, go listen to what he has to say, and maybe you can learn something from him as well.
And I think we can all learn from each other and have these conversations. I actually told
my mom this the other day, Micah, before I let you go. The problem is we don't talk to people
enough from different viewpoints, different religions, things like that. So we have built
up stereotypes about other people. And specifically, my household, you know, my dad went to war in
Afghanistan. He was over there during the whole stuff since 9-11 onward. And so there's a big
Western stereotype of Muslims. And it's like, if you actually be friends some and you get in
conversation with them and you get to know them, you'll find out their parents, mothers, fathers,
sisters, brothers, human like you, they're just, they have a different story in which they're
trying to understand the world through different culture. And it breaks down those kind of stereotypes
that allow for bigotry or racism and things like that. So it's a good practice to have to have
conversations with other people that you don't agree with, or you have common ground with,
but you can discuss those disagreements too. You know what I mean?
I agree, man. Thanks for having me on, Derek. I appreciate it, man.
You're getting love in the chat, man.
Thanks, guys. Come over to my, listen, my social media is MicahDank. Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
MicahDank. If you want to see that pretty mug again, go check him out. Check out that stash.
I mean, come on. Who doesn't want that stash, right?
Seriously though, Jesus, just look up MythVision. Ooh, I guess I do need to do this real quick.
The MythVision AJ interview. Australian Jesus. MythVision.
Australian Jesus. You could take your edible and then go watch this. And by the way,
I have a follow-up interview I did with one of his early disciples, if you will.
Well, that's got to be even worse. Oh, it's, it's a little weird because he
started to say that like people who are diagnosed, you could tell there's like some pseudo science
in his mind. He thought that people who are diagnosed with schizophrenia are actually,
those are real demons actually talking to him or spirits and demons. And that there isn't a real
psychological issue so that they should just embrace the voices and stop taking medicine and
stop going to the hospital for that. And I was like, that's dangerous as hell. But
it is the worst. Yeah, bro. I mean, I was like, what? But he also was saying stuff about this guy who
that says he's Jesus with all confidence at one point was going to send an email out telling
everybody, all right, I'm not really Jesus. And like, he goes, bro, all right, did I do it? Here
we go. Posting it again. I posted it in the chat. I'm going to send it to you on Messenger if you
want to get a laugh. Yeah, send it to me on Messenger. Go check it out. Hey, I hope you guys
enjoyed this. You can disagree at the end of the day, whatever. Like the video, drop a comment,
love you, never forget. We are MythVision. Micah, thanks a lot, man. Enjoy your evening.
