For those who if you know dr. Josh this guy is a you're a treasure like you're walking treasure
The time that you put in
The time put into first just your studies
I think people who de-convert after going through the studies that someone like you being from the evangelical side
So you know
But people who hold the text as sacred and take it seriously
You know what they would say, but then you also have this other side. You look at it critically. Yeah
I just think you have so much to offer
Maybe this would be good to do then just knowing the potential audience that might watch this
Since we've spent a bunch of time talking about what was I really a Christian that sort of thing
This is something that I like to do with people to sort of maybe give them a little more confidence that I actually was
So when I was a
Christian if somebody came up to me and said like what do I do to be saved?
Right. Well, I mean my first response. Maybe we can't do anything, right?
But this is what I would say to people and it's always a well, how do you know that you're a Christian this is what I would have said
You know, I
I was born with a sinful nature because of Adam in the fall
You know, I I'm a sinful human being just like every man is sinful sin and fall short of the glory of God
And there's nothing that I can do to rid myself of that sin nature and the sin that comes from it
Yeah, come on somebody
And and because of that sin
And that sin nature I am destined to be eternally separated from God
Because God is holy and God is just and must punish sin and can't have any sin in his presence
And so I'm I'm destined for hell
and
all humanity
Throughout the ages has been
Ever since the fall. However into that
step Jesus Christ
God and flesh
part of the Trinity
Who came down the flippings to six and seven, right?
Came down and
lived a perfect sinless life
Was tortured and died on a cross to pay the penalty for our sins and rose again the third day
completely
Making it possible for us to be justified in the sight of a holy God and so
What do we have to do and to?
To to merit that well, we can't right?
We can't merit that but it was graciously given as a free gift
So salvation is by grace were saved by grace through faith that none of ourselves gift of God not of works
us to any man should boast and
So how do you how do you receive that justification? How is that?
Imparted to you. How do you get that righteousness imparted to you?
So that when God looks at you
He sees a righteous
Justified human being
Sinless human being well you say I'm a sinner and there's nothing that I can do it and then myself
To get rid of that sin
But Jesus Christ when he came and died and rose the third day paid the full penalty for my sin and for everybody else's sin
and that if I
trust in that
Have faith in that free gift
And and trust that when he died on the cross he paid the penalty for my sin as well
That I have the very righteousness of Christ imputed to my account
and
The Holy Spirit comes in and seals man to the day of redemption and that when I die I'm ushered into his presence, right and
Like so, yeah, I knew the gospel, right? I believed every word of that
You
