We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Today, we're battling the gods.
I hope you guys stay tuned and enjoy this video.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's been one of my passions lately
to discover natural explanations for the divine.
Are there really natural explanations
that better suit the superstitious ideas
that we've been carrying for thousands of years?
Who knows how far back in the prehistory
we were superstitious in thinking these ideas?
We might have evolved from the previous species
thinking these kind of ideas, for all I know.
I'm just saying that to say,
the question is, were there atheists in the ancient world?
And today, we're gonna be talking about the book,
battling the gods, atheism in the ancient world
with Tim Whitmarsh.
Now, of course, that's Dr. Tim Whitmarsh.
Welcome to the show, my friend.
Thanks for having me, Derek.
It's a real pleasure to be here.
I'm super glad you got to jump on
because not only are we gonna stir
a little controversy up today,
I think we're gonna correct some errors
with your expertise in pointing out
some simple basic information.
And one of those flaws, I wanna stay upfront
to give a tease, is that atheism started with Christianity,
that somehow atheism is originated because of Christianity
and that the original Christians were accused of atheism.
Therefore, atheism doesn't mean what you think it does
by the modern sense.
So this is a new, in the past 300 years, 200 years,
maybe a new idea of what atheism is actually meaning.
And we're gonna talk about ancient atheism
prior to Christianity.
So that's gonna be right there.
It's like, uh-oh, somebody hold on tight.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wanna introduce
Professor Tim Whitmarsh.
He's a classicist, and correct me if I'm wrong
on some of this stuff.
I might butcher some words,
and Greek words sometimes are very difficult to pronounce.
Thank you.
So he's a classicist, and the second-agey Leventus,
did I say that correct?
That's right, yeah, yeah.
Leventus, professor of Greek culture
at the University of Cambridge.
He is best known for his work
on the Greek literary culture of the Roman Empire,
especially the second Sophistic
and the ancient Greek novel.
Among his publications are,
and the links will be in the description, you guys,
make sure you guys go get a copy of all of them,
but especially the book we're gonna talk about today
so you guys can catch up on this latest argument.
Greek literature and the Roman Empire,
the Politics of Imitation, he wrote that in 2001.
Ancient Greek literature in 2004.
The Second Sophistic, 2005.
Narrative and Identity in the Ancient Greek Novel,
Returning Romance, 2011.
Beyond the Second Sophistic,
Adventures in Greek Postclassicism, 2013.
Dirty Love, the Genealogy of the Ancient Greek Novel, 2018,
and the book we're gonna discuss today,
Battling the Gods, ancient, or atheism, sorry,
in the ancient world, and that's a publication in 2016.
So I'll start off with a question to you, Professor.
What is myth?
Since my show is called Myth Vision,
we should probably take a second to establish
what it means by myth and mythology
with respect to the Greco-Roman literature,
and I'd like to open with a quote from Plato's Republic,
Book Two, 276 E to 376 A, if you don't mind.
Socrates says, and there are two kinds of story, Logia.
True ones and fictional.
Adamintus, am I saying that correct?
Yeah man, close enough.
Adamintus says, yes.
Socrates, we must educate them in both kinds,
but in fiction first, mustn't we?
Adamintus says, I don't understand, he said.
What do you mean?
Socrates says, do you understand, I said,
that we tell children myths first.
I assume this means fiction on the whole,
but there can be truth in this too,
and we use myths with children
before we go on to physical exercise.
And so in this example, the mythos
in the sense of fictional fables or fairy tales.
So if we're talking about myths
of the Greco-Roman mythology,
did the common people believe their myths
in the same sense that practitioners
of modern religions believe that the narratives
of their own religions texts are literal?
Like literally true?
Sorry.
That's a really good question.
There's actually a book called
The Greeks Believe Their Myths
by the French scholar Paul Revan.
And his answer is, as you would expect,
it's complicated.
It goes something like this.
The word mousos, from which we get the English myth,
has a myriad of different meanings in Greek antiquity.
It can mean just the plot of a story,
whether that story is true or not.
It can mean myth in the sense that we understand it,
that's to say a sort of a legendary tale,
which is part of the folk mythology of the people.
Or it can mean something close to fiction
in the way that we use it, the word today.
Now, the Greeks did have a concept of fiction.
They knew, of course, that stories could be factual
or they could be made up,
but they didn't really have a sharp distinction
of the kind that we make.
So when you walk into a bookstore,
you see the fiction section and the non-fiction section,
and they didn't really categorize stuff like that.
So there was lots of gray area material.
And I think the myths that we tend to think of
as Greek myths, the Trojan War and so forth,
people, most people would put in that gray area
between the fictional and the non-fictional.
They would think of this stuff as
rooted in a kind of historical truth,
but adorned with elements that are fictional.
So people often say things like the,
in Homer's Iliad, when gods appear
and they pluck people out often,
they sort of make them,
they cast mist around the base word
of all that supernatural stuff.
I think many Greeks would say,
well, that's just poetic fantasy
or poetic flights of fantasy that are superimposed
onto a basically true historical myth.
What are your thoughts on that?
I mean, it sounds to me that a lot,
let me use it for example,
that the Catholic church has taken this approach,
at least in terms of the Hebrew Bible,
because you can see early church fathers oftentimes,
they don't necessarily equate the Hebrew Old Testament
to being mythology or allegory or something.
They might say certain parts might be
depending on the church father,
but overall they believed a lot of these narratives.
And today the Catholic church,
these priests that are going around and saying,
yeah, yeah, yeah, Adam and Eve, mythology, Noah, mythology,
Jesus, hold on, he rose from the dead buddy.
So I guess the question then is,
did they believe these myths in the same way?
And I hear that in that vein before we move on,
because I have a, guys, I have to stick to this sheet.
Okay, this is just such a great,
you have so much information, I would sidetrack easily.
So I wanna make this last comment on this,
and I think I'd love to have your response on this,
is there are people who are building ideas off of this
suggesting, well, no, they didn't believe Poseidon
really controlled the oceans,
and Zeus is up there throwing lightning bolts down.
Are you sure?
I mean, that's like saying,
for Christians that are trying to correct or fix
or protect their text,
they might run into stuff like Matthew 28
where these zombies come out of the graves.
That's allegory.
Oh, now you wanna protect your literary device here
and say, well, that's allegory,
because it's so absurd.
Now, according to our eyes today,
you know, Mike Lacona did this, that's allegory.
He's a Christian apologist,
and other Christian apologists
that are coming more scholarship
are accepting more stuff that's,
let's say, was believed by Christians for a long time.
So I suspect, and this is just me,
that it's more complicated.
Would you be able to clarify on that
that maybe some people did actually believe
behind the natural phenomenon
there really were divine figures doing these things, or?
Yeah, I think that's true.
I mean, we have to be careful with the language of belief,
which is, at one level, it's very Christian.
I mean, it's only the Christians that say,
I believe in one God who make the profession of faith
and belief a central tenet of religious experience.
Jews, Muslims, Hindus don't have quite the same investment
in the idea of belief.
But I think it's still, it's fair to ask the question,
do people think this stuff was true,
and what did they actually envisage
when they thought a thunderbolt is sent by as used?
Did they think that there really is an anthropomorphic figure
who throws these things down,
or did they think of it as more like,
sort of Wizard of Oz-like figures
that are controlling the buttons or whatever?
All of these are legitimate questions.
Of course, we can't go back and interview ancient Greeks.
We've only got the traces that we have,
which are quite plentiful and quite rich,
but they're not, you know,
they're not people's innermost thoughts.
What I would say is that
we do see evidence for people saying
the traditional conceptions of divine influence
on nature and the weather, for example, are naive,
and you shouldn't believe in that sort of stuff anymore.
And that kind of suggests that there were people
that did believe in this stuff.
And that, you know, people,
I mean, the human brain is an extraordinary thing.
We tend to think, we tend to be very generous
toward people throughout history,
and we say everyone at all points must have been rational,
and they must have taken decisions for rational reasons,
and everything must be explicable.
But we sort of forget that an awful lot of people
live their lives, and all of us live our lives
using emotion and, you know,
general beliefs in the world as sort of shortcuts,
because we can't rationally process everything,
because there's too much material coming at us.
So we use these sort of cognitive shortcuts, like,
as to say, you know, deeply held beliefs
that have never been interrogated,
emotions and so forth, as, you know,
as a sense of, to accelerate through our decision-making
processes on a daily basis,
and to cope with the awfulness of existence.
That's true, yeah.
I have to say, once again, shameless plug,
go in the description, get battling the gods.
You go into a great depth of the literature,
and I love your opening, the debate,
the hypothetical debate.
I really enjoy that,
because I thought this was real quoting at first.
This is somebody, you know,
who hasn't read Greek literature like that.
I'm ignorant on this.
I have to learn, I'm learning.
I admit that I'm ignorant, and I have a lot to learn,
but I listened to your opening,
and I thought, this is a debate
from like five, six centuries BC.
And, but it sounded so well put together,
like that I could imagine
that that really would be a discussion between two guys.
The problem is, you know, trials like Socrates
and the accusations for people
who would take a position like that.
I suspect it wasn't publicly accepted.
You know, there could have been an easily,
you know, it wasn't necessarily Burnham at the Stinks,
like Christian church might have done later on,
if you weren't a Trinity believer or something,
but it definitely wasn't socially acceptable
in the broader sense, I suspect,
which is why your job was very difficult,
trying to dig in and find and extrapolate,
you know, certain clear atheists that existed in history.
Yeah, the word atheist, or Athos is the Greek word,
is almost always negative in the Greek world.
It's an insult thrown at someone else.
And, I mean, I think by and large,
it was a world that was tolerant
of a wide variety of beliefs about the gods,
including that they didn't exist at all,
because it's a world without scripture.
I mean, Greek religion doesn't have a text
which tells you how to believe in the gods.
The closest they have is the Iliad
and the Odyssey, the works of Homer,
which were held in a kind of reverence and awe,
but they're not really theological texts.
They're not, and a lot of people
held very orthodox views about gods,
but would have said that the gods of Homer and Hesiod
are sort of made up kind of fictional mythical stuff
in the way that we were talking about earlier.
So, yeah, as I say, I think there is a kind of flexibility
and a capacity to Greek's general approach to divinity.
But, as you say, there were times
when the repressive hammer came down,
and one of those times was around 430 BCE,
when the Athenians were, I mean,
it's the beginning of the Peloponnesian War with Sparta,
which must be part of the context here,
because it is a sort of crisis time
going to war with your big rivals.
Around this time, also, there is a plague in Athens
which kills a lot of people.
So, you know, Athens is both a sort of honeypot
attracting all of the intellectuals across the Greek world.
It's the biggest city in the Mediterranean,
incredibly wealthy and incredibly open
to experimental new ideas.
So, it's a place where atheism,
ideas, atheistic ideas are fermenting,
but at the same time, it's a place of panic
and a place where the more religiously conservative,
it's slightly inachronistic terms,
but the more religiously conservative
are thinking we need all of the divine muscle
on our side that we can get,
and therefore, we can't have these atheists
going around professing heretical beliefs about things
because we need the gold on our side.
So, you've got this sort of weird tension
between the two in Athens,
and that creates a kind of perfect storm
that leads to the prosecution of Anaxagoras.
We could apply that today.
In modern day America, actually,
there's so many religious fundamentalists
that are Christian, and many people like me
who are now skeptical and come out saying,
hey, I'm an atheist now, and I once was a Christian,
and well, if we went to war or a natural disaster comes,
they're gonna blame us.
So, that's just a perfect example, so to speak.
The blaming is on those who aren't,
the Jews did the same thing.
Why are we being punished?
Why are we being captured?
It's not that our God doesn't exist.
It's not that God's not being faithful.
One of you guys didn't keep Sabbath last week.
What's going on, you know?
So, yeah, I'll move on to the sheet if that's fine.
So, theistic atheism.
You mentioned in the book that the Greek term atheos,
which we actually were just talking about,
essentially meant godless,
in the sense of not being for,
being ford by the gods, favored, sorry, by the gods,
or being opposed to the gods.
This is obviously very different
from the ways we used atheist term in English.
So, I just wanna read a couple of examples
of this kind of usage,
and I'm going to butcher these names.
I've literally practiced last night
trying to figure out how to say this.
So, it's A-E-S-C-H-Y-L-U-S.
Eastless, yeah.
Eastless, okay.
And then, humanities, 151.
The theory, the theories addressing the god Apollo.
Oh, child of Zeus, you have become a thief.
You, a youth, have ridden down old divinities
by showing respect to your supplier,
a godless atheist, man and cruel to a parent.
Although you are a god,
you have stolen away a man that killed his mother.
Here, is A-E-S-C-H-Y-L-U-S the same as O-R-E-S-T-S,
Orsteus?
No, Orrestes, and Eastless is the author.
Orrestes.
Orrestes, yeah.
Okay, here, Orrestes is said to be godless
because he, he's not the god's favor,
or in the god's favor.
Not because he's an atheist,
and then, we have basically the only occurrence
of the term atheist in the entire New Testament.
So, it's probably worth mentioning,
Paul, or Pseudo-Paul, in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 12.
Remember that you were at the time separated from Christ,
alienated from the commonwealth of Israel
and strangers to the covenants of promise,
having no hope and without god,
atheist, if you will, in the world.
Obviously, the Ephesians didn't,
did believe in gods prior to their conversion
to Christianity, but they were without the monotheistic
upper case, G-O-D, of Israel.
But when you contrast that with one of Paul's authentic letters,
1 Corinthians 8-4, you get a statement like this.
There is no god but one.
Before we get into the key examples of atheism,
so if you don't mind being used in the modern sense,
atheists, of philosophical atheism,
can you comment on how the term was understood
before that particular development?
So, I guess there's a lot to unpack right there,
if you don't mind.
Yeah, well, the example that you took there
was from a Greek tragedy.
And Greek tragedy is about,
it's constitutively about people being sort of alienated
from their environments and isolated
and people in extreme positions of desperation.
So, there are a lot of negative words in tragedy,
to put it mildly.
Is a negative word because it means without,
that's what the app, it means, without a god.
So, we often find people described as,
I mean, in effect abandoned by the gods,
God forsaken, despised by the gods,
in the same ways that they might be despised by humanity.
People in tragedies often say things like,
I'm like a rock out at sea, battered by the waves,
in isolation, I've got no one, no support,
no support networks, I'm just me on my own.
So, that's the kind of tragic vibe, if you like.
And that's why the word atheists is used
in that way in tragedy.
Now, by, I reckon, by that 411,
we have a clear attestation in a play
by Aristophanes of the use of the word atheists
in something like the modern sense.
But the first unambiguous usage is in the trial of Socrates
in 399 BC, where Socrates very clearly used this,
at least in place of the account of this trial,
which was written 10 years or so later.
We have very clearly, Socrates understands the word
atheists to mean a philosophical commitment
to the principle that there are no gods.
So, it goes on a journey in the course of the fifth century
from that sort of poetic usage of tragic usage
to a more philosophical usage.
But there's always a kind of gray area between the two.
It's not a word that is used with pinpoint precision.
It's a broadly emotive word.
And as I said earlier,
it's used primarily negatively to stigmatize people.
There are other phrases also that are used
to indicate what we would call atheism.
So, people talk about not believing in the gods,
for example, those who don't believe in the gods,
which is a sort of set phrase
that is used that recurs periodically.
Now, what you were also mentioning early Christians
and even before that, Philo of Alexandria,
who's a Jewish writer,
is using the word atheists in that sense as well,
which is of being someone who doesn't believe
in one's own God.
So, as you say, for Jews and Christians to be an atheist
doesn't mean to lack any belief in gods.
It means to lack belief in the correct God.
The God that they might be ethnically attached to
or their own city-state divinity
or something like that could be the case.
Yeah, I think we're gonna touch on just a little bit of that
as we go more,
but I really appreciate you doing that
because what I'm finding is that the term takes
on various meaning depending on the context,
that term has various meanings and it doesn't mean,
like when you hear the word apatheos doesn't mean,
all right, these guys are all believers
in the non-existence of God
or the lacking belief in a God.
No, it could simply mean they don't believe in their God
that they were, let's say they're Athenians
and they become a Christian or something like that.
They're just not believing their original God
and that could be, they're without their God.
Or I thought it was interesting in your book,
I'll make a comment on how you said,
and it sounds apologetic, like a weird,
it's like an old way of thinking,
like they're arguing and none of them except for a moment
that the gods don't exist.
So they'll say stuff like, well, I know that,
you know, the way you're treated in life,
whoever the guy might be,
that's evidence that the gods are disfavoring you.
And it's like, they use that as arguments to say like,
that means, yeah.
That's a comedy.
So that's a joke.
But yes, there are two slaves,
one of them says, buys the use,
the other one goes, what do you mean buys the use?
Do you don't believe in that old kind of nonsense to you?
And the other one says, yes, of course,
I believe in the gods because why is it
that I'm so God forsaken if they're,
so yeah, I mean, it's a joke, basically.
That's so funny though, even though it's a joke,
I think it's kind of funny because you would think
that would make you question, you know,
like today if things are just going bad,
but no, people turn to books like Job and they're like,
this is evidence that God's testing me.
And it's like, dude.
So I do appreciate your book.
I keep plugging it.
I want everybody to go read it
because it's really, really good.
Let's dispel the myths about ancient atheism,
if you don't mind.
And I'm gonna play a couple little clips.
One of them I actually created with my friend, Steven.
So huge shout out to my friend, Steven Nelson
for putting all this stuff together,
including writing this stuff,
I'm butchering some of these words.
He would have been able to run them off easily.
He reads and understands Greek and stuff.
So he really admires you for what you do.
There's been a lot of debate online in the last few years
over the definition of atheist and atheism.
I'm sure you're aware of it too.
Before we get too deep into that,
I just wanna get your professional opinion
on a couple of things.
I'm going to play a soundbite from a well-known atheist
who goes by Osmedias, Ramesses II, or Ozzie for short.
Here he discusses the ancient use of the term atheos.
And I'm gonna go ahead and play this here.
I want to get you to maybe, if you don't mind,
give us your two cents on this.
Let me get this open here.
Can you hear that?
Just about, yeah.
The allegation is that Socrates has been
spreading in piety's falsehoods about the gods,
not that he didn't believe in the gods necessarily,
but that he spread falsehoods and was corrupting the youth.
Okay.
So it's entirely unclear exactly how they understood it.
We have some idea,
but it certainly wasn't what we mean by it
and what it came to mean for the last few centuries.
I don't know if you caught that,
what he's actually trying to say.
If you want, I could play it back.
I think I caught it.
So he was talking about the accusation against Socrates,
saying it wasn't an accusation against him
for being an atheist as we would understand it.
Is that right?
Right.
And I think, isn't his name Miletus, the man on trial,
let's put him on trial.
He's suggesting that he is an atheist,
but this guy saying, no, they're just talking about in piety,
but it's not this no modern concept
being accusing Socrates of believing in no gods at all,
like we would think atheism means.
Can you correct that?
Or is this guy correct or is he wrong?
Well, I think he's right up to a point
that the accusation against Socrates wasn't an accusation.
He wasn't being tried for atheism.
He's been tried for not believing in the,
would you say, yeah, the Greek is kind of weird here.
Not to either believing or worshiping the gods of the city
and introducing new gods and corrupting the youth.
So it's three elements,
first two of which are religious and the third of which
is to do with corrupting the youth,
which may also mean corrupting them
by teaching the false ideas about the gods.
We don't have much information on that.
So yeah, I mean, it was a very broad brush accusation
in line with a lot of accusations in Athenian law
because they didn't have specialist jurors.
They didn't have, you know,
you know, statute books with which defined laws
in a kind of crystalline sense.
As the Romans did.
It was basically, because it was a democracy.
The idea was that laws should be applied
in accordance with the broad general understanding
of the populace as a whole,
rather than being in the province of, you know,
specialist professional lawyers.
So yes, it was a broad vague accusation.
The thing is that it does seem to echo
the accusation against Anaxagoras that I mentioned earlier
that was an accusation against him
for not believing in gods or not worshiping gods.
This very difficult phrase.
And as the speaker correctly said,
Meletus, the prosecutor does at one point,
at least in place of the version of it,
does at one point seem to imply that the accusation includes
the component of not believing in the gods at all
of having no commitments of the belief in the gods.
So I think, you know, the accusation itself is very broad,
but it could include, and if Plato's right did include,
the accusation of not believing in the gods.
That's what I was trying to, I think, wrap my head around
and I could be mistaken, but from watching that little clip
that seems to be his point is he's divorcing
any modern concept in that discussion there.
And he's on a show with another guy, Steve McCrae,
who also thinks that the idea of atheism
actually originated with Christian, the Christians.
And you're gonna see a clip here in a minute.
I'll show you that as well.
But the point is is they're trying to say
that there was no mention of any modern atheism
in that discussion at all.
Whereas you just mentioned that there is a point
to someone who most likely, at least it appears,
is an all-out atheist,
someone who may be potentially an all-out atheist,
and that's going on well before Christianity's on the scene.
So...
That's almost a quote from what Socrates says
in reply to the accusation.
He says, do you think I'm an out-and-out atheist?
Do you think I think that there were no gods?
So, I mean, it's very clear that in that particular passage,
what Socrates understands the accusation to be
is that he doesn't believe in the existence of gods at all.
And we have another text by Xenophon,
which defends Socrates against the charge
of not believing in gods.
So, you know, it is wrong to say
that there was no concept of disbelief in the gods
before Christianity.
On the other hand, I mean, if you want to say
the modern idea of atheism is distinctively modern,
a post-enlightenment concept,
I mean, that is true as well because, I mean,
the shape that atheism has taken in the last 200 years
is quite distinctive to scientific modernity
and to a world that believes in, you know,
or at least, you know, this sort of enlightenment view
that we're moving inexorably towards
a more rational scientific conception of the world.
And that is going to lead to people rejecting
any belief in divinity.
And that's a sort of, that's a road
that we're set on irreversibly.
That's not an ancient idea at all.
So there's an element of truth to the idea
that atheism, as we understand it now,
is definitively modern.
But I would reject the idea that people didn't believe in
that, you know, you can't find people
that reject the existence of divinity before Christianity.
Your book goes in the great length showing that, actually.
Well, yes.
Yeah, it ciphers through, though.
You like clearly show some complicated situations
to try and explain what's going on,
including the Socrates trial type stuff,
and show like, look, it's not one size fits all.
There's various complex concepts and ideas.
But, you know, I get a lot of people who talk about science.
Oh, the ancients had all these inventions
like modern science.
And, you know, I've had Tim O'Neill recently come on
and Tim O'Neill talks about the myth
of the burning of the Alexandrian library,
which was supposedly burned by Christians.
And he says, no, it wasn't burned by Christians.
And he goes into the history behind it.
It's been burned multiple times.
Obviously, there was a once-for-all type scenario
that ends up at the end in like third, fourth century AD.
But his point was that, you know,
the sciences then were more philosophical
and they weren't necessarily like what we think in science.
So, yeah, I can see there being an evolved version
of something that's already laying the groundwork here
back in the day.
So, yeah, I pulled that context,
that video context out in, he's claiming the term
athios was used against Socrates in the sense of impiety,
meaning that he taught falsehoods about the gods,
not that he didn't believe they existed.
Now, before you elucidate the example
from Plato's Apology 26,
I'd like to provide the actual quote and context
for the audience.
And rather than read it,
I've actually cut together a video illustrate
to illustrate it even better.
And this video clip of the scene will be performed along
with some dialogue from an audio book
that has a good translation, if you don't mind.
And that's actually something that I did recently
and my buddy Steven Nelson was like, this is awesome,
it does the job.
So I'm gonna open this link here and share this with you.
We kind of already talked about this,
but I do want you to maybe give me your thoughts
on the clip maybe, I don't know, see if you like it.
But still, I should like to know, Miletus,
in what I'm affirmed to corrupt the young.
I suppose you mean, as I infer from your indictment,
that I teach them not to acknowledge the gods,
which the state acknowledges,
but some other new divinities or spiritual agencies
in their stead.
These are the lessons by which I corrupt the youth,
as you say.
Yes, that I say emphatically.
Then, by the gods, Miletus, of whom we are speaking,
tell me and the court in somewhat plainer terms
what you mean.
For I do not as yet understand whether you affirm
that I teach other men to acknowledge some gods,
and therefore that I do believe in gods,
and I'm not an entire atheist,
this you do not lay to my charge,
but only you say that they are not the same gods
which the city recognizes.
The charge is that they are different gods.
Or do you mean that I'm an atheist simply,
and a teacher of atheism?
I mean the latter, that you are a complete atheist.
What an extraordinary statement.
Why do you think so, Miletus?
Do you mean that I do not believe in the Godhead of the sun
or moon like other men?
I assure you, judges, that he does not,
for he says that the sun is stone and the moon earth.
Friend Miletus, you think that you are accusing
Annexagoras, and you have but a bad opinion of the judges
if you fancy them illiterate to such a degree
as not to know that these doctrines are found
in the books of Annexagoras, the Clasimenean,
which are full of them.
And so, forsooth, the youth are said to be taught them
by Socrates when there are not
unfrequently exhibitions of them at the theater.
And they might pay their money and laugh at Socrates
if he pretends to father these extraordinary views.
And so, Miletus, you rarely think
that I do not believe in any God.
I swear by Zeus that you believe absolutely in none at all.
There's a little, was that cool?
Yeah, magic.
How'd you do it?
It took me about 20 minutes, but he came up with the audio
and he said that the obvious way
that the reader is reading that is very good translation,
the way that he's defining, it makes the point pretty clear.
We know Socrates wasn't an all out atheist,
but isn't that the accusation?
It's not just impiety, don't get me wrong.
Of course, impiety is the charge,
but is the accuser falsely accusing Socrates
of being an all out atheist?
That's the question.
At that point, yes, I think he is, yeah, absolutely.
It sounds that way.
And I just wanted to get you to maybe clarify that.
So, yeah, he says, please enlighten us here.
When Plato writes, I do not believe in any God.
The Greek, I cannot even begin to read it out in Greek.
What exactly does he mean?
Is that consistent with the modern sense of atheism,
or does it refer to some form of impiety
towards gods that are believed to exist?
Could it be the same?
Could they have placed impiety along
with the idea of not believing in any gods?
And therefore, it's, but is it a modern conception somewhat
of the idea that no gods are believed at all?
I think it's absolutely unambiguous in Plato
that we're talking about a question of belief
in the existence of God.
And that is what Meletus is accusing some of doing,
of not believing in the existence of any gods whatsoever.
There's no other way to do that.
Yeah, thank you for like having you,
an expert, classicist, professor, say that it like cuts
through a lot of BS with a hot knife through butter.
Roman persecution of atheists.
So this is gonna get back into the Christian situation here
for a moment.
One of the very vocal critics of the supposed misuse
of the term atheism is someone named Steve McCray.
Have you ever heard of him?
No.
Okay.
Well, that's even better than,
who identifies as an agnostic.
He has been engaged in many debates over the years,
including an ongoing dialogue with Dr. Richard Carrier,
who summed up everything in a blog post,
which I'll link in the description
for any of you guys who wanna read it
and understand where he's coming from.
We can get into the weeds of that issue later if you'd like,
but I just wanna play a short clip
from one of his debates where Steve McCray
tries to school his opponent on what he claims
is the original use of the term atheists.
And I'd like to get your feedback on this popular claim.
I guess this is something that's floating around
in Christian apologetics.
And I don't know if it's just Christian apologetics
or this is just a total mistake on his part.
What atheism meant.
What was the original use of atheism?
Or of an atheist?
I don't remember what the original use of atheism,
but I wanna-
It was for Christians.
Church.
Christians were atheists.
The church wants atheism.
No, no, listen to me here carefully.
The original use of atheists, atheists,
was to refer to Christians
that didn't accept Roman pantheon gods.
Okay.
Okay, so they believed a God exists,
but they were called atheists
because they were quote without gods
as people bring up the etymology.
But etymological concerns
are not how the words are used in modernity.
So even though etymologically, yes, it is without gods
and it is true that all atheists are without gods,
but so are the positions that are not atheists.
And agnostic is without gods
and agnostic is not atheism.
But these words, like you said, do change, right?
I have no problem with the words changing.
But the last 300 years,
this is how the word is accepted to be
in the philosophical literature.
And what you're saying is not just,
I think it should be used differently, like Flu argues,
you're making a value judgment
and say it's used incorrectly.
Right, I mean, if I say...
Okay, so there's enough.
I don't have to give you much more.
What do you think of that?
Well, I think, to go back to a point that we made earlier,
there is a grain of truth there
in that the word atheist clearly is used
in different ways, in different contexts.
And we do have a very distinctive concept
of what atheism is now.
And as I say, it's attached very closely
to the idea of scientific post-enlightenment modernity.
So, it's kind of true that when he makes the point
that the original etymological usage
of the word in Greek doesn't necessarily tell us
about how we should use the word now.
I mean, it's perfectly permissible for cultures
to redefine words and they do this the whole time.
I mean, it's the same as the word technique, for example,
that comes from a Greek word,
which means something completely different
in Greek antiquity.
So, I accept that point,
but he's wrong in saying that the original usage was
to attack Christians.
That is a usage, but that's not the earliest attested usage.
We've just been talking about this.
The word is actually much older than that.
It goes back to the fifth century BC.
And the other point that I would just pause on
is that this claim that the word is used by the Romans
to attack the Christians
is actually only found in Christian literature.
So, one reading of that, and this is a claim that I've made.
I'm not absolutely sure whether I agree with it still,
but I mean, it's basically a Christian idea,
this idea that, I mean, again,
we mentioned this earlier that to be an atheist,
this idea that you define atheist in such a way
as to exclude people who have the wrong conception
of divinity, not people who don't believe in gods.
I think that is basically a Judeo-Christian spin.
And it's once you get the idea of monotheism,
which is a very distinctive and very unusual
in the ancient world form of belief.
That's when you get the idea that if you don't believe
in my God, you're getting it wrong,
that you're just not believing in the existence of God at all.
This slide is helped by the fact that the word God,
the name God in Judeo-Christian Greek is theos.
So, atheos means literally without theos,
which if you're a Jew or a Christian means the one God.
So, as I say, I mean, there's not,
there's very scant evidence to suggest
that Romans themselves thought of Christians
as atheists outside of Christian literature.
Do you think that that's the Christian literature?
Cause really this can go into some of the discussions
of like martyrdom, polycarp, Justin Martyr,
Eusebius, Clement of Alexandria.
Let me just read this.
You point out in the book that the idea comes primarily
from early Christian sources, like you're talking about here,
martyrdom of polycarp, Justin Martyr,
Eusebius, Clement of Alexandria.
And also you mentioned the non-Christian sources
for this information are lacking key details.
And so, let me read this.
And then I'd like to make a quick comment
and of course get your expert opinion on this.
Cassius Dio mentions that some people who were drifting
into Jewish ways were charged with atheism,
but an earlier account of the same event in Suetonius,
merely mentions that taxes were levied against some Jews.
Might these references to Jews and Cassius Dio
actually be a reference to Christians?
If so, would the charge of atheism have been
due merely to their impiety towards Roman gods?
Yes, so Cassius Dio is third century CE or AD,
if you prefer to relatively late.
So it's possible that by that stage,
Christian conceptions of atheism were leaking
into non-Christian material.
Your question was whether these accusations of atheism,
if they did take place against Jews and Christians,
whether they were to do with non-performance
of Roman ritual and the answer is yes.
I mean, it's absolutely clear that the biggest problem
the Romans had with Christians
was Christians' refusal to sacrifice to the emperor.
It's a very distinctive form of imperial management
that the Romans use.
They get everyone in all the cities
to make sacrifices and offerings to the emperors.
And this is re, the importance of this
is reaffirmed in the mid third century
under an emperor called Decius.
And that the people are supposed to write,
people are supposed to have a little certificate saying
that they agree that, I sign here,
I Derek Lambert agree to sacrifice to the emperor.
And Christians wouldn't sign these certificates
and they wouldn't own these certificates.
Interesting.
A sort of pushback against Christians,
not for being Christians,
but for refusing to sacrifice to the emperor.
Is it possible to, just on this out there,
on the atheist idea, the accusation,
the negative accusation on them,
had to do with their monotheism.
And of course, what you're suggesting here,
yes, it does.
But what I mean is there's hinotheism
and then there's monotheism.
And monotheism by its very definition,
strict monotheism forces every other God to be non-existent.
And therefore there's only one God,
which means you're saying these gods don't exist.
You're in a sense an atheist to their gods,
which makes them go, you don't believe in God.
Even though you do believe in a God,
and the problem with it is also,
I suspect that there were no idols, no images.
So now you're like, you have nothing you're worshiping.
So the accusation goes full-fledged,
saying you not only don't have images,
you have nothing that represents your God.
You're also saying nobody else's God exists.
But your God and your God doesn't even have any visibility.
So how the heck,
I suspect that there's probably that thrown at them.
What are your thoughts on that?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, Christians aren't so insistent on the idea
that God shouldn't be represented,
or at least Jesus shouldn't be represented as Jews are.
So, you know, there is early Christian art
and there are early Christian depictions of Jesus,
but you're right that by and large,
the conception of God that Christians have,
it's not unparalleled in the Greco-Roman world
because the earliest philosophers had these ideas
of a sort of remote abstract transcendent deity
who's not depicted in sculptures and so forth.
But that's not the conventional Greco-Roman view.
The point you make is absolutely right,
that temples and statues and the visibility of gods
and their homes is absolutely critical
to Greco-Roman religion,
because it is basically a sort of collection
of local religions.
It's to be performed by members of a city
in a particular temple at a certain time,
because that's where the God lives,
and that's where you believe the God to live.
And the statue, in a sense, sort of embodies the God.
I mean, it's not, they didn't think the statues
were the gods quite, you know,
but the statue does represent in a more than just symbolic way
represents the God.
So I think you're right that a lot of Greeks and Romans
would have struggled to get their head around
this radically different conception of divinity,
that Christianity in particular was pushing around the world.
Yeah, I just, oh yeah, I'll just finish on this.
I mean, I think there is a way in which
the Christian belief in a transcendent God
was actually quite attractive to a lot of Greeks and Romans.
I mean, clearly, people were converting to Christianity,
and I think that this is to do with,
if you live in an empire,
you are, you know, your sense of allegiance,
the sense of the political unit that you belong to,
is no longer just your city.
So some of that force of local,
policy, religion is broken down,
and you start believing in a more distant,
remote form of political power,
embodied in the figure of the emperor,
and I think that facilitates a belief in the religious sphere
in a remote, transcendent deity.
So it's not quite as if, I mean,
it's not as if Christianity and Greco-Roman ideas
are sort of poles apart.
There are ways, you know,
they're quite different from what I'm talking about,
you know, they're quite compatible,
and that I think is the explanation
for the spread of Christianity really.
Yeah, I could see that being,
not to prove anything about why they're being called atheists,
but I could see it not working in their favor,
that they're not running around with idols, you know,
and such, or at least they weren't supposed to.
Let's see, the concept of sin and paganism,
because this ties into what you're talking about
in an emperor-type situation.
So there's gonna be a crossbreed of a culture here.
Here's the following quote from the page 46
of battling the gods.
Jealousy of the divine privilege was not sinful.
Early Greece had only a weak idea of what was sinful,
quote unquote, sinful,
because there were no gods sent commandments to break.
The Greek translators of the Bible had to adapt a rare word,
and I'm gonna try and pronounce this,
alliterios, I'm sorry.
Alliteros, yeah.
Alliteros, to express this fundamentally alien idea.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think what you mean there
is that the Greek translators of the Hebrew Bible
adapted the pagan idea of sin,
using the Greek term I cannot pronounce,
into the Hebrew idea of failure or missing the mark.
Is that true?
Yeah, so the point I was making there
was that when the Greek translators of the Hebrew Bible
came across the Jewish-Israelite idea of sin,
rather than using a word like crime or bad thing
or something like that,
they took a relatively rare Greek word
to indicate, I think,
that this is a relatively un-Greek idea, the idea of sin.
So you need a new word, it's not an entirely new word,
but it's a fairly sort of obscure word.
It's not super obscure,
but it's not part of the central moral lexicon.
And what I mean by this idea that the Greeks,
the pre-Jewish Greeks, didn't have an idea of sin,
is not that they didn't have an idea
that certain things are wrong,
or that certain things are displeasing to the gods,
but it's this particular Judeo-Christian,
or let's say Christian idea of,
there being a categorical opposition between good and bad
that is sort of locked into the metaphysical structure
of the cosmos.
Greek gods, typically, or most importantly,
Greek gods don't behave in morally proper ways all the time.
Anyone who's read any Homer,
you know, the Elias,
because you know that gods can be jealous,
they can commit adultery,
they can fight with each other,
they're not always on the same side,
and they can scheme against each other's backs,
all this sort of stuff.
So yeah, the idea that gods go around
sort of demanding a kind of moral standard
of humans all the time,
and that people would be consigned to eternal damnation
if they don't meet those standards.
This is really a Christian idea,
although you can see traces of it in the Greek world,
if you squinted it, you could say,
well, this looks a little bit like
the Christian conception of hell,
this looks a little bit like the Christian conception of sin,
but by and large, that's not how Greek religion
was about doing morally right things,
it was about performing the sacrifices
that the gods demanded in the right way,
in the right place, at the right time,
it was about keeping to the ritual calendar.
Interesting.
Okay, can you also elaborate on the Greeks
having a weak idea of sin,
like do you think the idea was close to some sense of karma
or divine reciprocacy?
Sorry, I always say that wrong.
Like the curse that tantalus brought on vows of Atreus,
and I think that's correct there,
but I saw an interesting connection,
I don't know if you've ever heard of Dennis R. McDonald,
he taps into the Homeric, Iliad, Euripides the Bacchae,
he loves the epics,
but he's also a New Testament scholar, PhD in the field,
and he's done this thing called Mamesis criticism,
and it kind of ties into this,
and maybe gets your thoughts,
this is an interesting thing, I love his book,
I put it back up right here,
so this is just the fourth gospel book,
the Dionysian gospel,
and he says the first layer of the gospel of John,
whoever the author was,
is making Jesus better than Dionysus,
and I was like, hmm, I like this,
but then he talks about that story
about Lazarus and the rich man,
and the rich man is like, please just touch your tongue,
and the water, and I'm so thirsty,
well, tantalus has this same scene
where he's tantalizing, we get the term from,
and he can't drink the water,
and he shows that the gospel authors take the liberty
of borrowing from Homeric epics,
you know, Euripides the Bacchae,
and make Jesus better than Dionysus and stuff,
and I love that kind of stuff,
so I guess in that vein,
I'm rabbit-chilling a little bit,
what are your thoughts of that?
Do you think that there's a bridge
that's taking place here,
they're trying to bridge over and combine
Greek idea with Jewish, in a sense?
Well, this idea that there is something Dionysus-like
about Jesus goes back to antiquity itself.
In fact, actually, just this afternoon,
it's the afternoon here,
I was reading Greek for a late Greek epic poet called Nonus,
who wrote 48 books on the adventures of Dionysus,
but also wrote 21 books on the,
which are of retelling the story of the gospel of John.
So he's a poet who writes Greek epic stuff
and uses the same language to describe Jesus
in John and Dionysus,
not exactly the same, obviously,
they're different kinds of figures,
but there are all sorts of crossovers between the two,
and there's also this aversion, a late antique poem,
that takes bits of Euripides's play about Dionysus,
rejigs them and makes a story about Christ out of them.
So it's clear that in antiquity,
people were thinking that the story of Christ,
and in particular, John's version of it,
because of the wedding at Cana,
which is the transformation of water into wine,
which is the Dionysiac act, if you like,
because Dionysus is the God of wine.
All of these people in antiquity were thinking
about Christ as potentially a sort of Dionysiac figure.
Now, whether, I mean, it makes sense to think
that the gospel writers who were trying to,
or at least the later gospel writers who were trying
to make the story of Jesus appeal to non-Christian Greeks,
it makes sense to think of them as using sort of material
that would have been familiar
to potential non-Christian readers as a conversion strategy.
I don't know, I mean, you know,
having read the gospel of John myself recently,
I don't think it would have struck people as,
I mean, on the surface as very Dionysiac,
it doesn't to me look,
and Jesus looks rather different figure
to Dionysus in that, but certainly at the deeper level,
there may have been subconscious or resonances
of Dionysus that would have engaged readers,
subconsciouses as they were reading it.
Yeah, I think he argues there's three layers to John,
and the second layer is the anti-Jewish gospel,
and the third layer he said, I can't remember exactly,
but anyway, he says there's three layers
that means there's probably three redactors
that were editing this,
and then the first layer is the Dionysian layer,
where he does an interesting thing in his book.
He literally takes the prologue of Jesus.
In the beginning was the word and the logos,
and he shows that there is overlap
in the Euripides Bacchai on Dionysus.
The interesting thing in the parable
about Lazarus being in Abraham's bosom,
really weird, a man in a man's bosom,
sounds very Dionysian in Zeus's bosom,
where he continues the birth of Dionysus
after killing the wife, and I got to learn these names,
so forgive me, I can't wait to know this stuff
off the top of my head,
but maybe it will do a follow-up,
and I can have you, a classicist expert
in the field of classicism,
because I think you would have so much to say
about this stuff.
You have your head wrapped around this,
this is like a second, or almost like another language
that you just know off the top of your head,
and that's why I have you on here,
is just learning from you, so much fun,
but I'm getting off track,
so let me mention one more thing on the sin.
If the pagan notion of sin was so different
from the Jewish doctrine,
why were pagans compelled to convert to Christianity
when their so-called sins were allegedly perpetrated
against the God of Israel,
a local ethnic deity of the Jewish people?
That's a loaded question, and I know it's complicated,
like why would these Greeks give a crap, you know?
I mean, they don't even have the same conception of sin.
That's why I asked if whether or not the concept of sin
that we hear in the New Testament
is carrying more of some type of Hellenistic tendency,
or if Hellenism itself caused the aroma in the air,
so to speak, to allow these people to adopt these ideas.
I just, I wonder why, you know, why would they do this?
Well, I think we have to remember
that there's a difference between classical Greeks
and Greek-speakers in the Roman Empire,
because in the classical Greeks that we're thinking about
when we talk about Euripides, for example,
who's a playwright in the late fifth century,
you know, that classical culture's centered
in Euripides' case on the city of Athens.
We know quite a lot about that world,
and we know that, you know, it's a democratic world.
It's a world built around intellectual experimentalism.
It's also a world of empire and slave-owning
and repression of women, and let's say this,
we've got quite a rich idea
of what Athens in the fifth century BCE looks like.
Then the next phase is what we call the Hellenistic world,
which is the world created by Alexander the Great,
who conquers as far as Northern India,
down into North Africa, conquers Israel as well,
and that world, in that world, Greek-speakers
and people who, I don't know, build Greek temples
are spread over much of the known world,
but that Greek culture is blended
with lots of forms of local religion and thought
and language and literature and so forth.
So the people that were converting to Christianity
weren't necessarily the people
that we think of as classical Greeks,
you know, there could have been all sorts of people.
In fact, actually, there's some quite good evidence
that a lot of the early converts were, in fact, Jews themselves,
that they were the people to whom
early Christians were appealing.
So, yeah, I can't quite remember what your question was.
Yeah, no, I guess it's just the idea of the pagan influence,
like coming into Christianity,
with them preaching a concept of sin.
You know, I think we might be peeking
behind the blinds a little on some of the evidence
because it's so fragmentary to know
what early Christianity really was.
Do we rely on trust Paul's letters?
What's Paul doing out here in Athens, for example,
which that's in fictional acts.
The book of Acts is fiction.
So was Paul even in Athens?
I don't know, but nonetheless,
it's like he's over here talking to Epicureans
and others and things like that.
Like what are the odds that he's gonna come with this God?
I will say this, he has a strange conception of God.
If he is a practicing Jew,
supposedly he was teaching this stuff
because in his preaching in fictional acts,
which is late in the game, we know it's late,
men of Athens, listen, look here,
God does not dwell in temples made by hands.
Maybe that's a jab at the fact
that the 70 AD temple's destruction took place
probably at the same time.
That's also very stoic.
That's very like, God is this abstract beyond.
And he set men in their boundaries
and placed, he's not far from any one of us.
He's quoting pagan poets.
It's like, come on.
So that's probably fiction.
And we might be influenced by that
by going back trying to figure out Paul.
And Paul probably wasn't doing
what Axe is saying he's doing.
I don't know.
That's the tough part about these scholars
that trying to peek behind the blinds.
But if Paul is talking to Gentiles and not Jews,
what kind of message is that?
To get these people interested,
are they probably obviously not very well off?
But if they are very well off and they're educated,
it sounds like he's greeting the house of Caesar
and like Philippians and Romans.
He's, hey, a pathoditis.
And do we believe that that really happened?
And if we do, what kind of message is Paul teaching?
And how would that be conceived by those people?
You see, I know I'm asking you to read their minds
and maybe I should have called a witch or something.
I'm just kidding.
But do you have an opinion on this?
Even if it isn't backed up by expertise
just based on your information you've learned
in the histories of this time?
Well, I think that you mentioned chronology.
I think we do see a change over time.
So I think Mark, which is the earliest of the Gospels,
is probably doing relatively little
in terms of trying to use the language
of non-Jewish Greek speakers.
But by the time you get to Luke,
then it's looking a lot more Greek.
And by the time you get to the second century,
it's absolutely crystal clear that the people
that we call the Christian apologists,
that's to say, Justin, Marta, and Taysian and the like,
are very well versed in Greek philosophy
and are using Greek philosophical debating techniques
in order to prove that Christianity is a superior form
of philosophy on philosophical terms
to anything that the pagan world can throw back at them.
So yeah, I do think that Christianity
is deeply suffused with pre-Christian Greek ideas.
But I also think that that is a process that
increases over time.
I mean, I see the earliest stratum of Christianity
as not particularly Greek.
I think it is Jewish.
Yeah, Messianic.
I mean, it just does.
Yeah, and how it went from that to what it, you know, that.
You know what I mean?
That's a big, that's a million dollar question.
And how much, to what extent it changed
and to what extent it was bent out of all recognition
by the adaptation to the historical and cultural world
of the Roman Empire.
As you say, that's the million dollar question.
Well said.
Lots of Christians would believe that fundamentally.
I mean, that there is a, I mean, it's sort of a deeply
Protestant idea, isn't it, at one level?
The idea that all of that accretion, basically,
all of that barnacle-like stuff that goes on the surface
after the first century is what needs to be cleared away.
And getting back to the truth and the simplicity
of Jesus' message is the prime aim of theology.
I think that, you know, when we used the term initially
of myth, and we talk about fiction, stories,
or is it just stories of potential historical events,
mythologized, you know, there's so much layers to this.
I think there is potentially some validity
on suggesting to the Jew first, then to the Gentile.
And that might be a motif that's applied
to the New Testament saying, look, initially,
this was Jewish.
I mean, Jews were the initial people who took this.
But then as you see anti-Semitism really develop,
even in early church, you see it transforming it,
forcing it to be less Jewish.
So you got guys going, look, we'll buy this
and we'll probably fund this philosophy.
But we aren't doing it as long as we're sitting here
believing in the superstitions of Jews,
or they try to divorce it in some sense,
or pacify it or modernize it to their own ideas
and conceptions.
I suspect that that probably took place.
But even the Bible itself, if you took the canon,
does suggest the idea in Acts, for example.
First, it was this little pack of communistic Jews
that were taking care of each other.
And then God has these miracles happen,
and Peter's shocked when they're speaking in tongues.
It's like, Cornelius, what the heck?
They are even dumbfounded at the idea
that this is going out beyond Jewish people.
So yeah, I think there's some, that's fiction,
but that doesn't mean there's no historical relevancy
to that idea.
No, I think, yeah, I agree.
And early Christians were extraordinarily entrepreneurial.
The early adoption of anti-Semitism as a trait,
you mentioned John's gospel,
but John does have these recurrent ideas
that the Jews are faithless kind of people
who don't accept the truth of God,
even though they've got it in their own holy scriptures
as a prophecy and all that sort of stuff.
That is breathing the air of the late first century,
because the Romans, of course, go to war with the Jews
after the Jewish rebellion in the 60s,
and they trash Jerusalem, they trash the temple,
and the Jews become the big bogey figure
in the Roman imagination from 70 or so onwards.
And the Romans are celebrating the victory over the,
and they need, basically, they have a really bad year,
the Romans, in 69, when they have four emperors in a row,
and to reestablish the dynasty after this era,
they need a big victory.
So they use the victory over the Jews
and the destruction of Jerusalem
as their sort of symbolic regeneration
of the Roman state and Roman military cohesion and all that.
So, yeah, Christian adoption of antisemitism is, you know,
it's awful, but it's also strategically,
it was a canny move because it allowed Christians
to, you know, perhaps not in everyone's eyes,
but in most people's eyes, successfully uncouple themselves
from the Jewish roots and to package Christianity
as something that was actually much more congenial
to the Roman Empire as a whole.
And they used, you know, they exploited the fact
that the Roman Empire was interconnected by roads
and by postal networks and so forth
to create these advanced international cellular networks,
sending letters to each other,
communicating with each other across huge amounts of space.
I mean, it was a terribly modern, terribly adaptive,
and as I say, entrepreneurial religion.
So if Darwin were to express what Christianity
is knowing what we know, he might say something like the,
you know, survival of the fittest,
it isn't the strongest that wins and survives.
It's the one that's willing to change the most, that is.
And Christianity was so successful
because it was so willing to adapt
to whatever its current political, religious context
and the culture was.
It would put a red mask, red mask it is,
everybody put a red mask on.
You know what I mean?
Everyone is just going to adapt the concept
and allow it somehow to fit within that thing.
So Christianity was really good at evolving.
I guess it was, yeah.
Yeah, and it also had the advantage of having,
in due course, the canon of gospels
that allowed it to believe itself
to be anchored in the first century as well.
So even as it was changing, it could point to the fact
that no, you know, we're still cleaving
to the same traditional canon of text.
You know, so that disguises the effect of change
by saying, you know, we are fundamentally conservative
and true to the message of Jesus.
You just dropped so many nuclear bombs.
Yeah.
So, okay.
Heno theistic trend, we've got a few more things here.
The Heno theistic trend towards monotheism.
There was an early trend for polytheistic pantheons
of gods to be viewed as multiple aspects
of the same supreme God.
And other lower level deities would then be demoted
to divine agents like angels or subordinate divinities.
So it seems like even strict monotheisms
were still in a sense polytheistic.
It seems like paganism was developing independently
towards the same kind of system we find in Christianity.
So when Christianity emerged,
it just co-opted a lot of the existing features of paganism.
For example, the Neo-Platonism of Plotonius
seems to have a lot in common with Christianity
such as merger of concepts like the one
and the good quotations, these are Greek terms.
Can you elaborate on the transition
between the classical theism
and the pagan Greco-Roman world
and the three great monotheisms of today?
So that's a lot.
Yeah.
How long have we got?
Yeah.
So, Henotheism, as you rightly say,
is, well, it's a modern word
that's used to describe a feature of polytheistic religion
when they seem to show a tendency towards having one God.
And this might mean that you've got one top God
and lots of subordinate gods who, as you say,
over time might be demoted to the status of angels
or lesser deities.
It might also mean that you've got,
I mean, you mentioned Stoicism earlier,
the sort of philosophical system
that basically thinks of the world as animated
by a single divine force that has multiple aspects.
So the Olympian gods Zeus here
and so forth might be aspects of this one God.
Now, you're absolutely right that these ideas emerge
in the Greek world and when they emerge quite early,
actually, they emerge from the sixth century onwards.
We've got people saying there is one God
who's the top God.
I think they're particularly,
they gain roots in the age of empire,
but the reasons I mentioned earlier
that once you've got a large dispersed empire
with a sort of symbolic center,
then you've got a world which is much more congenial
to the idea of a single organizing principle.
So the religion becomes sort of a metaphor for politics,
if you like, in that kind of world.
Now, Christianity is, it's often been said,
not a complete monotheism because however you spin it,
I mean, I know there are Christological complexities
that I'm not fully in control of here,
but there are three aspects to God
and there are, as you say, angels and there's the devil
as well, where does the devil fit into this?
Is the devil a deity?
He's clearly immortal at some level,
but not normally thought of it as a God.
So, I mean, there is a sort of polytheistic aspect
to Christianity.
So again, if you squint at it,
then Christianity can sometimes look like
one of these henotheistic polytheisms.
And let me ask you this, this is interesting
because in the Socrates trial,
when he was accused, he mentioned something
about the Godhead, something to do with the Godhead.
And I suspect that term, I'm very ignorant on this term
and understanding its roots,
but Christians adopt the idea of a Godhead trinity idea.
Do you think that this is borrowed from Greco-Roman world?
Well, I think what Socrates is talking about
is something slightly different.
He thinks, Socrates is a bit of a strange character.
He thinks that he's got his own personal deity.
I mean, a former colleague of mine,
once argued in an academic article
that Socrates was rightly killed by the Athenian people.
You know, he deserved execution.
You get that sense that you just was a very strange
individual who held some very strange beliefs.
But yeah, so he thought he had a personal hotline
to his Godhead, his daimoneon is the word.
That's a very unusual idea in any religion,
a little-known Greek religion.
But your question was really about
whether Christian conceptions of divinity
were conducted in dialogue with Greco-Roman ones.
And I think, yeah, the answer absolutely right, yes.
So from the second century onwards, as I mentioned,
Christians increasingly engage
with Greek philosophical ideas
and use Plato and Aristotle as resources
to try and sort out the problems of systematic theology
and the conceptions of divinity that emerged
as a result of this when people start debating
about whether Christ and the father and the son
are the same being or whether they're different
and all that sort of stuff.
These are all trying to make Christian belief
compatible with Greco-Roman philosophical ideas.
Wow, well put, thank you.
And last thing on the sheet,
and then I've got to ask you one good one, all right?
And then I'll let you go, but I'll let you go, right?
Because I don't want to let you go.
I really, really don't.
I really enjoyed this interview.
I ask everyone right now, please,
if you've gotten this far, get the book.
Not only does that help my guest understand that,
hey, I like MythVision and it's worth coming back
on MythVision to share this information,
to teach the general public,
to inform people this knowledge and this information.
But it's good to know this stuff, no matter what.
And he really wrote a really good book.
And if you're not a deep physical book reader,
the guy reading it on Audible does fantastic.
So you guys can get it on Audible for a credit.
If you have Audible, if you don't know about audio,
by the Audible thing now,
you really need to get in the 21st century.
Because I'll drive a car and listen to your book for hours
and just soak in these ideas and there's so much.
And I know you're just scratching the surface.
I mean, really, you go deep, don't get me wrong.
What I'm saying is, there's so much.
It's impossible.
Yeah, and you do so good.
So the last question on Steven's list here,
the definition of atheist.
Christians love doing this.
Like, they want to argue definitions.
I've seen debates and it frustrates the living daylights
out of me.
The whole debates about a definition,
we can't even get past.
So in the never-ending debate
over the definition of atheism,
the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
is often cited for its article
called Atheism and Agnosticism.
We don't have to weigh in on this if you are not interested,
but I'd like your feedback on the particular claim
made in this article.
The A in atheism must be understood as negation
instead of absence as not instead of without.
Therefore, in philosophy at least,
atheism should be construed as the proposition
that God does not exist or more broadly,
the proposition that there are no gods.
The author seems to be making a bold claim here
about how this word must be understood
based on some intrinsic property of Greek semantics,
based on your own expertise as a scholar of Greek.
Do you concur with this statement
about how this term must be understood in modern times?
And do you think this distinction would have been
at all relevant in ancient times?
So on the first question, no, I don't.
I don't think that the original esonological meaning
in Greek should determine what we understand
the modern term to be today.
And this goes back to the point that your clip was,
the person on your clip was making.
My own, the definition of atheism I found most useful
is one by Julian Bagini in his very short,
what's called very short introduction to atheism,
that's the name of the book.
And he says that essentially,
if we think of atheism as a philosophical belief
that there are no gods, we not only set the bar too high,
but we also, we make it into a kind of faith,
a professional faith because it is asking us
to answer questions that we simply cannot answer.
What Bagini says is that atheism is best understood
as a form of living your life without reference to divinity.
So if you act, if your existence and your ethics
and your daily day-to-day interactions with people
are not governed by particular religious beliefs
or beliefs in supernatural agency,
then you are an atheist.
So that sets the bar quite a lot lower.
And it also blurs the difference between atheism
and agnosticism.
I think even Dawkins or someone would say,
I think he has said that if there were a scientific way
of proving the existence of gods,
then of course he would believe in the existence of gods
because he is first and foremost a scientist
and scientists follow evidence and argument and the like.
And I think that's the only honest position
to adopt really ultimately is that if proof came along,
then you'd have to accept that.
Right.
If proof comes along, one lives one's life
using the resources that one has to hand
in this world, in the here and now or whatever.
That's how I see atheism.
So, I'm sorry, say that again.
There was another question you had,
but we can come back to that.
Yeah, do you think the distinction
would have been at all relevant in ancient times?
The distinction between atheism and agnosticism,
was that?
Yeah, the idea that we're not sure,
we don't know verses, there's no gods.
I mean, I don't believe in gods.
Yeah, I think that most of the discussion
in ancient atheism, as I would call it,
is really about the question of proof and evidence
and whether there is evidence for the existence of gods
and whether you can find argumentative strategies
that philosophically proves that gods exist or don't.
So, it's relatively rare that you find people saying,
I believe that gods don't exist
or I don't think that gods exist.
Some people do do that, but more often,
the debate is conducted at the level of agnosticism.
So, it's basically a negative view
attacking those who would claim
that there is evidence for the existence of gods.
Okay.
For example, people who claim that they were on a ship
and the ship went down and they prayed
and then they survived or whatever.
And then someone will say, no,
there are lots of people that drowned
and they were praying as well,
so therefore it can't be the prayer that saves you
and that sort of thing.
That sounds like the 21st century.
It's like, it doesn't stop, man.
That sounds like what we do today
and that happens all the time.
Do you label yourself agnostic or atheist and why?
I label myself, well,
I've never been asked this question before.
I would label myself an atheist
because I follow that definition
that Virginia advanced, which I mentioned earlier,
which is to say, my life is not built around belief
in the existence of gods.
And I definitely concur on that myself.
Of course, I have no good reason at this point
when I find naturalism a very plausible explanation
for things.
So, doesn't mean there may not be some mind out there,
but we put agency into everything.
So, how can we know there's agency beyond us
without evidence to prove?
And I'm open-minded to their being,
but does that make me an agnostic?
Do I have to force myself into the definition of agnostic
since I don't know with certainty
that there isn't something divine beyond
or the metaphysical being
that potentially started all things,
or everything always existed
and there's a metaphysical something beyond that,
just that's always kept things going.
I mean, you know what I'm saying?
Like there's always ways to think of it.
I mean, the reason I resist the language of agnosticism
is because it just has to win Pete, isn't it?
It's like a well-known sort of fence sitting on,
not really sure or whatever.
Yeah, I think the splitting hairs is purposeful,
oftentimes for apologetic reasons
to try and pin you in the corner.
So, my final question,
and this is actually shifting topics back to the idea
of like the fusion of cultures and things.
There is an author who is in the Copenhagen School.
His name's Russell Gamerican.
He has an interesting hypothesis.
I don't know if you've ever, or theory, if you will.
I don't know if you've ever heard of him.
Have you heard of him?
Yes or no?
Yeah, I'd love to get you acquainted.
Just because you are an expert in classicist ideas
of the Greek world, his theory,
and I know it's very difficult for people to swallow,
you have maximalist and you have minimalist
in Hebrew Bible.
How old is the Old Testament?
How old is it old?
And some people go, well,
based on the documentary hypothesis,
900 BC approximately is when we have some
of our oldest priestly texts or whatnot,
down to 500 BC in some range in that area.
Thomas L. Thompson, who's a scholar in this field,
brought Russell Gamerican in
and had the book published by the Copenhagen School.
His book is called Borosis and Genesis,
Manito in Exodus, and Dating the Pentateute
is pretty much what the book's about.
And his hypothesis, I find so interesting,
is that pretty much the Alexandrian Library
bolstered Borosis and Manito's manuscripts,
having the Jews when they came to translate
the Hebrew Bible, the Septuagint.
Around this period and this time,
he looks at references done by some of these Greek authors
that are actually trying to explain what the Jews,
they mentioned the Jews in their writings,
and they say they had a guy named Moses,
but it does not describe him anything like what we have
in the stories of the Bible.
So he starts with minimalism rather than maximalism.
He divorces historiography as evidence to say,
the story says that Daniel was written
sometimes 70 years after Jeremiah,
but we have internal evidence that we can show
Daniel was definitely most likely second century BC.
So he starts with, we have good reasons to doubt
it's as old as they say, he starts with minimalism
and works backwards instead of maximalism and works forward.
And what he did is he says that the Greek world
and the Hellenism, these authors, Borosis, Manito,
helped influence these Jewish scribes to create the Pentateute.
So technically what we have is a very late in the game,
Pentateute rather than an early documentary hypothesis.
And that's being fair,
because you go to an Orthodox Jew,
Moses wrote the five books.
I'm not even bringing that into this account.
I'm talking documentary hypothesis.
He's challenging that and he's saying,
no, this is a Hellenistic creation using sources
like Borosis, Manito creating their own narrative
and borrowing from Plato.
The argument he has is that Plato's idea of a nation,
you wanna create a nation that goes way back into antiquity
because that proves somehow your God is divine
and your laws come from antiquity pre-Antediluvian,
you know, the whole line and create your story like that
so that your nation will be an internal nation,
the idea that it will last.
And he gave great ideas of this.
And according to him, he has evidence that Plato was used
and some of these Greek writings were used
in the Hebrew Bible.
I know this has to pique your interest.
Even if you're skeptical, I love this
because I would love to get your thoughts.
Do you think that's possible?
And that's, of course, you being someone who hasn't read it.
Do you think it's possible?
Exactly.
And hopefully not a scholar of Judaism
or Israelite stuff in general.
So, yeah, I mean, obviously, I can't comment without
having read the book and without knowing the field.
I mean, it is clear, isn't it,
that the Masoretic text, the Hebrew text of the Hebrew Bible
is younger than the Septuagint.
So, you know, we don't have anything older
than the Septuagint as evidence
for what Jews, Israelites believed.
Nevertheless, I don't know.
I mean, it seems to me, I don't know.
All of this is politicized, isn't it?
Ultimately, it's about trying to,
I mean, the people that want the Hebrew Bible to be old
and to be, you know, people that want to find bricks
with David was here in Jerusalem.
That's sort of a religious nationalist project
designed to sort of shore up the legitimacy
of the Bible and biblical worldviews.
People who want to downdate it
and say that it, no, it's just, it's all Hellenistic.
That is itself a sort of political act as well.
So, I don't know.
I mean, I find these, I mean, I find it absolutely fascinating
but I find these sort of big stories,
sort of, you know, balloon puncturing narratives suspect.
I'd like, you know what I mean?
Yeah, no, I totally respect what you're saying
and I'd be interested in, of course,
getting your thoughts as you further investigate it
if you ever even take the time to.
I mean, you have so much Greek in your mind
that it's like, that's why I'm so glad
that you as a classicist came on
and we're able to discuss these things
and really break down these ideas for us
and listen to those clips, give us your comments.
Because from what I understand,
I don't know Steve McCray of nothing at all
against any of these guys.
In fact, I've never even talked to him.
I know he recently joined my Facebook group
and there was a poll given where it said,
what do you classify yourself as?
Atheist, agnostic, theist and other or something.
And probably pantheists, you name it.
But, you know, I've checked off the atheist box
just because I don't believe in gods.
I don't believe there is a God.
It doesn't mean there isn't potentially one.
But it had so many comments from them debating
right after you post it and he's splitting hairs
on the language and the words
and the philosophy of philosophical atheism
and, you know, these positions.
You better affirm that there is no God,
how do you know that there's, you know,
and just it never ends these ideas and.
Yeah, as I said earlier, I mean,
that sort of hair splitting tactic is ultimately,
I think deliberately an attempt to trans sabotage
a more sort of interesting discussion.
Because, you know, if you never get beyond these definitions
of whether you're an atheist or an agnostic or whatever,
I mean, that's really ultimately pretty trivial stuff.
Thank you so much for saying that.
And look, ladies and gentlemen,
Tim Whitmarsh, Professor Tim Whitmarsh.
Thank you so much for joining me on MythVision today.
Well, thank you for inviting me.
It's been a lot of fun.
I'd love to do this again.
I mean that I'm sincerely want to do more
and promote this book even more.
I think more people need to get out their swords
and shields and start battling the gods yourselves.
Okay.
I would like to have you guys check out the book
and tell me what you think.
This was such a great book.
I really, really recommend this.
You guys see it on the screen.
Obviously go down in the description.
Get you a copy, go on Audible.
It's on Amazon.
It's really, really a good read.
And it'll open up a world if you're not familiar
with it like I wasn't,
that I've never known and really started to fall in love with
as I read this book.
So well written and thank you so much once again
for joining us.
Let's do this again, sir.
Thanks, Derek.
Thank you.
And don't ever forget, we are.
