It is known all too well that Jesus was born of a virgin and it's celebrated every year during
Christmas time with beautiful nativity scenes and Christmas trees glowing around with lights and
presents showing love for fellow humanity and your loved ones. But it's not as well known
of how common these ideas were in the ancient world. And in this episode, I want to highlight
not only a common idea of a hero being born, but a common idea that was written
before, during, and after the time of the New Testament. When you're done paying attention,
I hope if you're a believer in Jesus, you at least are honest in asking yourself this question.
Is it also true of these other figures? Is it also true of Caesar Augustus?
Why do I pick this one over those? And if it is this common, is it true that Jesus really was
born this way? Or is this how they wrote legends and created gods? What child is this?
Miraculous births and divine parents in the time of Jesus. Check out the article in the description.
It's published December 23, 2016. Many people are familiar with the stories in the New Testament
Gospels of Luke and Matthew about Jesus' conception and birth. But what is less well known is how
common such stories are when the lives of great men are told, from the initial announcement of an
impending conception to Mary and Luke, Joseph, and Matthew, to the signs and portents signaling the
birth of the miraculous child. Ancient Greek and Roman writings share a lot with the Gospel
accounts. The Gospels claim that Jesus' birth was foretold in advance. Matthew quotes from
the prophet Isaiah to establish Jesus' birth as a divine promise that would usher in a time of
peace and justice. Virgil, writing in the early first century AD, wrote about a promised child,
the offspring of the gods, who would bring a golden age of peace and prosperity to the Roman Empire,
in other words, the emperor. He is the one who declared the Pax Romata, where peace for centuries
in Rome endured by his creation. Augustus Caesar's birth was foretold by portents, according to the
Roman historian Suetonius. Unusual astronomical occurrences were understood as divine omens in
Roman culture, so it is no wonder that Jesus' birth, like Augustus's, was depicted as important
using a miraculous star. I want to make an interesting note. The stars in the Greco-Roman world,
it wasn't uncommon for a figure, a hero, that gets deified what we call an apotheosis, would go off
into the celestial fear with the divine. Whether it was a monotheistic or a polytheistic world,
the celestial heavens is where they would go. So much so, that this is exactly what Augustus
did with the death of Julius Caesar. He's the first emperor of Rome, but also the first one to make
the worship and apotheosis of other figures other than Romulus the case in the Roman Empire,
where the Caesars began to be deified after their death. All of the Caesars from Julius Caesar on
word. Before that, when the Republic was on, it was Romulus, of course, his brother Remus played a
significant role in the origins of Rome. But Augustus also has a new declaration
of an origin story for Rome itself, because he brought things that no one else has.
He brought peace like no one else has. Let's also note that Alexander the Great's birth
also had meteorological omens surrounding it. Plutarch tells us that both Philip and Olympius,
Alexander's parents, were sent dreams from the gods announcing Alexander's birth.
Olympius dreamed that her womb was struck by lightning, while Philip dreamed that he put
a seal on his wife's womb in the image of a lion. Most significant, though, is the report that
Philip spied a divine serpent sleeping next to his wife, which he took as a sign that he should
avoid sleeping with her himself, since it was clear that she was to conceive from a divine
rather than human source. These tropes were so common in the Greco-Roman world
that the Gospel authors are utilizing this same theme. Why do we think this one's true
and not that one? Can't we see the clever, ingenious development of mythology beneath
our own eyes? Just as Matthew records Herod's attempt to stop the prophesied child by killing
all newborn babies, Suetonius tells a similar account of Roman leaders attempting to prevent
Augustus' rise to power by ordering that no male child be reared. In Matthew, Jesus and his family
escaped the massacre of the infants by fleeing to Egypt, whereas in Suetonius, like in the Moses
story, fathers and mothers to be thwart the murderous plans. In the Roman case, by preventing
the decree from being officially registered with the treasury, the theme of trying to prevent
this divine child from coming and prophesied to rule and be a ruler of the people,
they're trying to thwart it, and of course, they are not able to do so.
And although Matthew and Luke trace Jesus' lineage through his non-biological father,
Joseph, Jesus is depicted as God's own offspring. Augustus Caesar was also adopted by his father
Julius Caesar and likewise considered himself the descendant of a god. Venus, genetrix.
Augustus traced his lineage to Venus through his ancestor Romulus, the legendary founder of Rome.
Romulus and his twin brother Remus were conceived by the virgin priestess
after the god Mars impregnated her. This priestess, as Virgil reports, was herself
descendant from Venus through her ancestor Aeneas, Venus' beloved son.
Alexander the Great's divine parentage was reinforced. He grew up just as the adult Jesus
was publicly claimed by God as his son in all four gospel accounts. Alexander's father, Zeus
Amen, confirmed his son's divine identity. Plutarch tells us that when Alexander approached
an Egyptian oracle to ask whether he had avenged his father's murder, the priest made him rephrase
his request since his father was not a mortal man and addressed Alexander in oracular speech as
Oh Son of Zeus. One of the most common places to find stories of miraculous births in the life of
heroes often born of a union between a god and a human being, Hercules, perhaps the most famous
of the Greek heroes, is the son of Zeus and the mortal woman Aklamin. For example, Zeus disguised
himself as Aklamin's husband in order to trick her into bed with him. The divine parentage that
Hercules enjoyed enabled him to do many wondrous feats. Likewise, Asclepius, son of Apollo,
rescued from the womb of Koranus, was gifted with miraculous healing abilities and was later
considered divine in his own right. Since Matthew and Luke don't agree with each other about what
happened when Jesus was born, it's especially interesting that they both relate something
miraculous in their narratives. The idea of Jesus' own miraculous birth may have supported the gospel
claims about Jesus' miraculous working ability, including healings and other wondrous feats.
It is an interesting note that all of the Caesars for the most part after Augustus Caesar
had apotheosis. They would ascend on high usually by the wings of eagles and the name Octavian
was given Augustus, which is the majestic, the increaser, or the venerable, and many of its
descended forms August, Augusto, Austen, Augustine, as well as the title into the Greek translation
Sebastus or Sebastian. Let me read from Seutonius, Lives of the Caesars, a new translation by Catherine
Edwards, Oxford World's Classics. And now that we are on the subject, it would not be irrelevant to
add an account of the events before his birth. On the very day he was born and subsequently
from which could be drawn the hope and expectation of his greatness and enduring good fortune.
When in ancient times part of the wall of Velotree had been touched by lightning,
this was seen as a sign that a citizen of the town would one day be ruler,
bolstered by this the people of Velotree immediately waged war with Roman people
and on many subsequent occasions too, almost to their own destruction. Finally, however,
it became clear that this event had been a sign pretending the power of Augustus. Julius Marathas
records that a few months before Augustus was born, a prodigy was generally observed at Rome,
which announced that nature was bringing forth a king for the Roman people. The Senate, he continues,
was most alarmed and agreed that no child born in that year should be raised. Doesn't this sound
like Matthew? However, those whose wives were pregnant ensured that the decree was not registered
in the treasury, such each hope that the prodigy referred to his own child. I read in the books of
Esclepeades of Mendis, entitled Theologic Gemina, that Atia, attending the sacred rites of Apollo
in the middle of the night, had her litter poisoned in the temple and fell asleep while the other
matrons were also sleeping. All of a sudden a serpent slid up to her then quickly went away.
On waking, she purified herself as she would after sleeping with her husband and at once
there appeared on her body a mark in the image of a snake and she was never able to get rid of it,
so that ever afterwards she avoided going to the public baths. Augustus was born 10 months later
and for this reason is believed to be the son of Apollo. It was Atia too who before she gave birth
dreamed that her insides were carried to the stars and spread over all the earth and the skies.
Octavius, the father, dreamed that the sun rose from Atia's womb. On the day Augustus was born
when the conspiracy of Catelyn was being discussed in the Senate House and Octavius stayed away
until late because his wife was in labor. Pubulous, hearing why, he was delayed when informed of the
hour of the birth asserted as is generally known that the master of the world was born.
When Octavius who was leading an army through remote regions of Thrace sought guidance concerning
his son at some barbarian rituals in the Grove of Father Liber, the same prediction was made by
the priest for so great a flame had let up when they poured wine on the altar that it passed
beyond the peak of the temple roof and right up to the sky, a portent which had only previously
occurred when Alexander the Great offered sacrifice at the altar and on the very next night
thereafter he dreamed he saw his son of greater than mortal size with a thunderbolt
and a sepulcher and emblems of Jupiter best and greatest and a radiant crown on a chariot
decorated with laurel drawn by 12 horses of astonishing whiteness.
When Augustus was still a baby as is recorded in the writings of Gaius Drusus,
he was placed one evening by his nurse in his cot on level ground but the next morning
he had disappeared. He was only found after a long search in a tower of great height where
he lay facing the rising sun. When he first began to speak he ordered some frogs to be silent
who happened to be croaking in his grandfather's villa and they say that from that time no frog
croaked there. When he was having a snack in a grove by the fourth milestone along the road
to Campania suddenly an eagle snatched the bread from his hand and after flying up high into the
sky unexpectedly came back and dropping down gently returned it to him. After the dedication
of the Capitoline temple, Quintus Catilus had dreams for two nights in succession. First the
Jupiter best and greatest when a number of youths were playing around his altar took one of them
aside and placed in the fold of the toga the image of the republic which he carried in his hand
and on the next night that he noticed the same boy in the lap of Capitoline Jupiter when he was
gave orders the boy be brought down this was forbidden by a warning from the god as the boy was
being reared for the salvation of the state and on the next day Catilus encountered Augustus who
was otherwise unknown to him and looking upon him with wonder remarked on his great similarity
to the boy in his dream others give a different account of Catilus first dream namely that when
a number of well-born youths asked Jupiter for a guardian he pointed out one of their number on
whom they were to depend for all their wishes and having touched the boy's mouth with his fingers
then brought them to his own lips. Marker Cicero when following Julius Caesar up to the capital
happened to tell his friends of his own dream of the previous night a boy of noble appearance was
let down from the sky on a golden chain he came to rest before the doors of the capitaline temple
and was presented with a whip by Jupiter immediately afterwards Cicero saw Augustus who was then
relatively unknown and had been summoned to the ceremony by his great uncle Caesar and declared
that he was the one whose image had appeared to him in his dream the story in the 12 Caesars or the
life of the Caesar Suetonius you really should read there are endless accounts of Greco-Roman
heroes and figures well-known men who are deified with birth narratives life narratives miraculous
feats whether they're heroes from Asclepius Heraclius and other divine gods and men demigods who
became divine at their death sometimes even having an apotheosis in their life to their death so I
recommend anyone who's really serious about investigating how this literature worked and
is fascinated with it as much as I am here at MythVision and my friend is Neil at Gnostic Informant
keep investigating read this ancient literature and you'll find how common this really was so when
you read the gospels that force filled the protecting them from the outside world really
dissipates and you can actually take a critical approach recognizing how common the miraculous
claims the birth narratives the ascension narratives and all such claims for Jesus
aren't really that rare they're well known in the ancient world even if they aren't Xerox copies
of each other if you enjoyed this content please consider joining MythVision's Patreon joining
MythVision's YouTube membership program you can give us a generous thanks through the thanks button
there or a one-time donation to help us continue doing what we're doing and educating the general
public and making these edits available to a broader audience thank you so much for the support
share this with somebody who favors Jesus over these other figures and have them do an investigation
on their own to see if they draw similar conclusions thank you and never forget we are MythVision
you
