Did Jesus really rise from the dead and can that actually be proven historically, or is
it in the imagination of the believer, possibly hallucination?
This debate coming up is so serious.
I've never heard of a debate that goes on for seven hours.
Seven hours between Dr. Bart Ehrman and Dr. Mike Lacona, they're going to clash on this
very issue of whether or not Jesus rose from the dead, and if it can be shown historically,
you're going to want to tune in.
Make sure you go down, sign up now, get the early bird special.
It is mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash resurrection.
I'm I'm so excited to see because the Q&A session is going to be long.
There will be plenty of time from the cross examine each other.
You'll be able to hear things that neither side has ever said.
And there's new ideas Bart has brought to the table.
And I'm sure Mike Lacona also is prepared with new ideas as well.
I am excited to find out what becomes of this debate, because many Christians,
I think, are wasting their time in thinking that Jesus actually rose from the dead.
I was one of them.
I also created this little intro working with Bart Ehrman's team on the debate
between Bart Ehrman and Mike Lacona.
Tell me what you think of this, and then we're going to get into the discussion
where Dr. Ehrman also makes predictions about what he thinks is going to happen
and how Mike is probably going to dodge a lot of what is said.
And he's going to try and pin him down.
There are over 2.7 billion Christians in the world.
That's more than one out of three human beings on planet Earth.
And virtually all of them think that Jesus was raised from the dead.
But is it true?
Was Jesus raised from the dead?
The Apostle Paul writes, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless.
You are still in your sins.
And those who have died as followers of Jesus are forever lost.
That's exactly what you would think if someone was buried in a tomb
and you went there three days later and it was empty, you wouldn't think resurrection.
No, you'd think grave robbers or you'd think, hey, I'm at the wrong tomb.
The empty tomb isn't going to convince anybody.
You can't have a group hallucination.
I can't wake up my wife in the middle of the night and say, honey, I'm in Maui.
Go back to sleep.
Join me in my dream and let's have a free vacation.
Can it be shown to be a historical event?
And if not, is Christianity dead?
If Christ was not raised, we're not going to be raised.
And if we're not going to be raised, the Christian life is not worth living.
For most of my life, I was a committed Christian who believed in the resurrection.
For many years, I was a deeply committed conservative evangelical.
I not only believed the resurrection happened, I thought I could prove it.
And I spent a lot of time and effort arguing that the resurrection could be demonstrated
as a historical fact.
There was a time when I doubted the truth of the Christian message.
I took 12 years and studied the historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus.
And I became more convinced than ever that the resurrection of Jesus is an event
that occurred in history.
It's a religious belief, not a historical fact.
Bart says that historians cannot investigate miracle claims.
He's wrong.
In this debate, I'm going to pull out all the stops to show why the resurrection
cannot be seen as a historical event.
He's wrong again.
This will be the debate to end all debates.
This is the debate to end all debates.
MythVision, welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm the host, Eric Lambert.
Dr. Bart DeAerman, you're joining me again today.
How are you, my friend?
Here we are. I'm doing well. Thanks.
I'm doing really well as well.
I'm excited about this upcoming debate.
I hear it's going to be seven hours of you, something like that.
It's like a whole day thing, unlike anything that's been done before about a debate.
Yeah, that's long, isn't it?
What was I thinking?
I don't know what you were thinking.
All I know is I'm excited to see what happens.
So everybody who's watching, you saw the intro, you saw that commercial.
Go to mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash resurrection.
It's in the description top of the comments.
It's pinned. Go sign up.
Dr.
Aerman, I wanted to dive just a tad bit into this.
I'm not sure you and Dr.
Lacona will get into this, but you ask your students every time they're in your class,
hey, I need you to paint the differences between Paul and the Gospels or Jesus.
And finding these issues in the New Testament.
I've interviewed Dr.
Delcey Allison, Jr.
I've interviewed other academics, James Tabor and David Littler.
You name it, the list can go on various ideas.
And most of the scholars I've talked to are probably critical, skeptical.
They think there's discontinuity between Paul and what we find in the Gospels.
And what I'm actually trying to zero in on is what kind of resurrection did Paul believe in?
When we read first Corinthians 15.
Yeah, that's an interesting question.
Yeah, I mean, you know, of course, all the authors of the New Testament
have their own views about things.
And Paul's views are different in many ways from those of each of the Gospel writers.
But on this particular point, it's an interesting question.
So the so Paul's our earliest author and he he absolutely thinks
that Jesus was raised in the body.
I mean, I think that he thought that the body came out of the tomb.
I mean, he thought that.
But the thing with Paul is that he he did not think of this as simply a resuscitation of the body.
It wasn't just that, like, you know, that it was a near death experience,
like we'd go on forever.
So for Paul, the body that came out of the tomb was a spiritual body, by which he means
he doesn't mean that was wasn't a body and he doesn't mean it is just a spirit.
He means that it was a body that had been transformed into a different kind of stuff.
And so in ancient Greek thinking, there are different kinds of things in the world.
And so, you know, air is different from trees, you know, like the different.
And so Pneuma spirit is a kind of stuff.
It's not what we think.
We think of it as like this invisible thing that doesn't like it.
And it is for the ancient Greeks, but it's actually made up of stuff.
Right. We would be like atoms or something.
And so Paul thinks that what happened is Jesus's body was transformed
into a glorified spiritual body that could never die.
And so he was made immortal.
So it was the body, but it was the body that was transformed into something else.
So it wasn't just a resuscitation of a corpse.
So you said something and maybe you slipped when you said it,
because you do this all the time and talks.
You said that he believed that he was transformed body from the tomb.
Now, Paul says he was buried.
Now, I want to get very meticulous.
Do you think he believed there was an empty tomb?
Well, yeah, I do.
Yeah, OK, anything about it doesn't say anything about it.
And he doesn't say it was a tomb.
He just says he got buried.
But I don't know what he really thought, but he thought that whatever
whatever was buried came out or came up or something happened to happen to it.
And my point is that that's Paul's view.
And it's very different from what you get, for example, in Luke and John.
In Luke and John, the whole point is it's the same body.
You know, you he can eat the given food to eat.
So he apparently has a digestive system and and they can feel the holes in his
hands and it's like, it's the same body for Paul.
It's it's connected to the body.
But Paul icons it to when you plant a seed, you know, if you plant an acorn in the
ground, the oak tree that grows out of it grows out of the acorn, but it doesn't
grow into a big acorn grows into an oak tree.
And so for Paul, the thing that goes in the ground is intimately connected
with what came out.
It's not a different thing.
It's it's it's a transform today.
You see what I mean?
Yeah, absolutely.
I asked this because you have changed your mind over the years about this whole
empty tomb scenario.
You once I think you were on record saying at one point, you know, you were arguing
while there was an empty tomb and you were making argumentations on what would
have happened if there was an empty tomb.
But now you've kind of thought maybe the empty tomb narratives are all legendary
and aren't historical.
That's why I was asking when you said he believed he had risen from two different
things.
I'm if you ask me what does Paul think, that's one thing.
If you ask me what did Bart think, that's a different thing.
OK, so I'm interested.
I don't think there was an empty tomb, because I don't think Jesus received a
decent burial.
Do you think Paul thought he got it?
So yeah, OK, OK.
So there is continuity in the New Testament, according to you, between Paul's
idea of an empty tomb or at least the New Testament gospel idea of an empty tomb.
It's the difference comes down to the body of Jesus and how he morphs.
And there's, of course, embellishments on how the tomb has multiple angels.
And then there's what we have, you know, soldiers, and they have embellished the
narrative. But you think Paul did think there was an empty tomb?
I don't I don't know if he thought that there I don't.
It depends what you mean by tomb.
I mean, if you mean by tomb, like a thing that Joseph of Arimathea had,
a cave-like thing outside, Paul didn't say anything about it.
But all I mean, all I mean is his Paul thinks that the body of Jesus was
deposited somewhere, and that body then was was raised from the dead by being
transformed into a spiritual body rather than being a normal human body.
OK, at the end of time, all humans are going to be the followers of Jesus
are going to experience the same thing.
They're also going to be spiritually transformed.
That's supposed to happen next Thursday, isn't it?
Yeah, probably about five o'clock.
OK, yeah.
So so just to follow up with with this in your debate with Mike,
if I can get you to do some predictions, because we've talked about this.
I just wanted your thoughts on that particular issue.
And the Gospels seem to be legends on this whole tomb narrative thing.
What do you think is going to happen in this debate between you and Mike?
I don't want to give away any of your secrets and his secrets,
but how do you think it's going to go?
Do you think you guys are going to keep hitting walls on particular issues?
Are you going to be able to get behind those walls, you think?
In my experience, with this kind of debate,
my opponent normally argues things that I think aren't really directly relevant
to the question, and so I'd say that's one of the things to pay attention to.
For example, if if somebody argues, oh, Luke can be shown to be a really good
historian and based on what historians do, Luke was really good.
You know, or something like that, you know, well, that's, you know,
that's an interesting argument we could argue about, but it isn't relevant to
whether an ancient source written 50 or 60 years after the event
that is describing a miracle is would be considered by historians
generally to be a reliable report.
I mean, it's a reliable report to a believing Christian.
But it's not a reliable report because it's can be historically demonstrated.
Just it's what Christians believe.
And I have no problem with Christians believing that.
Just don't tell me that it's something you can demonstrate historically
any more than you can demonstrate the miracles of Muhammad are historical
or that, you know, that the miracles of Apollonius Tiana,
who is also taken up to heaven.
I mean, we have an eyewitness report for some of these things.
That's true.
So you just have to be careful because people can be kind of slippery
and they make an argument, you know, that's a pretty good argument.
But you realize, wait a second, that's not that's not what we're talking about here.
Yeah.
Um, when I read Delcey Allison, Jr.'s book on the resurrection and,
you know, I like Dale, I really do.
I think he he tries to do his best.
And then it mits to me at the end of the day in our personal conversations.
Derek, I had an experience, you know, in 1970, something I go, you know, man,
I love you, dude, I get it.
And I don't want to change that.
That's him.
That's his decision.
But in his book, I kind of felt personally that there was this disconnect
where he says, well, first Corinthians 15, here's this creed.
He lists all these men, 500, the 12, yada, yada, yada, the whole nine.
And then he goes, but I think there's a historical reliability
to the women appearing to the tomb.
Now, sure, we can make the case that that's possible.
But he tried to argue that the reason Paul didn't mention it
is because it's what do you call this?
Andrew Jett, Andrew Centric.
So he's all about men.
It's a it's a patriarchal thing.
It's it's women aren't really the main focus.
But then the Gospels mentioned women at the tomb.
And I said, that doesn't seem like wouldn't Paul have mentioned this?
Well, he was Andrew Centric.
Wouldn't the Gospel authors have been to them?
If that was the case, why are the women at the tomb in your view?
Well, it's a long conversation.
I disagree that Paul's Andrew Centric.
And I think Dale surely disagrees with that, too,
because he knows as well as well as anybody and Dale's a very, very fine scholar.
But Paul, in fact, he talks about women in glowing terms in his own churches.
He names one of he names a woman in the book of Romans as one of the foremost apostles.
And so it's it's not like he's against women.
And the passages that people point to that sounds like Paul's a misogynist.
Dale, Dale knows as well as anybody that these are not passages that Paul actually wrote.
And first Timothy, Paul didn't write first.
So so the Andrew Centric thing doesn't work.
It's a very good question.
Why are the women at the tomb?
And this is something people always pull out.
Apologists always pull out.
I mean, I know they do because I used to and I was an apologist.
You say, well, who would make up a quote?
Who would make up that women went to the tomb?
It's like, you know, everybody in the Indian world knew you couldn't trust a woman.
And so why would somebody make up a story about women finding it?
You know, it kind of sounds plausible until you start looking into it.
There are all sorts of reasons for people to could have made up women going to the tomb.
I mean, for one thing, we first find this report in Mark, the Gospel of Mark,
which was written, you know, fifteen, twenty years after Paul, fifteen years or so.
And Mark goes out of his way to show that the men, disciples didn't never understood Jesus.
And the only people who understand Jesus in Mark's Gospel are people you would never expect.
The woman who anoints him, who's never even named, she's the only one who realizes he has to die.
The only one who realizes that his death brings salvation is the Roman pagan centurion who just crucified him.
And the women are told, the women realize, so like they're the outside,
all the outsiders recognize the guys on the inside forget it in Mark.
So why would Mark make this up?
Because it's perfectly consistent with his entire gospel.
That's why. So I'm not saying Mark made it up.
I mean, my my personal view about this is that probably the idea,
the belief that Jesus was raised from the dead is probably based on several people having visions of him.
They loved him.
He inexplicably killed and and some of them, a couple of them had visions of them.
I think Mary Magdalene might have been one of those women.
And then and that Mary Magdalene may have been the first one to say, the Lord's been raised.
And Peter later said that.
And and so a couple of people may have had these kinds of visions and the first one may have been a woman.
And so that's what that's how I explain it.
But there's no problem with them by making this up.
People, the lots of reasons people could have made it up.
Yeah, so it could be fictional.
And the other thing that you point out is it's almost like Elvis Presley is somewhat of a contemporary example.
Right. Oh, yeah, Elvis is seen all the time.
And people shouldn't say, well, you got these groups of people seeing Jesus because therefore, if you've got a group, it really happened.
The people who always say that that tell me about it are Protestants.
And I point out to them, yeah, you know, the Blessed Virgin Mary shows up all the time to large groups.
Do you really think she shows up?
Oh, no, they didn't.
Well, it's they all said they did.
Well, yeah, but they were mistaken.
Oh, so they were mistaken.
But, you know, these other people were not mistaken.
So what happened to the thing about a group vision you were just talking about?
Wow.
So so while we have a couple minutes left, I just want to go ahead and tease our audience because I am I'm going to be in the stands watching.
Going to need some caffeine, too, to keep up with you guys.
What should we expect on the day of the debate?
This thing's going to be stimulating.
You're going to get your own stimulation just from what happens.
Yeah, we're each going to lay out our cases.
And Mike will almost certainly talk about how the Gospels are historically good sources.
I may point out to Mike that he himself agrees that there are things in the Gospels that the Gospel writers say happened that Mike doesn't think really happened.
He there are things that he says didn't really happen.
Or they report things.
Jesus said they said Jesus didn't really say that he said the opposite and one involving the resurrection, by the way.
So so like, OK, so which how are you deciding that they're reliable, except for where you don't think they're reliable?
So yeah, it'll be that kind of thing.
Ladies and gentlemen, please go sign up right now.
Mithfishingpodcast.com forward slash resurrection.
It's early bird special right now.
Don't miss out on this opportunity.
You'll have a lifetime to be able to watch it too.
So if you pay for it, you'll have access to it for the rest of your life.
If you have friends over, we're not going to, you know, hunt you down for showing your friends if they're at your house watching this debate.
So just a heads up.
Thank you, Dr.
Airman, I really, really appreciate you.
My pleasure, my pleasure.
Thanks so much.
