Today I have a conversation with Dr. Michael Lacona, and of course he is a historian but
also a Christian apologist who defends the resurrection of Jesus.
I'm going to be involved in this upcoming debate between Dr. Michael Lacona and Dr.
Bart Ehrman, and I'm really excited to see how it pans out because this will be like
no other debate before.
They will be debating whether or not Jesus resurrected from the dead if it's historically
arguable that it happened or it didn't happen.
And these are the things that will be discussed.
At the end of the day, this debate will be seven hours.
There has not been a debate like this out there yet.
A seven hour debate, long Q&A, your questions might get answered multiple times in that
kind of time span.
Let me show you and tease you with a little intro that I put together so that people understand
what is going to happen in this debate.
There are over 2.7 billion Christians in the world.
That's more than one out of three human beings on planet Earth.
And virtually all of them think that Jesus was raised from the dead.
But is it true?
Was Jesus raised from the dead?
The apostle Paul writes, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless, you
are still in your sins, and those who have died as followers of Jesus are forever lost.
That's exactly what you would think if someone was buried in a tomb and you went there three
days later and it was empty, you wouldn't think resurrection.
No!
You'd think grave robbers, or you'd think, hey, I'm at the wrong tomb.
The empty tomb isn't going to convince anybody.
You can't have a group hallucination.
I can't wake up my wife in the middle of the night and say, honey, I'm in Maui, go back
to sleep, join me in my dream, and let's have a free vacation!
Can it be shown to be a historical event?
And if not, is Christianity dead?
If Christ was not raised, we're not going to be raised.
And if we're not going to be raised, the Christian life is not worth living.
For most of my life, I was a committed Christian who believed in the resurrection.
For many years, I was a deeply committed conservative evangelical.
I not only believed the resurrection happened, I thought I could prove it, and I spent a
lot of time and effort arguing that the resurrection could be demonstrated as a historical fact.
There was a time when I doubted the truth of the Christian message.
I took 12 years and studied the historical evidence for the resurrection of Jesus, and
I became more convinced than ever that the resurrection of Jesus is an event that occurred
in history.
It's a religious belief, not a historical fact.
Bart says that historians cannot investigate miracle claims.
He's wrong.
In this debate, I'm going to pull out all the stops to show why the resurrection cannot
be seen as a historical event.
He's wrong again.
This will be the debate to end all debates.
This is the debate to end all debates.
Now, I know for a fact this debate is going to be amazing.
So be sure to go to mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash resurrection.
It's down in the description and I also pinned the comment in the comment section in case
you can't find it and sign up now, especially early bird specials so you can get that discount.
It's going to be all day long.
Now for my fun conversation I had with Dr. Mike Lacona, keep in mind, don't crucify
me because I'm not here to debate him.
He's going to have a debate with Bart.
I just wanted to ask a few questions, maybe got a little excited and should have shut
up and let him answer certain ones, but let me know what you think about this conversation.
We are myth vision.
Welcome back to myth vision podcast today, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm hanging out with Dr. Mike Lacona.
Welcome to myth vision.
Hey, thanks a lot, Derek.
It's good to finally meet you.
Have you heard about me through the grapevine?
I have, you know, so good to meet you.
I'm here to have a conversation and I am a skeptic, right?
I was a Christian for many years and I know what goes into how passionate and stuff.
I try my best to still bring value to this, even though I'm a skeptic rather than it just
be antagonism and I take a different approach than I once did and maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe I'm mistaken about some of these.
I'm pretty sure I don't have everything figured out.
I go to scholars and you are a scholar in your own right.
So I figure I'd have a conversation, but before we have this conversation, I edited
this intro to this debate that you and Dr. Airman are going to have in your words on
a scale from one to 10, compared to any debate you've done with him before, where are you
thinking this is going to be in terms of how good is this debate going to be about the
resurrection?
Oh, I'd say it's going to be the best that we've ever done.
We're used to each other.
We're used to our arguments, but we're going to be given a whole lot more this time because
we're going to have a lot, lot more time to get into it.
Plus, the audience are going to have plenty of time to ask questions and engage in Q&A.
So yeah, it's probably going to be the most difficult debate either of us have had on
this because we're going to be vulnerable for a longer period of time, but we get to
explain ourselves more than we have in the past.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.
So make sure you go down in the description.
Don't forget, sign up.
The link's there.
Dr. Lacona, let's play kind of a game, a thinking game together.
If maybe I have you play the skeptic for once because you're so used to defending Christianity
and rightfully so.
I mean, that's your faith and you believe it has justifiable historical reasons for why
the resurrection is true, which we're going to see in this debate as you argue this with
Bart.
But when I went and visited Dr. Allison and I hung out in his house all day long, I got
to ask him some tough questions and he answered as the skeptic.
So if you were a skeptic, these are the questions.
I said to him, Dr. Allison, if you're a skeptic trying to answer naturally, what is the best
explanation on the opponent's side because you've evaluated, you've dealt with the arguments.
What's the best argument on the other side that you've ever heard about the resurrection?
I mean, what would you best explain for maybe the empty tomb?
We'll start with a few things at a time.
What about the empty tomb?
Best explanation for the empty tomb.
I guess I would, I mean, all the natural explanations for why the tomb was empty.
I think they fail miserably.
So if I were going to argue against the empty tomb, I would would just say, well, the tomb
wasn't emptied.
I'd probably go with something like some other skeptics have gone with to say, well, Jesus
wasn't buried in a tomb.
Right.
Well, OK.
And, you know, I asked this of Dale just to give you a snippet and you're going to go, what?
He said, well, if the body was missing from the empty tomb, it might have been magicians
because he was such a noble man and that magicians would have taken his body, stolen
the corpse and used it in some type of magical act.
And I was blown away that he actually said that.
He goes, I don't know.
But he said, if I was to say a skeptic argument, that would be the one.
So I just figured I'd tell you just I don't know if you heard him ever say that before,
but it just to get you to laugh a little because that would be the worst.
I can't imagine if that was the reality.
That would be horrific, you know, if that was the case.
Yeah, no, I I love Dale and I admire him so much.
And his new book on the resurrection is excellent.
I don't agree with with some of the things in it, but I mean, it is excellent.
I mean, Dale Allison is scholarship at the highest level.
So he's just really good.
What I don't like about some of what he does is he'll talk about the evidence.
OK.
Like I'm I'm I'm not saying he actually uses this example.
But let me just make up something to kind of give you an idea.
OK. My perception is and maybe maybe it you know, I go back and I read his book
again and I'd say maybe my perception is mistaken.
But my perception is he'll say something like, yeah, here's all the evidence
for the empty tomb.
Here's some arguments against it really looks like the like the like the evidence
points, you know, more persuasively to the empty tomb.
But it's possible that, you know, you might have had some magicians steal the body,
you know, and so I don't know that we can really conclude that it was empty.
Oh, wait a minute, you know, we don't look at just mere possibilities as historians.
Historians go with probabilities and you're never going to be able to prove
anything in history, really, in ancient history, at least, beyond all doubt.
You're going to look at what the best explanation is.
And that's what you go with.
What seems most probable and the probable is is not eliminated by what's merely possible.
So sometimes I think that at least that's the impression I got as I read through his book.
Yeah, this is it really looks like this.
But there's a one in a billion chance it could be this.
And so we're just going to leave it, you know, even I thought I was like,
that is a radical conclusion in my opinion.
I'm not going to say it's not possible, but it's like, aren't there other explanations?
I mean, I yeah, I just figure I throw that out there to you to kind of get your thoughts on that.
Because I love Dale, too.
I mean, I got his his whole Matthew commentary series right over here on the bookshelf
and signed versions, too, and all that.
Oh, man, I know I'm I'm making you jealousy.
You are you are.
But by the way, you mentioned about, you know, skeptical arguments.
But I just say, if I were going to be a skeptic, OK, and look,
I try to look at stuff honestly as possible because we don't have to fear the truth.
For me, my greatest fear is that my biases will keep me from finding the truth.
And it cost me eternity or cost me, you know, I just waste my life
being devoted to something that is false.
So I'm always really examining the evidence.
And, you know, if you were to say, Mike, what do you think is the strongest
that, you know, if you were going to be a skeptic, how would you argue against the resurrection?
Yeah, how would you and the one thing that I've asked myself on a couple
occasions that I don't have the answer to it is.
Suppose Islam had the same quantity and quality of evidence
for its truth as I think Christians have for the resurrection of Jesus.
I don't think it's what they have for the Quran is anything even approaches
what we have for the resurrection of Jesus.
But if they did, let's say the quality and quantity, the evidence was the same.
And that we did not have the quantity and quality of the evidence
that we have for the resurrection of Jesus.
Would it be enough to persuade me to become a Muslim?
You see, if Islam is true, I would want to be a Muslim.
But to be honest with you, I'm very turned off by that religion.
So it's like I don't want to become a Muslim.
Now, I would if I knew it was true.
But the question for me is if they had the quantity and quality of evidence
that we have for the resurrection of Jesus, would it be enough to persuade me
to become a Muslim?
And I guess I've never really taken the time to think through that.
But I don't know that it would be.
It may be. I don't know.
So for me, that would be the thing that I think is.
You know,
probably the strongest for me or just not enough evidence.
So all right, I'm going to be shifting into different questions as we go.
Just interesting ideas I had before we were going to do the show.
I said, let me ask Mike, we're having a conversation.
So let's suppose the Gospels are all later.
Let's suppose, like a lot of critical scholars,
very rarely do you find them try to place it before the war, even Mark, the earliest.
That's not true. I mean, I'm sorry.
I mean, skeptical, like like people who aren't Christian scholars.
Well, that's not true either.
You had Morris Casey and his doctoral student, James Crossley,
who is now a professor in his own right and a historian.
Both of them are agnostics.
Casey recently died, but he was an agnostic bordering on atheism when he died.
And Crossley is an agnostic and both of them date, Mark, in the forties.
What? Yeah.
And I recently had a student, Joshua Pelletier, I supervised his MA thesis
and he did it on some prologam and I related to the mark.
Did it on three topics.
One mark was composed.
The authorship of Mark and whether Peter was his primary source.
And he put together, he found 207 critical scholars
writing in English since 1965, 1965 through 2019.
And he found that the majority of scholars place it somewhere between 65 and 70.
And if you include some go a little bit further from that 65 to 70,
it doesn't go much later than 70.
It goes back in from 50 to 70.
That's where the next majority would be.
And the majority of them are Christian.
I only ask because I don't have a dilemma in this question.
The dilemma comes down to the prophecies, right?
It's like, it's like, not necessarily.
I'm saying most, most Christians I've engaged with will say stuff like,
well, hold on, if you put it after 70,
then he's predicting something that's already kind of been written down.
So they don't like that argument.
It doesn't debunk it.
It could simply be they wrote it after and still the reality was that earlier,
a guy predicted these things.
But yeah, I'm just saying most think that for Matthew and Luke, right?
Right. So that question, I guess, is leading in a direction
I was wanting to get your answer to is if we take the four Gospels
and we pitch them later and let's say they are later and let's go with
let's throw some more things in there. Luke acts acts, let's say,
knows Josephus's writings going with, let's say, Steve Mason's argument.
OK, well, also Dennis MacDonald claims that in Purvo.
Purvo also. But boy, they are on the fringe.
Hardly anyone takes those views.
So let's just say that they're this is accurate, though.
Let's say acts knows Josephus.
Let's say these Gospels are a little later.
Would that minimize the level of reliability
that one would have on the confidence level we would have in saying,
you know, this stuff's actually actually accurate.
We need to go to Paul. Paul would be our better source.
Would we agree on that?
Oh, I think he's our best source now, right?
You know, and I I'm fine to adopt the standard dates of the Gospels
that mark between 65 and 70.
You know, Matthew sometime in the late 70s or around the year 80.
Luke 80 to 85 and John around the year 95.
I'm fine with that.
I would still put, you know, Paul is generally speaking before any of those.
And, you know, he certainly almost everyone agrees.
He knew the eyewitnesses, the alleged eyewitnesses,
the apostles, they hung out with them and talked with them
and knew what they thought.
And he was they all agreed that he was preaching the essential
gospel message that they were preaching.
So I think Paul is our best source.
Yeah, I just I wonder if the the other sources,
Gospels, Acts, etc., we should take with a grain of salt
on how accurate they are.
And that was the question I'd like to ask is, do you and this is a tough question
because I've read somewhere, can't remember where it was,
that you got in trouble for taking a bold stance on the Matthew situation.
People call it the zombie apocalypse.
Well, I could call it that. Yeah.
Can you tell us if you're allowed to?
I don't know. Of course.
Yeah, what happened with this?
And do you think there's other what we could call legends?
In a sense, Adele Allison thinks there might be legendary material
to some degree in the Gospels.
Do you have anywhere that you think is legend like that, maybe?
Or what do you how do you paint Matthew and the zombie apocalypse
as they like to people?
People like to call it that.
But a skeptics like to say that in a kind of demeaning sense.
You'll have others like John Dominic Croson call it the heroine of hell.
Yeah, I think, you know, when you talk about Matthew's racing,
you know, the text there is that Jesus is crucifixion.
And when he dies, you have Matthew, Mark and Luke report
certain phenomena that occurred.
So you have Mark talks about how there was darkness and then the Temple Vale split.
But then you have Matthew adding four more things.
He says there was an earthquake and the rock split.
The tunes were open.
Many of the saints who were dead were raised.
And after Jesus' resurrection, they came out, walked into the Holy City
and appeared to many.
So, you know, as as when I was doing my doctoral research, I was reading
some of the more rather skeptical scholars like Croson and him.
He and several others would say, well, you know,
this is the clearest example of myth making in the New Testament.
And Croson would have the view that, you know,
the original report of the early Christians
was that Jesus just went after he died.
He went to hell and released all of the saints who had died.
And then he and the saints rose from the dead and went to heaven.
So no one saw them.
They just went went to heaven.
And then later on, you had the legend develop about an empty tomb and things like this.
Problem is that such a view just flies in face of the facts.
You have Paul talk about a bodily resurrection of Jesus.
This is something that even Bart agrees on.
OK, and according to Gary Habermas, the majority of critical New Testament
scholars opining on this today do think that the apostles were claiming
that Jesus was raised physically bodily from the dead.
That's not to say that these critical scholars all think that he was
raised physically bodily from the dead.
But this is what the earliest Christians were saying.
And I mean, I could give several reasons for that.
But so the herring of hell where I got in trouble was I looked at some
of the Greco-Roman and Jewish literature and saw a lot of similar things like that.
And I said, you know, these were portents of the ancients.
A lot of them, I think that they would use this as poetic devices, special effects
to say that this is, you know, an event with cosmic, even divine significance.
It would be similar to us saying today that 9-11 was an earth shaking event.
We don't mean to say by that that there was a massive earthquake when, you know,
on 9-11. We're just using this as hyperbolic or special effects
in order to say an event of great significance took place.
Well, I just got clobbered by someone in the evangelical community.
I think they were, for the most part, they were well-meaning.
They thought that I was dehistoricizing the text when I said, well, no,
I'm trying to look at this.
And I think there are problems.
You have some theological problems if you take this in a historical sense,
because Paul says Christ is the first to be raised with a resurrection body.
Well, were these saints raised in a resurrection body or not?
If they were, then they contradict Matthew or Paul.
If they were raised in the same body, like Lazarus and Jairus' daughter
in the widow's son, well, they're just going to die again.
But in the meantime, they're raised when Jesus dies around 3 p.m.
on Friday. They don't come out of their tombs until Sunday morning.
So if we'd been there, what would we have seen?
Were they pacing back and forth in the tombs between then?
And, you know, when they come out, they haven't eaten or drank anything
for at least 36 hours. They're hungry.
They're thirsty. They're homeless.
They're walking around.
They've got some really cool stories to tell, you know, about what the afterlife is like.
Well, you know, why don't we hear about these, you know?
So I think there I said that it's more likely
that Matthew is doing the same thing here that Josephus does
with portents that he talks about prior to the destruction of the temple
that Livy talks about in poetic terms after Julius Caesar was assassinated,
that Cassius Dio talks about when Caesar went to Egypt and and, you know,
several examples of this.
And if this is what Matthew is doing, you're not dehistoricizing the text.
You are actually historicizing something that is not meant to be interpreted
in a historical sense, like I covered.
And but, you know, I survived it.
And it was a stressful time because I didn't know what was going to happen.
But I figured, you know, I'm just trying to be honest.
And that's what I think the skeptic community,
as much as we may have disagreements on conclusions and stuff,
there's a lot of respect on you taking kind of a position like that.
It could have been any example.
It could have been did Herod actually kill all the little ones and stuff.
Being we see this trope, right? There's a trope.
Whether it's historic or not, those are the debated questions.
Can we prove one way or the other?
No, not necessarily, it's probability.
But I'm looking at the literary trope and thinking to myself,
this seems like something that they're looking at their scriptures
and they're they're lifting this idea.
And I think the trouble that I've engaged,
just to tell you my own little issues that I've had with most apologists
and you're a historian.
So while you may defend, you're not quite in the same category as some
that that I've engaged with in terms of communicating.
But they're like they want to harmonize almost any and everything
and not grant authors their own voice in certain texts.
And I think that that's a difficult thing
for a lot of Christians like I was trying to wrap our heads around that.
So would you briefly comment on that, too?
How would you approach when we're reading Mark or we're reading Matthew?
Are we trying to connect the dots and make everything match and fit?
Or are we going to let each author talk for itself?
That's a good question, Derek.
Now, I've written a book.
It was published in 2017 by Oxford University Press.
It's titled Why Are There Differences in the Gospels?
And it has the results of eight years of research in which I was engaged.
So the majority of New Testament scholars today
do think that the Gospels share much in common with Greco-Roman biography.
And so if they are ancient biographies or closely affiliated with them,
we're going to expect a lot of the same kind of literary conventions
in play that we find in Greco-Roman biography.
And so there are various compositional devices that classicists
mention when it comes to ancient biographies.
Christopher Pelling, recently retired from Oxford,
is the leading Plutarch scholar in the world.
I've had discussions with him, has read his material.
He told me that prior to my book, the most comprehensive work
done on compositional devices in ancient biography, he wrote
in a, at least as related to Plutarch, he wrote it.
And it was a single chapter.
It appeared first as a journal article, and then it appeared as
I think it's chapter four of his book, Plutarch in History.
It's really enlightening.
And there he took six pericope, stories that Plutarch talks about.
And he did it, looked at it in, you know, how six stories that appear
in two or more of Plutarch's lives.
So you've got the same author reporting the same story,
pretty much using the same sources.
And in a lot of cases, they're written simultaneously.
And he argues and why they were written simultaneously,
at least for six of them.
So in that case, you can compare them very closely.
And you'd think, first of all, is Plutarch copying and pasting?
Well, he never copies and pastes.
He actually changes some of these things.
And you look and you see a pattern as I went through
all 48 of Plutarch's extant lives.
I included one, no, three more than what Pelling did.
So I had nine of the lives.
And I had 36 stories that I found, not just five or six, but 36
that I found that appear in two or more of those lives.
And then I compared them and I found that 30 of the 36 have differences in them.
And then you start to see that there's a pattern, the same kind of differences
that appear over and over.
And then from those, you can infer certain compositional devices.
And Pelling names these, I think I added one to his.
But it's like compression, where you compress a story to have occurred
over a shorter period of time than it actually did.
Displacement, where you take a story and displace it
from its original chronological context and transplanted in another one.
Conflation, where you conflate details from two or more stories into one.
Perhaps you don't want to narrate to.
So for purposes of the economy, you conflate the stories into one.
So you only have to narrate one of those.
And transfer, where you transfer in order to simplify an account or to make a point,
you transfer what one person said to the lips of another one.
Or if instead of speaking to one person, you transfer that as though
you're speaking to another person, but saying the same thing.
So there's these things and Plutarch use these on a regular basis.
And so did other.
You find that other classes mentioned how other ancient biographers of that period
use them as well.
So I figured, well, if we read the Gospels in view of these
compositional devices that appear to have been part and parcel of the literary
conventions of ancient biography, maybe that will cast light on why some
of these differences exist.
And so what I did in my book was I took the 19 examples in the Gospels.
Over the years, I'd read the Gospels eight or nine times in Greek up to that point.
And I made a list of all the differences between the four Gospels that I found.
Especially the synoptic Gospels, since they're so similar and most believe
that Matthew and Luke used Mark.
And what's interesting, when you go back and you read those, in most of those
cases, you see the same kind of differences that can be explained by
compositional devices, the same that Plutarch and others used.
So what I did in my book was I took and show the ones from Plutarch and went
over those, the 30 stories that appear two or more times where there's
differences, explain those.
And then I take the 19 stories in the Gospels that I think, where I think
the compositional devices are most likely the cause of those differences.
So in those cases, I wouldn't call those contradictions.
I would say that the result from compositional devices, and they'll do
it for a specific reason, and you have to read the Gospels or any ancient
biography in view of the literary conventions in play at the time of
writing, rather than imparting our ideas of modern precision upon them.
Well put, well put.
So my final thing is simply this.
How bad do you think you're going to whoop Bart?
Come, come this debate time.
How bad do I think I'm going to make Bart look?
Yeah, I know.
How bad are you going to whoop him?
Oh, whoop him.
You know what, Bart, Bart is, he's extremely intelligent, and he's a
fantastic speaker.
And I do think that the content of my arguments are better than his.
Of course, he's going to think the same about his, but there's no one
out there that's going to whoop Bart because he's such a good oratory,
such a good speaker.
So, yeah, I hope I can make a good presentation of the case.
You know, I may not be able to answer every question.
Of course, there's going to be some things I just don't know.
And maybe he'll bring up some things or maybe Paula Guilla, you know,
talk to him at another time.
Maybe he or someone else will bring up something I'm just going to have
to take back and think about.
But anyway, I think it's just going to be a great time and informative
time that participants are going to get a lot out of and it's going to give
them something to be thinking about for a long time afterward.
I hope so too.
I look forward to talking with you again in the future and everybody
go down in the chat.
Make sure you go check out the debate.
It is going to be an all day event and you can bring your questions
and maybe get some answers.
Thank you so much, Mike.
I really appreciate you.
Well, thanks, Derek.
I appreciate you too.
And hey, fantastic job on that promo video.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
Never forget we are myth vision.
