We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Ladies and gentlemen, look at who I have again.
Joining us today is Dr. M. David Litwa.
I'm excited about today's show.
We're going to be covering a topic that we haven't actually discussed at all yet.
And I just want to give you guys a little bit of background of his expertise.
It's in Greco-Roman religions, phylonics studies,
gospels and Pauline literature,
heresiology, Gnostic and Nagamati studies,
ancient philosophy, ancient mythology, deification, theosis,
ancient esoteric movements, in particular Greek mystery cults,
ruler worship, and he is a scholar of ancient Mediterranean religions
with a focus on the New Testament and early Christianity.
Dr. Litwa, welcome to MythVision.
Hey, great to be back, Derek.
Thanks so much.
Good to see you.
Thank you.
I want everyone to know they can go right now and check out your books
down in the description, Becoming Divine,
an introduction to deification in Western culture.
We're going to find out more about what that is all about.
Also, Desiring Divinity, Self-Deification and Early Jewish and Christian Mythmaking.
I mean, I can't recommend these books enough.
If you can afford them, I highly recommend them.
This is serious scholarship.
Also, the book, The Evil Creator, which I've been reading today,
it is, I can't even begin.
You're going to see that at some point in the next video.
We're going to be discussing this a little bit further in depth.
If you haven't joined the Patreon, consider doing so.
I've got tons and tons of videos on MythVision's Patreon,
and there's going to be a Christmas webinar with Dr. Bart D. Ehrman,
and I might be hosting that webinar for him.
That'll be coming December.
So go down in the description.
December 5th, we're going to be doing all-day webinar.
Join us through that link, and it helps us out a lot.
All right, Dr. Litwa, what are we going to be talking about today?
And have I missed anything in the introduction?
No, I really appreciate it.
I'm excited to see Ehrman's going to ruin Christmas again this year.
I'm going to go ahead and share my screen.
So today, I'll be talking about two books, one being Becoming Divine,
the one on your screen here, and the other being Desiring Divinity.
And these are the two books that introduce the concept of deification,
which means most simply becoming a God or a divine being,
or transforming from a human to a divine being.
And this idea is maybe not too well known to your viewers,
but when you look at Western culture,
and I define Western culture pretty broadly,
this idea shows up again and again in history.
People have this desire to become something greater than themselves.
And the model for understanding something greater than humanity has been God, traditionally.
Even in so-called the big three monotheistic faiths,
you've got this desire to become one with God,
or to assimilate to a divine identity, become for Christians in Christ as Christ in Christ image,
because we already start out as it were in God's image.
And the end goal process is to become simply God.
Some have called it the Essence of Sin.
Others the Depth of Salvation.
This is really the tension in deification discourse.
Basically, I'm sure your listeners might be familiar with the story of the Garden of Eden,
where the very first promise to humanity from the snake
is, eat from the fruit and you shall be as gods.
Ironically, although many in the Protestant tradition view this as
essentially arrogant and prideful, those in Eastern traditions of Christianity,
such as Eastern Orthodoxy, including Greek and Russian Orthodoxy,
have basically hold deification, or sometimes called theosis, as the Orthodox position.
That is just what Christian salvation means.
Just to give a quick description of the book, though, regardless of one's evaluation of deification
throughout Western history, it has been part of human aspiration.
You can go back all the way to the ancient pharaohs to modern transhumanists,
and you'll see that people have envisioned their own divinity.
These visionaries are not only history's greatest mechlamaniacs,
but also mystic sages, apostles, prophets, magicians, bishops, philosophers, atheists, monks,
and some normal people, I would say.
Some aimed to be independent gods, others realized their eternal union with God,
some anticipated godhood in heaven, others walked as gods on earth,
some accepted divinity by grace, others achieved it by their own will to power.
I emphasize there's just no single form of deification.
In fact, since there's no single conception of God,
we wouldn't expect there to be one single idea of deification.
Instead, there's many types of deification united by interlocking themes.
These themes for me include achieving deathlessness, wielding superhuman power,
and assimilating to specific deities, and through these moments, as it were,
transcending normal, at least earthly or human nature.
So that's what this book is about, that's becoming divine, is an introduction.
And it raises the question, for me, and perhaps for some of your listeners,
what do we mean by God anyway?
Depending on the culture, the understanding of a god could be radically different.
I read an interesting article the other day by Justin L. Barrett asking,
is Santa Claus a god? And how would we know? What are the criteria?
And for me, just quickly, for your viewers, I'm chiefly interested in ancient Mediterranean concepts,
ancient Mediterranean concepts of God. And I think that although the definitions are complex,
we can narrow it down to more or less three, well, two basic traits, and then a third element.
A god is a being who is, first of all, not subject to death or corruption,
corruption being ending in death, that is, not subject to the laws of entropy, not growing old,
etc. Second, a god is a being who displays, who has and who presents, that is, superhuman power.
And basically, that power can be manifested in a variety of ways.
It's not just raw force, power can also be beauty. As in, beauty has the power to entice and to,
with beauty, you can control people because people have desires.
This would also include superhuman knowledge, the ability to prognosticate, to know the future.
It would also include superhuman goodness or love or authority. Power is a pretty flexible term,
but the key here is that it has to be superhuman power. That is, it has to be beyond the range of
any normal human capabilities, by which we mean something above, say, an Olympic runner
might break a record in the 100 meter dash, but superhuman power means that you go beyond what
any Olympic athlete could ever hope to achieve. So, that superhuman is important.
So, the first thinker that I look at is actually a guy in ancient Egypt because all of this seems
to start there. And this particular fellow is known as Amenhotep III. He's the father, if your
viewers know a little bit about ancient Egyptian kings, he's the father of Akhenaten, the famous
so-called first monotheist, and he's also the grandfather of the much better known King Tut,
whose gold flesh is shown here. What's interesting about Amenhotep, it's not that he's unique among
Egyptian fairies entirely, but he really takes his own divinity seriously, and we see some
standard elements, and we also see some unique elements with him. As some of your viewers might
know, Egyptian kings were viewed as incarnations of a deity. In Amenhotep's case, there was a backstory
invented that a god impregnated his mother, a woman by the name of Mutim Riyadh, and she
was said to basically interact by contact with divine power, giving birth to Amenhotep III.
But normally, those kinds of backstories aren't needed. Normally, the Egyptian king or pharaoh
is at his coronation, united with a divine power called the Ka, and this power or energy, divine
energy, is renewed at festivals. The annual festival that I study is called the Apet Festival,
but in the unique case of Amenhotep, he actually makes permanent the divine energies
after 30 years in what's called the SED Festival. So it's as if the king, the king's power or energy
wanes over time, and it is periodically renewed. In Amenhotep's case, it becomes permanent.
Now, this divine element, the Ka is eternal. You can think of it as the divine double of the king.
It is united with the king, and when the king's body dies, this Ka, his Ka,
basically his inner self, then unites with the sun god. And so Amenhotep is still very much alive
today if you're totally buying into Egyptian theology. He never died, and that is the immortal
element. So you might go check out a mummy of a pharaoh. That's not the actual pharaoh. The actual
pharaoh is somewhere in the sky, somewhere united with the sun. Now, this idea of divine
assimilation is picked up by the Greeks. One of my favorite coins here is Alexander the Great
with the horns, as you can see, of the god Amon, who is actually an Egyptian deity.
But he's identified with Zeus. When we get to the age of Jesus, we see the Roman emperors right
around the time of Jesus inherited what was thought to be a kind of superhuman power,
because it was literally a worldwide power that had never been seen before.
They literally ruled the known world, and emperors had what was called a divine self,
somewhat similar to the Ka, but called the Ganius. And this is viewed as an eternal divine being,
and this is the being that is worshipped at Roman altars, even while the emperor is alive.
It is the divine double of the emperor. The emperor is divine by virtue of being somehow
united to his Ganius. The rulers associate themselves, interestingly, to specific deities
based on dominant traits. So a very famous marble sculpture here of the emperor,
Cometus, who has assimilated to a very specific god, who is Hercules, or Hercules,
with his club and his lion skin armor, and holding in his hands, incidentally, are apples,
which are from the Hesperides and signify life. And so you have those three elements,
again, the power, you have the power, you have the immortality. These Roman emperors,
when they die, or when they died, the good ones at least, had an elaborate funeral ceremony
where their inner self was released quite literally as an eagle. They built a huge pyre
that is essentially a three-story kind of almost like a cake, a wedding cake,
sort of a pyre, but made of wood, obviously, filled with perfumes and the wax body of the emperor
melted on top of this pyre. And after the wax body melted, an eagle from behind the pyre was released,
signifying the release of the emperor's soul into heaven. So they very much thought that these
beings were deathless and immortal, and they also had this fascination with assimilating them to
particular divine beings. What I do, by the way, I should say, you can stop me at any time.
No, there's so many questions I don't even want to. I just think it's better that the
professional takes us through what's going on. Okay. Well, basically, the overarching arc, narrative
arc of the book is that this deification, which is first established for rulers, becomes democratized,
that is made available for also other people. There's a famous saying of Nietzsche,
which I quote in the book, and Nietzsche was very frustrated that deification started
becoming available for other people and particularly resentful that a Jewish peasant from Nazareth
could also get the benefits of deification. Nietzsche complained that now deification is
basically for every Peter and Paul, as we might say, for every Tom Dick or Harry, and he was not
very happy about that. One of the persons who made that possible was none other than Paul of Tarsus,
and he also gets a chapter in this book. As some of your viewers will know, Paul has this concept
of a divine spirit in Greek, which unites with the believers in baptism. This is a divine and
immortal element that is basically absorbed into the believer and immortalizes the believer from
within. He says that believers in Jesus will rise in deathless bodies, what he actually calls
soma pneumatica, or somata pneumatica, and these bodies are basically spirit bodies that don't die.
We don't know exactly what they look like, but they're not normal human flesh because flesh and
blood, as he says, don't inherit the kingdom of God. Humans also, according to Paul, inherit
superhuman power to judge angels and to rule the world. This is what he says anyway to the Corinthians
and 1 Corinthians 6-2. Won't we judge angels? Also, he says in 1 Corinthians 3-21, all things are
yours, whether death or life, and so on and so forth. And this idea of cosmic ownership and
cosmic rule is something that is made possible by assimilation to now a specific divine being,
Jesus or Paul preferred Christ, and this being, as your viewers will know,
and as Paul himself said, he received, after his resurrection, he became Son of God in Romans 1-3,
and by virtue of him rising from the dead. And that is a promise not just for Christ, but for Paul,
everybody, everybody who wants to conform to Christ. And that's the ultimate principle of
democratization. That is, because of this, now deification is available to everybody. And where
I make this argument at length is in a book called We Are Being Transformed. This is actually my very
first book in 2012, and this is where I go in the course of 300 pages and walk you through that.
So, in this, I've also made freely available on my academia.edu site, so you don't have to pay for
this one, unless of course you want to support the publisher. Just to go through the other
chapters in the Becoming Divine book, I look at the Mithras liturgy or so-called Mithraism. This
is actually not totally Mithraic. This chapter focuses on a particular magic spell which we have
in the Greek Magical Papyri, wherein the magician is immortalized. I also look at the Hermetic literature.
If some of your viewers are familiar with ancient Hermetic literature, that is also a more esoteric
sort of Egyptian philosophy in the time of Christianity. That also has a theory of deification.
I look at Plotinus, who's a late Platonist, so-called the first Neoplatonist. And then Augustine,
some of your readers or some of your viewers, that is, will know. Then I look at an Islamic
thinker, Hussein Ibn Mansur al-Halash, who, because of radical monotheism, also thought that he was
identified with God. Meister Eckhart, a very famous Christian medieval thinker. Gregory Palamas,
who sets the tone for Orthodoxy, that is Eastern Orthodoxy. Martin Luther, the Protestant
reformer. Then I look at Mormons, the theory of deification in Joseph Smith.
And the final chapter is Nietzsche and Zarathustra. There's a quick
postlude on the post-human God. This is, what I mean by this, is that being who, as some of your
listeners might know, is a being who some people think that through technology,
we can essentially transcend human nature right now. It's not only through technology,
we could do it through gene therapy. We could do it through gene modification.
We could, people think about uploading our minds onto a supercomputer. People talk about
getting sort of downloaded into avatars that live forever, or downloading oneself into a
super body made of silicon, which can, doesn't decay. This is what I mean by the sort of
post-human God. These radical transhumanist visions of becoming divine that are basically
becoming more and more popular. Simple internet search. We'll show you that.
So that's becoming divine. And the question that it raises is, how does one actually become
divine? And that's the inquiry that I make in the next book that I'm going to discuss or just
introduce for your viewers today. But I should actually stop and just see if there's any,
if you want to make me back up or have any kind of questions or comments, because I don't want to
lose anybody. So I've got you up on the screen here. Just you and me. I can always pop it back
so that we can go back to the presentation. You don't have to close anything. A couple questions.
First of all, I think it's really interesting how clean and simple it is to point out in the
Paul saying flesh and blood does not inherit the kingdom. This is clearly a spirit body. I also
think it's funny when you said methraic, like this deification and that the magician became
deified. Does this have potentially any connection with Jesus being a magician?
Why he's constantly referred to as a magician or having magical powers and things like that?
Well, if you're Morton Smith and some of your viewers might know Morton Smith, the famous
so-called discoverer of secret mark, his theory was that Jesus was a magician and that he had
basically a baptismal rite in which the believer ascended to heaven and became a god
similar to what we find in the Mithras liturgy, which is this magical text, probably the second
century, originally written in the second century, and it's in the Greek magical papyri. In this
magical text, basically you call upon Mithras, who is a sun god. Mithras, through a series of
rituals, gives you the ability to ascend into a sort of, I mean, it's not, you go far beyond heaven
because heaven for the ancients is a sort of seven layered zone, but you go into this essentially
new universe above heaven and you receive deification there and then you come back.
And when you come back, you have all these divine powers and energies, but it's in a sense, it's a
temporary immortalization. You could view it as the immortalization as your essential part, as your
true self, however you conceive of your true self, and then that true self comes back and habits your
body and all of a sudden you are, as it were, energized with divine power. So whether Jesus
was involved in any kind of those rituals, I don't know, but those rituals are attested about a
century after him, and that's what the Mithras liturgy is. Final question, and I guess, and I'd
love to keep moving. Everything you said was really interesting, and it makes me kind of want to put
some puzzle pieces together, but I, being someone who's had my experience with drugs in my life,
and it's not just bad drugs, right? I've sampled plenty of things in my life, and one of those
things were hallucination. I've taken some things that have taken me what seems to be out of this
reality and potentially beyond the heavens to another place. You hear a lot of people who
describe this experience as something like that. Do you think that in these deification rites,
oftentimes in mystery schools and such, they are ingesting some type of honey laced drink or some,
they're smoking something, they're eating something, they're drinking something that is causing them
to potentially go through this right in a, I guess, a ceremonial sense, not necessarily like
people today sitting on their couch just watch this trip, bro. I'm going to go on a trip. No, no, no,
like, like legitimately taking it in a ceremonial sense, like a shaman would.
Yep, definitely. Yeah. The Mithras liturgy is, has a recipe for, it's a little bit funny. It's
essentially a recipe for what might be called Betel juice or the scarab Betel juice, because the
scarab Betel was a sign for the sun god that it, because it rolled its, its dung into a ball and,
and sort of pushed that along, which reminded the Egyptians of the movement of the sun throughout
the sky. So you, you take a scarab and, which is a kind of Betel and use a bunch of other ingredients
and you make what's called, or what I'm, what I'll just call a Betel juice. And you are ingesting
that in, in the ritual, because you want to identify with the sun god. The only thing there is though,
I don't think that anything in that recipe has any hallucinogenic qualities. I may be wrong,
obviously, I haven't taken it. But what's interesting about the human mind is given,
and this is also very true in heretic literature, it can enter into transcendent states without
necessarily ingesting any mind altering substance through the process of meditation.
You can enter into basically transcended, or if you prefer, trans states. And there are techniques
to, to do that. So yeah, I, the short answer is I don't think there's anything hallucinogenic
involved. I think that they, and I do think that they had something, a very realistic experience.
But I'd love to be corrected on that point. You know, higher, get in here, an expert on
ancient hallucinogens, I'd love to hear it myself. Yeah, same here. Yeah, and there is the placebo
effect as well. So there's that, that power of suggestion based on the ritual, and the senses
that are being utilized in the process. I can imagine invoking yourself becoming divine.
It's got to be a deep, extremely significant mindset to even think I am going to be
God. You know, like that's powerful to even think of, you know, especially if you put yourself
into that kind of frame of mind. So thank you so much. If you'd like to continue, I can,
sure. Okay. Yeah. So, desiring divinity is, is, is answers that question, how, how does one become
a God? It's not a manual, of course, but it looks at ancient thinkers who, through the process of,
of, well, it's a variety of processes, but it's mostly cognitive processes who envision their
own divinity and for themselves became divine beings. A couple quotes here just to, to meditate on,
whether or not they're true or not, I'm not vouching for their truth, but they're, they're
interesting to think with. Virtue and Russell, famous early 20th century British atheists,
said that every man, and in modern days, we might say every person would like to be God,
if it were possible. Some few find it difficult to admit the impossibility. There's a little bit of a
joke there. The other, the other quote, interesting quote I found, found when researching this was
from Albert Camus, who wrote a very nice essay called The Rebel. And in it, he wrote, quote,
it no longer suffices for the rebel to declare himself God or to look to his own salvation.
By adopting a certain attitude of mind, the species must be deified as Nietzsche attempted to do,
and his ideal of the Superman must be adopted so as to assure salvation for all.
Now, there's a certain danger here, of course, and there's, there's danger throughout all of this,
that people are always going to be pointing the finger and saying that this is terribly,
terribly arrogant stuff and terribly dangerous. But we'll see. One of the interesting things that I
found in this is that it's a sort of yes and no, both and kind of thing. One can define
self-divacation really easily. It's just making of oneself into a God, whether ontologically or
rhetorically. And we see this a lot in politics. We see it quite literally in North Korea
with the Kim family. Occasionally, we see it even in American politics. I remember when
Obama was running, people were saying that he's as popular as a God as it were. And
as is well known, political leaders sometimes, certainly in ancient times, morphed themselves
with divine images and imagery, and sometimes were viewed as, as literal, as literal divine beings.
And that's something a little bit hard to get one's head wrapped around, but that still does exist.
What I found, though, was that when looking at the different mythologies of people who became
Gods, there are basically two patterns that I found. One is that the self-deafire is a positive
being, that is a hero. I wrote here Angel, but basically a positive being. And the other is
the sort of more familiar pattern, probably to your viewers, is the self-deafire as a rebel.
Because the self-deafire has to be involved in an amazing task of self-assertion. They have to
actually believe that they are a divine being, and that can sound very, very scary.
If we look at the self-deafire as a rebel, the three figures that I looked at were
what I call the primal human, or Adam.
Hallel, sometimes called Lucifer, sometimes called Satan. And the evil creator that is
y'all to pay out in Gnostic or Sethine literature. The primal human is, I don't go to Genesis 3
for this. I actually go to a chapter of the Bible that maybe some of your viewers aren't familiar
with, which is Ezekiel 28. And Ezekiel 28 is the description of a myth that seems to be older
than what we find in Genesis 3. And this is the description of a being who appears to be the
first human, but is also an angelic figure, studied with gents and walking in the paradise of God,
who then experiences a tremendous fall. And the idea seems to be that humans were originally
divine beings, existing in a kind of divine realm, and who underwent some sort of tragic
mistake. That's the first chapter. The second chapter looks at Lucifer,
this text focusing on Isaiah 14, which is our first text actually talking about this being called
the Shining One, Hallel, in Hebrew, who tries to raise his throne above the stars of God,
and again experiences a huge fall. Finally, y'all to pay out the final rebel. This one is
interesting because in the previous examples, you have the Hebrew God trying to put down
basically a rebel figure. But in Gnostic literature, this is inverted so that
actually the Hebrew God is himself the rebel. And he himself, the creator himself, is the evil one.
And there's someone, a God above him that he doesn't even know about. And so this is the
interesting inversion where he's been yelled at Yahweh or yelled at the Bayot has been trying to
keep down rebels in his mini kingdom. But he's actually much part of a much, much larger universe
in which he himself is a rebel against a much greater divine power. But the other pattern that
I found in this to me was the more interesting pattern was sometimes in this in mythology,
the Self-Defyre is also a hero. And the examples that I use here are the one and only Jesus,
Simon of Samaria, sometimes wrongfully called Simon Magus,
Alogenes, who is a figure in Gnostic literature. As is well known, extremely well known to you,
Jesus does claim divinity. I think he claims divinity in all four Gossels, but the one that
most people agree on is he claims divinity in the Gospel of John with his I am sayings,
with his claim to be older than Abraham, with his claim to say that I and the Father are one,
with his claim that if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And so the question is,
this isn't about going back to the historical Jesus and figuring out whether he actually said
those things. This is about why Christians in later literature depicted Jesus as a Self-Defying
being, in other words, a being who claimed his own divinity and who didn't get struck down
unlike Lucifer, who got risen up after he claimed his own divinity. That's the big surprise.
The other figure that I look at is Simon of Samaria, and he's another very famous early
Christian Self-Defyre. I say he's the hero, or I should say in very specific texts,
the Acts of Peter and what are called the Pseudo-Clementines, which are
4th century, early 4th century Christian novels. Simon is portrayed as leader of one of the
earliest Christian groups, and interestingly enough, it's Peter, or the Apostle Peter,
who has to chase Simon around the Mediterranean and try to counteract his influence,
which indicates to me, this isn't history, of course, but it's interesting that in the
representation of the imagination, Simon is the first Christian evangelizing the world and that
Peter has to essentially knit that as heels and follow after him. And Simon has his own group,
his own form of Christianity is very successful. He performs miracles in the Levant that is in
Palestine and in Syria, and then he goes to Rome. May I ask you something on this? This is a very
interesting part, so I have a dear friend, Dr. Robert M. Price, and he has this idea
where he thinks that Simon of Samaria may be a pseudonym or potentially may be the Apostle Paul.
There seems to be in Acts of the Apostles, this Simon figure who's trying to buy the Holy Spirit,
and he thinks this is a jab at Simon of Samaria, where Peter's saying, no, you're not buying the
Holy Spirit, what do you think? No, and he condemns him and he's like, please, no, show mercy on me,
which is clearly like showing Peter's power, but why he kind of does this connection, maybe
to get your thoughts? He might be overparalleling here, but he thinks that there's something to it
because Paul in his own letter says, look, we had an agreement. As long as I give them money,
as long as I'm feeding the poor, as long as I'm paying them, there's a stamp on my gospel.
And he thinks there's just like, it's maybe a little bit of a conspiracy theory, but that there
might be this issue going on where this Simon and Paul and an issue with Peter plays a role.
Do you think it's possible or like, is there anything to this in your head?
Well, I think that in terms of the historical imagination, the Christian imagination, Christian
construction of Simon of Samaria was also influenced by the portrait of Paul in Acts.
But I think ultimately Paul and Simon of Samaria are two different historical figures who lived
in the first century. What's interesting about both is that, yes, they both seem to have come
into conflict, conflict with Peter, or at least they are represented as doing that.
Paul's famous spat with Peter, he says, took place in Antioch, and he talks about it in Galatians 2.
And later, of course, and when Acts finally gets written, I think around 140-ish in the
second century, Simon also is portrayed as having a spat with Peter. And what's interesting,
what's more interesting to me is what the author of Acts admits about Simon.
He admits that Simon is a baptized Christian, and this is important because other Christians
tried to de-Christianize Simon and say, oh, well, he's not even a Christian, he's a heretic.
Wrong, he was a baptized Christian. When he's rebuked by Peter, which when you read it,
and I encourage all your viewers to read Acts chapter 8, Peter just seems like he's
a little bit oversensitive. All that Simon asked was to be able to transmit the spirit
by means of human touch, and Peter just goes way overboard and calls him a bunch of names.
And instead of stomping off and swearing at him, Simon, as you know, very obsequiously
repents. So there's no question of Simon's Christian identity. And I think that identity
is different enough from Paul. It's interesting when you read the Acts of Peter, Paul is also
a character in the Acts of Peter. Paul shows up first going to Rome, and he ends up going to Spain,
and then Simon comes right after Paul, and then finally Peter comes and tries to counteract Simon.
So they're viewed as different characters in early Christian literature.
I think what Robert Price is sort of leaning on is mostly the pseudo-Clementine literature,
because there was a very famous hypothesis about the pseudo-Clementine literature
that Simon was a stand-in for Paul. And I do agree that in terms of how Simon is envisioned,
in terms of the historical imagination, you have to remember that the pseudo-Clementines are
fourth century, that is 300 years after Simon. So it's essentially like the fiction has gotten
a bit wacky at this point. But they have envisioned Simon sometimes saying things that Paul might say,
so that's true. This law-free gospel business, that sounds like Paul. But basically in the
early Christian imagination, Simon and Peter were also viewed as entirely distinct characters.
So I wouldn't vouch for any kind of conspiracy in the literature.
Sorry for the interruption.
No, no, no worries. Does that answer your question?
You answered it, and it's just an interesting question. And you mentioned prior to this,
with Jesus' deification, this gets into the heart of like, why was he actually crucified?
And I have a buddy that, well, he's not on the internet anymore, but he thinks that Jesus really
did claim deification, which is what got him in trouble, according to my friend. That's what
they think. So there's a bunch of question marks over what happened for real.
But yeah, I mean, I think that's pretty well supported in the Gospels. In the synoptics,
he's asked that question by the High Priest, are you the son of the Blessed One?
Are you the Messiah son of the Blessed One? And he says, yes. And you'll see the Son of
Man coming on the clouds of heaven. And it's pretty clear that he's identifying himself
with that divine being called the Son of Man. And that's what causes the High Priest to freak out,
basically rip his tunic in shreds and bring him to the higher Roman court, because he took it,
I think, as a claim to divinity. Now, again, that's separate from the historical question. That's
how Jesus' trial was portrayed 50 years after the trial took place. So we don't have any actual
trial minutes. But it's interesting to think why in the late first century, yeah, Jesus does get
crucified essentially for claiming to be a god. Whereas more historically, it was probably because
he was just causing a disturbance in the temple court. And the Romans just wanted to summarily
get rid of anybody who looked even a little bit like a political disruptor. Again, scholars are
going to disagree about this all the time. But the last figure that I look at is a figure called
Alleghenes. Now, Alleghenes just means the stranger. And this guy appears in Nagamadi literature. If
your viewers are familiar with this literature, it's basically found in Egypt at the end of the
Second World War and contains about 50 previously unknown Gnostic Christian texts. And one of them
is called the stranger, sometimes the foreigner, that is Alleghenes. Alleghenes is sometimes identified
with Seth, the son of Adam. But this particularly Nagamadi treatise talks about how he, through the
power of meditation, through the power of self-knowledge, actually rises sort of internally,
sort of through his mind into the transcendent realm and experiences his own divinity. And he
also is a hero. He's never thrown down. In fact, he's quite humble about everything. He is an amazing
model for how the Self-Defyre can end up achieving that goal and actually being praised for it by
the Supreme deity. So to kind of sum up what self-dification involves, the first thing I would
say is it involves a perception of one's own innate divinity. And this has been conceived
of in so many different ways. But that's the basic general way of talking about it. And then
a practice of reflexivity. This could be anything, but from meditation to self-writing to
something, any activity that involves deeper knowledge of the self, developing deeper knowledge
of the self, that helps one develop that inner sense of divinity. And then finally, identification
with what I call the finalized self, or what one could imagine as the divine double who's imagined
as a divine being or God. This pattern does recur in the history of religion, and it occurs in many
figures. And it's not only rebels, it's heroes like Jesus who go through this process and end up
being exalted and vindicated after they're condemned. I just throw in here a quick quote
from the Gospel of Eve, which is one of the many lost gospels from which we have just fragments.
And this one says, where the divine being is speaking to the Christian, I am you and you are I,
wherever you are, there I am. I am sown in all people, wherever you want to gather me
and gathering me, you gather yourself. There's also that famous saying in the Gospel of Thomas,
where Jesus says, lift a rock, you'll find me, split a piece of wood, you'll find me, I'm everywhere,
but especially inside of you. And this idea is really the seed of self-deification. And I call
these the three moments of self-deification. What it shows, I think, is that this is entirely a
Christian idea. So very far from these people who want to immediately condemn deification
as the essence of sin, when you look back into the tradition, when you look back into the mythology,
the interesting thing is this is part of earliest Christian discourse. And if you
switch over to Eastern Orthodox tradition, this is still mainstream early Christian discourse,
it might be condemned as heretical, it might have been condemned as heretical in the West,
but in other traditions, it became the orthodoxy. And so that's the end of the show.
It's just really quite simple. And basically, that's a brief introduction to those two books,
which I hope your viewers, maybe if they have the time or energy, have had the chance to check out.
Absolutely. I really enjoyed that. One of the things, I guess I'm going to just give you my own
little personal, I was a Christian, I was a hardcore fundamentalist. And over the years,
you start finding out about mythology, you start finding out about errors, human error,
that finds its way within the manuscript traditions, you start finding out a lot more
things than you once knew. And I was dying, I was dying of heroin addiction. I couldn't help but
continue to inject heroin, I was stuck. And I remember I was literally like telling myself,
I'm going to die, like I started hearing it from people, I started waking up realizing,
this is it, my mortality, I'm done. And I remember being absolutely hopeless. And in that moment,
like, sure, I said a prayer, I mean, who wouldn't Foxhole prayer type thing, but it was this gradual
process that started to happen when I started to realize that it was me all along. So it kind of,
for me, okay, someone watching this might be a theist and might have some other
conclusion ontologically. But it was the people, the support that I had, and the willingness that
I had to actually change that that really did it for me. And I remember, it was like, I saw that
two footprints in the stand thing with Jesus, and it's like, I carried you. And I remember hearing
that and then thinking to myself, no, the reason you saw a set of footprints is because it was you,
the whole time walking, you just had your friend with you, you thought this, this being God was
with you. But really, the whole time it was you. And so I feel like in a sense, it's kind of funny
as an atheist, I'm technically what you would call a materialist. That doesn't mean I don't
experience that doesn't mean I don't profoundly experience just like everyone else. And I feel
and I love myth and I love this. And I think there was a, I had a sense of self deification
from death. And I said, you can do it. And I helped other people do it too. And like, I feel like
I've created this little like, I've mythologized just a human thing, I think we all experience
in my own way, to me, I didn't need a name to it, though, it just was my own personal experience
that I had escaping a serious traumatic situation. So I just wanted to couple it in off.
It depends on how you want to interpret it, Derek, because one of the ways you could interpret it
is that the reason you overcame that lethal exercise that utter hopelessness that you experienced
was because you have that higher self within you that refused to be dominated by drugs or
dismal thoughts or whatever it may be. And you triumphed. And that divine spark, so to speak,
that inner self is that divine element of you. Again, if it really, and the goal of life is
sort of to develop that particular element. And that's what that's what deification is.
It is it has nothing to do with being arrogant. You know, again, deification, especially self
deification is is associated with these political rulers are like Trump or something who is who is
probably, I don't know, a clinical narcissist, I don't know, I'm not a psychologist. Right.
But it really has nothing to do with narcissism, and it has nothing to do with with pride. It's a
very humble realization that is your your own inner divinity. And that is, yeah, that's something to
take with you. If you if you think that it's there, if you think that, yeah, we're just
flesh and bone, that's fine, too. It's not that that inner self that you have, the true self is,
isn't material, it can be material. But we, we need to envision materiality, a kind of
materiality that is also divine, that is the kind of materiality that is like Paul's pneumatic body.
It's a it's physical. It really exists, you can touch it, sometimes you can see it,
it can exist in the upper reaches of the cosmos. We can put it under a microscope and see what it
looks like. It's it's there, he thinks it's material, but it's also an entity that lives forever,
and it's super intelligent, and so on and so forth.
Hmm. It is interesting. Yeah, I think that I've had discussions with people who are like actual,
spiritual minded people who think that this is a literal essence of some sort, literally in some
physical way, or that there's a realm we just don't see, whatever, and they apply it, and they
say, Well, I think we're, I think we're both drawing similar experience and trying to conclude
the same thing without using the same language. Because even as someone like me, who may not
believe ontologically in the divine, literally, I see the use for these myths, I see the use for
the practice of these things. And they have such a practicality that I think it'd be silly to ignore
them completely. And that's the problem with too many atheists, if you give my own personal opinion.
They literally throw the baby out with the bathwater without seeing what's useful in the
practicality of what's coming out of these things. So, of course, there's some things you want to
get rid of, you know, look at the God of the Old Testament, you know, we're going to get to that
in the next episode. But, you know, there's some things you want to go, Yeah, that's just not a
good thing to do or to practice, you know, but thank you so much for this. This is enlightening.
I really look forward to reading your book and understanding how humans have, you know,
throughout history have used this idea and understood. Well, it's myth, and this is myth
vision, so enjoy it. Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget to go and check out
Bart Ehrman's webinar. I'll be hosting, hopefully, looking forward to doing that.
Because Bart Ehrman, you know, he's been showing up a lot more lately in what we've been doing here
on myth vision, and I definitely hope you guys will check that out for sure. He's,
I don't know, he's been showing up a lot more. Let's put it that way. Go check out the Patreon
as well. I just dropped this as well as other videos on the Patreon, and I'm continuing to do so.
We also have the evil creator we're going to talk about next with Dr. Litwa,
and he has Desiring Divinity we talked about today. We've got to briefly just tease you into why you
want to take a deep dive in his material, and trust me when I tell you, take my word when I tell you
he knows how to grab you when he's writing. His writing is really well done and becoming divine.
If this episode touched you, no matter what your ontology is, I hope it did. I hope you see
something you could learn from all of this and consider getting the book. This one's far more
affordable, becoming divine, and if you can't afford the Desiring Divinity I understand, at least
you can get becoming divine. Get it on Kendall, paperback. It seems, even me and him were scratching
our head before the show, that there might even be a hard copy, but we'll see. So be sure to do that.
Thank you so much, Dr. Litwa. I appreciate you. Thank you. Any final words?
Nope. You've done it, done it well. Thank you, Derek.
Thank you, and never forget, if you're trying to rise through the levels and become divine,
you could say a little chant in the process. We are MythVision.
