I
Join our patreon
Oh
Welcome back to myth vision podcast your host Derek Lambert today
I have someone that i've been trying to get on for quite some time. He's busy man
Uh, but he had a couple books that were out and now he has a new one
Um michael lorenz. How are you my friend? I'm very good. How are you? I'm good
I'm glad to have you on I've watched quite a few of your youtube videos in the past and I said
Man, we got to get him on and uh, we've tried connecting in the past things were working out because so much time
You're busy, but now with everything that's going on currently you have a little bit of time and i'm glad to get you on
Excellent. Yeah. Yeah, I've been traveling quite a lot of trouble for work
The coronaviruses just meant i've been furloughed
So yes, and that's given us has given us the whole of made so to play with so
Yes, sir. Um, just to give our audience something that I think is very important, uh
ladies and gentlemen, you got to stick around for this because
That this goes to the heart of like my own journey if you will and and why this is important on trying to figure out this
Jesus character in the new testament, but um, he's written a book. Okay contra ermine that I read
This is obviously something he stopped publishing or stopped up pushing because he has now created a book called 70
And that book has all the material from his previous books
And a whole another level to it in which he's presenting a thesis. We're going to discuss today
about the historical man named jesus or
Maybe historical
Yes, so tell him tell him a little bit about yourself mike and we'll get into some of this, um material
You don't mind me calling you mike. Do you might? Yeah, I prefer mike. Yeah
The book is Michael Lawrence's Feet in the Searching, but I prefer my social
Yes, I suppose first
To the best thing to do is to let the viewers know where I come from because I don't come from the scholarly background
Um, I come from a campaign angle, um in the united kingdom people in america might not know
We have we don't have separation of church and state and we have laws which
mandates religious education
Which is really religious indoctrination and some of the more virulent virulent schools and
compulsory worship every morning of a christian nature
so
Children from the age of four onwards in the united kingdom are forced to sit and pray to a deity called jesus
We also have an automatic entry for the church of england into our lawmaking body in the house of commons and house of lords
and
certain
privileges in society for the christian organization
My argument or or my beat is that if this is real
Then all well and good, but if you're going to have that level of privilege in society as a christian organization
I think we at least ought to establish whether there is any legitimacy in your
Theology or none. No, I'm not religious myself, but we at least ought to establish whether this person
That we're asking children to worship every morning did actually exist in history
so
I campaign against the the enforced indoctrination of children and to have that law revoked in the united kingdom
However alongside that I do have a personal deep personal interest and have had in my school days in
mythology egyptian greek mythology and theology
I'm not religious. I never have been religious, but I've always been
Intently interested in the the origin of the stories and what the story is trying to
That's where I started the studies from I actually can relate Mike. I
Um in a different way. I was religious, but I think it's funny how something like this takes a keen interest to the religious and non-religious
I think it's important because I think really beneath all of it
believer or not it affects us all
in very similar ways and and i'm with you because
You know, someone might ask is a christian. Why are you so interested in still researching this and studying this?
Well, I have found an interest in really finding out what I think's really going on and
Really getting to the bottom as dr. Price says am I an enemy of the bible? No
In fact, he says he's the champion of the bible, right? Well, what's he mean by that?
He's not saying i'm the champion of this indoctrinated method
Surrounding this book. No, he's figuring out the problems with it
The difficulties with it things that we would never really consider how god created
The earth from the carcass of a dragon in certain scenarios like just weird stuff that you know, I think it's awesome because
for me
It was used as a weapon to control and it was used to
You know, like, uh, I always debated people and this sect would debate this sect and it was who's superior?
And whoever had the more superior knowledge and understanding of the book and could use it better to debate the other book
Or the other people who you know are trying to understand the book
One well at the end of the day. I'm finding out all these guys have this thing wrong. They're all standing on sand
Thinking they're gonna build a house. It's all it's all shaky ground. They don't really know what they're standing on
That freed me and guys like you who wrote contra ermin, of course and now 70
Uh are presenting new theories
which
I'm intrigued to hear
Yeah, but you're certainly right about the the control of certainly from 325 formula onwards up post-conflict
It was a christianity was a control tool
Uh, and although it's an uncomfortable truth that christianity spread across europe in exactly the same fashion as islamic state
Intend to spread islam and create the new caliphate. It was done in the same method
and to
to
Not accept that really is denial. It wasn't the case of that the
The preachers come or the apostles come and they visited all the lands like some patrick went to island and gave his message
And it was fantastic and everybody just that's brilliant. That's me. I'm gonna follow that it was spread with the sword
And post 325 you had two choices. You agreed or you perished
so
That doesn't in itself mean there was no truth in the history of the character that just that's just the indication of
That's why we're all talking about this character now
And it's also interesting that in the four-way civil war that constant time was involved in
By pure happenstance he he was the victor and because he's the victor we're all talking about a jesus character the day and was
historic or was he mythical if he hadn't won had larcenia smetianinastia or
Mccentius won that war
We'd be sitting here today wondering whether mithras was historical or mythical for exactly the same reasons because that would be the religion
Because everybody was forced to believe the buddhists are doing that today
Dr. Price said derrick if you really want to have your mind blown you told me this at his house
I even had to record him like taking a clip of it. He said you need to look at buddhism right now
They have the same theological battles of oh, you're part of that sector. We're part of this the same way the muslims
Are you sunni? Are you uh, are you this or you that they're they're debating the same things?
And today buddhist scholars are arguing and debating did buddha exist? It's the same thing as what we have going on
Exactly. Yeah
So when I entered this study, I think I entered just after
9 11 around 2000
that that was a
Pivotal moment for me at previous to that at the age of 18
I've been a soldier in the british army and I served the tour in all nine
and I saw the
the end of
The hatred for Protestants and Catholics that
That appeared on and I was quite young at the time and quite shocked by it
And I have to be honest at that time. I didn't even know there was such a thing as a Protestant Catholic
But I learned quite quickly and that kind of simmered in in in my mind for years and after 9 11
I thought this this is crazy. What is it that makes people
About religions hate hate and you know other people for believing something different so much that such an atrocity could be
Could be committed
so I said
said to myself I'm going to start I'm going to
Set myself a task of
Researching these religions. I'll start with christianity. I'm going to start with the jesus character
Let's find out what we do and we don't know about him and I'll be perfectly honest at that time
Although I wasn't religious. I did hold the view that well, okay, the stories are
Blown overblown mythical exaggerations, but I did think that there was a person there
In 30s who stood in front of pilot and was executed and and the stories were
created around that
So that event and promoted over the years
But the research that I did over the probably 10 year period from then on just took me down a totally different path
And I was looking at analyzing all the texts the the extant text
chronologically
Not in the order they are in bible and also in a matter that says if I'm going to read this text and this is the earliest text
I'm going to completely
Wipe from my mind any of the information that come from the text that word in existence at the time that this was written
And you only did what's written in the documents
I'm starting to build a picture which told me that this guy is
He's not
historical he didn't exist in this time period
Whether he he existed previously
50 or 100 years previously in his or is a mismatch of of other characters
I don't know that's open to debate
But where it did lead me was this particular character in the gospel of mark the canonical jesus
The one to 30 common area jesus is a complete picture. He's 100 percent fabrication
The books the contra urban and 70 explain
What took me down that path the journey that led me to to believe that?
And the the websites that and the groups that get you're part of the groups as well and mythical versus historical jesus
Some of the the arguments put over for
historicity in those
groups
I read those and yeah, I studied that I took myself down that route and tried to prove those
To myself and found that they they just don't stand up to scrutiny. They
Particularly when people start saying you know, we've got these these writings for from
Pliny, Pliny's letter to trajan trajan's required to Pliny pass to suetonius
And when you really analyze them you come to the realization that that's evidence for christians
And we know christians existed that is not evidence for the historical existence of the person
They believed in that that in itself doesn't mean he didn't exist
But it means that doesn't prove he did we need to look for something more
But you can see a chronological creation of
Earlier mythical christ characters being distilled down at a certain point in history
To a supposed real character for a specific reason by a specific set of people
And it's pure happenstance
That that particular version of jesus has come to us today via the wars of constant time
Those wars hadn't happened
That's that version of jesus probably wouldn't have come down to us
And if you said to someone in the streets today, well, what do you think of jesus then they'd probably say jesus who?
We just wouldn't know
Or or they'll say
Well, yeah, my jesus depending on their kind of jesus which everybody has
I want to read this uh that you have on your book 70 on amazon
In the first century common era era judia the Torah compliant temple adherent jews
Followed a yearly ritual of animal sacrifice at the temple altar and their theology
This was the only ritual that would assure the forgiveness of sins
It had been that way for centuries in august of the year 70 the unthinkable happened
Jerusalem was sacked by the romans the temple complex was destroyed
Along with it the only means of sin
Forgiveness what to do this book forwards a thesis on what happened next
And how that event was the pivotal trigger for the creation of what became the canonical gospels
It was the initiation of the motive to construct a new sin forgiveness process that process
Was the conception of a fictional jesus figure now accepted worldwide as factual
Some facts are so unplayed unplayed able that i'm sorry
Impletable. Yeah, that they are considered taboo an issue not to be bro uh broached
But this book does broach this major taboo issue and states a claim that christendom will not relish
I agree
But uh, you know, you were talking earlier today and I uh got tagged by our our friend jasper sky
We're trying to figure out like what's paul doing right like, um,
I think you touch on some of this maybe in your book briefly. I don't know but
I've got a major part on paul that uh
People are going to say well, that's just crazy that that can't be the case
But even though the the claim is crazy
I actually backed the claim up with the reasons why I I think what I do about paul and and it fits
Now as we were talking earlier involved twice the fact that it fits doesn't mean it's true, right?
It fits so it's a version that could be true
In my honest opinion, I believe you know, I believe it probably is but but it needs to be put out there and it needs to
Yeah
Well people people, you know, I love that mic. I gotta say up front right now. I'm a man of open ideas
I've had people on my show that till this day. I still don't agree with their idea
But I I allow the the free thought of communicating their ideas because
They've invested from their perception a lot of time and energy and why they come to conclusions they do
Whether they're right or wrong for me. I don't you know, I'm not gonna judge that I bring them on even at the end of the day
I may not accept your thesis, right at this time
Then again, I might hear something that you might point out and I might go
How did I not see that? That's why I entertain ideas keeping an open platform for open ideas like this
So the title right there for me
I have to tell you why your title caught my attention and that little
advertisement of that
Your book, you know, it's out now, you know, and it caught my eye 70
I was a full preterist and it's a very fringe group within christianity. They're not even in orthodoxy at all. They they
The new testament has jesus saying i'm coming back baby
In the gospels i'm coming back now. This is just in the gospels. This is why I find this very
You got to get critical when you start looking at these texts
And I used to not do this as a christian the gospels were really what not necessarily literally took place first
But narrative wise of course those come first axe comes next
Then paul and all the letters and all that stuff and then revelation was last
And scholars are now telling me revelation might be the earliest book in the new testament the way i'm going
okay, never thought that but
I thought jesus was coming back in the first century
Which is because he said he was supposed to and full preterism taught that it was like the only position that said
Not only did he say he did
He did so full preters believe he kept his word
They have to redefine terms
Whether you want to call it redefiner if they want to say well these are the proper way the terms are meant to be understood
Whatever they don't believe the literal resurrection even though there are a few people like that. It's relevant to your title
Because that 70s pivotal almost on so many theories that are out there
And the gospels make that pertinent as part of the the point
Now what does 70 have to do with the entire thesis that you present?
Okay, so I I didn't spot this initially doing the research of all of the documents and it was when I came outside of the
the christian document, so I was reading more
The not the heathen bible i can't read heathen but but obviously the old testament version of heathen bible
And I noticed that the number 70 was a popular number to use in prophecy in the old testament there will be
70 years your land will be decedent 70 sons
Seventy seem to be a big thing for the jews
but equally of course
37 360 because 360 is a time, you know, that's how they talk about time time and a half
And these are all astrological numbers. Now. I'm not going down brown here. No, well, that's ridiculous
but the fact is
The ancients did revere these numbers. They're numbers that are are generated from simplistic naked eye stargazing
And let's face it. There was digging squad else to do fact then other than watch the sky at night
They started it and they saw it as a clock and they came up with these rhythmic numbers
7 12 30
40 I've got an angle on 40 which might or might not be wrong
360 but more interestingly 70 and 72 which we can see is used interchangeably in religious
yes
um that led me to uh
Research in the procession of the equinox which is where these numbers come from
Because an astrological age is how long it takes the sunrise on the vernal equinox to move
enough on the horizon
Which is 30 degrees to take it into a different star sign which gives us a different age
Takes an awful long time
2160 years
So they were creating a long horizon through this procession of the equinox the ancients a clock
So an age when you asked uh, it's it's 30 degrees of movement on the horizon and that takes 2001
They call that a great month
But they also had a great day
A great day was how long it would take the sunrise on the vernal equinox to move one degree on the horizon
Now it's actually we know today 71.6 years but they couldn't have been that precise
But interestingly enough if if they were to say well, we think it takes 70 years
And it's 70 solar years
That's also 72 lunar years
and those two numbers
became
venerated numbers and we can see them in
You see them in egyptian mythology because
Pharaoh's multiplication process had to take exactly 70 days. You see it in islam with the 72 virgins
The septurgan that the septurgan is a book that's called the 70 that was written by 72 scribes
There's 72 buddhas on the temple in indonesia. Yeah, so exactly
So it's an important number
So I did notice that it was also an important number to the jews because there were quite a few prophecies
with 70
there were also two very relevant prophecies with 70 which is
Jeremiah
Which initially says after the first temple is destroyed that your land will be desolate for 70 years
and
Wouldn't you know that the second temple was rebuilt and dedicated
in the sixth year of king darius
according to the bible which is exactly 70 years later now
That's hardly believable clearly when they come back from exile. They did rebuild their temple
Clearly it was completed in the year of darius, but in the sixth year of king darius
So it was exactly 70 years after it was destroyed
If you go into islam, you'll find that the the dome of the rock that stands on top of the second temple ruins now
Happens to have been completed exactly 72 years
Lunar years 70 solar years after the hydra of muhammad
Another 70 year gap there. So you start it. Well, you know, you couldn't make this stuff up
But apparently that many years ago people actually did make this stuff up
And then you get to think well, hold on. I know there is a bit of discrepancy in in the gospels about when jesus was supposed to have been born
But isn't it interesting that in the current
Christian calendar the temple was destroyed and what we now call 70 ad in the year of our lord
70 common error for me that 70 ad in the year of our lord
So what does that actually tie in with the with the gospels?
I'm doing the research. There is actually a strong argument to be made that that
Does does allow you to come away from the concept of
I'll get this the right way around Luke
saying that
Yeah, he's loop with king heron. I think that's the right way around and and jesus is alive while heron's alive
so he must have been born before
for bce
And matthew says there was a census of corineas that didn't happen until sixth common era. So there's a 10 year gap
Actually, when you do more research on that there is a strong argument in scholarship that says heron died in one bce
And it is more of a convincing argument than dying in four bce
and there is also an argument that um luke is saying that there were that um
Corineas was governor of judia on two separate occasions
and that he's talking of the first of his
Uh census operations
Josephus where we get the sixth common era poem. He's talking about a second of the second in a second appointment
So you've got two gospels there with the birth narratives in that um
seem to be pointing you to jesus being born
Exactly 70 years before the temple was destroyed
and now that's interesting because you're having
the um
The person who creates this brand new theology is being born 70 years before the heart of the old one is utterly destroyed
And then you think back to the first temple being we dedicated exactly 70 years after it was destroyed
Obviously mohammed comes centuries later, but the same thing there is a link to 70 there
You start to think well, this is becoming too much of a coincidence
But mark what about mark? That's the first gospel
Does that have any link to 70 and when you read it initially you think no it doesn't
But when he talks of the temple destruction
There is a part in one sentence where he actually breaks the sentence in two pieces and sticks in the middle
Let the reader understand. She's like a wink at the reader
So he says
When you see the abomination of desolation
Open brackets let the reader understand close brackets go run to the kills
Now there is only one other extended document where that phrase appears
And it's in daniel and it is in the exact 70 year prophecy passage about it
So he says go and read that and you will understand the esoteric nature of my gospel
This is called a linked to 70
We then come to john we're only left with john
John tells us that
The he puts into the mouth of the priest
This temple has taken us. I don't have to remember the exact this probably won't be the exact number
For 46 46
There's something about that though. I don't want to make you lose track, but the the name adam
and I think
Both septuagen and Hebrew if i'm not mistaken, but yeah in greek for sure alpha delta alpha mule
calculates
alpha one
Delta four alpha one and then mule 40. That's 46
So technically if you want to be esoteric it took us
46 years to build this temple it took us adam to build this temple temple. Yeah, you know, I sort of think yeah, yeah
exactly
Well, when you take back brazens and you will will you build it up in three days
If we say well, john doesn't contest the fact that the earlier mentioned that jesus was
About 30 before he began his ministry and it's less than a year later. He's got he's being um principled at 30 john doesn't correct that
And if we took the view of a real historical jesus and he thought that jesus wasn't 30
You'd think well find a sympathy he would have to
So it's either on the the mythic side of the fence or the historic side of the fence there
there is a good argument to say that
john is saying that jesus is 30 when he is crucified
And he gives you this this clueing to work out when the crucifixion took place
Because if you go to joe seafus and john has used joe seafus to do this to create his maths and have a look when the
The 18th year of herod stuff because he actually says it was in the 18th year of herod that the building started
It took us 46 years to do it and you do the maths
It lands you right on 30 common era for the crucifixion
Which means
If you go back 30 years for the berth, that's exactly 70 years before the temple was destroyed
So in actual fact all four gospels do create a narrative
Of a jesus being crucified at the age of 30 and therefore being born exactly 70 years before the destruction of the temple in jerusalem
Well, there's got to be something in that. Yeah, and
Mike, I suspect I just I this is fascinating what you just
Hope you guys let the listeners understand. I hope you're seeing this. Um, I suspect
You probably go into this and i'm not trying to steal your thunder because everybody's got to get the book
You just launched it too. It's a red cover. You guys see the picture
um
This to me is drives home when jesus says
The end of the age
So this ties in the astrological combining it with something you're saying there's an event they're making
significant to the changing over of the age and
This is tying in with that 70 concept and I think
Like you said, it's 71.6 to be more accurate
But anything from 70 to 72 kind of covers that window if you will
Yeah, and we know they pick whether they were able to work it out accurately or not
We know whoever they were
Who were promoting the idea of generating astrological numbers they picked 70 and they picked 72 and they were using those to
change it
we even know
There are differences between 70 and 72 between the freak and latin versions of the new testament
With the amounts of possibilities that were sent out of the one says there were 70 possible to know one says for 72
the generations of
From knower
There's 70 generations of some right, you know
So we know look at the 144 000 in revelation. That's had double the 72 so
Yeah, exactly
But that that put me down a complete different path. I thought well
if
If that didn't happen until after 70 and we know marks the first gospel written wasn't written until after 70
It looks like it was clearly written in response to the loss of the temple
And creates a kind of well here is a replacement theology because we've lost the temple
Here is a reason for losing it. We will be punished because we rejected the messiah
Here is a new sympathy this process
But what is paul all about if paul wrote before the gospels where he's talking about the jesus, but if if it wasn't created until then
How how could they have just come up with the idea of fresh but paul 20 years earlier
Was already talking about the jesus character
That's where
Studying paul and
Gnosticism, I think
Gnostic texts we have now clearly second century onwards
But that's a more formed view of Gnosticism
And I believe some of them existed before the creation of the i'll call it literal christianity a real jesus that
the Gnostics created
I think some of them come before and some will come after and there is a mixture here of
Christ myth theories christologies that existed previously
The gospel writers were taking
Christologies from
non-temple compliant jews that were following types of
savior for their christologies from
um
Gentiles from all over
Galatia, Turkey and the pay up in Corinth that also had
Sadie figures of the christologies
When the temple was destroyed
They took those myths
They mixed them together with their own messianic prophecies from their own
Scriptures and come up with a real version of this person on the ground and then promoted it
It got some traction obviously it became the de facto thing to believe after three two five common era when constant I decided
I'm not a ruler of the world. I want one religion one ruler one god and I'm going to hit christianity
And by the way, sorry Gnostics. It's the literal version you lose
And we know what happened after that
Yeah, so if you've got that as a theory you've got to go and look for
Um, is there evidence that that could be the case could Gnosticism have existed before
The literal creation of a jesus post 70 post temple destruction
When you start reading the text chronologically
With that mindset. So I'm going to forget Matthew mark with john and
1700 years of christianity. I'm just going to read what paul says
And you start to think hey, yeah, this guy is talking about a mythical jesus
Then you'll come to the realization that whoever wrote the gospel of mark
Was fully aware of the content of paul's letters
But paul is not aware of the content of the gospel of mark
And they are actually preaching different jesus
uh theologies
And paul himself was preaching one of different jesus theologies at the time that he preached and he even tells us that himself
If someone comes and preaches you with jesus other than the one i preach you you put up with it easy enough
Uh, he says that about people in Greece and he says that about people in galatia
So that tells us that at the time paul's preaching other people were preaching different christologies
to them paul in greece
and turkey
And the literal version hadn't yet been created if we go with the consensus view of paul writing in the 50s
It hadn't even been conceived of for another 20 years. It's funny. You said that mike
I just wanted to point out like
Just anyone basic common sense just kind of thinking about this and it doesn't mean i'm right about this but it's like
Different jesus's
How can you have different gospels it just to me? It's really weird the guy was here 15 years ago guys
How can we get all these different jesus's and different christ and even if an angel of light come what what what what do you mean?
I mean
Why why would an angel of light come to you?
So it's
Just kind of weird language in a literal sense. It's kind of strange to me. But yeah, I agree with you
uh, well
actually
I'm not uh, I can't read Hebrew. I can't read greek and I've done some study on
The etymology. I think that's the way to pronounce it of the word. No, this might be right might be wrong
But it's what I I can perceive at the time
At the moment that jesus christ
Isn't actually in its original form a name. It's a label and literally means the anointed savior
And so this christ this anointed savior existed in several different christologies
Paul's was one of them. It wasn't a literal christology. Paul is uh
um of the opinion that
There was an event that happened in antiquity
probably in the mythical realm that was a death and resurrection in the flesh because
Uh, sitting is a human flesh a fiction. It needs to be defeated
So a god comes in the guise of a human and dies and resurrects for us
And and that tells us that we can resurrect because at the end of the day if a god did that as a god
What does that prove to a human? I mean he's a god, of course he can do that
But if he did it as a human that that's a sign that that tells us something
And that's as far as Paul's jesus theology goes doesn't go any further and it's interesting to note that if you read all seven
the authenticated
Authenticated letters of Paul
If jesus character actually doesn't say anything to anybody other than to Paul a couple of times in an apparition
He makes no speeches to anybody. He gives no teachings
And also Paul gives out a few teachings. He doesn't attribute them to jesus
He he takes the credit for him
So he's not saying oh and by the way our lord said this and the lord said do that
He says i tell you this is what you should do in the end. This is his theology
so
Paul is living in a landscape where there are several christologies
There are non-compliant non-temple compliant jews that don't like the idea of temple law
They've got a sagan figure a christ messiah
There are Gentiles in Turkey and there are Gentiles in Britain
They've got their own versions of the sagan messiah
And at this stage the only uh, it's only formed to the point of
If you follow these particular rituals and you worship messiah and you believe in his death and resurrection
When you die you too will resurrect and that's as far as it got
Along comes Paul
And he's got an apocalyptic message
Yeah, he just wants a bit of attention. It's a bit darker and he wants a bit of attention
and he's going to
Add the eschatology into the mix. He's telling people well your christ figure
He spoke to me. He told me the eschatology is coming in our lifetime
So we need to get right and ready with God and he's selling a new message
To these groups that already existed
Some of them like the message and accept it. I would suggest the jews didn't he just told him to look map off go away
So I'll go and talk to the Gentiles and he got some traction there. He didn't create those churches
They already existed and they converted to Paul's message
And that's the way it stayed until the temple was destroyed
And the jews were then thinking
Certain jews not all of them held we need to explain why
Yahweh has just allowed the romans to destroy the holy hoes
and defeat
Defeat us utterly
So they come up with well
It must have been a punishment
That we must be being punished. They've looked at Jeremiah. They've looked at Daniels and they're reinterpreting
The 70 year proxies
Now Daniel is already a reinterpretation of Jeremiah in itself, but they're looking at Daniel and basically reinterpreting it again
In light of what's just happened to them and they come up with the conclusion
Daniel was a warning. He's telling us that when the Messiah arrives our Messiah
If we reject him we will be punished 70 years later and look we've just been punished
Go he must have come 70 years ago
And we rejected him and this was the result the guys don't worry
Because here is another theology that is the replacement for the temple
And
The book 70 is explaining in a lot more detail than I just put over there how I've come to to that thesis
And how it pans out after that now I have to say
Like price. It's a theory. It could be right. It could be wrong. The one thing I would
In my colors to the master and say the gospel Jesus the one to 30 gospel Jesus is complete fiction. That's a fact
how it came to be
Considered factual by millions of people for almost 2000 years now
That's where my thesis is saying I believe this happened and it's for people to decide whether that's correct or that's incorrect or
as
You mentioned Bob Price says there are loads of different
Ways you can explain this this data that are all equally valid
They're not necessarily can't all be true and maybe none of them are true
We may be one of them is true, but we need to get these ideas out into the
Into the field and not just the academic field
Open it up to everybody. You've got loads of people get them interested in this
Get them researching it and get them questioning it and saying well
I do accept that I don't accept this and I think this guy's going to write line. So
that
that's a
You know coconut shell
I'm not sure what a coconut shell a quick thesis of the book
and
It goes on a lot deeper
One teaser is and and people will say how this guy's crazy
I don't think Paul wrote in the 50s. I think Paul was preaching and writing
So for 72 bcp
And and I give my reasons for that. So I'm saying that around 72 to 50 bcp around Greece
And Turkey modern day Greece and Turkey
There were several forms of Christology and Paul was preaching one of them
So, okay
There you just
Hiroshima, you know, um
That is a very interesting someone told me that you you had a position on paul. It goes
Bce and I said really I'm interested in hearing more
Do you go into great detail and you're both kind of like on that section in there trying to explain that or?
Yeah
I go into like on reverse construction
And that's the the Jesus story for mark mark is a reverse construction for the for the 70 epochs
Uh, how do we get to paul preaching in the 50s? Well, we get to that from acts
Basically, there is nothing in the letters of paul that you can use to say see that there that means paul wrote in the 50s common error
There's nothing in the letters of paul that will allow you to say that
You have to take the information from acts to come up with that conclusion
but follow it through
the
the gospel writers
Clearly had in their possession the works of josephus and they clearly had in their possession paul's epistles that
They didn't necessarily know who paul was or when he lived but they had these epistles
And they create the gospel of mark the first one a person
From the information from those two documents, but again, they're using reverse construction
Now clearly if you're going to do that jesus died in our story in 30
And paul doesn't get involved because he's persecuting the christian
So he's not initially a christian
So he's not in the gospels and and clearly he couldn't be it would destroy the the concept
You've got the four gospels that are written and all four of them repeat the um the apocalyptic
Idea of paul saying that in our lifetime jesus is coming back
You think the problem you're going to have is if that message was sold and accepted and people started worshiping it based on the gospels
There will come a time when
That lifetime played out and future followers were saying well, hey, it didn't happen
So christianity version 1.2 acts of the apostles
And it comes now what we're going to do is we're going to tell a new story a new softer story
Which is yet the end of the world isn't going to happen in our lifetime
But if you carry on worshiping jesus if christen
Hollow all the rituals when you die you will go to heaven and the end times will happen at some time in the future
It's a softer message great for future generations and let's face it christians have been waiting for jesus to come back
Ever since and every generation they said we're the generation that you're going to come back to
But the gospel writers said
so sorry
Acts of the apostles the writers they are saying where do we put paul?
Well, clearly you can't have him before 30 because that really screws the story up
We don't want him after 70 because that's when the temple was destroyed
put him in the middle
Now we've taken the information from these letters. We've written a
a clearly fictional
Voyage of paul a story of paul. Where are we going to place him? They place him in the 50s
Where did they get the information to put him into?
A kayak during the reign of galleo
And that's where they get they're reading paul and they can see that he says that he had to escape from Damascus while
The governor of king erratus is gardening
Damascus
And that has been taken for centuries to be a reference to king erratus the fourth because he was
in power
at the right time for paul to be
preaching or writing letters in the 50 and preaching just before 50 common era
But the problem we got there is king erratus the fourth never had any sovereignty over
Damascus it Damascus wasn't in the navitean kingdom during the reign of king erratus the fourth and king erratus the fourth
During the reign of tyberus was actually on a war footing with run
tyberus had told his governor of syria to march south
Attack the naviteans and send him king erratus dead or alive
So if there was any involvement from king erratus at all
In Damascus it couldn't have been until after tyberus had died and caligula became the emperor
There's no evidence. There's no extent evidence to say that
Heligula favored erratus the fourth and gave him control of Damascus
But that's been suggested to try and um hit the narrative
Well, i'm looking at that differently and saying actually no
That's what the gospel writers have done
The the writers of acts have said well the earliest if we're going to say he's talking about erratus the fourth
The earliest it could be there is in the first year of tyberus. That's 37 common era, but hey look at relations
He's saying there's at least 14 years between his uh escape from Damascus and all his travels
He hasn't been anywhere near Greece at this point given the list of the places he's been
So we've got to say uh 37
Common era plus this 14 years is the earliest we can put him in Greece that puts him there in 51
Okay, so who's in charge of Acaya in 51? Do you know Galeo?
Great in our story
We place him in front of Galeo and that time stamps him exactly where we want him to be
So i'm thinking if they've done that as a reverse construction to place Paul there
All we're doing is accepting what they've seen and we're reading it and people are saying hey, do you know
Uh erratus the fourth could have had control of um
Damascus during the reign of Calicula
Well, he could have done but there is no extent documentation that says he did
Now if you look at erratus the third who lost controller who where um Damascus was part of the Nabataean kingdom
He lost control of it in 72 bce
He said well, okay, so place Paul
in Damascus
372 bce and writing his letters afterwards 50
Then follow that through and look at the letter of clemen which references
Paul's letter to the Corinthians because he's writing the Corinthians, but at the same time Paul's the church an ancient church
Well, I mean if you place
uh
One clemen where we want to place at the day night at common era
It couldn't have been written then because he's clearly talking about a temple that exists
So it's got to be 70. He knows nothing about the roman war. So it's got to be
uh
66 at the earliest and he's calling the church in Corinth an ancient church
If Paul's writing in 72 bce and he just approaches churches that already exist
Then yes, the church could could be an ancient church. It does fit. It doesn't fit the other way around
What that that's quite
Yeah, now you've taken me on a journey though that that's
Very interesting and something I noticed with the eschatology
And when I say eschatology, I'm not just saying afterlife ideas
I'm I'm referencing eschatology in terms of something that was supposed to take place
obviously
yeah in times and
this paul pauline eschatology that
Me and jasper were talking about earlier when we were discussing the conversation that you were having with him on the facebook group
Something that kind of caught my eyes was I kept thinking about the kumron sect of the dead sea scroll
I kept thinking about the teacher of righteousness the the
There's the people of light and the people of darkness and these things are used by paul
Wouldn't it have I'm not going to say it couldn't have had significance in the 50s and not saying, you know, that's not possible
I'm saying it could be but
Wouldn't this also play a role, especially even 72 bce
If the the kumron sect is obviously, you know, there's a lot more of it
going on it seems that
It seems like
He could be influenced by their type of eschatology
That something's going to happen soon and it of course gets painted over and edited and and probably
tampered with at some point when orthodoxy wants to canonize paul because uh, dr. Price even thinks that paul
Or proto paul the maybe the original writings that may be there
Were
Gnostic in nature and they had to tame them in some sense
Yeah, yeah
So do you think that the eschatology though that paul has is and I mean i'm not
Well read in this
But it sounds like they thought the angels of god were going to assist them in and taking out the romans
I mean obviously macabee and revolt and war that took place, you know, they're they're hating these gentiles that were over them
um, do you think that there was a blend of
That type of eschatology from the jewish kind of arena there which they were kind of gnostic too from what I understand
and then blending in
Gentile pagan christ figure or hellenistic
jewish hellenistic christ
Save your cult mystery school stuff together
Yeah, yeah
paul has um, I think paul just wanted some attention
And so you had these these schools of thought on the christologies and at that time they weren't um
They weren't apocalyptic. They weren't talking about the eschaton
But clearly in jewish scripture and the temple jews at that time
probably from about
Fourth century bce onwards. They really started to bring
End time purposes into their work and they then started to believe and there would be this big and terrible day at the end of the world
So I think paul just said well, I'm going to mix things up. Yep. So some attention
I'm going to say your christ. He's spoken to me. He told me that the end time is coming
And I think he tried to this is this is all um
Uh speculation obviously
I think he tried to sell that message to the jews the the non-temple compliant jews
And I don't think he got a lot of change. I think he got sent away with a flea in his ear
So well, I'll go and try the uh, I'll go to turkey and I'll go to okay
And I go to Corinth and I'll try them and I think he did get some traction there
And he started to convert those christologies to uh
An end time christology and that's exactly what you're saying. He started to merge
Jewish eschatology with christologies
And then we come up with the the proto nostics
I would say the earliest forms of of some kind of nosticism
If you look at the um the ascension of azir
I find that really interesting because
That talks specifically of there being
Uh two worlds in the firmament without a doubt when you read it
It's in the firmament. There are two worlds. There is the world here
With the people of the flesh
And then there's the world that the people of the flesh can't see that the world that is hidden to the flesh and it's a duplicate
Well, the ascension of azir has
Jesus coming down several levels of heaven
And being in the future. This is a prophecy to happen in the future in the future
Being uh crucified and coming back to life after three days when we ascend enough
But only as far as the world in the firmament that's hidden from flesh
So in that uh version, if he doesn't come anywhere near earth, he gets um crucified in the future
And that's going to be at the end time. That's when the eschatology is going to
To happen. So the ascension of azir is a is a christology which has an end time. It has a death. It has a resurrection
But it doesn't happen on earth and it's going to happen in the future and jesus and that theology has never visited earth
When you look at whole it's not a lot different
Other than the the crucifixion did happen in the past
In in in the ancient world and it seems to have happened on earth in the flesh
But although, you know, it's it's like the same same same but different
It's very very similar, but there are slightly different
Aspects to it when you look at ironias is a critique of valentinians type of noticism
Now this is quite an evolved noticism. It's come centuries later. We're probably 100 to 100 common here now
He's he's a full-on
A dualist. There is the demiose
And there's the good
so
The good exists in the pluroma outside of the universe and the demiose was
ejected from the pluroma and knows nothing of what's going on inside
He's ejected the chaos outside and he takes the chaos and from it. He forms the world and he forms
man
and his
Mother Sophia from inside the pluroma sees what he's created breathe wisdom into his creation creates men
And men start worshiping the demiose and the demiose says I am the only god
So we get a jesus there created in the pluroma who sent from the good to the earth to tell people
Hey, you're worshiping the wrong god. He's he's not the
Not the real god the good's the real god, but he doesn't get crucified and he doesn't resurrect
But again, that's not a lot different to paul
The only difference there is paul thinks the world the wicked world is ruled by the devil and his archons
whereas
The vanitylians believe the wicked world was ruled by the demiurge, which was yahweh
Right
So you can see there is a lot of overlap and a lot of power and all these different forms of gnosticism
They're all feeding off of each other and just coming up with their own slightly different versions of them
That's what i was gonna ask is like and i'm gonna ask dr. Price to get his thoughts on this as well, and i'm sure
Uh, it's an interesting question. I think
The gospels act like christ came of course
They portray it in history, of course, and they put him in a time and they anchor him and whatnot
um
And it appears he comes he lives or he's born he lives he dies
He resurrects or ascends if you will after he resurrects and he claims he's gonna come back
So there's like two comings of christ. There's there's here. He is on earth and oh
He ascends back to heaven and then boom. He's coming back to earth
paul i wanted to know
If paul only has he's coming and he hasn't come yet
So kind of like uh in paul's idea of christ
Does paul have an idea where where christ did come in the past?
At some point and he left again and he's coming again like a second coming
concept or is paul thinking
When the christ comes he'll put an end to all sin like he he hasn't come yet, but he's coming and um
I asked that because I think in jewish thought from jews that i've listened to and talked to
They believe that when the messiah comes
He's gonna do his job. Now. I don't know if that's
Going over into paul's thinking or not, but I just wondered because another gospels make him come twice so to speak
Or he's supposed to
Yeah, that that idea does come from paul in paul
Uh, jesus was crucified and resurrected in antiquity
And he doesn't say whether it was in the mythical realm or on earth
But he tells us he has happened and that that event um saved us from sin
But
Be be careful be ready because before we all die before this generation passes away
He's coming back to initiate the end time
That that's paul so you can see that flavor being um
Passed into the gospels because all for uh, so I'm not sure about john
but definitely the three synoptic gospels all parallel back that um
The end is going to come. We're not going to know when but it's coming soon and it's coming in our lifetime
But as you say
they've taken uh
paul's concept of the jesus that that died and resurrected in the mythical realm
antiquity and said now he died and resurrected on earth
Uh in 30 comment what in the 16th year tiberius, which is right nearer to us
Yeah, he's coming back. Yeah, okay. There's such high high theology. I was telling people I was like
His his christology is so well developed. I just find it weird that 20 years ago this, you know
Oh, this real guy died and they developed such a such a
brilliant
Well-developed christology of a supposed recent figure from him
You know what I mean like to me it's like this just it just uh, I've not seen it's not possible
I mean look anything's possible. I have a hard time accepting that I've even I've said that to quite a few people
Even with rabbi tovia singer who I had on here who takes the historicis angle who says it's cognitive dissonance and that
You know, uh, they were very close to this messiah and when he died
They just couldn't live with the fact that he died and so they had
experiences of him like if you lost your mom or something like you
Would experience them probably a lot of people even healthy people
They say up to like 15 percent of people experienced their loved one post mortem and and uh, anyway, there's that long drawn out cognitive dissonance
Route but as much as this is developed. I'm thinking no, I think this is a school of thought that's uh,
it's been going on and it's it's uh
Now whether they attached it to a guy maybe uh, but I like what we're doing here. We're at least open-minded to discussing it
It's not like we're all uh cult following mythicists that uh, we must believe he didn't exist
You know, yeah, yeah, it's it's not an atheist agenda. It's a search for this guy exist in this time frame. Well, didn't he?
Yeah, and I'm open to the idea that there is a pistachio
Characters from a previous time frame. I'm I'm at the position where yeah, but this character in the gospel of mark
No, that is
That is complete fiction. No one uses of nazar has stood in front of Pontius pilot in the 16th year of tiberius
Thomas crucifer that that didn't happen
I've lost the sound on you know. Oh, I'm sorry. So, right, right
Yes, sir
um, sorry wife needs the car keys. Um, so
But uh, yeah, no this this I gotta get your book
Um, you said it's on audio or is it gonna be I know it's on e book and um, of course paperback
Yeah, okay, and uh, it's not on audio right now, right? Okay. Um, I don't have a voice for audio
It's okay. No, no, no, you did great. Uh, we were concerned about his accent
We were wondering if you guys were gonna have to have the gift of tongues to be able to understand him
but
You know that that gift ceased a long time ago. So you guys are crap out of luck, you know
um
Mike is there anything you would want to tell of the audience?
Obviously they need to get the book and read this material and really try to wrap their heads around it. I really like, uh
Different ideas, you know, but uh, is there anything you'd like to share with them before we close out?
Yeah, I think um, let's start questioning whether
this guy did exist in the 30s or not from uh, from a uk perspective because
If it transpires that uh, this person didn't exist
All well and good that doesn't actually change a lot of people within people's rights to be christian to be spiritual or not christian
But it does mean we can say hey, you've got to withdraw yourself from the education system
You've got to withdraw yourself from governance and you certainly need to start paying tax if you're making money out of the churches
Yeah
Right, if you can establish the fact that this guy did actually exist then maybe fine
My take is we wouldn't dream of allowing
Astrologists to go into the school and present to infant school children. I don't know what you call it in america twice
It's infant school but five to six years old that um, there's some merit in
staring into a crystal ball or reading the stars or you know looking in tea leaves
We would laugh it out of existence now
If this jesus character didn't exist then there's not a lot of difference in asking them to sit down every morning
Put their hands together and pray to a person that supposed to have died two thousand years ago
They're saying well, we've got mystic make coming in tomorrow to run assembly and she's going to tell all you
Read all your palms
But I think we need to be open enough to say let let let's let's confront yourself in the room
Let's find out whether you did or didn't
Exist in history first and then take it from now
um
Once we start if we do end up establishing that he didn't exist in history
How we got here is a whole different
Um, uh range of investigation and my theory is is putting through a theory of how that happened
It's not necessarily correct
but
Other people could then start looking at it a bit more open-mindedly
Because since the 18th century all research has been under let's say it's been under duress
serious duress from a very powerful christian organisation the catholic church and the Protestant church of england to make the text
fit the gospel narrative
And we need to get away from that kind of scholarship and say forget that do it open-minded it
Let's let's find out whether this paul believed in the same jesus as the gospels
Or is he talking about a completely different jesus? There's a proto jesus that existed
Depades or even centuries earlier
That's where we need to go with this. So there may be 20 30 years from now
We'll really be opened up under
Some serious scholars will start looking at this in a big way and then let's say we've already got it caro
You've got to say serious scholar and he's put some really important questions on the table and said
look
That that is a question to be um debated and to be answered and
to for other scholars to come along from
The christology side of the fence and um, just approve it because it's not the consensus is ridiculous
I'm with you. I'm with you. Uh, it's refreshing to hear people
Go into the avenues that aren't explored. Uh, when you go to academics, you go to do the research and stuff
um, it's almost like, uh
The consensus has already made their mind up in terms of the what's
Worth looking at
Because nothing else matters or they see the evidence irrelevant to
Proving they have enough other weighted evidence and that the church throughout history, you know, the way I look at it is this
When I found out what I was being taught by my church
Wasn't necessarily true
It made me go, okay
What is what what is real what is going on? I needed to know. I mean even the eschatology. I didn't understand
I was like, hold on. Okay. How can you guys still be preaching?
He's coming when he said that 2000 years ago and it was supposed to happen soon
Oh, because of days like a thousand years or second peter, you know
The lord is not slack concerning his promises some counts slow, but long suffering. That's why he hasn't come
That's why the promises haven't happened yet. Uh, he's waiting to get more people saved before
There's an excuse of course to prolong the eschaton
And um, I started to see full preters of it
But then I started escaping the box when I saw oh Jesus looks so much like Osiris in many ways and
And not identical just so many things made me go. Why don't I think minds right everyone else?
This is wrong then I started to expand my mind and and um, I I said to myself
Wow, look at the church fathers arguing with the pagans about how true
Their christ is they're like trying to convince everyone that theirs is the truth and everything else is a lie
I think it's just a martyr had uh, maybe it was just a martyr who agreed and was like, look
Yeah, it looks just like you know these other deities, but um, you know, it's just like that you can worship him
It's not a big deal and then someone else comes on and says the devil planted these false
Yeah, so tells me I mean right there tells me they're willing to to
Just like today
They're willing to argue on what they think they're right about even if they're wrong or if they're lying or whatever
Can you trust the church?
And that's when I have a huge red flag that pops up
And so I am very appreciative of folks like dr. Price even if he's wrong
Okay, because dr. Price is using a scientific method when he's researching this what he's saying is I don't trust you
And I'm gonna look beneath the surface
I'm not gonna go with what says on the text flat out. I'm looking for problems so I can dig deeper
I'm looking for contradictions because he said we can learn from those to find stuff that might be going on behind them
And what I'm getting at I mentioned this the other day
dr. Airman
Presumes innocence until proven guilty
Yeah, yeah, we have enough reason to start with they're guilty
Let's see if they're even honest about any of it. And so price says guilty until proven innocent
They're starting from two different angles and working in and price says hey
Maybe airman's approach on innocent until proven guilty could be true not denying it couldn't be
But I don't have good reason to believe
What we have today has honestly not taken shift and change and mold to new sex of christianity that want their theology
And they want their ideas pushed and so he's trying to dig
You're trying to dig
Dr. Carrier is trying to dig a lot of people are trying to dig and of course
Don't touch my your the consensus says my academic phd says my money that comes in says the
The college I work for says
Who do you think you aren't even questioned what we've already done? This isn't brain surgery. Okay
We're not out here like saying all right, you're not a scholar, but can you cut me open and get this tumor out? No
That's scientific
their historical approach
How scientific is the methodology?
It depends on if you can trust the text like denis r mcdonald said in his dianeis and gospel recently
He's as happy as supposedly
Talks about being a disciple of someone of john the johannine tradition. He goes, but let me start off by saying
If you can trust you cbs
Then and we can go I don't know if I can trust you cbs. So it's like I mean come on, you know
And we know for absolute. So we have uh extent documentation for edicts from the roman emperors post three two five
That actually instruct heretical
Christology texts will be found will be destroyed and you get to thinking well, why did you need to destroy them?
If your jesus character is real why did those texts need to be destroyed?
Why will we not allow to read what those texts said?
There has to be a reason for them having been destroyed
You know mike i'm with you a million percent brother and I hope
Just I hope we find a discovery
That uh that just blows the lid off or at least finally answers the question with good
Uh that we find out it's not a fraud we find out that it's not like uh the the recent discoveries of some of the dead sea scrolls that were
You know fraud and made up. I'm talking legit archaeological evidence that
Can either show nosticism was running rampant sometime around this period or you know something that just
Let's us know or says here was jesus, but he you know, this is what he did and and he was okay cool
It was just a guy, but at that point even then the christ never existed
The guy maybe but
Yeah
Mike thank you so much. This is good everybody go right now down in the description
If you can't get the book right the second for whatever reason we understand what's going on with cova 19 everybody's struggling
Um put bookmark it and get it as soon as you can
Uh, you can probably get a little sneak peek on amazon there
You know let you get you a few pages in to kind of you know see what's going on in the text
But uh definitely help them out man because people like this
I love promoting what you guys do to get this information out there at least just for freedom of thought
It's an entertaining thing and it's a wonderful mental exercise to kind of wonder what if you know
What if you're right never what if you are right about your thesis?
That would change the whole game right
Well, it would certainly change the game in uh in the uk we could then argue for separation of church and state which um
I believe quite a few people would like to see
in the uk
We wouldn't want to i mean personally i i am not religion fashion. I am not
Against christianity or judaism and i'm all for
freedom of religion and freedom of thought and i would fight inherently for that
but I I get um
My belief comes when that is being foisted on children in the school room
And and the law says you must do this
So it would allow us to challenge that if my theory is correct. Wow
Well, I really appreciate you joining us
It's been thank you. Thank you very much for
Give me the opportunity to to talk to you and um to talk about the work
Yeah, I think we'll do another one once I read the work
But but even in them I have to hold my tongue so we don't give away too many secrets for those who haven't read it
Um, I really do appreciate that and for those of you watching who haven't figured everything out by now. We
are
myth vision
So
Join our patreon
We are
myth vision
