Yeah, what is the problem that is happening right now with Christian apologists
and the Pentateuch, the Documentary Hypothesis?
Of the Bible. You can see the sources of work there.
That everyone, without a shadow of a doubt, agrees with, they just argue over the minutia
detail of what is what. Is the Documentary Hypothesis it?
Absolutely.
So let's talk about Christian apologists. I was a minor version of a Christian
apologist. I was working under a guy named Thomas McCuddy at a small little, you know,
school here in North Carolina. And Thomas McCuddy was kind of a disciple of
people in the vein of Ravi Zacharias and guys like that. I'm not saying that they owned any
massage parlors. I'm just saying that, you know, they worked in the same vein. I know that was
a bad, that was, that was definitely. I didn't laugh. I really shouldn't.
You shouldn't. I know it's, it's silly. But no, but seriously, these apologists seem to be
performing confirmation bias on everything that they have to, of course,
defend what's sacred to them. And that is the Bible. And so the Documentary Hypothesis,
especially the renewed versions, seem to better make sense of the sources that are
in the Old Testament, development of the Pentateute and whatnot. And so I found your channel.
I was recommended to it by Camille Greger. And then of course, my friends, Steven Nelson, and
they both like love paying attention to the McPologists, the McGrew, McClatchy. These are
Christian apologists. And then of course, we see Michael Jones from Inspiring Philosophy.
They're always putting out something to try to get the skeptics to look like they're just
fabricating evidence. They don't know what they're talking about. And you dealt with the
Documentary Hypothesis. So I said, please, Dr. Davis, come on, let's, let's, let's deal with this.
I didn't say Dr. Davis, because I didn't know you were a doctor. But notice how I
anachronistically did that. That was an anachronism. Anyway, what do we have? What's the problem that
we have going on? Sorry, can you repeat that? Yeah, what is the problem that is happening
right now with Christian apologists and the Pentateuch, the Documentary Hypothesis?
Okay, so I mean, there's, there's lots to, there's lots of unpack here. So I'm just gonna go.
And I think like for me personally, it's, it's in the, the construction of the Pentateuch in
the Documentary Hypothesis that I really started, that really started to push my own personal beliefs
as a Christian in another direction entirely. And I think for, for apologists and for evangelicals,
it's, it's a very strong direct challenge to the doctrine of inerrancy. And I, that's, that's why
it's something that, that they feel they need to defend against, to attempt to counter explain
um, problematically for them though, the evidence that I hoped I, I showed that
in particular in my last video, the evidence is just so strong. And I mean, even in that video,
I was, I was like frantically trying to cut it down and still ended up with like an hour of
material. And I was just like feeling like I'm just barely scraping the surface here of everything
that I could say about why scholars find it so compelling. And I think something, something that
that tends to get lost too, you can totally, you can totally see even just reading, like your
English translation of the Bible, you can see the sources of work there. I mean, I assume you've
gone through this and you've seen it, right? But what I find is that it's not as easy to see it
as it is when you're looking at the, the Hebrew text too. Because English translators will make
choices with regards to how they, they render certain words or certain phrases. And they're
not always consistent in doing so. And so one of the things I wanted to do in particular in that
last video was try and show that like from a, from a perspective of the Hebrew text in particular,
how there's things that you don't see in the English that show me or show another,
another Hebrew reader that, yeah, I mean, there's, there's really a dramatic difference
between what's happening in this source, P, the priestly source and in this source, J, the, the
Yahweh source. When I teach Old Testament, when I, when any class in, in the Old Testament,
something that I, I'm very deliberate in doing is in ensuring that the names for God, Yahweh,
Elohim, El Shaddai are not translated into, into their English counterparts. It's very
important to retain those when teaching the text, when reading the text, because as you know,
because of the rabbinic sensitivities to the name of God, it, it, it sort of
was inherited by the, by the first English translators and, and the reformers who made
the choice when translating the tetragrammaton Yahweh decided to render that into English as
the Lord in all caps. So all of our English Bibles, wherever it says Yahweh in the text,
says the Lord and growing up in the church, growing up in evangelical, I mean, this is,
this is the sort of thing that I just never, I just never paid any attention to and I never
noticed and, you know, it just looked like a different way of referring to the same God when
it's just not. These are, these are, well, I guess, I mean, yes, it's, it's a different way of referring
to the same God in Hebrew in a sense, but the whole rationale behind that is just completely lost
in, in our English translations of, of the text. So, and there is actually, like there's, there's,
there's passages in the Hebrew Bible where people will refer to God as Lord out on I.
So it's, it's, it's one of those things I decided this early on, you know, when I'm teaching classes,
I'm just, I'm, I am going to insist on this when my students write papers, I'm going to insist on this.
Identify God properly as the text identifies him. So either as Yahweh or as El or as Elohim,
and I find that that's one of those things where it's, it's sort of like a first step
in helping you to see the differences in the sources, but it's one of those things that's
just also really easily glossed over. So real quick in the vein of this, the documentary hypothesis
is one, I got one question on that, and then of course the names of God seem to be the older
way of explaining the different sources, and it's not the only way, even though that may play a
role to some degree on, are we looking at priestly, are we looking at a Deuteronomic,
are we looking at, what are we looking at? That seems to be the vein in which the older versions,
I think, of the documentary hypothesis were going, but my first question, and then of course we can
lead to this second idea, is, is the documentary hypothesis the main hypotheses of explaining
the source material across the board consensus from all experts on the Old Testament? Like,
if you were to say, this is the theory, or if you will, hypothesis, that everyone without a
shadow of a doubt agrees with, they just argue over the minutia detail of what is what, is the
documentary hypothesis it? Absolutely, and it's something that everybody, like when you're going
through your, when you're going through your studies and training in religious studies or
biblical, it's something that everybody has to deal with. Everybody learns it, everybody learns the
evidence for it, and in my experience, and I should say, like, this isn't my, this isn't my
area of specialization, I just, I really like Pentatucal Narrative, and lots of apologetic stuff
gets, gets, is, is centered around the documentary hypothesis, so this is something that, that interests
me, but in my experience, and going to conferences, and in speaking with academics and reading books
and articles, it's, it's, it's absolutely entrenched, like it is, it is a part of
current scholarship, and it has been for a very long time, and like you said, there's lots of
dispute about the minutia, right, in, in the European schools, which is where I was, there's
lots of, there's, there's been a movement for, for a while to resurrect something similar to
what we called the supplementary, or sorry, the fragmentary hypothesis, or the supplementary
hypothesis, but all of this stuff still, and this is what I think is the important point,
all of these theories, all of the, the, the, the theories that sort of circulate the formation of
the Pentateuch, there's not one that says the, like, like all the books of the Pentateuch were
written by the same author, or even each individual book, Genesis, Exodus, Numbers, Leviticus, Deuteronomy,
was written by, so I think the important point is that the overwhelming scholarly consensus is
that there are sources in the Pentateuch, and that many of the sources are readily identifiable,
and it absolutely destroys any notion that this is something that could have been written by Moses,
and I think moreover, it, it rather destroys the notion that, that there was some sort of
established text prior to the Babylonian exile. Interesting, I like this, this destroys
inherent infallibility as well, I mean, obviously, this is going to show how can you rectify
contradictory sources and make them try to be one coherent, cohesive narrative,
and you know, Dr. Price, I interview him all the time, he said, no, I'm glad it's not inherent
infallible, and we have this, because this picture, you know, people want to answer or
ask the question, why, you know, why would they put two of these things together that are contradictory,
and one speculative explanation is, well, look, they, they saw multiple traditions as sacred,
so they kept multiple traditions, it's, it wasn't an issue for the redactor to put this
stuff together, like we think today, oh no, it must make absolute logical sense, the Ishmaelites
and the Midianites could both sell Joseph, and like, you know, like they didn't think that way,
and so maybe that, that thinking, we aren't thinking like they thought, and it's important
to try and understand why the redactors would do this, what's going on, what, what are these
apologists doing? I've heard Dr. Michael Heiser, I've interviewed him on my channel before on his
book, Demons, and as a skeptic, of course, I don't think he even knew that I was a skeptic
when I interviewed him, I just had a really cool, amazing dialogue and talked to him about
like the biblical Nephilim and the giants and how, yes, these are not humans, they are portrayed as
these big angelic, if you will, or gods, many Elohim, these little, little gods, and we had
this great dialogue, but I found a YouTube video where he rejects the documentary hypothesis,
and I thought, how can a Hebrew scholar like him and someone who is entrenched in the scholarship
are supposed to be literally go on air on YouTube and say, I totally disagree with this
without trying to hold on to inerrancy? It's weird, so can you address the apologists?
I saw that in, and that was news to me too, that was a surprise when I saw that in your,
in your video about Heiser, and I think what it, what it comes down to, like when you read,
when you read some, I got a, this is a, yeah, this is a, this is a fairly popular
textbook used by, used in very, very conservative schools
for teaching the Old Testament, right? And what they tend to do is they spend,
they spend a lot of time developing counterarguments to the documentary hypothesis,
which center on the, the, the literary construction or the, the literary artistry,
or the literary features of the text, which would suggest that, that it's a, a unified
document. And in my experience, most of this comes from the fact that somebody did
at some point in time put these things together and had to make a bunch of decisions about,
about what to include and what to, I mean, because they couldn't, they couldn't include
everything. You brought up the, the, the Joseph story as a great example where you can see the,
the two different sources at work and not in just the selling of whether it was the Ishmaelites who
sold to whom Joseph was sold or the Midianites. You'll notice in one story, the J, Joseph's
father is consistently called Jacob. In the other story, he's consistently called Israel.
You know, one story is about Joseph who has these fantastic dreams of grandeur. The other story
is about Joseph who has this, this technicolor garment that his, his father gifted to him.
So both stories are about the jealousy of his brothers, but when you smash them together,
it just, it becomes like, like super jealous. So like, there's all these, all these extra things.
There's all this, this other stuff within just this one story, which shows that, yeah,
there's, there's two different sources at work here, but like whoever put them together had to
make some decisions about how to weave them together. Otherwise, it would have just been
like, like a completely credulous, impossible story to tell, right? It's, it's like, I like,
I like looking at what I'm looking at and trying to, to divide the sources a good way to,
to, to do this or a profitable area of the text to see this is in genealogies
because they tend to be highly formulaic. And as a result, you can, you can really see
very clearly, like the different formulas that, that different authors are using
to construct their genealogies. But when, when there's a combined genealogy, like in Genesis
chapter 10, which is, you know, a genealogy, it's like two versions of the same genealogy.
The editor couldn't just repeat everything. He had to kind of pick and choose. So he's like,
okay, I'm going to pick bits from this one and then bits from this one and kind of
structure them together so that it still makes some coherent sense. But, you know, a careful reader
is going to be able to see, well, there's one voice here and there's another voice here and they
take turns speaking. But, and there's, and there's kind of like these linchpin passages that you'll
find in there too, where you can see the editor is maybe struggling a little bit with how to, how to
sort of stitch those seams together. But it's, it's in these, it's in a, the places I find where
the redactor does some of his work, these tend to be the places where evangelicals and apologists
will point to go, oh, look, you know, the text is beautiful. It's, it's, there's this, this literary
coherence and you can't achieve that if you, if you, you know, pull the, pull the text apart.
This is something in the video that I responded to of Michael Jones. I'm going to be in the next
one, I'm going to be just going through his argument for internal consistency and, and
showing all the problems with it. But what he does fairly consistent, one of the things he
does fairly consistently is points to these places in the text where there's like this narrative
continuity in this, in this artist. He does, he pulls up and he does all this stuff very quickly.
I mean, you've, you've seen a bunch of his, his stuff and something that he does is he'll just
he'll like, it's like, he'll throw up all these, these arguments, right? But they're so fast.
And he'll just kind of, kind of throw them out there. Like he spends, I think it's like 10 or
15 seconds in his video where he shows an image of a, of a, a, a chaiastic structure that, that a,
a scholar thinks he sees in the entire flood story from Genesis six all the way through
to Genesis nine. He just kind of throws this up on the screen. He's like, here's a great big chaiism
that, you know, you can't, you know, this is impossible if, if you, you pull the text apart.
So he depends on these sorts of, these sorts of arguments. But when you get right down to it,
and you actually sit and go through the, the chaiism that he's put up there, for those of you
who don't know, a chaiism is a poetic device where a writer will build in, in, in opposite pairs
and of, of statements or themes, lots of times based on the usage of individual words.
And they'll, they'll go in a pattern where they start, you know, statement A, then B, then C,
and then C again, then B, then A. So it's like a reversal, right? And these are real.
One kind of chaiistic. I mean, you've got day one matches day five in some respects,
day two and days, or day one, day four, day two, day five, day three, day six. And if you look,
one is how you land, and then you got land animals. So you got one is the sky and then
you have birds and then one is the sea. And yeah, so.
A chaiism would have been reversed though, right? Where day one, it would have been like,
like, like day one would have been sky, but then day six would have been sky, right? Where it goes.
So, so these are real. And you see them, like, there's, there's some, some neat ones in the
Psalms. Usually the ones that, that I find convincing are pretty small, like restricted to
a few verses. I've seen scholarly arguments attempting to do this for like huge chunks of
text, like the, the flood story, right? So the one that Jones puts up on the screen, it's like,
it's like 22 opposite pairs of, of thematic statements. And some of them, when you actually
sit down and you look at the text, it's like one of them is just arc, right? You know, is, is like
arc. It's like the, it's, it's the arc, but how many times is, is the arc actually mentioned
throughout the entire text, right? You can pick and choose these things. There's ones like, there's
whole verses or collections of verses that just don't appear in the chaiism. They've been omitted
entirely. Many of them are just, just really, really strained. And these are the sorts of things
that, that readers will oftentimes impose on a text. We see things that, that we think are there,
that the author never even intended to be there. I was reading an article about this recently and,
and someone suggested that, that these are maybe even just a natural way of writing, where it's a
way that our brain functions when, when we're writing that we're not even conscious of or reading
that we're not even conscious of. So it's one of those arguments where it looks powerful and it
looks convincing when you throw it up on the screen like that for 15 seconds. But when you unpack it,
when you go through it, it falls apart very quickly. So the other thing that he tended to do in his,
his video of showing internal coherence, you'll notice that I, I think it was like if he had,
if he had like 15 individual points, I think like 10 of them were restricted Genesis three and four.
Now, Genesis three and four were part of the ongoing narrative that was being constructed by the
Yahwes. It's the same author. Of course, there's coherence and unity there. But I think it demonstrates
that either, and, and I know that this was a surprise to me too, when I was watching your channel,
you, you, you said that you saw somewhere that, that Jones made a statement about not even knowing
what the document or hypothesis was. I think there was a guy, and I don't want to say Jones,
but it doesn't sound like he really knows what it is either because if he did, I don't know if he
would be so, then again, I mean, it's like no one has something that you don't want to believe in.
So really, you're not actually investigating with, is there validity to this for real, not
confirmation bias approach, but capturing Christianity, the Cameron.
Oh, okay. Yeah, for Tuesday. He interviewed an Egyptologist, David Falk, who takes him more
of a Max Mays B1E dip, right, the, the Exodus, and he said, what is the documentary hypothesis?
And David Falk, who's not even a, really, he's not even like a biblical Hebrew scholar. He's an
Egyptologist. Yeah. I had to explain to him why he rejects it, but he says, look, I'm not a,
I don't have to accept it because I'm not a Hebrew scholar is what he said. I'm an Egyptologist,
but really, he's also a Christian. So he's like, let me avoid that documentary hypothesis thing.
It sounds like this is the death blow to Christian harmonization that no one or not just Christian.
I mean, I'm sure Orthodox Jews that practice this kind of harmonious, you know, look at the
rabbis, how they have been affected. Joe Baden wrote this in his book, Professor Joe Baden was
saying, look, the rabbis have been trying to figure out this problem for a while and still
keep the text, you know, it's so in very, very creative ways. Yeah. The Israelites are in kings,
they look like these, they look like the Midianites. So technically, they're the Midianites too,
or like weird stuff that's like, really? Oh, totally. So, but what, you know, it's, it's,
what I was going to say was that those sorts of, like, if you don't know anything about the
documentary hypothesis and somebody show, somebody shows you that, oh, look at this
total continuity that exists there in Genesis three and four, that might sound convincing to
someone who doesn't know anything about it. And typically what happens is when evangelicals and,
and when I was first presented the documentary hypothesis, I remember this is how it was presented
to me. And this was kind of my reaction to it. It's presented as such an incredulous thing. It's,
it's, it's, you know, it's presented as absurd in the first place. When Jones briefly talks about
his video, he does so in the most hackneyed way possible to sort of construct this, this ridiculous
straw man, like, oh, you've got these, wherever it says Yahweh, that's a Yahweh passage, and wherever
it says Elohim, that's a, that's an Elohim passage. And then you have pre-sluice stuff,
and then you have Deuteronomy and bang, that's the documentary hypothesis. Oh, that's not it.
That is the most simplistic, ridiculous description of the documentary hypothesis that you could
possibly make. So when people come to the text with this, like, this is what the theory is,
and they see something that says, wow, look at the literary artistry between Genesis three and four,
well, surely that must, that must totally debunk it. So yeah, and it's something.
The same author, or whoever this source is, is the same thing. So that doesn't,
yeah, that's ridiculous. I get what you're saying. There are, there are large sections too,
throughout the Pentateuch, where the same author, like, I think, I think Jay
is uninterrupted from, Jay runs uninterrupted from Genesis two through Genesis four, then there's,
there's a genealogy interruption there in Genesis five, and then the flood stuff where it's fixed,
but then all the way through to like Genesis 12. So there's lots of fertile ground there
to show continuity and unity and artistry, right? I think it's interesting too, with Genesis 12,
and you can tell me Genesis 12, and I believe it's Genesis 16, you have the same narrative
being rehashed about, you're going to be a father of many nations and the blessing. It's like,
why are you saying this again? Like, didn't we hear this in the last, before the commercial
break in the last, you know, like, it repeats itself. Is that two different sources?
I think so. And I know Joe, like, when, when Joe Badham put his book together, like, he did a really
good job of what, what I really liked was he said, the only thing I'm going to count as
doublets in my discussion of doublets are things that are totally irreconcilable.
Of course, that's not, you know, that doesn't cover all the doublets, but what he was doing
was showing, look, there's just no possible way that you can, you can reconcile these. There's,
there's a, there's, there's a disruption in the narrative where opposite things happen that
can't possibly happen. Like the, the, the naming of Bir Shiba is one of these, right?
But the, so yeah, like the Genesis, Genesis 12 covenant with Abraham and the Genesis 17
covenant with Abraham are, I think, pretty clearly the same event told by these different sources,
J and E. But then the redactor, whoever put them together, had to, and was trying to, to, to, to
build a consistent narrative had to introduce this idea that, well, this is more of a covenant
renewal. So it includes the name change, right? You're no longer called Abraham, you're called
Abraham for this reason. So, you know, we can, we can write that off. And then the other thing that,
that the redactor did was, was cleverly, very carefully put the stories together in such an
order that all those places where Abraham was called Abraham are, you know, pushed to the back
after this important point in the, in the story where the name change happens. So lots of the,
lots of the doublets you'll find, you know, either before Genesis, you'll find before Genesis 17
and after Genesis 17, within Genesis, at least for this, for this reason. And lots of these are
ones that, that Baden didn't include in his, in his, his book for this reason, because somebody came
along and was able to reconcile them to say, yeah, this is just, you know, it just, it happened twice.
And different enough. Sorry. Yeah. No, I said, you know, they're different enough
that you, oh, wow. Sure. And the one that I, you can catch that. And well, not just you,
but like other scholars that they're careful, they're going to consider that and go, hmm,
I find that interesting that, yes, the redactors trying to mend some stuff. He's not like just
trying to throw hodgepodge, just slap it again. He is trying to, and I say he, because we know no
female is redacting these things. They're combining this stuff to some degree to try and reconcile
the different sources. At the same time, it's like, there's some stuff that you can't quite fix. I mean,
look at Genesis 38. I think it's so funny. This story about Judah comes out of nowhere.
And he sleeps with his daughter. It's like, what is this? Now to a commercial break. Now,
here's why you want to wear a condom. I mean, like, it's like, you know,
you know, that's an interesting story. That one, I'm going to go on a little bit of a tangent here
where I've taught this, what I've taught intro to the old test. So I've actually, I've actually
pointed to that story as part of a discussion about royal propaganda. I don't know if you're
familiar with this. Are you? No. Okay. So take a look at the story of Tamar and Judah in Genesis
38. And then take a look at the Davidic cycle, what's called the, what are commonly called
like the Ascension narratives in, I think it's second Samuel. And it's the story essentially
of David's sons. You know, first there's, there's Absalom, who, who, who tries to, tries to take
the throne. And then there's Oh, is it Adam, Adam Niger, who rapes his sister, the sister's name,
who's Tamar. It's, but I don't, I don't have it before me, but I've done this before where,
and I've, I read a paper about this a number of years ago, where somebody made a pretty
compelling case that this story from Genesis 38 was like a, was like a, it was like a critique
of the royal family because of all this nonsense that was taking place with David's sons.
You know, and there's a, there's a, there's a clear correlation between the names. You've got
the same victim, you know, Tamar appears in each one. Judah goes up with his friend,
who's called, I, I believe he's called Hiodom. And the, the, the strongest alliance that David
and then Solomon had was with the Tyrians, whose king was Hiodom. And the, the, the, the name of the,
the first of Judah's sons, who, who failed to
take up his, his duties and, and impregnate Tamar, his name is Shala. And in Hebrew,
that looks a lot like Solomon, Shalom. So, you know, there's, there's a name
correspondence that runs throughout the story. And it's a neat way of saying, you know,
maybe this is a story that was told kind of tongue-in-cheek about what was going on
in the palace and, you know, it was passed down over generations. And then whoever was
putting this stuff together needed, well, why, what do I do with this? I don't,
just throw it in here because it seems to, it seems to fit temporarily. I don't know.
So maybe they didn't want to get rid of it. Maybe they wanted to keep it.
They don't want to get rid of anything. Right. And this is an interesting note. I want to make
a jab at some people that I know real quick. These aren't the fundamentalist Christians that
are trying to harmonize the Bible continuously without, with the rejection of the documentary
hypothesis, but there is a group of people I will leave unnamed. Ultimately, they think
that Genesis prior to the giving of the law on Mount Sinai is really a secret code.
The whole thing is a secret code for later Israel's history after the exile. Now,
it's clever because, sure, there's anachronisms. Sure. Like even in this narrative, let's suppose
what you just said is actually the case. Then there maybe is an anachronism narrative that's
taking place in the Genesis story. We know that, for example, with the Tower of Babel.
If this is a ziggurat, which it may be, we have Babylon on the scene. Okay. So we're probably
in the Babylonian exile when this Genesis narrative is at least taking place, at least then or after
that. And I say that to say, they propose the whole thing is just like really a secret code
for later Israel's history. Whereas I said, isn't it more plausible that it is narrative. It's
playing a narrative of origins, you know, the creation, pre-Antediluvian stuff. Like it's really
telling you a story, not suggesting it's historical, but that it's telling you a story,
probably borrowing from other literary motifs, the Mesopotamian flood myths, who knows,
to create and concoct a narrative, a pre-Diluvian narrative, all the way down to how God chose
them among all the nations of the earth. And these guys won't allow Genesis to be cosmological.
They don't, because they have these other presuppositions. They think that,
sure, no non-Israelite could ever play a role in the narrative.
I mean, I could go on and on. They literally go so far as to suggest that the Gentiles in
the New Testament are Israelites. They cannot allow an outsider or non-Israelite to be part
of the narrative. They're part of what's called two house theology. So anyway,
that's a new one. I was, I didn't, I was unaware of these guys.
Yeah, they're, they avoid it. I can do that, seems.
Yeah. Wow. So, but that's, yeah, that's, and yeah, it's,
for a long, I mean, the Bible, the Bible kind of invites this sort of stuff too, right? Like,
this is, and we're conditioned to read it in, in a way, sorry, you can probably hear my dog barking
like crazy in the background. My wife's a dog trainer. So we usually have like four or five
here in the house. And now my Alexa is also joining the conversation.
That's awesome. Let me, let me mute Alexa. There we go. For in order to,
in order to deal with it, and this is, I mean, this is something that I'm just, I'm tired
of bad apologetics. Right. It's really, it's been something that for, for a long time,
I have been just really, really frustrated by. I taught at a, I taught at a Christian
University for a number of years. When I was doing my PhD, I had a, I had like a,
like a position as a, as a teaching assistant working with an apologist, teaching, teaching
course, teaching courses in worldview. And he had like a special seminar set up for
like the best and the brightest of his students. And this is something that I found myself deal
with on a regular basis. This is a, this is a PhD theologian working at a university who is
teaching undergraduate students all the way up to, to their fourth year, really bad apologetics
that don't look much different than what you see on YouTube. Right. You know, and, and there were a
few points where I mean, it just, it drove me so crazy. I felt like I've got to say something. I've
got to, I've got to challenge him in on this point. I remember in one session, he suggested that
that Hellenistic philosophy is something that developed after or, or, or, you know, developed
completely outside of the biblical world. It's something we should totally reject. And it's
been imposed after the fact on the biblical texts. And I'm going, that's just, that is just
patently false. I mean, you could see Hellenistic influences in the Bible. And he says, well,
there's some of it in the New Testament. I'm like, no, you could see it in the book of Daniel.
You could see it in, in aspects of the book of Proverbs. You can see it in, in Ecclesiastes.
I'm like, it's all over the place in there. And in another class, like for, for a paper in a, in,
in a senior seminar, he wanted, he wanted his students to read a, a paper by Stephen Meyer
from the Discovery Institute about intelligent design. And I'm like, why are you, why are you
propagating this nonsense when in the building next to us, the biology department is teaching
evolution? Like it just, so that's my little rant about how frustrated I have been
for a very long time with bad apologetics. And my message to apologists is this, your arguments
don't work. And if you want to continue in this vein, you need to come up with some better,
more convincing arguments that deal with real questions that people have about Christianity
and from, from my perspective about the biblical text, because something that bad apologetics doesn't
just ignore the issues with the biblical text. One of the things that it does,
I think, is really robs it of what's awesome about so much of the biblical text. There's
so much stuff in there that is so cool. And you're going to miss it. If you're so focused on trying
to keep this house of cards together in an effort to propagate this, this, this false idea of the
unity of the text. So just stop, just stop it.
