He tries to go to Uttanipishchim out at the edge of the world.
He says, hey, I want immortality.
How did you do it?
And Uttanipishchim says, who's going to convene the gods for you, right?
I did it because I survived the flood.
But who's going to do that for you?
Nobody.
So, but hey, as a consolation prize for making it all the way out here, there's this plant
of life that you can get.
And of course, as I say, plant of life listeners by like, oh, okay, that sounds familiar.
Well, he goes down and he gets it and it's really great.
And he's on his way back to Oruk to test it out on the old man to see if it works.
And he stops by a pool of water to take a bath.
And what do you know?
A snake comes along and steals it, right?
And it's this lost chance so close yet so far away of immortality that Yahweh speaking
to the other divine beings says, look, they've eaten from this tree now.
That happens if they also eat from the tree of life and live forever.
And because we can't have that happening, we have to get them out.
Gentlemen, we're talking about a very controversial topic.
It's been debated since this literature has been put on scrolls on papyri on animal skins.
Looking at the Gnostics, I'm talking to Dr. Kit Davis, I'm talking to Dr. Joshua Bowen,
and we're going in headfirst.
Did God lie in the Garden of Eden?
And is there any other evidence that we can look to that might help us answer that question?
And does God have a track record of potentially doing this kind of stuff in the literature?
Because it's obvious the reason you guys are wanting to say this is you hate God.
You want to suppress the truth and unrighteousness.
Absolutely.
Just want to sin.
Just want to sin.
Want to keep sinning.
Keep, keep sinning.
That's the big problem.
Staying corrected.
Staying corrected.
Take this and run with it.
Yeah, I think probably a good place to start with this is just trying to set the stage
for the debate, at least as it concerns the Garden of Eden.
When you read through the passage, you read through the narrative, Yahweh gives this command
to Adam and Eve and says essentially, if you partake of this fruit, in that day, the text
is very clear, in that day you will in fact die using the infinitive, absolutely.
And of course, historically, this has been an interpretive problem because, in fact,
they do not die.
And so scholars and theologians, philologists, everybody under the sun has wrestled with
this.
What is it that's going on?
Should we understand in a more theological sense that Yahweh meant that he would die
spiritually and it would be a separation?
This is where you get some very, very clever apologetic explanations for what's going
on here.
The way the emphatic is expressed in the Hebrew is to use the verb, you will die, and then
to repeat it using a form called the infinitive absolute, which adds the force and the emphasis
to it.
But something that Christian apologists have said often is the use of the two verbal forms
there indicates a physical death on the one hand and a spiritual death on the other.
I mean, this is something I was told.
So in Exodus 21, you will, you know, they will be put to death.
Yeah, that's a spiritual death that you're all dead at that point.
It's not just now.
Oh, my.
But I mean, that's kind of.
Yes, we're doing what?
Sorry.
No, I think it was excellent.
So yeah, but but the story then continues, right?
God, or specifically, Yahweh, God says,
you will surely die on the day that this happens.
The snake or the nachosh, the serpent comes along and says to Eve, did God say that you
were not even allowed to touch the fruit?
And she said, no, she said, we can, we can eat from or are you not allowed to touch any
fruit in the hell?
Yeah, like, God says, as he said this, she says, no,
we were allowed to touch everything, but we can't eat of just this one fruit.
And he says, he's only told you this because he knows in the day that you eat of it, this
is the fruit, the fruit, the fruit of the tree, of the knowledge of good and evil.
In the day that you shall eat of it, your eyes will be opened and you will become
like God.
And and then this is sort of the ironic thing here.
I mean, we'll get to we'll get to Yahweh in a minute, but but much of the apologetic
is constructed around this idea that the nachosh, the snake is a liar.
Right.
But the snake is the one who says, in the day that you eat it, your eyes will be
opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.
Eve takes the fruit, she eats of it, she gives it to her husband, he eats of it.
And then the text says, in that moment, their eyes were opened and they saw
yeah, that they were naked.
So it's such a it's such an obvious misstatement because in this instance,
the serpent was being absolutely truthful.
Yeah.
And yet he gets blamed for lying all the time.
Yeah.
And that that has led, obviously, you know, to the theological problem, right?
You can't you can't have Yahweh lying, right?
That doesn't know no good, right?
And so how how do we engage with this?
How do we address it?
Well, I think and certainly, you know, we're not the the first to think about this.
There was an article that was published in Sam Gringis's Feshrift.
But a couple, a couple of years ago, in 2019, 2020, something like that.
You know, lying gods or something like that.
It might not even be the first one to say this on YouTube.
Yeah, that's perhaps.
But we're the best to say it.
Yeah, that's the key.
You can mark that down.
And I'm here to help.
So.
But part of the problem here is being being able to understand
from a historical critical standpoint, where does this story come from?
And this this creates the bigger problem, right?
If you're if you're coming at this like a fundamentalist evangelical,
where the story comes from?
Is it a polemic?
None of those things end up being like an important thing to talk about,
primarily because like this is handed down from one high.
And this is the inspiring word of God.
But, you know, we as we sit here and as scholars engage with this
in Pentateuchal studies, they're looking for things like, OK,
how can other ancient Near Eastern mythological traditions
inform our understanding of the story?
And so, like, maybe you want to talk about Ron Hendel's just briefly
Ron Hendel's article where he talks about the arc of the narrative
in Genesis one through eleven and the movement towards civilization.
So, yeah, well, one of the things that we see
within the the story from from Genesis one to eleven
is a development.
Almost it's it's it's it's there's a development
within the narrative that that that is moving away
from the city, moving away from urbanization.
The it's very often misunderstood by modern readers
of the Bible that the Garden of Eden is like a an untouched
wilderness or like like like a return to nature sort of story.
And that's just not the case at all.
This is a landscaped urban garden.
This is a this is this is a symbol of civilization.
So in that first movement, you have Adam and Eve
exiting this urban masterpiece, they're moving away from the city.
Just to just to to give a run through of how this works.
Cain is the first murderer in in the Bible,
and he's also the first to build a city.
You have the the the story of the Tower of Babel,
which is a story of of urbanization and
metropolization. That's a word.
I'm not even sure if it is, but that that's kind of what's going on here.
And the effort on the part of God is to put an end to that
and disperse people away from the city.
You have this this this genealogy that follows directly after that
in Genesis chapter 10, which which features Nimrod
as as the founder and the builder of all these these great cities.
These are Mesopotamian Assyrian cities,
which are which are looked to as places of great evil.
And then, of course, Abraham, who is the the the first of the patriarchs.
What does he do?
He leaves the city of Ur
and then he spends the rest of his life
wandering the wandering is an old man
through through this this region in in Canaan.
And this is this is this is deliberate
of pointing out that that there is a deliberate movement
in this story away from the city.
And this contrasts very nicely with what you read in
certainly in the epic of Gilgamesh, the epic of Gilgamesh begins.
This is this is the the great the great story.
Did you come on a summer originally or was it was I mean, it was originally
a group of like individualized Sumerian text.
Yeah, yeah. OK.
But in in the in the the text that we have now,
it begins with battle or with with Gilgamesh surveying
the walls of his city, Uruk,
and marveling at the greatness of of, you know, his creation,
this this this wonderful urban paradise.
And then the much of the rest of of the story follows
it follows these these same sorts of themes
through his his good friend, Enkidu.
Enkidu is a wild man who comes into the city of Uruk
and becomes civilized.
And then they go on these adventures together
Enkidu and Gilgamesh.
And after Enkidu dies, Gilgamesh returns to Uruk
and the and the the epic of Gilgamesh ends
basically the way it began with him coming back after, you know,
looking for the meaning of life and for eternity.
And and and for for a greater purpose,
he ends up back at Uruk and walking around the city once again
and surveying the walls and going, you know, what a what a marvelous place.
The message within the epic of Gilgamesh
is that the city is is the heart of civilization.
It is the great human achievement.
And we see that kind of being undone
in these first eleven chapters of the book of Genesis
with this move, this consistent movement away from the scene,
away from urbanization into world.
And to to sort of, you know, maybe nuance that for the listener,
it's a it's a movement that that Yahweh is having to
enforce because what people are trying to do is centralize.
They're trying to move toward the city.
So as you're talking about with the tower and the city,
because the story is actually like the city and the tower babble.
And this is, of course, Babylon.
So the people are trying to go there.
But the point, as as you're pointing out very eloquently,
is that there is this movement that the people are trying to make toward the city.
But that's bad. That's the point.
Whereas, you know, if you think about the epic of Gilgamesh, you have Enkidu.
He has sex with Shamha for six days and seven nights, becomes human,
which is moving away from what we see with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden.
But that movement toward the city is good.
The movement toward the city in the Genesis account is bad.
So the whole point of us going into some detail and Derek, I see you say,
come on, we got to go got to go faster.
I would never is that it's a polemic, right?
The the narrative is engaging with earlier Mesopotamian mythology.
So and by the way, just a short plug, this is what I was really wanting to jab in
is that both of you have a course on MVP courses.
Kip, you have an 18 lecture thorough like that is just it goes everywhere
about just the religion of the ancient Israelites.
And there's so much more.
I don't think the title even encompasses what we're really trying to get.
There's so much.
And then you're also going to be launching a course as we're recording.
We're wrapping this course up now on mythologies that influence the Bible.
And it's in this vein.
So there's a short plug.
You can also get the books, subscribe to Kip's YouTube channel.
All the links are down in the description.
So I hope you go there.
And I think this is what makes it so important, because when we come to a crux,
an interpretive crux in these passages, it's so important, I think,
to be able to look back at other ancient Near Eastern mythology
because we see this pattern, not just in Genesis one through 11.
You see it in Isaiah, you see in the Psalms, you see it everywhere,
where they're interacting and polemicizing
with or interacting with and polemicizing ancient Near Eastern mythology.
And so how do we see this in the Garden of Eden story?
And, you know, Bruce Wells has a monograph that should be coming out here.
I'm assuming the next couple of years where, as you were talking about,
you know, the Genesis Garden of Eden set scene is actually in line
with like a temple garden.
And this is an important aspect of this.
But what we what we see is there's the theme
in the Garden of Eden story that is very common in ancient Near Eastern mythology.
And that is a loss at a shot at immortality.
So we see it in the epic of Gilgamesh with Gilgamesh
tries to go to Uttanapishchim out at the edge of the world.
He says, hey, I want immortality.
How did you do it?
And Uttanapishchim says, who's going to convene the gods for you?
Right. I did it because I survived the flood.
But who's going to do that for you?
Nobody. So but hey, as a consolation prize for making it all the way out here,
there's this plant of life that you can get.
And of course, as I say, plant of life listeners by like, oh, OK, that sounds familiar.
Well, he goes down and he gets it and it's really great.
And he's on his way back to O'Rook to test it out on the old man to see if it works.
And he stops by a pool of water to take a bath.
And what do you know?
A snake comes along and steals it, right?
And it's this lost chance so close yet so far away of immortality.
And so scholars have noted these things all along.
There is another story that describes this.
And if I start waxing on too long, you know, just cut me off.
It's the story of Adapa and Adapa is this ancient sage.
You know, he's got magical like wisdom and knowledge and understanding
that's very important to Babylonian and Syrian culture.
And he is the servant of Aya or and he and he's out one day on his boat
and he's fishing to catch fish as offerings for his master, Aya.
And the south wind blows and capsizes his boat
and he spends all day in the water, almost drowns.
And when he's so ticked off that he uses this magical knowledge
that he has of these incantations and he curses the south wing
or the south wind and breaks its wing.
And so the south wing doesn't blow for seven full days,
which causes all these problems in the land.
Well, the the sky god Anu catches wind of this and summons Adapa
to come up and give an account.
So come up to heaven and give an account for himself.
And Aya says to Adapa, hey, look, when you go up there,
he's going to offer you the clothing, a new clothing and oil to anoint yourself.
And he's going to offer you the food of death and the drink of death.
Don't you can take the garment and the oil, but don't eat or drink any of it
because it's going to kill you.
So Adapa's OK, cool.
So he goes up there, Anu offers him, you know, here's food and drink,
but it turns out that it's the food and drink of immortality, of life.
And being the faithful servant of Aya, Adapa says, no, all good.
And Anu laughs at him and says, whoa, poor humanity.
It was a missed opportunity to immortality.
And scholars have debated this.
The syriologists have debated this.
Like, did Enki was it was a lying, right?
Or did he not know?
Did Anu like, was he so moved by the thing that Adapa did
that he actually changed it from offering death to offering life?
Well, I think that that the e-narrative in conjunction with the Adapa narrative
casts light on this, right?
And I'll shut up so you can you can talk about it if you want.
But there's a there's a definite connection here between there are parallels.
Yahweh giving a command and Aya giving a command and both of them are lying.
Yeah, pretty clear.
I think it's important to point out here.
One of the things in this story that I think sheds significant light
onto Yahweh's motivation at the outset is how he responds
to the man and the woman after they have eaten
from the fruit of the tree of the good of the knowledge of good and evil.
When when Yahweh can't find them
in the first place in the garden, he has to call, where are you guys?
Why are you hiding?
And and they came out and they said,
we were hiding because we were naked and ashamed.
And his response, I think, is very telling.
Yahweh says, who told you you were naked?
Did you eat from the tree of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil?
So we know right there,
based on the information that he's provided in his in his reaction,
that this is totally different from what he said to them.
When he instructed them not to eat from the tree of the fruit of the tree
of the knowledge of good and evil, I would say over and over again.
But I, you know, I also I also hate it when people call them.
Right, right, right.
This is so.
But I think that I think that's a super important part of this story,
which shows that something within Yahweh's plan has gone awry.
And it's connected to what he told them in the first place,
which was I don't see any way around
this problem that he had given them
inaccurate information to keep them away from the tree.
Yeah.
In my question, just again, for those who may be slow like me.
What do you why do you think if we're assuming that?
Let's just assume that's the most accurate understanding
and it makes a lot of sense that it is he doesn't want them to eat.
Why does he not want them to?
He wants to keep them in their infant, you know, innocent state.
But why? What what problem does that pose for Yahweh?
So I think maybe it's something that that I we were talking about this earlier.
And I think something that you really need to touch on is
this connection in the Adopt-O-Meth.
You talked yesterday about about this connection between
between between the food of life and the food of death.
And the reason why I thought it was so important
that Adopt-O-Meth not eat from the food.
Yeah. And so to sort of preface that,
if we remember the polemic nature of what's going on in the primeval history
in Genesis one through eleven in the epic of Gilgamesh,
remember that the pinnacle, the best is civilization, right?
Being clothed, eating bread, drinking beer, right?
Being in the city, this this is where it's at, right?
And where you don't want to be is in the Enkidu state, right?
That's running with the animals free, you know, naked, innocent boy,
roaming the countryside, right? We don't want that.
And that's why that's why you have that positive movement toward it.
The opposite is the case in the Genesis narrative,
because you you you want the state of innocence.
That's what you're always trying to maintain.
So to answer this question or to try to get a hint at it,
if we go back to the Adopt-O-Meth and we wrestle for a minute
with why it is that a might lie and Steve Tinney,
who's in a seriologist up at University of Pennsylvania,
has a great lecture on this and what he suggests
and I think has become a pretty reasonable solution to this
is that there is this secret knowledge that Adop has.
And it's a knowledge that not everybody can have, but humanity needs it.
And that's the important point.
And if you think back to the figure
Uttanapishitim, who is the flood survivor,
what Gilgamesh has to do in order to get this secret knowledge
that Uttanapishitim has, is he has to go to the end of the world
where Uttanapishitim is, which begs the question,
why is it that Uttanapishitim is at the edge of the world?
Why isn't he among humanity?
And it's because he received eternal life from the gods.
And once that immortality is granted,
there's this tradition where the the human who has become like this
semi-divine being whatever who has immortality has to be taken
and placed away from humanity.
And so what Tini suggests here is that knowing that
had Adapa been granted this eternal life,
the immortality by partaking of the food and drink of life,
that he would have had to have been removed from humanity,
which would have removed this sort of Promethean knowledge
that that humanity was granted.
And so Aya wants to keep that that knowledge with humanity.
And so that's why he lies and says, hey, don't do it,
because I know that if you do, you'll stay away.
So if we bring that, if we bring that understanding back
to the Genesis Garden of Eden narrative,
it could shed some light on what's going on,
because what God does, what Yahweh does not want is this knowledge.
He wants people to remain in this state of innocence.
And the serpent, who is supposed to be the bad character here.
You know, it's sort of like you can almost think of this,
I suppose, in a sense, like Yahweh is a protective parent
who knows that the kid can't really handle all the information right now.
And so it's like, look, look, look, look, just, just, just don't do this.
You'll die if you do, right?
And the serpent's going, oh, you won't believe me, you won't.
This is this is this is what's going to happen.
You're going to get this knowledge.
You'd be like the gods.
And and Yahweh knows that this is a bad state of state that he doesn't want.
And so I'll shut up after this.
But but what we what I think is happening here.
And again, this is this is not just, you know, Josh talking.
Um, is that Yahweh is saying, you're going to die.
Don't partake of this fruit, because he wants the state of innocence to remain.
And the serpent wants this knowledge to come to humanity, much like Prometheus.
And so Prometheus, of course, gets punished for it.
And in the same way, the serpent gets punished for it.
You know, and this leads to the goal
of Yahweh trying to keep humanity from having this knowledge.
And that leads then into and I'll let you tell that part about why it is then
after they have partaken, why does Yahweh not allow them to partake of the of the tree of life?
This is this is the other important important part of the story.
And it's and it's kind of a I mean, scholars have have also wrestled
not just with this question of of how to to interpret Yahweh's words
and his motivation and his actions here.
But one of the other elements of the story that has puzzled scholars is the tree of life.
It is mentioned kind of right at the beginning when when the the narrator
is painting the picture of the garden and what it looks like.
And it's sort of an offhanded comment where he just says,
and, you know, the tree of life was in the middle of the garden as well.
And that's the last that you hear of it.
Adam and Eve from the the tree of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil.
And then, you know, they they are cursed at that point.
The serpent is cursed.
And then it's only after that that Yahweh speaking to the other divine beings says,
look, they've eaten from this tree now.
What happens if they also eat from the tree of life and live forever?
And because we can't have that happening, we have to get we have to get them out.
They have to get out of the garden.
So there it certainly seems like the same sort of thing is going on here where by eating of the of the the tree of life and
and and achieving immortality.
Does that then remove Adam and Eve from this from this this this human realm
in the same way that it removed Udnapishtim in the same way that it seems that that Adapa is in danger of of it.
You know, of that happening to him.
Is that the same thing that's that that's going on here?
I think another important aspect of this, too, is these these stories are also
instructive on what is the difference between a God and a man.
You know, how do we tell the difference between these beings and bear in mind as well within this ancient mindset?
The gods were not always they were like they were like supermen, but they very much looked like people and took on the characteristics of people.
So, you know, being able to distinguish gods from people was something that, you know, you needed to be able to do.
So, I think this this is playing out in this Genesis story as well.
In all of these myths, there's a there's a concentration on this idea of the acquisition of knowledge, wisdom and the acquisition of eternal life immortality.
There's also stuff going on there with with sex and and and nakedness that we don't really have the time to get into, which is also all very, very interesting.
But within this Genesis story, it feels like humankind has now they've taken a step towards immortality, but they're not quite there.
They're not all the way there until they have they have finished the journey by eating from the tree of life and achieving immortality.
So, getting them out is a way of of ensuring that they're they're not part of this divine plane.
But I think also this kind of sets up the the the rest of the biblical narrative whereby human beings are are distinct from everybody else on the earth.
They're not animals, but they're also not gods.
So, they're kind of there in the middle somewhere, right?
They know good and evil, but they haven't achieved immortality.
They haven't they haven't hit that that divine plane.
That just brings me back to what is the tree of knowledge of good and evil?
Because it comes down to that when you have this earlier polemic or earlier, not even polemic, just narrative of Adapa or or Utnapishtion,
whoever civilization gets this knowledge and it's really civilization that is that that is that knowledge of good and evil.
It seems and like you said, the garden seems to be the pinnacle of God's temple.
It has a lot of temple language.
So, it seems like this is the pinnacle of that kind of civilization.
He wants you to be dumb and not know this Adam and Eve, but they eat it.
Now they know we've got a problem here, Houston.
We have a problem and it seems like it's trying while it's reworking that previous story.
There seems to be a little bit of a hiccup here, in my opinion.
It's trying to fix.
We're trying to reverse the rules completely, but it doesn't quite make the same amount of sense as it did when you look at the earlier narrative.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, and I mean, I think that part of the issue here, right, is that these are also amongst other things, etiological myths, right?
So, they're trying to say, why is there pain in childbirth, right?
Why is it hard to grow shit out of the ground?
Why are we embarrassed?
Right, exactly.
Like, why is this a problem?
And so then the question is, why do we die, right?
And this is, it's this notion that I think that allows like apologists and theologians to sort of massage this a little bit and go, well, see, see, they do start dying.
Look, in Genesis five, it's like, and he died, and he died, and he died.
It's like, yeah.
Okay.
But that doesn't, doesn't jive with the text because the text is very clear in the day.
In the day that you eat, which is like this right here.
And so I think what's happening here is, yes, there's a tension, I think, in the narrative itself where the writer has to, you have, these are the only two humans.
And so they have to, at the end, have, they have to be mortal, right?
Because you can't have immortals leave in the garden.
Like, it doesn't work that way.
So because the etiology doesn't work that way.
So yeah, I mean, I think there probably is some tension in the narrative.
But I think that's also one of the beauty, one of the beautiful things about polemics is they don't always have to have this one-to-one correspondence.
And there can be that tension because that's, they're making theological points and trying to respond to other theological points in doing so.
