The connections that this scholar makes on Acts, Euripides the Bacchae, First Samuel and the Old
Testament are remarkable. You're going to want to check this out for sure. Don't miss this episode.
Also, consider becoming a patron of Mythish and Podcast. It helps me continue with the endeavors
and getting these scholars to come join me on the program to educate the general public and
teach as many people as possible. There's also one-time donations you can do to the PayPal down
in the description. Love you guys.
Wee! Ah, Myth Vision. You came to the right channel. You came to the right video. We're going
to be talking about Paul or Saul. Lots of people have been trying to identify this character we
call Paul. Is Paul someone else? Is he a Roman general? Is Paul Josephus? Is Paul Simon Magus?
Is this, this, that? And a lot of people use the literary story and structure of Acts to kind of
draw these conclusions because it's such a fictional narrative. It plays off of a fictional
motif in many ways. What's history? What's myth? What's, what's legend? What's real? And I want you
guys to know that a lot of scholars for a long time have been trying to pin down this guy, Paul,
and try to understand. Like recently, I had an email, someone sent me and they said,
guys, Paul was prophesied or Saul, I apologize. Saul, S-H-A-U-L. I think the guy coming from a
Hebrew background was saying he's been prophesied as this wicked guy who's supposed to come and this,
this and that. I don't know if the guy was really actually named something like this
and that this is just a literary motif. Well, today, you're going to really enjoy this show.
And I tell you that because today, Michael Kaushenoss, am I saying that right?
Kaushenoss.
Kaushenoss. Yes, Dr. Michael Kaushenoss. He's actually a student of Dr. Dennis R. McDonald
back in the day. Tell us a little bit about your education if you don't mind. Give us your credentials
and then we'll start diving into Paul. Sure. Yeah, I did my masters at Yale and then did a PhD
at Claremont School of Theology with Dennis as my doctoral supervisor. And just a couple months ago,
completed a two-year postdoc at Hunan University in Changsha, China, working on early Christian
literature and their use of literary models. This is such a great article that you have. And is
that made public, by the way, on your academia website? Yeah, it was published in 2019 in the
Journal of Biblical Literature, but they have an 18-month embargo period after which the author
can post it anywhere for free open access. So it's on my academia page for anybody to read at their
leisure. Everybody really should. This was really fascinating because you take us into some of the
scholarship and how they've been trying to answer a problem for quite some time. And you know,
there's various views right here just to give you guys an example. Better call Saul Paul, I mean,
you know the show. And I figure I just show you guys real quick. This is his actual article. You
want to read it. It's only 17 pages. It's very, you know, you put a lot of resources showing
where you get your source material from. And let's start somewhere. Most scholars want to look
for a biblical answer to a biblical idea. It just seems natural. They go to the Gospels,
they're looking at mimesis, which is something you're fond of, as well as Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
You guys are like really good with mimesis. I really love this stuff. I know I keep saying really,
but it's fascinating to see the connections. And most scholars are looking at the Hebrew Bible,
the Old Testament, to find a memetic connection. There is a memetic connection
that you and other scholars have found with Saul, the king in the Old Testament and the
Saul of Paul in Acts. We're going to discuss the differences between Pauline letters a little bit,
getting into Acts, talking about going with Saul. But there's a lot more going on here than just that.
So I don't know where to begin. I'd like to see you maybe take us off.
Yeah, well, I guess we can kick it off by talking about the question of Paul.
And a lot of people, even scholars would assume that he not only went by the name Paul,
but also by the name Saul. He had two different names and how they suss out when he used which
names is a matter of debate. But the fact of the matter is, in his letters, both those that we
are undisputably attribute to Paul and those that are disputed, he only calls himself Paul.
So he never calls himself Saul. And in fact, the only New Testament source to call him Saul
is the book of Acts. And there's a lot going on there, too. So some of the ways that scholars in
the past have tried to explain Saul and Paul as names is the appeal to Paul as a Roman citizen,
right? And Roman citizens often had multiple names, like a first name and a family name,
but also a nickname sometimes. And so they say that Paulus sounds as a Latin name. So they say
that's probably his family name. And Saulus, or Saul, or it sounds like Paul, Paulus. And so it
makes sense to say that was his nickname. Maybe he would use that name in Jewish contexts,
and then used Paul in gentile contexts. But there really isn't evidence in the New Testament
to sustain those sorts of arguments. So for instance, again, the book of Acts is the only
source in the New Testament to call Paul Saul. And the book of Acts doesn't supply an explanation for
the different names. And it doesn't cohere to to those schemas like Paul, going by the name
Saul in Jewish contexts, right? Paul is in Jerusalem, and the book of Acts calls him Paul.
In fact, the only real way you can make sense of the name distribution in the book of Acts is by
the chronology of the book itself. And the dividing point is Acts chapter 13,
where Paul begins his mission to before a Gentile audience. And the narrator, not Paul himself,
the narrator says Saul, who is also called Paul. And then from then on, always calls him Paul.
And before that, he always called him Saul, with the exception of later in the book of Acts,
where Paul is narrating events from his life that happened before the events of Acts chapter 13.
He will refer to himself as Saul or have people in his in his speech refer to him as Saul.
And so that seems to be the dividing line. That's how the book of Acts uses Saul and Paul.
But even that doesn't explain why call Paul Saul. And in itself, it doesn't prove that
the author of Acts was the first person to call Paul Saul. But I think there's enough of a literary
connection you can make that explains why calling Paul Saul would be useful,
that is probably most credible to say that the author of Acts, in fact, invented it as best we
can say. So this is this is amazing, what you're presenting, because we're going to go into this
some technical stuff and explain the literary connections. And maybe we won't get too technical.
I think a lot of people could read your your work and find it, it's free, go down in the description,
click the academia website link and go check it out. It's 17 pages, guys. It'll take you 30 minutes
at most. Maybe a little more. Maybe a little more. Maybe a little more. Maybe a little more places.
Yeah, I mean, it's it's pretty interesting because you point out a lot of the scholars
that we're talking to or talking about in the 1800s, 1900s, like we're talking about a few
centuries here that have been trying to explain this conundrum of Saul Paul. And some of them are
trying to go the Roman route, while Roman citizens have multiple names, family names,
surname, this, this, that. Another route of trying to explain it is that because the name
Saul doesn't have a direct correlation to the Greek audience, or if you will, the Hellenized
Greek language, that he just switched it to make Saul to Paul, as if it's just a literary
just change. But that's ignoring these memetic literary motifs that you're going to draw on and
show that the author is far more genius in the production of this manuscript, what we call,
or if you will, the source acts, the apostles. He's drawn off multiple sources, and it's not
just for Samuel. It's not just the Hebrew Bible, but we're also talking about the Bachi. We will
get to the Bachi, but I think we'll handle dealing with King David and King Saul first. So tell us
where, how does that work in Acts, and how does that work in the literary connection
to the narrative in the Old Testament? Yeah, so in the article, I ultimately suggest that the
name Saul comes from the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament, King Saul, and that the attribution
of the name Saul to Paul is an attempt to characterize him as a figure like King Saul.
And this is not new, right? So at least as early as Augustine and Jerome, people are reading Acts
and saying Saul, Paul, the apostle Paul, Saul. It seems to be referring to King Saul in some way.
And so King Saul persecutes David and Saul of Tarsus persecutes Jesus and Christians.
And they say, well, the name change signals the new direction, the new identity of Paul,
from a persecutor to a proclamer of Christianity. And that is on the surface very appealing,
but the big critique of that, and it's the critique that I try to address in this article is
the name change doesn't happen at the point where Saul stops persecuting early Christians,
right? So you have the Damascus road experience where Paul is on the road to Damascus, and Jesus
confronts him and says, Paul, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And Paul is blinded.
But then he stays in Damascus, he goes to Jerusalem, and the narrative, the narrator,
continues to call him Saul. So that's chapter nine of Acts. And even at the beginning of chapter
13, when so the narrative goes to Peter for a while and comes back to Saul, and it's only in
chapter 13 where the narrative switches to calling him Paul. And so that's the question.
But yeah, let's dig into the to the name Saul and talk about why it does make sense
to to associate Paul as Saul with King Saul. Please do. Yeah, so so King Saul is only mentioned
one time in the entire New Testament. And as it should happen, it's in the speech of Paul
in Acts 13, the same chapter where his name in the narrative changes from Saul to Paul
in a different episode, but but in the same chapter. And in Paul's speech, he talks about
King Saul, he mentions some bare bones facts about him. So in telling the story about King
Saul, Paul says, Israel, the Israelites asked God for a king. God gave them King Saul. Saul was of
the tribe of Benjamin, which seems like a little extraneous, unessential fact that that Paul relates.
Then he says, Saul reigned for 40 years, and then God replaced them with David. What's interesting
is that right there, the the notice about his tribal affiliation of the tribe of Benjamin
on the surface doesn't seem like it's very significant. But readers of Paul's letters know
that Paul is of the tribe of Benjamin. He says so in Romans chapter one in Philippians chapter three,
and so readers who have that that competence can already associate there if they haven't already
in the narrative, associate Paul with King Saul. And in fact, there are even more reasons to do so.
So Saul persecuted David over a number of chapters in 1 Samuel 18 to 31, roughly.
So this happens right after David slays Goliath. And then David starts to gain popularity in and as a
taking military forces against the Philistines and the Israelites proclaim, Saul has killed
his thousands, but David is tens of thousands. And so according to 1 Samuel, there develops
some jealousy from King Saul against David as a possible usurper to the throne.
And so he starts persecuting him, pursuing him, pursuing after him. Saul, King Saul
seized with anger and chases after him. And even you get at one point, it's in
I think I wrote it down, but maybe I didn't. It's in your article. I'm sure you're talking
probably about the part where he literally calls to Saul. It says, man, why are you pretty much
saying, why are you persecuting? Why are you pursuing me? He says, why are you pursuing after,
which is the same, same verbal root as persecute. So yeah, so Saul finally catches up with them
once again, and he recognized, they recognize each other. And David says, it says in chapter 26,
verse 18, why does my Lord persecute his servant? So Saul is persecuting David. And this is,
this is significant for our conversation, because there's something weird about what the book of
Acts does. So Saul is introduced in Acts chapter seven, very briefly, and then again, briefly in
Acts chapter eight. But then in chapter nine, you get a more robust account of his persecution of the
church. So Saul of Tarsus, persecutes the church in prisons, men and women, a seed, a breeze, fury,
threats and murder. So it's all focused on the church. But then you have the road to Damascus
encounter that we talked about, I mentioned earlier, where Jesus confronts Saul on the road
to Damascus. And Jesus says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Which is a bit strange,
because he hasn't been. Jesus is not on the scene at all. He ascended in Acts chapter one.
But here he is saying that you're persecuting me. And so that can prompt readers of Acts to think
about how the gospel of Luke in the book of Acts has characterized Jesus. And in fact,
it's a recurring characterization that he is the son of David. And even two verses, so I mentioned,
Paul talks about King Saul in Acts chapter 13, two verses after he talks about Saul,
he talks about David and Jesus being the posterity of David. So linking Jesus with David there again.
And so it seems to be that the book of Acts is characterizing Saul as a figure like King Saul
as a way to think about his persecution of persecution of the church and using these
this model, I'm forgetting the word I'm looking for. So you have this model of Saul
persecuting David. And here you have Saul of Tarsus persecuting the son of David. So it's a schema
that is being used and projected onto the book of Acts as a way of making sense of what the narrative
wants to accomplish. So readers who are familiar with King Saul's persecution of David can bring
all that into their reading of the book of Acts and it'll influence the way they think about
Saul's persecution of the church, his persecution of David. That's an interesting connection.
When I saw that, I was like, okay, that makes perfect sense. We obviously see that, but there's
more content in Acts. It doesn't stop there. And that's where it gets interesting. Many scholars
have pointed out for a long time. I'll say this first before I continue with that. Dr. Dennis R.
McDonald and his memetic work, which you were a student of, you see the criticisms, I'm sure you
see the reluctance of them trying to face the problem that Dennis is rightly trying to point out
on these literary memetic connections between the Bacchae or other type of Homeric epics to the
Gospels or Acts or different types of books, the Gospel of John, etc. And he's trying to,
he isn't necessarily trying, he is presenting a clear connection between these books in a genetic
way. Unlike what you're seeing the predecessors who are trying to say, it's in the air, it's in
the mist, and people, you know, they go to the marketplace, they heard the story, this is that.
Not saying that's not the case. Nobody's denying that. But for example, hearing Paul, it's hard
when you kick against the goats, okay? This direct narrative, this statement comes directly from the
Bacchae. Well, what do we do with that? We just gonna pick one or two things that we know directly
connect to the Bacchae and go, well, that just found its way in. Or is there a literary motif?
The same way there was a motif borrowing from King David and Saul to King David, the predecessor Jesus
of King David and Paul, what's going on here with the Bacchae? And that is where there are
connections when you try to keep piecing to the Hebrew Bible, looking at the story in Samuel,
you're not going to have the answers you're looking for in Acts for this type of thing,
but you will find them in the Bacchae. And so maybe you can talk about some of this stuff.
Yeah, yeah. And I think that specifically talks to the question of what the book of Acts is doing
with calling Paul Saul. And right, so appeals to first Samuel can't explain why
Saul continues to be called Saul after the Damascus Road experience, right? So in so far as he is a
Saul, King Saul figure, it doesn't really make much sense to continue calling him Saul. Like
people like to think in the mode of the Hebrew Bible, like Abraham had an experience and his
name was changed and from then on, he was, so this is like that experience where he was changed,
but his name doesn't change yet. But that doesn't mean all of that isn't relevant. I just think
we need an additional model. We need to read the book of Acts as referring to an additional model
to help make sense of why the name change takes place later. Is there some sort of payoff to
delaying the name change? And I think there it is. And I think it's related to the Bacchae.
So I think maybe the most interesting way of getting at the Bacchae in Acts would be to begin
with something that Paul says. So Paul has a speech in Acts 22 where he's speaking in Jerusalem.
He's speaking before an angry mob that so the narrative says. And at the beginning, so Acts
22 verse 3, he explains that he was educated at the feet of Gamaliel. Yeah.
And so this is a part of his establishing his credentials. But the attentive reader of Acts
will remember that Gamaliel is mentioned. He actually is a figure is a character in the book
of Acts earlier. So in Acts chapter five, Peter and the apostles have been thrown in prison for
preaching the gospel. And then an angel of the Lord releases them from prison.
And the Sanhedrin is all upset about this. And so they convene as to what they want to do about
Peter and the apostles, because after they were released from prison, they went right back to
the preaching that they were supposed to not do anymore. And amid their discussions about what
to do, Gamaliel speaks up and he says, listen, everybody, we need to be very careful about how
we treat this. So if what their movement is, is not aligned with God's purposes, it's fine.
As far as we're concerned, because it'll fail no matter what. And he gives historical examples
of Judas, a Galilean and a Theodos who led rebellions against Rome, and that were unsuccessful.
And so he says, that's evidence of that God was not behind those causes, they failed on their own.
And he says, but conversely, you know, if gods, if they are aligned with God's purpose,
and we oppose them, he says, you might find yourself to be a Godfighter. So that's
539. So Theomachoi fighting gods. So this is, this is a very famous concept
in antiquity. But this is this, this mention of Gamaliel and X 22 and Peter being, excuse me,
Paul being a student of Gamaliel, I think this is a bit ironic at the narrative level,
because in X nine, you have Paul as Saul being a Godfighter. And then in X 22,
Paul reveals that he as a as a young person was taught was a student of Gamaliel,
who in X five, before Saul was a Godfighter, warned against Godfighting. And so there's
a bit of Italian there. So one can assume easily that this is most likely a fictional literary
construct in some respect, Gamaliel probably had zilch to do with the with the historical Paul.
We don't have evidence of it. Yeah, I think it is trust acts for that kind of information.
It may be true. It may not be true. There's really, yeah, you have to take it with a grain of salt.
And I like to focus on what you can gain, literally, by looking at it. Right. And if
there's evidence one way or the other, then then you can talk about the historicity of it.
I didn't want to take you off the track, because what you're about to get at,
I think it's important with the Godfighter, this same Greek phrase. Okay. It just to me,
I'm not so sure that that would be on the lips of someone like Gamaliel in this type of in this
type of narrative, because this is found in the Bacchai. When Penteas, and maybe you could tell
us some of the characters for those who don't know the story of what is the Bacchai? What is
your rippity as the Bacchai? Who is Dionysus? What is Penteas? The this is so powerful to me.
And I think after reading your your article, I really think you solve the problem of, you know,
centuries of scholars trying to wrestle with this issue. I think the Memesis
does give more insight and gives a better conclusion to the whole idea of this narrative
that's going on in Acts. So the Godfighter Penteas is arguing with Dionysus. He's fighting against
God. He's fighting against the gods. This exact phrase is found there. So maybe you can go into
that. And yeah, so Godfighting Pheomachia is is not uncommon in antiquity. It's not an uncommon
idea or phrase, but it is paradigmatically associated with Penteas. And especially as he's
represented in the tragedy by Euripides called the Bacchai. And so that is that is the specific
play that the book of Acts appears to quote in by Paul in Acts 26. But we'll get to that. You already
mentioned it. Right. So the play, I think probably a lot of your viewers are familiar with it. But
we can go over some some important points for our discussion anyway. So so at the beginning of the
Bacchai Dionysus, the characters, this is a play Dionysus comes out on stage alone. And he explains
what is happening, what the play will be about, what his motivation is. So Dionysus is is the
God of wine. And so he's associated in mythology with drunkenness and debauchery and such things
that would be associated with wine. And he says he's come to Thebes, which is a city in what is
now Greece, from the East, from what is now Turkey. He says he's come here to take revenge.
And the motivation goes back to his conception. So he explains that he was conceived his mother
semile was impregnated by Zeus, which is a fact that will surprise nobody familiar with Greek
mythology. Zeus is knocking up everybody. And so Hera, Zeus's divine wife, Olympian wife,
she's jealous naturally, and comes to semile in disguise and decides to trick her. And she says,
you should ask Zeus to show you his true form. And semile does this. And she asks Zeus, but Zeus
is the God of thunder, right? And his true form, in this sense, is a lightning bolt, which then
kills semile. And Zeus, but Zeus protects Dionysus, you know, fetus Dionysus, and and brings him to
gestation later on. But semile's family takes this happenstance of semile dying by a lightning bolt
while claiming that Zeus had impregnated her as divine punishment, right? The punishment fits
the crime. You falsely claimed they said that Zeus impregnated you. And the divine retribution
for that is is death by lightning bolt. And so they disbelieve that Dionysus is the son of Zeus.
And that is the core issue here, why Dionysus has come to take revenge on his family.
For disbelieving this this claim of divine paternity. And so he comes to to Thebes.
His cousin is actually the king of Thebes. And his cousin is Pentheus. All right, they share a grandfather
Cadmus. Their mothers would be each other's aunts. But they don't Dionysus comes to Thebes in disguise.
So Pentheus doesn't know that it's Dionysus, his cousin. Dionysus is in disguise as a priest of his
own worship cult. And so that's that's the main plot. Dionysus comes, he he engages especially
prominent women of the city in his Bacchic revelry. They go out to the the mountainside and they have
what appear from the outside to be drunken revelries, which makes Pentheus anxious. His
mother and his aunts, among other prominent rich women in the city, are going out with this foreign
person with foreign religious figure out into the woods. So he doesn't like it. He outlaws it.
Which will jump forward. There's a lot of interactions between the disguised Dionysus
and Pentheus. But eventually, the disguised Dionysus convinces Pentheus to go out and spy on their
activity so he can know what's what's happening. And so they go and he climbs up a tree to to see
their activities. But at that point, instead of just seeing them, he is seen by them. And Dionysus
with a disembodied voice, as if from the sky, you might say, calls on the the women worshiping him
to take revenge on this intruder. Pentheus is himself in disguise. And all the women are in
kind of a manatic frenzy. So even his mother doesn't recognize them as as her son.
And they they grab him, they take him and they rip him apart. And so that's that's the climax.
And then his mother even marches back into Thebes with his with her son's head on a on a spike.
And then and then they are all punished again by by Dionysus. So that's those are the main
plot points that are relevant for when for what we're going to want to talk about with with respect
to acts. You mentioned it the the Jesus appears on the road to Damascus light shining and the same
narrative is in the Bacchai, where he's going to spy on them in the woods. He's on the tree.
Doesn't a light appear out of nowhere in that narrative? It does. Yeah. So immediately after
he calls them to take revenge. It's kind of a weird a weird phrase that it has. And it doesn't
release. It's not something that stuck in my mind, just from a casual reading of the Bacchai,
but looking at the scene closely, it says something to the effect of like a pillar of fire went up
into the sky, which obviously would create a flash of light. And so in on the Damascus road,
so there are three iterations of the Damascus road encounter. The first one in the book of acts is
is recounted by the narrator. That's an X chapter nine. And then it's recounted twice by Paul himself
in X 22 in the speech that I referred to. So immediately after talking about Gamaliel,
he goes into talking about his Damascus road experience. And then one more time in X chapter
26. And the details are not identical, right? In some ways they're even incompatible, but not in
very important ways. But yeah, so in the first one, you do have, I don't remember the specifics,
I think there is a bright light. But the details that I'm not going to remember that are different
is sometimes his companions hear the voice, but don't see the light. Sometimes they see the light,
but don't hear the voice. For our purposes, that's not really an issue. So in the first account, you
have Paul Saul. So Saul, he is described in language that is reminiscent of Penthus. So not
distinctive, but it is similar. So he's breathing threats. He's plotting murder. He's pursuing
after. He's persecuting. The Christian is just like Penthus is breathing threats and murder and
persecuting Dionysus. May I add that the Greek there is very, very similar, if I'm not mistaken.
So we have, they're relatively common words. But given some of the other things, it is significant
that they are sometimes identical words, just conjugated for the different contexts.
Yeah, so there are a lot of verbal parallels in there. But then you have, and this is a common
thing that will be repeated in every iteration, but I do want to go through them one by one,
in Acts nine, with that context of Paul breathing threats and murder and pursuing
after the Christians, you have Jesus confront him. And so we've already talked about how that
sort of evokes the King Saul persecuting David paradigm. But there's also another paradigm,
and it's the logic of Euripides' Bacchae. So in the Bacchae, you have Penthus, who is persecuting
to his mind adherents of a new religious movement, including the leader of the movement.
But then he is confronted by the leader of that movement, and then punished by the leader of
that movement. So this is a paradigm that the book of Acts seems to, it at least echoes what
the broad paradigm of the Bacchae. And then with each iteration in Acts 22 and Acts 26,
it becomes more obvious that this is the paradigm, or at least a paradigm that the book of Acts is
is using. So in Acts 22, getting to what you were talking about with the light,
you have that again in this iteration. But something that was missing from Acts 9 was
the idea of vengeance. And so in Acts 22, Paul says he was intending to take
vengeance on these Christians, vengeance for what is not, not immediately obvious.
But then there was this bright light and this disembodied voice of Jesus saying,
Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And the result was that he was blinded, so he was punished
by Jesus. And that matches, I call it a reconfiguration of the schema that happens in the Bacchae at
that climactic point. So Penthus is up in the tree spying on the main ads, the Bacchae, the women.
And then a disembodied voice of Dionysus calls out to the Bacchae, take revenge. And it's the
same verbal route as Paul uses. And then there is, like we said, this bright light from the fire.
And so that clues us in closer to very general parallels, to more specific parallels.
If I may ask, in this particular context, it appears, it's strange to me about Christian
martyrdom. Martyrdom is a heart issue, it seems, in this type of cult. And I mean,
cult in a bad way. But we're talking about our new religion idea. Christianity seems to be new
on the books, at least according to Paul. He's like, what is this thing? The way the narrative
plays it, it's new. It's something new that they're not familiar with, even though they say it was
promised that these things would come. It's still something new that's appearing. What I find interesting
is, martyrdom plays a key role, especially in acts. And what we have in this Penthus Dionysus
scenario is Dionysus is seeking revenge. He's punishing, I say, Penthus to save me a headache
of trying to pronounce this Penthus. I've heard it always. Penthus, his cousin, he seeks revenge.
And he uses these women to do that and then punishes them at the end. So it's almost like
he's using Paul for the purpose. And then in the end, what happens to Paul? Martyrdom. So
it's like, it just, I didn't know if that was a connection. It's just something that kind of
dawned on me was there's a persecution narrative, if you will, playing a role in this as well.
The Paul doesn't die in the book of Acts. He's not martyred in the book of Acts.
It's, I think, the narrator knows of Paul's death, whether or not he conceives it of,
he conceives of it as a martyrdom. But Stephen is martyred in Acts chapter seven, I think.
Yeah, but it may not be related to what I'm saying in the narrative of the
Bacchae. That's why I was just trying to see if there was something there.
I mean, it may be because the first mention of Saul as being a part of the persecution
is at the end of Stephen being martyred to death. Paul is there holding everybody's
coats and nodding in approval of the stoning. So there's a possible connection, but not
something that I've worked out in your thinking. I apologize, though. I'm steering you off the
path. Let's get back on the way, the truth, and the life.
Yeah, so there's one more iteration in the book of Acts, and we've already gestured toward it.
And that's the final one, Acts 26. And in this one, it has a lot of the elements that are already,
we've already talked about, in Acts nine and in Acts 22. But this is the one where we have the quote
from the Bacchae. And some people say, you know, you should not kick against the goats. And that
this is sort of an ancient maxim. And it is, it becomes that because of, I think, because of the
Bacchae. But because of the context in which it appears, I think it's more credible to situate it
as a part of an imitation of the Bacchae. So let's talk about that. In this account,
Paul says he was exceedingly maddened. And the word for maddened, which occurs
several times in the book of Acts, is one that is associated with
Dionysian worship, and especially in the Bacchae. So it's like a mine of mine. Where is it? I didn't
write it down. But it's, you can see the root of main Addison in it, mine of mine. But that is the
root. So he calls himself, like I was exceedingly maddened, already sort of associating, associating
himself with Dionysus, or the Dionysian frenzy. And then in this account, so Jesus appears to him
on the road to Damascus, you know, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It hurts you to kick
against the goats. And the kicking against the goats is, is the quote from the Bacchae. So,
so at one point in the Bacchae, before the climactic scene where he goes up in the tree and then is
dismembered, Dionysus, he is in disguise, but he is still Dionysus, says to Penthus,
I would sacrifice to him rather than rage on kicking against the goats at man, a man at war
with God. So he warns it like you're, you're going down the wrong path. This is not going to work
out well for you. So he warns him. But what does Penthus do? So we know, so we will come back to that.
So he's putting onto Jesus this warning that Dionysus gives to Penthus, you should not do this,
stop, stop fighting against this God. And what happens is, Saul, he's not blinded in this account.
I'm forgetting, I've lost my track. In any case, after he, he explains this story to, to Festus,
King Festus. Festus calls Paul mad, again, to my name twice. And then Paul says, I am not mad,
my name, but I'm a soft rasune, which of sober mind is contrasting with Dionysus.
But this is key because it answers, I think it gives us a way to think about why his name doesn't
change. So his name continues to be Saul after this experience, because it elect,
I won't say because I'll say by leaving him still Paul, Saul, it allows readers to contrast what
Saul does with what Penthus does. So Penthus is immediate response to Dionysus. So I'll reread
it. Dionysus says, I would sacrifice to him rather than rage on kicking against the goats,
a man at war with God. Penthus says, yes, I'll sacrifice, but it'll be the women's slaughter,
right? So these, so he's not going to stop persecuting Dionysus. In fact, he will murder
all of his, his adherents. So he's, he's warned against God fighting, but he, he continues to do
it unchecked. What's that? Dr. McDonald brings that stuff up because he's absolutely, yeah,
he's talking about this, how they're using these narratives and they change it on purpose to make
it better. Yeah, or, yeah, to make it better. I think the way I think of it is, is communicating
something in a meaningful way. So if you want to, to make Paul look good, you could do it by
characterizing him in a way that evokes this ancient model, and then his actions can demonstrate
his superiority. And so in this case, that is, that is what I think is happening. So, so whereas
Penthus disregards the divine advice and continues and results in his own death, his own very tragic
death. Saul, instead, he goes and stays with the disciples in Damascus and in Jerusalem.
He's continued to be called Saul and the people in both Jerusalem and Damascus fear him like he
still has his reputation as a Godfighter, as a persecutor of the church. But he goes into synagogues
and proclaims Jesus as the Son of God, which is really what, what Dionysus wanted Penthus to do,
right? The whole play is about Penthus and his family's refusal to acknowledge Dionysus as the
Son of Zeus. And so specifically, the book of Acts says Paul, Saul, was proclaiming Jesus as the Son
of God. When you read it through the framework of the Bacchus, it seems very clear that, that this
is supposed to be rivaling Penthus. So that's what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. So whereas Penthus
was warned, but then and suffered the consequences, Saul is warned and takes heed of the warning and
reforms. So he is punished in two of the accounts with blindness, but it's only for a time. And then
he goes on. And then later in the book of Acts in Acts chapter 13, when he has his first audience
with a Gentile audience, so proclaiming some message to Sir Gius Paulus, that is when he
starts to be called Paul, which aligns with our understanding of Paul from his letters, right?
So Paul in his letters calls himself the Apostle to the Gentiles. And so it makes sense that it's in
this scene where he begins a Gentile mission that he gets the name Paul that readers would have been
familiar with prior to reading Acts. Yeah. That that really is interesting seeing how
they pull off motifs and change the motif. And when I said making it better is like
what the reader would have expected in the Bacchae, you know, or wanted to see Penthus do
instead of getting killed and going through this horror, you know, it would have been a better
I noticed that the Christian authors like a merciful and a good they more they're more
optimistic on the outcomes. They like the idea that when Jesus, Jesus calms the storms, instead
of maybe the gods ignoring and not being merciful, or Jesus shows mercy, whereas the other gods that
are borrowed in what Dennis does is show, you know, they weren't so merciful. And I like the
Greek epics for this very reason that it's like a great movie that's like, oh, dude, what he took
his head off in the Christian story is like, let's make this soft. Let's make this gentle because
sometimes right. So in this case, I think you're right. Like you can imagine the audience at the
Athenian theater, which is named after Dionysus, watching the Bacchae. And you can you can see
that scene where Dionysus gives the warning. And you can imagine the audience, if they're at all
sympathetic and not wanting it to be a tragedy, saying just just say it acknowledge his his divine
parentage and everything will be fine. You'll avert all kinds of trouble. But but he does not.
But there is there is Christian literature that is that is not so forgiving and not so.
So especially, I'm thinking of I think it's the Apocalypse of Peter, an apocryphal work,
where the tour and and everybody is in there is punished with appropriate punishments,
which which fits in with with Greco-Roman stories that are similar to it.
If I may, Michael, I think this is important. I'm not saying that it doesn't carry the same
potential of the Horde epic finality, but they played the narrative that Paul did submit.
So if Paul didn't, let's just say, because they are drawn off that motif,
you can expect a horrific ending for this guy. But they did it on purpose, I think, on showing,
hey, we're borrowing this motif to give it more of a he obeyed. And look what happens when you
obey everybody. Look, be like Paul, be like Paul, listen and believe in Jesus, believe in the Son
of God. You know what I'm saying? And you have you have negative examples in the book of Acts,
too. So Ananias and Sapphira are are struck dead for lying. You have Herod Agrippa, Agrippa in Acts
12, who is given divine accolades and does not immediately renounce them and is struck by an
angel of the Lord and consumed by worms. So you do have people who are punished very severely
and you have people who are punished less severely like like Saul is punished with blindness.
Bar Jesus in Acts 13, the Jewish false prophet, the narrative calls him, he's punished with blindness
just like Saul is. So you have gradations. But yeah, I think it's I think it's playing with
the audience's familiarity with these earlier stories, these paradigmatic stories and the way
it plays with with expectations and and perhaps hopes of how things might work out.
Earlier stories, I love that. I mean, I can't even get past that part with a Christian apologist
because they're so defensive. And it's like, look, man, you want to believe that's fine. I have no
dude, I have my family, most of my family are Christian. But if I'm going to be honest and
factual about some stuff, like there's good reason not to die on hills that to me are just absurd,
you know, I there's no point in I think they think that that somehow destroys the validity
of their perfect infallible, inerrant perception of the text and not recognizing its genre and what
kind of books these are. And you know, you want to believe that's fine. But I just say that to say,
like, the scholars across the board will recognize, yeah, it's an older story, but it's being used
in the theme of this. So this begs the question. And I have to ask this. Did you want to comment
on that before I ask you a question? Oh, no, no, I was just going to chime in. There are a lot
of different ways of taking the text seriously. And oftentimes taking it literally is not the
most serious way of thinking. Right. This is my question. In light of this being obviously
utilized in the narrative, Dr. McDonald has brought this to my attention, the same thing with Jesus.
The poem from narratives doesn't negate the historicity of the character. It doesn't
negate Jesus didn't exist that you're borrowing from these other mythologies.
At the same time, does this lead, I mean, it takes away the credibility of this being historically
accurate in any real sense. It's difficult. I don't think we can strain out the mythology
and be able to cipher what is truly historical in this account. But let me get your own subjective
opinion, because it's all based on, like, I guess here, because there's no evidence, you know what
I mean? Like, you can't say I know. So this is personal. This is just your own assumption.
Do you think that there was a guy named Paul who, let's just say he was probably more along the
lines of the faction of the James sect initially, potentially. Maybe he was along the faction of
some type of Pharisee type sect that was like, dude, we're not jumping into this cult about a
Messiah figure who's somewhat semi divine, potentially, who knows. We're not we're not
following this view of Jesus. This is a fringe Jewish sect. I'm not falling in line with this.
I'm sticking to my Pharisee view, which kind of places Paul previously becoming a Christian
within a Pharisee school type of thinking. And then he ends up having a conversion of some sort
that gets mythologized and acts later. But in the Pauline corpus, he legitimately has some
subjective experience. And he says, look, I'm definitely going to now believe in this. He may
have seen stuff in the scriptures. He may have had a subjective whatever type of experience,
something happened. But now he believes in Jesus. Do you think that that is probably one of the more
accurate portrayals in your own guess on this? Do I think the book of Acts portrayal of it is
accurate? I'm talking about in general on Paul. I mean, some Jew who said heck no to Christianity,
or do you think his persecuting of Christians or anything adamantly coming to Christianity
was a true thing at all? So I mean, we have sources, we have Paul's letters, we have the
book of Acts, they're sometimes consistent, sometimes inconsistent. As historians, I think the
best you can do is is talk about what is being claimed as opposed to what actually happened.
And so Paul does, I mean, I think Paul was a real person. And I think there's no reason
to doubt his claims that he was a Pharisee, that he did persecute Jesus followers at in some way,
whatever he thinks he means by that, I think that's probably true. And he did have, he does
claim to have had some kind of experience that changed his mind. I think it's good to be careful
about talking about Christianity and Judaism as if they're two separate things. Certainly in the
first century, that's not helpful, I think, better to think of different sects. So like
Phariseeism and Sadduceeism and Christ followers, they're all within Judaism. And so it's not
Paul converting to a different religion, it's Paul changing his mind within Judaism and affirming
Jesus as the Messiah in some sense. I think that, subjectively, I'm inclined to think that that did
happen. Right. That was my question. Some guys who watch my channel don't even think Paul existed
at all. Right, I'm aware of that. Yeah, it's not something I've really delved into as a scholar,
like the actual, I just don't, I don't, I don't see reason to think that is the case.
I think there's no reason to doubt that somebody named Paul existed and he probably wrote some
letters. Yeah, I'm with you on that actually at this point. I'm not to close off to ideas as they
come forward, but I always tell people like, there's guys who want to say all the Pauline epistles,
all of them are fiction. And I'm like, I don't know who would want to write a fiction of first
Corinthians nine. Paul and Barnabas are arguing about the other apostles being able to get paid
and, you know, donations, they're getting something for their labors. And is it just me and Barnabas?
He sounds like an upset person. Like, you know, to me, that's criteria of embarrassment because
he's like, and I'm not saying I need money, but I'm saying like, it's just not right. All the other
guys get to do this and we don't. And it's written, you know, that does, you should not muzzle the
oxen. And like, it just sounds like upset man. What benefit could you have for inventing that?
Just I don't see any fictional narrative, why that matters to create that like to invent that.
I see that as like a typical of a person in real life who's upset about something who's writing
to the church that's probably not wanting to give anyone more money to him so that he can give it to
the church or whatever. I don't know, you know, I'm just guessing here, but it doesn't sound like
that bit like acts. You can see motive. You can see why they're doing it. There's a it's a story.
It's not history in the real sense. Is there history there? What do you think? Is there history there?
Probably, yeah. I mean, I think you can talk about things that correspond to with other sources.
And I mean, there could be history in places where we can't even determine if it's history, right?
So we don't have sources to to independently attest to every single thing that actually happened
in the book of Acts, as opposed to what is fictionalized or novelized. So so surely some is,
and then we have the Jerusalem Council seems to correspond with something that Paul talks about,
the conflict with Peter and in Galatians. So I mean, there are things that happened for sure,
I think, or at least we can we can we can claim as historians that there's reason to think that
they reflect historical events. Dr. Michael Koshinash, ladies and gentlemen, go in the description,
get the link and check out his article. He's if you know Greek, you'll be able to read the words.
I don't. Everything's translated. Yeah, I mean, there's a couple like you've left phrases in there
though, so they could see like, oh, that word is used there. That's words used here. And I really do
appreciate that. I enjoyed that. Better call Saul, Saul. Yeah, you better call Paul Saul.
That was such a catchy little title in light of that show. I really did enjoy that show.
But I want everybody to go down there. Check it out. Give him give him some attention,
if you will. He is a student of Dr. Dennis R. McDonald, and he is continuing to pursue
more information on this one day. Who knows, you might be doing all sorts of amazing stuff.
But I hope to have you join me again. And maybe we can have you and Dr. McDonald at some point
join on the show together, hang out and have a awesome conversation because a lot of people
enjoy what Dr. McDonald is bringing to the table, which in effect, you're bringing to the table.
So I really do appreciate that, brother. Oh, thank you very much. Is there anything you'd
like to say to the public before we go? Nothing that comes to mind. But thank you. Absolutely.
So don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we... are... Mephysian.
