Most scholars say that a lot of these characters in the Bible don't exist at all.
This show is going to be very interesting because people like Moses,
beasts like Leviathan, and other creatures and examples within the biblical narrative
are found in other cultures, but maybe not literally exactly the way people would say
they parallel. Check out this show. You guys might be interested and fascinated to find out
how the biblical narrative is copies of the other ancient Near Eastern sources,
and how much similarities they may really have with one another.
We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Your host, Derek Lambert. I'm super
excited about today's show, and I'm going to tell you why before we jump into our guest here.
What I love about the guest is he has literally a plethora of deities,
a variety through antiquity, that he has seen pieces being reused throughout cultures,
throughout millennia, reused, recycled deities that are being pushed into new cultures,
new ideas as one conquers another. They're reusing gods, and sometimes you may not see
where it's being used. He has this puzzle for an eye. You might as well call him the forensic
files master when it comes to ancient myths and figuring out how to puzzle this stuff together.
He's got a book that's coming out, Magical Jesus, so when that gets launched, I'll be sure to put
it in the description of this video. So if you don't find it in the description of this video,
go find Phil on Facebook. What's going on, Phil? Go ahead and introduce yourself and
do me a favor, brother. Tell him about the book, and then we can jump right into the material
that you're going to present today. Okay. The Magical Jesus is unlikely to ever become one book.
If it does come out, finally, it's going to come out as some number of books, because it covers a
lot of ground. But basically, what I do is I'm using the ideas of Alistair Crowley.
Alistair Crowley. You've had recent guests, for instance, and Crowley had some of their ideas
a hundred years ago, and I'm not saying he had all of their ideas. I wouldn't know that,
or that he was the only one who had them. I wouldn't know that either. Okay, but none of the ideas I'm
presenting originated with me. They essentially came from reading Crowley over years, many, many
boards. Wow. Okay, so Alistair Crowley, somebody to look into. But Phil, you've done a good job
coming to me, and sometimes I have no clue what you're talking about, because, and it's not that I
don't, I get what you're doing. The etymology, you're showing there's an overlap of theory.
There's similarities between the stories. You're trying to connect the dots. You know for a fact,
these cultures are conquered. Israel's trying to find its identity in other cultures, other nations,
and you do a really fine job of saying stuff like, okay, this is who Leviathan is in this story, and
this is who David is, and this is who Adam is, and this is who Israel is, or Eva is, and you show this
interesting way of looking at it, unlike any historical methodology I've ever heard.
All right. Okay, well, one thing is, I have Babelwackey, and it's a method of inverting
syllables in words, mixing syllables around, and treating the consonants sounds a little loosely,
so a D could be a comma T, or something like that. And so you realize that the only difference
between Poseidon and Pontius is just, in Babelwackey, they're the same. Okay, you realize that Lazarus is
Israel. Oh, wow. Okay, so you see more when you're reading. You realize that you're, that a person
isn't defined just by one thing. They're defined by some number of things.
Oedipus, for instance, is Diopetus, and Diopetus is Josephus, and Diopetus is
Hephaestus, the Greek god Hephaestus of the Force, and that's where you get into the Blacksmith God.
Okay, and this is where they connect into the Unapodized Spider, because the Unapodized Spider
is known as a virgin version. Okay, it reproduces exact copies of itself. How does it do that?
Okay, stay right where you're at. Not only do they catch you in the image, but your audio is
better where you're at right now than when you were too close. For some reason, I don't know why,
but you're like way longer now. No, I was pointing down, so okay. When you're looking at one person
like Aeneas, you're actually looking at an Unapodized Spider, but they don't tell you he's
the Unapodized. Okay, and what culture is that from? If you don't mind, because I'm going to tell you
I'm a dummy. Aeneas is the great Roman epic, which is the Aeneid written by Virgil, which is
patterned on the Homeric epics of Iliad and Odyssey. Okay, okay. And in fact, both of them,
it directly steals over and over again from them. But it shows you how these things got
carried on in epic myth, because you know what is Uanodapha? And Udapha is this Unapodized Spider
who is three people in one. This way you can never quite get him. He shows up as Awanis for
the Babylonians. He shows up as John the Baptist for the Jew, you see. And he's this mysterious guy
who comes in from nowhere, and he came in from the desert like Anki. But the guy you can tell,
because Noah, the guy who was always saved, is always the Anki's guy. Anki is the Babylonian
god who functions as the blacksmith's god. So when you get to the Jews at Ugarit, not Jews,
but Phoenicians, excuse me, but they're the Jews' relatives. You see them in Ugarit about 1400 BC.
You're in the Baal epic. You have Kofarwa Hasis. Okay, well Noah used to be called Atrahasis.
Okay, and then you'll see Cassius show up. You'll see Cassius show up to Stab Caesar, right?
Okay, well Cassius is Cassius too. Okay, this is what I'm telling you. Okay, you've been trying
to tell me this for a long time, Phil. I love this stuff.
Right.
Come up. Come up a little. But they are. There you go. I can hear you again.
This is what I'm trying to say. All the different religions are simply
variating very old themes. And the three themes come down to the three insects of the Greek,
which are the spider, the bee, and the ape, the creator, the preserver, and the destroyer.
The blooms of the spring is when you're going to see the hero kill, and his blood will sanctify
the new year and provide the red fertility for the growth. This is going to be the baptism of
life. Okay, Phil, let me digest this because this is the thing I noticed. Okay, you have so much
information that dummies like me can, and I don't mean I'm dumb, like I mean, I'm ignorant and not
in a way that's derogatory. I mean, I've just not read enough to know, right? So here's the thing.
I want to break this down for maybe our audience who's like me. Okay, it seems that we're carrying a
theme. This theme is like a theme of threes. There's numbers. There's words. There's real life nature
or natural elements that are involved in the incorporation of epic myths. And what you're
showing is that the Bible's no different. And the way the historians are treating it is they're
treating it like this is some piece of literature that's accurately depicting historical, here's the
real historical what happened, rather than, hey, look, guys, have you not read the Iliad and the
epic myths of the ancient world and seen the parallels? Right. Well, okay, let's go to McDonald's.
You sound better when you're up here, by the way. Okay, McDonald is showing these parallels. Okay,
and he's being poo pooed by the biblical scholars. They don't want to even acknowledge
the surface level memesis. Right. That will destroy everything they stand for. What I'm saying is,
is McDonald is correct. Memesis is the general method. And the way they do it, they grab a few
pieces from one character, hero character, they grab another few pieces from a god over here,
they grab another few pieces from a different hero character, and they make a composite character.
Right. Okay, of course, you haven't seen this character, but he sure reminds you of other characters.
Him. I love this. This is what's going on again and again. So Dr. Price, you know, of course,
he says, Sure, Phil, you want to get your ideas listened to, published for the the SPL, right?
Go write something for the SPL. Well, they don't even like McDonald's. They're going to hate me.
Oh my gosh, you are the enemy. You're the devil.
And McDonald's, since we want to them, I mean, yeah, the official guy and all of them will see
Crowley didn't have to worry about it. And it turns out Crowley was really many decades ahead,
even of your universities and things like that. He had the broth and cosmogony in Genesis.
Many decades before they agreed that that was true, but Crowley knew it was true 100 years
ago. See, that's the thing. Also, he knows that in the New Testament, what you're looking at is the
hectic cosmogony. In other words, the primordial gods that affect the structure of the works are
he see its versions of the Greek gods. And those came into existence with the universe and they
procreate to make new things. That's how the universe became so diverse was the gods procreated.
You know, and the humans did and they have their ancient myths where
animals and humans are combined in birth and that sort of stuff as well. You had
satyrs and you had werewolves even in Rome. Oh, wow. Okay. I love the lore. I love the,
I love video games that have stuff like that in them. Right. It's just, I love that kind of stuff.
So, so breaking this down, what you're saying is, okay, I'm studying Romans now. And if you can't
line up with Aeneas with Elani, and you can't line up Elani with Noah. Okay. And then you're,
you're missing the greater picture. In other words, there's an inter-ethic relevancy.
There is a relevancy that extends beyond anybody's myth because they are using these natural
models or what they see as natural models. The various cosmogonies have to do with the coming
out of Tiamat and Behemoth. And those are the serpent and bull type myths that you get. But,
but you notice your two orders of angel are seraphim and caribbean. Yes. Those are seraphim and bull.
Okay. Yes. Now, back to the serpent thing I mentioned prior to us recording.
You have something to comment on and I want to throw something out there for you and maybe
our audience. And this is just very basic. Something just for our audience's sake that I found out
about Phil is there are certain things that just never really added up to me. I've heard the historical
position and what they say. And to me, it's like, why would that even be the case? Phil, what, what is
the, when, when Jesus says, if I be lifted up, all men will be drawn unto me, the idea of being
lifted up in the wilderness and Moses lifting up a serpent in the wilderness in his story.
What are that? What's that have in common? And then what, what about those being in common and
other epic myths? What does that mean? What's going on there? The serpent and Jesus being
lifted up in the wilderness. These are the healing things. These, this is spring equinox and Jesus
has just been dunked by John. He's been ritually killed and has reborn. He's been entered by a
spirit that has come down from heaven and entered into him. And I say that that is the Holy Spirit
and he is being tempted now by Satan because the spirit of puberty has entered his body and he
will have his first sexual experiences. Oh, in other words, he has, he will be tempted by sex.
That's what, that's what would have happened in the old myth. So is that what happened to Eve?
With the snake in the garden? Yeah, yeah. Yes. And in fact, what you're going to notice is that
the Oedipus myth is central to the Bible. Okay, because this is, this is the Oedipus myth. Essentially,
he is wounded in the legs. That's what distinguishes him. The God Hephaistus is the one we really
need to look at because he's the Eopatist that survived. Does Osiris play any role with, with,
with Isis using the shaft and his penis and everything? Okay, yes. Yeah, that's going to come
in with the bees. Okay, okay. The birds and the bees. Okay, it makes sense. Isis makes the shaft.
Okay, Isis makes the phallus. Right. And Jesus on the cross is a phallic image.
Okay, they're not going, they don't like that. But if you read Berkert, Berkert gets quoted at the
beginning of everybody's Greek mythology course, and he gets quoted in other mythology courses and
much beyond that. Okay, he left the academy over this precise issue. They simply will not acknowledge
this phallic image that's in it. Wow. And basically what you've got is you've got the womb image
versus the phallic image. You have the fish and the cross. You have Jonah being spit out of a fish as
a birth image. And, and the fish, by the way, is Nina. Her name is Nina, because he's on his way to
Nenepe, and it was named for the fish goddess, Nina. Bill, what can I do? Okay, first of all, my mind,
I love this stuff. Bill, I mean this when I say this, I'm saying it on air. I, I, I, I, I, I, I
I've liked your posts and briefly read them and did not have time to even interact. First of all,
what can I contribute? I mean, I honestly can only stand in all of this information because I really
enjoy this stuff. I don't know enough to contribute. I know enough to give you a thumbs up and maybe a
pat on the back and say, Hey, let's get another show going. So I encourage anyone who's watching
this to reach out to you with questions and ideas. And if you are a host of a show and you're watching
my show, get fill on your show. Let's get this information out. If you do this for me, if you
would please, Derek, make sure you put my web address on, on this. Okay, because that did,
that was neglected last time. No, I can go back and put an, I can even update that one too. So
absolutely didn't gain a viewer. Okay, that was a big mistake on my part. And I'm a big, big
proponent of trying to push our guests and get them out there. So tell me something else
interesting that's controversial that you can think of. It doesn't matter where you take us,
because honestly, I know you're going to take us somewhere crazy. Well, look, no, no, don't underestimate
the C is in the insects of John. You wonder why John only need slopist and 20. Okay, it's because
that the creator be versus the destroyer slopist. Okay, that's, that's Venus and Mars, that's Aries,
that's Aphrodite and Aries. Okay, and the C is hyper social. Hold on, too much noise in the background.
Okay, sorry about that. I'm in a crowded pub. You're good. No, we can hear you when, when your
face is in the screen when you get down. All right, sorry. So what is the beat real quick,
real quick before you go any further, because this is important. We see Locus in the Old Testament,
we see Locus being eaten by John, we see Revelation saying Locus will come for anyone who changes.
Okay, the B, the Locus, and what's the third bug? And then by the way, where, where are those three?
Okay, there's not a third one. Okay, and so my question is where did that come from? Where's
the creator be and the Locus? What myth is that from? Okay, wait a second. Let me finish describing
the Locus. The Locus is a hermit. Okay, the Locus is the guy who comes in from the wilderness like
John. He's a hermit. He doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't want anybody hurt. Okay, you know, and yet
he's the wise man. He was ankydew in the epic of Gilbert. He comes in and he has the Hiroshima. He
engages in the rights of the spring with some who is from the temple of Islam.
Is he the same? Is he the guy that comes in the story of Job, the fourth man who comes in the
story of Job out of nowhere? When Yahweh's asking Job's friends, or I can't remember, maybe Job's
three friends were talking and then a fourth man comes out of nowhere. Remember, he kind of like,
I don't recall. I'm sorry. Okay, something to maybe look into. This is interesting though that
I know. And in fact, I connect Job to the roots of Jebus and which was Jerusalem. Okay, let me tell
you more about edifice. Okay, why do you think Jesus is dying in Jerusalem? Why? He's giving it
his hero power. The same reason edifice was allowed to die in Poland is the reason Jesus is dying in
Nazareth. And there's always a tyrannous in charge. Oh, you need Jerusalem. Okay, listen, there's always
a tyrannous in charge. Okay, you've been telling the tyrant myth since the ancient myth that tyrants
have become the tarquins of the Caesar and the Mipha. Okay, and so the tyrannous is edifice.
And it is Jesus because he is from Nazareth and Nazareth is tyrannous.
I can't hear you. Okay, you talk about the diascuri. The Tendarii, these are the sons of thunder,
which are caster and Pollux. Yes. Okay, the Tendarii are the tyrantees. They are the tyrants.
You keep seeing the tyrant myth over and over and over. You don't get the name. When Emias kills
Tarnas, he's killing a tyrannous. Okay, that's what I'm saying. Okay, you can recognize that.
See, and the problem is I couldn't recognize it because I've never read that. And so when you got
the tarquins with the founding kings of Rome, each one is the epitome of the tyrant. Okay,
the guy who just, it's his way or the highway. Right. And so you have a little bit of changing of
the language, but they show up over and over. They're the same character. If you read another myth,
and Oannis becomes Oner, and the tyrannous becomes Tarnas, or it becomes the Tendarii,
and there's a son from Thunder. And McDonald gets a lot about these guys, but he doesn't
get that the tyrannous myth has been going on since Babylon, and it's still going on.
He's the guy who came in, he had all the answers, you put him in charge, and now he can't see the
ports for the trees. Oedipus can't see that he's marrying his mom, and that he killed his dad,
because he believes he did not. Huh, okay. His belief has blinded him. And so this is why Caesar
ends up doing, and Jesus do the same miracle. They are restoring walking, which is Oedipus's
problem, he's lame, and they restoring sight, which is Oedipus's problem, he's blind.
Interesting. And Jesus is there to reverse, to invert the other mythology that he's surrounded by.
And that makes sense. Follow me, he's inverting the philosophy. This is what the kids have always done.
Luther, Luther Williams, Dr. Luther. You hear that? Anyways, Phil, keep going, brother. This is
okay. I'm sorry I was on a roll. No, you really are. I'm following you. I just had to tell
Luther to invert it, so. Yeah, yeah, the Hebrews often do just take whatever the Mesopotamians are
doing, turn it around. And so the Meschuchus, the Meschuchus was the serpent back in the Babylonian
mess, the Mesopotamian mess, and he became Mount Matthew, just like Typhon gets slain by Sue,
but he becomes Mount Statham. Okay, and so the myth we have that shows us what they're talking
about is Hephaistus. He is guarding Typhon under Mount Athena, and he has his volcano forge,
but Typhon the Dragon is kept at bay by the Blacksmith God, but the Blacksmith God is just
the Creator God. It's Enki's myth that Yahweh inherited as the Creator God to create Adam,
and he created Adam as being by-gendered from the earth. Adam is an Unapodite Spider.
Interesting, so let me ask you about Adam here for a second, okay?
What's your thoughts? Because I know you're going to think way outside the box.
He's Purusha for if you're in the Hindu religion. You're going to find out that this Unapodite is
Poseidon as well, and Poseidon is a triple God, probably based on the Hindu God, the Traitor.
Okay, so I have guys who argue left and right, and I want you to kind of deal with the way I'm
kind of approaching this. Say what you think is wrong about this approach, okay?
Adam is a narrative of an actual supposed historical figure, right? Some people say,
here's the problem. There are others who say Adam actually is a myth, but he is a representative
of the nation of Israel, and that he is Israel, not an actual single guy, but a collective group
of people called Israel. Now, do you think those two methodologies are missing the point you're
trying to come at, or is one of those methodologies true and what you're saying is true?
Well, here's what happens. They vary the myth. The myth is usually centered on a Heracles type
character. In other words, Gilgamesh was the first Heracles, but we're putting it backwards by calling
him Heracles. Heracles is actually Gilgamesh is what I'm saying. Okay. Okay, so when you have these
various gods of the city, they tended to be Herculean characters. They could be part mortal,
or they could be all gods. They could be like Marduk, who was made by Enki, and so was, you know,
made diva. But, or you could be Melkart, and that Melkart actually may be older than Hercules,
or Heracles. And what I'm saying is Peter Minick, the professor of Peter Minick New York University,
who teaches the course on studying now on the Romans, says that he could have come from that.
Interesting. I like this. I like this because, you know, I never understood
them wanting to kick them out of the garden because if he keeps eating of the Tree of Life,
he'll live forever. Well, here's the thing. Adam and Eve could have stayed in the garden forever.
They would have been innocent little children with no knowledge of anything,
and they would have never known the difference between good and evil.
And so, yeah, they could have been the goddess, too, little babies that never did anything,
except that they're in such goo goo, I'm gonna eat this, let me, let me water this tree.
Is there another myth that- Okay, but instead they escaped that, thanks to-
Right.
The serpent allowed them to become teenagers, do what they weren't supposed to do,
and learn to be adults. They achieved adulthood by leaving the innocent of them.
Interesting.
Eating his childhood. Yeah. It is archetypal childhood. That's what it represents.
On one, on one level, that doesn't mean it doesn't represent other things it can.
Yeah.
You see what I'm saying?
You're saying there's multiple layers to this.
You've got Yahweh's the serpent, you've got four people, and you've got four rivers in it.
And what you're gonna find that these rivers tie into the giant dragon monsters,
and even the valley, that is Gehenna, and that's how feisty this is for it.
That's the forge of the blacksmith god.
It's funny you say that, because Gehenna is where hell's gonna be thrown.
Okay, now, check it out. The only reason you've got a hell is because Virgil gave it to you in the Aenea.
Okay, there was no punishing hell until Virgil made it so plain and so punishing
that it got incorporated into Christian theology from the very earliest point.
Right.
Okay, because neither the Jews nor the Greeks had it punishing hell.
Here, come up, come up a little bit.
It was only for the odd person. It was only for the very bizarre extreme center like Hitler
or something like that. Those were the only people that went down.
Okay, let me ask you a question about Nero. Some popped up in my head.
Nero killed his own mother as the story goes.
Right.
Do you think this is historical or do you think this ties into the whole like the guy,
some other myth or something? I mean, at what point do you draw and say, hey,
I think there's actual history here and this is myth. How do you do that with the New Testament?
Okay.
And I know I'm rabbit-trilling, but.
Specific character, again, your question, you're asking me about.
I was asking about Nero.
Nero, yeah.
What do you think about him?
And killing the mom.
Well, you've often got, you have so many guys going on in these myths.
We're going to see Peter gone from the favor of myth and these type of myths.
These myths are the Pandora, Petrosa type myths.
And so you've always got three girls together in the myth.
And they tend to kill themselves.
I mean, they drop like flies, but why do they do that with their lunar face?
Okay.
Or when John dies, he's like the wet half of the year dying and Jesus is the fiery half of the year
being reborn at spring week or not.
Okay.
So, yeah, they are astro-theological deaths, but they don't explain that.
See, that's what, maybe I need to get a comment from you.
A lot of people knock Acharya S's work and say she's pseudo scholar.
She didn't know what she was talking about.
How do you deal with that since she's astro-theological?
I don't know her work, okay?
But I suspect that she is seeing many patterns which are really quite valid.
And she's matching them up like everybody else.
Um, what she didn't have were the teeth.
I had read Crowley for years.
I mean, I had spent years reading certain books either by or about Crowley.
Right.
Okay.
So that gave me all kinds of little teeth.
In other words, I know things, but I don't know why I know them.
I don't know the details around them.
I don't even know what's Holy thought about them, only that he mentions them.
Okay.
So, but what you find is that theopatist is going to be Joseph, Josephus,
Japhus kills his daughter just like Iphigenia gets killed in the odyssey or in the ilia,
excuse me, just like Iphigenia is killed, Japhus kills his daughter.
And who's he doing it for?
He does a pre-opinion.
You know, but it's because this is theopatist.
So, Josephus is showing up with the name of the opatist on him.
Okay.
So, Josephus is part of the unopatist.
You don't, I mean, what do you think about him being a historical person?
Josephus is at least one real guy.
Okay.
But he's wearing a mask.
That's a title.
That's a title.
He's pretending to be a Jew.
He's a Jew.
He's a Christian.
He's the best Christian the Jews never got.
That's who Josephus is.
Wow.
He's probably writing later, or let's put it this way,
he gets incorporated later into the Tristan.
Okay.
And that's why they had this, what, appear?
Do you think that's an interpolation?
Do you think the testimony in Flavinium is an interpolation?
Yeah, it probably is interpolated.
But what I'm saying is Josephus is trying to give the Jews a history they've ever had.
Okay.
Okay.
He's defining the Jewish people in a way they hadn't been defined previously.
And, I mean, from what we could tell, the Jews are all Christians and Stoics, if you go by
the theopatist and Philo.
But the reason you're doing that is that's their mystery in any way.
Because Philo is part of the smear mystery.
And so with theopatist, theopatist means the peer.
You're going to find out.
You're going to find out.
So this is the unapodized spider as a piercer.
The serpent in the garden is a piercer.
The spear, which represents Roman rule, is a piercer, the iron spear.
Wow.
This is Pilate.
Pilate is named for that iron spear.
The Pilate says the standard issue Roman in the army.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So you need to know he is that.
No.
No.
This is why I need you, Phil.
This is why I need you.
I need you on the show more.
I'd love to have you come more.
Okay.
You have a YouTube channel.
Are you still putting videos on the YouTube channel?
Or you've given a little bit of a break or?
I have a Mushushu Messiah video on there.
People can look at it.
It's very short.
It's like a couple minutes long.
And it's going to show you the progression of the Josephus son of the Messiah.
Josephus been Messiah.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Matthias is Messiah.
Right.
Matthias is Messiah?
Yes.
So.
It's the pawn.
That's the pawn.
Right.
I was going to ask you about Jesus been Ananias.
Okay.
Again, Annias, Awani, Ananias.
Okay.
Okay.
So, okay.
You're taking etymology, these words.
Yeah.
What is that method you're using?
It's that metonymical method.
I call it Babel Walk.
Babel Walk.
Because what Crowley knew how to do was to shift the syllables around
and not be too picky about the consonants.
And you suddenly start reading everybody's religion
and everybody else's religion.
It's fascinating.
I go through Greek method.
It doesn't matter if it's Greek, Venetian.
I can see what they're doing with the name.
Yeah.
So, this method, and I want to talk about this method for a second here,
because it's obviously something that's not, it may be practiced,
but very conservatively in ways that people are like,
hold on, like even to this day, people fight Joseph Atwell, right?
And at least Dr. Price, for example, will look at stuff like,
let's see, Joseph of Arimathea, Joseph Bar Matthias.
That may be Josephus being discussed here.
But let's go a step further.
Judas Iscariot, Sakari.
That is an obvious Babel you're talking about, right?
Right.
Right.
The Sakari, and in fact, you can talk to Jacob Berman about this,
but Crowley knew it before Berman did.
That Iscari, or Iscari, formed a lot of the sources,
he was Iscariot, and Iscariot, and Icaron, for the Greeks.
Okay.
He's a son of Daedalus, who is the Blacksmith God,
and Daedalus was the Iscariot of that period.
You and Berman obviously are well read,
and he knows a little bit about what you're talking about.
You do a totally different, you take a totally different angle,
and you drive home on this stuff a little more.
He's been centered around the historical,
who may be this figure in the 30s that lately he's been on that.
So what I'd like to do,
I don't know if this is something you'd be interested in,
because you both really understand these texts,
is just to have a round table and talk about different deities,
and how they map out, and you guys could have a fun time doing it.
That sounds great.
That sounds great.
I know that he's actually recognized you.
Jacob Berman said that you were the best
when it came to trying to connect these things,
the way you do it.
No one else is doing it.
No, I didn't know that.
Oh, yeah, he thinks you're awesome.
He neglected to thank me for putting him on the webcast,
and I thought he was thinking I stole his ideas or something.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Okay.
Good.
Jacob's a good guy, man.
Jacob actually does appreciate everything he can.
He's a very humble guy, too, so.
Excellent, then.
Glad to hear that.
He may not have reached out because he's kind of a hermit, man.
I'm trying to get him out of a shell.
It's just that way.
Trust me, no.
I'll tell you what.
The only reason I'm here was because I didn't want
Corley's work getting lost again.
Corley knew all this stuff 100 years ago.
Right.
Okay, and the biblical scholars literally looked the other way.
I mean, he just looked at every place,
but the one place they could have found it.
Why do you think that is?
It depends on reputation.
It's how we live.
And this has to do with identity and what Odysseus is.
Well, excuse me.
What, yeah, Odysseus, but what also Edith is about is identity.
Your identity doesn't come from yourself.
It comes from people.
Right.
Okay, and they make tyrants and they put them up in the chief seats.
And the people who should be listened to don't get listened to
because the tyrants are off.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So, you know, take us on one more fun adventure into some
interesting thing those people would overlook and have never looked at.
Okay.
Yeah.
Mushushu became Mount Mashu.
He became Moshe in over it.
Well, that's, yeah, that's what they called him in the Bible,
but they called him Ben and Uber it over a thousand years before that.
Okay.
So, he was Moshe and he was born of Baal who was mating with a heifer in the field of the bear.
Okay.
So, he was then the Messiah of that period.
More or less, you got Moshe, then you had Moses.
Moshe, then you had Messiah.
Okay.
Then you had Josephus, then Messiah.
Right.
Okay.
You have your Messiah.
You have Cyrus.
Mushushu has a second name, which is almost still Cyrus.
It's Shirusu or something like this, but that's going to be Cyrus Caesar.
And Kuro.
And Kira, which is Spirit.
Kuro says young man who is Apollo.
Apollo is the Kuro of the God.
Okay.
So, this is the stuff I'm talking about.
Okay.
Definitely came out of nowhere with this stuff.
This is awesome.
What I mean is, is like, you know, I didn't anticipate being able to grasp some of the
things you're saying today.
And this is why I have neglected to respond, because I haven't been able to really contribute.
But I do honor what you're doing here.
Okay.
Well, thanks a lot.
Look, when you guys find time to do what you're aiming to do, go ahead and do it,
and I'll be on board with that.
I'll talk to Jacob then.
I just want to be in the conversation because there's a lot of stuff I can show you at the
time, or I can show you a dozen of them.
Well, we need to go through, so if you can put together, put together a list of, or something
that you would like to present, right?
And we can actually do a show, because it's easy in all the myths, the epic myths, the world
that we have, we can get lost, you know what I mean?
And just rabbit trelling.
So, if you would like to take us into creation, let's do creation, or let's talk about damnation,
destruction, rebirth, whatever kind of ideas you have,
and we'll specifically focus on that for an episode, and drive home the babble concepts
between epic myths pertaining to either creation, or rebirth, or you know what I mean?
And talk about these things, and how they, my goal would be in all of this discussion,
try and put this in your head how you'd like to do it.
Somehow, whatever the topic is, lead it from other myths to the Bible.
Because the whole goal of my channel, yeah, there's the historical Jesus question, but
I like to somehow get back to the biblical narrative, and if you show that kind of stuff,
I'm sure my audience will love watching and hearing how you're connecting all these myths,
and predating the Old Testament concepts, you know, way older than the biblical narrative,
and bring it right to the Bible.
That stuff's beautiful to me.
Okay, thanks for the time.
Thank you, Phil Robinson.
And look, everybody, make sure that you guys go to his YouTube.
It's going to be in the description, and subscribe to his channel, and find him on Facebook.
You can ask him anything.
He actually is the head guy of multiple Facebook groups.
He writes this stuff often.
He's not got enough people coming out of the woodworks who are aware of this material
to actually correspond with him, or discuss these issues.
He needs a friend in this area.
So I have no knowledge to be able to contribute, other than a thumbs up and a pat on the back,
and bring them on the show.
So make sure you guys go do that.
And if you like what we do here at MythVision Podcast,
go it in the description.
Show us some love.
Thank you, Phil Robinson.
You have a good day, brother.
