Dr. Kip Davis. I really appreciate you. I'm looking forward to
the course coming out for our audience
Yeah, that's some exciting news
um
I was a christian
Really started to fall into the line of being able to defend my christian faith and of course became
a somewhat apologist online
and
I was following mini apologist William Lane Craig Ravi Zacharias. Um,
You know, the list goes on
What are some of the problems you find in general with apologetics? Maybe you feel like getting into specifics
It's up to you, but as a scholar who went through a rigorous
Course to get where you are
You mentioned in your own
Story, this was a big problem. So tell us what you know or what you think
So, uh, maybe I'll start by saying that uh, so I was still a christian
When I answered my phd program at the University of Manchester
And the day that I got to Manchester, I'd registered. I went into
professor
George j brooks office for my first
consultation
Uh, one of the things he asked me right or he he said to me
Right at the outset. He said so
Just to be clear here, he says to me
In this department, uh
We are not looking for Noah's Ark. We're not looking for the Ten Commandments
We're not looking to prove the resurrection of Jesus or
The miracles of Elijah and Elisha. He said this is a serious academic department
That's that's exactly what he told me
Um, and I think it underscores
um part of the problems that uh, or a big a big problem that, uh
Uh, I'm sure
most academics
Working within biblical studies working within, uh, the classics and in history
have
with
apologetics
And the problem is that apologetics is always starting from the conclusion
Give a defense
For the reason
And the hope that you have within you
So you're already starting
Uh with an answer
And then you're backing the truck up
And loading it with whatever you can find
To satisfy that answer
You know the right questions and the right ideas which can form to the answer and I hope everybody can appreciate
How flawed this is because as soon as you take that approach
to history or to an ancient text or literature or in you know anywhere in science or or in, um
Um, I I guess in well, I don't know. I don't know anything about law
But yeah, certainly in science as soon as you start
From that approach you have already prejudiced yourself
and
even unintentionally
You're going to overlook things
That don't conform to the answer that you've already adopted
see
When I started my phd program for example, um, I started with a research question in my head
I wrote on it for a year
At which point I had to revise
My research question and some of the direction of my study
because
I hadn't already formed an answer about it
I I was on the search
for
Um, I I hate to say the truth. I was on the search for a resolution to this question
um, and it was in the course of of writing
My dissertation it was a process of trial and error and I actually I think
If memory serves me correctly, it took me over three years before I finally had that
That gestalt moment like I was looking at
um, a set of manuscripts
Um, you know trying to figure out what what this text is what it's saying
how are these manuscripts related to each other and
after three years
Of working on this stuff like intensely
And then after reading an article, which had completely
unraveled every all the work that I had done up to that point
Like I had this breakthrough moment where all of a sudden it was like, oh my god
Here's the solution. You know what?
This is not something that I started out with in the beginning
I arrived there
and
I don't think it's possible to do that within apologetics because
The you can't defend
You can't defend a question
Do you know what I mean? Like
I just figured like adding to this
It's it reminds me of that Habermas discussion with pinecreek when he said can you give me
a phd
Who came into this studying this as a non-christian ever wasn't raised christian had no background as a christian
Who then by the evidence studied it and came to the conclusion?
Oh my gosh, the overwhelming evidence has led me as your language
To the conclusion that jesus is lord and he actually rose from the dead etc etc
That you it's usually I was raised this way. I got with a woman who is
A christian or whatever might be there's always some other influence and it's not the rigorous work you're talking about
Exactly. I think I I think there's probably a qualification there. I think it happens in the sciences
Um for I'm you know, for example, I don't know much about his back road. I'm I'm I'm fairly sure that like francis collins
Came to believe
in jesus
as like uh, like like a phd
Scientist after his his, you know scientific exploration, but that's sort of besides the point
I think it's more powerful that when it comes to actually studying the history of the religion the texts the the
texts that inform
almost entirely
The christian faith or judaism you'll not find
Anyone who started out, you know as an unbeliever went through this rigorous process
Of answering questions about the text and the history and coming out the other side going. Oh, yeah, well, maybe
Maybe the new testament has this right, you know, that that is something that doesn't happen and I'll say
so and you know, this was uh
Some of these problems, you know starting with the question and and having an inability to
Follow the evidence as a result of that
So starting with the conclusion and having having the inability to follow the evidence as a result of that because you're you're even
subconsciously
A selecting data from your from your sample set. Um
This showed up, you know in in a very real way when I was teaching
in a
In an evangelical
christian university
I
You know one of my jobs when I was still a phd student and you know working at this school was
As an assistant to an apologist who who taught courses there
and he caused
All sorts of problems for our department like the department that I was in
the biblical studies department because students would go into his classes
and
Learn the right answers
to
To address
their
pre-existing faith commitments
but which were
Completely fallacious and besides the point of what was being taught
in their biblical studies classes and
you know professors
In the biblical studies department started to complain that look
I'm giving, you know, I'm giving these assignments or I'm I'm giving this exam and students are supposed to be
Listening to you know, what's taking place in my course on
Isaiah or you know the formation of the penitook or whatever it is
And they're regurgitating these answers that have nothing to do with what I've been teaching them
Where is this stuff coming from and here, you know, it comes from having their
Um
Having their convictions
confirmed
Through a clever set of principles
And it's it's not
It's not a responsible way to do any any sort of serious academic work
Brief comment josh mcdowell you did a video on him
Lee strobel some christians gonna come across this who's probably not even gonna wait till we get to this point in the video
And this happens so often on myth vision
We just for some reason the cognitive dissonance can't allow them to even watch the video
But let's just say they get this far and they're like, all right
Well, lee strobel was a skeptic and went and challenged and found the truth
Or josh mcdowell was a skeptic and went and found the truth. Tell us what you know about them
first of all, I think
Anybody an apologist listening
Listen carefully to me
I think the the the greatest skill that anybody needs to be an apologist in the first place is not
You know a first rate education and lots of knowledge about the bible or even philosophy
the best
qualification for any apologist
is
unbridled confidence
And that's what guys like mcdowell like strobel have in spades
so
Yes, they present themselves as people who
Came out of this
this
this this upbringing is hardened
atheists who who
You know were highly skeptical of of every christian claim. So I did I did a whole
documentary about josh mcdowell in which I
Went into exploring how he has told his own story
His own story over time and I discovered in the course of doing that that a big part
of his whole presentation
is
His own story and as a result it's really actually evolved
Over time when you look into it
His actual upbringing and his actual conversion experience is something that that looks
Not completely different, but certainly different from the way he talks about it now and he's embellished it
Uh pretty significantly in a number of places because he knows itself. It sounds much more dramatic. It's it's much more
convincing if he can gin it up a little bit and because he's
Got so much confidence. He's able to to to tell this story with a straight face. So, um
You know, he was he was a teenager
Barely an adult
When he became a believer
And if you read carefully
In how he writes about it or even in how he he presents it when when he gives it
In in talks and things it's a very emotional story for him. So I think for for most people
Um, I think that's where
Becoming a christian
Uh
Is uh, is the most uh meaningful and that's the the the strongest rationale that anybody has for for converting
It's out of that. Uh, that that that emotional state in the first place. So as for lee strobel
He uh, he presents himself as as a former
hardened skeptical
Investigative reporter for the chicago sun tribune. Um, you know, he he he he
He won an award once for for an expose. He did on the uh, the building of I believe it was the ford pinto
Safety
Um, the company was cutting corners and and and he he was part of exposing that right?
So he he really depends on this to paint this picture of himself as this, you know, just
Reporter doggedly searching for answers and also highly skeptical. You know, he he he started out this way and it would take
Just uh, just just a a miracle to convince him otherwise. Um, and
The way he tells his story is such that his his wife
Became a believer
And he became resentful of the fact that she became a believer
So she challenge I think she challenged him where he got challenged by some other people he knew
to investigate
From a critical perspective an historical perspective the claims of jesus. Well, this all became a best-selling book
The case for christ the the book itself is is incredibly
disappointing and and and laughably weak
in terms of of an historical
Investigation and the reason for that is because virtually every expert that is interviewed in the book
Is a believing confessing christian most of them christian apologists already
if he was really interested in in discovering the truth of the of of the christian claims then surely
As a as a responsible reporter, he would have consulted
Both sides, I don't know
Um, so but if you dig into his his actual history a little bit more you do notice a couple of things
um
Which I think are are uh convenient
Uh, so he he started
um, he published his first book
already
Uh after he had been working as a pastor
At willow creek church the giant willow creek church in the chicago suburbs
Um, he had already been there pastoring for I think five or six years and he didn't even he didn't get around to publishing
Case for christ until he had been in the church for
Like at least a decade
Working in the church. He's a pastor
so
I think
that um
given
The timeline from the point of his conversion to the point that he actually got it down on paper
Given the content in the book itself
We have
Every reason to be suspicious and skeptical
About the legitimacy of his own conversion story
