Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
We're gonna take a deep dive into the story,
the life of Dr. Robert Cargill.
And with that being said, introducing our guest,
welcome back, Dr. Cargill.
How are you?
Doing all right, Derek.
Thanks for having me back.
Thank you.
We've done a little something on Mount E-Ball,
but I wanna take a moment to introduce you
for those who may not know.
Dr. Robert Raymond Cargill
is Associate Professor of Classics and Biblical Studies
at the University of Iowa.
He is a biblical studies scholar,
classicist, archeologist, author, and digital humanist.
His research includes literary criticism
of the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament,
and New Testament, Kumran and the Dead Sea Scrolls,
pseudopigrapha and apocrypha,
and the archeology of Southwest Asia.
He teaches courses in biblical studies,
second temple Judaism, archeology, and ancient languages,
including biblical Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek.
His recent books include Malchizedek, King of Sodom,
how scribes invented the biblical priest king,
Oxford University Press, Great Press, 2019,
and the cities that built the Bible, Harper One 2016.
He's a specialist in public-facing scholarship,
which is what he's doing online.
Be sure to subscribe to his YouTube channel.
We'll show you that in just a minute.
You can see him regularly on CNN,
History, Discovery, and National Geographic,
where he contributes and consults on shows
like National Geos, Riding the Dead Sea Scrolls,
History's Jesus, His Life, CNN's Finding Jesus,
History's Bible Secrets Revealed,
CNN's Jerusalem, City of Faith and Fury,
and most recently, History's Coliseum.
He has excavated at Banias, Amrit, Hazor,
and most recently at Azika, is that correct?
Azika, yeah.
Tell her how's it going.
You've done quite a bit,
and you have a heck of a background.
Welcome to MythVision,
and wanted to introduce you to our audience.
Derek, thanks for having me.
It's good to be here.
Thank you.
Before we dive into your story
from devout Christian to where you are today,
I want to introduce your YouTube channel
and where people can subscribe.
We are going to check these numbers at the end.
I hope to see those numbers flex.
Let's show them what MythVision's made of, family.
Subscribe to Dr. Cargill.
Tell us about your YouTube channel and your website.
Bible and Archaeology is an online information center.
It's a hub for people interested in just those things.
Biblical studies,
this is a critical approach to biblical studies,
and to archaeology, not just of the Holy Land,
but archaeology in general,
but particularly the intersection
of biblical studies and of archaeology,
and the excavator YouTube channel
are original pieces, original reflections
on these very topics.
So these are pieces that I do
that my managing editor, Jordan Jones,
they include interviews, podcasts,
things that I do that are sometimes taken
from content that I give in a classroom.
So sometimes this is material,
a lot of questions that I get from students
that we then turn around and give directly to the public.
Other times they're addressing specific things
that are relevant in the news,
and we just wanna provide a commentary out there to YouTube.
Awesome.
I hope people will check out the links
they are in the description.
I've pinned his YouTube video or his channel
at the top of the comments section.
So go subscribe, if you will,
and we'll check that at the end to see
how the growth was with you, Dr. Cargill.
We also have a Patreon, Patreon.
However you wanna pronounce it,
I've heard it pronounced several ways.
And I just went through this past few days
looking into content that I've not made public yet,
that I'm working on slowly getting out to the YouTube world.
And I have 149 videos that are not made public,
that are on the Patreon, that are accessible
from scholars like Dr. Samuel Zenner.
I have a few from Bryce Blankenegle
and David Fitzgerald on the Mormonism series.
Tim Whitmarsh, Ian Mills, Bart Ehrman,
Kip Davis, Lawrence Cross, Elaine Pagels,
Russell Comerican, Michael Shermer,
Mark Goodacre, Jason Staples, Elaine Pagels again.
Joel Baden, John J. Collins, Joshua Bowen,
Megan Lewis, Shadi Nasser, Richard Carrier,
Dennis McDonald, James Tabor, Ralph,
sorry, not Ralph, Paul Ellis.
Dr. Richard C. Miller, Michael Koshnosh,
and of course I had the one with you, Dr. Cargill,
but I made that public.
So if you wanna help support us, check out the Patreon,
you can join for as little as three bucks a month,
and you have access to all these videos.
And also we have courses with academics.
So right now there was a video drop today by Apologia
with Kip Davis, they're promoting the course,
go subscribe or check out the course,
you'll own it for life, 18 lectures,
there I think it's like 12, 13 hours of 4K footage
of taking you through real ancient Israelite religions,
in the ancient world, facts on the ground
and propaganda in the Bible and the list goes on and on.
Dr. Cargill, you also have some books
that I hope people will check out,
those are in our recommended reading list
in the description, without further ado.
We're gonna get into your story
and I'm gonna pop this up here so people know
that I'll get to your super chats here at the end,
but I wanna get through your life, through your story,
who you are, where you were coming from
and how you got to where you are.
These are some of the most important conversations
we have here on MythVision, because it's subjective
but it's also authentic and it's just directly from you.
There was no prep in this, there was no colluding
to find out what you might say.
Dr. Cargill, were you a, would you say,
a serious follower of Jesus, were you born into a household
that was this way where your mom and dad Christian,
tell us about your upbringing.
Yeah, thanks for asking this.
I have become more comfortable talking about this
in the classroom with my students over the past decade,
but I don't know if I've ever done this live.
I mean, I do it in bits and pieces,
but never sat down and told this entire story.
So I appreciate the opportunity to do this.
You're the first one to ask me to do this
and so I'm happy to sit here and chat with this about you.
Yes, the answer is yes.
I was raised in a, what we can, what I can say,
honestly, is a very conservative Christian family,
a good family.
I love my parents.
I love my mom, I love my dad.
I love my extended family.
You know, my grandmother, my grandparents loved me.
They raised me.
It was a close knit Italian family,
an immigrant family that tried to instill in me
these traditional Italian values.
They were all Catholic,
but it was a family that loved me
that grew up on the East Coast of California.
And then we basically had to move out West
and we moved out West and my father
was raised in Central California, as was my mother.
And this is Central San Joaquin Valley, Madera, Fresno.
My mom was raised in a little town called Tranquility
and my mom was affiliated with a small,
they don't call it a denomination,
but it's a denomination called the Church as a Christ.
And when my mom was a PE major, she was an athlete,
my dad was a professional baseball player,
played in the Giants organization.
Wow.
And when they got married,
when I was about two years old,
my dad converted to her religious tradition.
And they raised me in this tradition.
And so I was always brought up in what is now we can say
is a very conservative religious tradition in Madera.
So there's a small town near Fresno, California called Madera.
And I was raised in a church that loved me and I love them.
And it was a good place to be raised.
I still know the people at age 50 now.
I still know many of the people that I grew up with.
I can always tell because they call me Bobby.
There's some of the only people that still call me Bobby.
And I love them.
And these are good, good people.
And they took care of me and they raised me
and they kept me out of trouble.
And so no ill feelings.
And we need to set this up from the outset.
I don't there's no hatred.
There's no remorse.
There's no ill will towards Christianity,
towards any of there was never any kind of trauma
that caused me to say, oh, I'm out of this.
I don't like it's not that at all.
We just need to state that from the outset.
OK, it's good to state that because there's there are people.
Everybody's a little different, right?
Everybody has different experiences,
but some might see that and go, I'm finding a pattern here.
Everyone who no longer calls themselves what I call myself.
It's all because they have a problem
or there's something wrong that happened to them
or something wrong with them.
So they can kind of rationalize an excuse
for what the reasons are for you personally choosing that option.
So I'm glad that you're not.
I mean, look, it's your life, right?
But it's interesting to get someone's story
who's not coming from a traumatic kind of perspective.
There was no abuse.
There was no trauma.
There was no something major happened.
And then I was like, well, I give up.
I'm walking away.
It wasn't that at all.
It was actually quite the opposite.
I I actually went to seminary, right?
I wanted to be a better Christian.
I wanted to learn more.
But that's getting ahead of ourselves here.
No, I was raised by a loving family.
I had a sister, my my my sister and I
and my mom and my dad and our extended family.
And we were raised in the Sunset Avenue Church of Christ
in Madeira, and we actually had two preachers.
It was a it was a black church and a and a white church,
predominantly white church that had merged.
And I didn't know I just state this up front.
I didn't know that this wasn't how every child
was ten, you know, nine, ten years old.
Right.
I didn't know that this wasn't how every church
in the world was, but when these two churches merged,
they kept both preachers.
So they kept the white preacher and the black preacher.
And so one Sunday, I'd hear, you know,
a sermon from the white preacher, and it was, you know,
a good three point sermon.
And it was it appealed to the to the intellect
and it was very cerebral.
And here's what you need to do.
And it was and then the next Sunday, I'd hear a sermon
from our black preacher, Brother Stafford, and and and it was,
you know, what we all called gospel sermon, right?
It was there was a central riff and it would go out
and it would come back and it would go out and it would come back.
And so I had the privilege of hearing and understanding
two different ways of hearing the gospel, right?
Hearing a and and learning at a young age,
not taking notes or anything, but hearing different ways
to speak to people, to to rhetorically, to to influence people.
One on a very, you know, apologetic, very, you know,
here's here's why this one point leads to point two, point three.
And therefore, this is why we need to one that speaks cerebrally
and another one that speaks to the heart, to the emotions that,
you know, the end result is not, no, I need to think about that.
The one that makes you want to jump out of your seat and go do something,
wants to celebrate, wants to help people, wants to.
And I had the the luxury, the privilege of hearing this every other Sunday.
And I just thought every church was like this.
And so I grew up in this loving church.
That, you know, took care of me and my parents, like I am today,
I have five children, right?
You know, I realized that my parents, their number one priority was
keep me away from drugs, keep me away from bad people, keep me safe.
You know, just keep me out of trouble and get me some good friends
and try and hope and pray and try my best to
to get me into a until when I step out on my own, that I'm going to be OK.
Right. Bob, Bob, if I may jump in, this is a great point.
I'm going to start calling you Bob, as you told me to before.
You know, a lot of kids that when I grew up,
we went to church, a lot of kids go to church with their family,
but they're not very religious or they don't get really into it.
They're they're social Christians, you know, yeah, I'm a Christian.
And then they go off and they're drinking beer, they're at the bonfire,
they're hanging out, they're cussing, they're this and that.
How religious were you?
And I'm using that kind of there's a there's a skill that you can use that's
objective here and where there are moments when you really got serious
about Christianity.
That's a good question.
We weren't religious.
We learned the Bible and there was a difference.
We look down on religion.
We didn't care about religion.
We learned the Bible.
And when you start to understand this kind of rhetoric, yeah, we aren't
a denomination, we are the church, right?
So if you aren't in the church as a Christ, you will let God sort it out, right?
We're not talking about non-Christians.
We're talking about other Christians, but maybe they were Baptist
and maybe they were, you know, God help you if you are a Catholic.
You know, there was this thing about being the church and it wasn't until
much later that I realized that this is a very sectarian view of the world.
But all I knew was the love and the people taking care of me and people
telling me, this is how you read the Bible.
And and the answer to answer your question.
Yeah, not only was I memorizing Bible verses and and learning theology.
Well, I didn't know what theology was at the time, but I was being taught how
to read and how to interpret this stuff.
I was doing Bible bowls.
I mean, we were doing quiz shows Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday
night, every week, we would come home from camp to go to Wednesday Night Church.
We we didn't do certain things on these days because this was important.
What years would you say that was going on for you?
What's that?
What years of your life?
Well, this was from from as early as I can remember up and up
through when I moved to Fresno to go to another church of Christ.
So this was all the way up and through my junior college and and undergraduate years.
So I was I was raised in the church and I was a leader.
I was again, not the women.
And this was a problem.
One of the things that that made was one of my issues later on.
But the young boys were taught to come up there and lead singing with the song
leaders and learn how to preach and learn how to we were trained to be leaders.
Yeah, not the women, but the men.
Right.
And so we were taught this conservative approach to the Bible.
And it was a, you know, we had a we had a magnet on my refrigerator
door growing up that said, God said it, I believe it, that settles it.
And somebody suggested that we cut out that middle part that says I believe
because it doesn't matter if you believe it, God said it, that settles it.
And again, this is what my parents were taught.
This is what I was taught.
There it's no fault to anyone.
It's just it's it's what everyone believed.
And again, I'm from what I call Red California.
I'm from that part, that eastern Central Valley, that that western foothills
of the Sierra Nevada.
California is a very blue state, but that part of California is very red.
Fresno, Clovis, this this part.
And so it's not just your religion, it's your politics.
Everybody that I knew growing up was a Republican.
I had a professor once say, you know, the early on in the churches of Christ,
David Lipscomb was saying, you shouldn't vote.
You know, David Lipscomb was like, our kingdom is not of this earth.
David Lipscomb was a leader in the churches of Christ early on.
Our kingdom's not of this earth.
You shouldn't vote.
And one of the students said, if if Christians don't vote, the Democrats
will always win.
Right. The the idea was that if you were a Christian, you had to be a Republican.
Right. I grew up in this world that Christians only believe the Bible,
no doctrines, no creeds and had to be Republicans.
And by the way, I I'm with you.
I follow you.
And that's what that's the same thing I had, even though I wasn't churches of Christ.
I used the word religious for a broader audience here that's watching,
because they might say that person's serious about their their path, their religion.
I didn't mean it.
But it's funny you brought that up.
I'm glad you did, because that's exactly the language inside language we have,
is I'm spiritual.
I'm not religious.
I am a Biblicist.
I am not a look at this.
These this is all for men.
This is for God and ours is for God, of course.
So you're you're devout, you're serious and you're being you think in your mind,
you're probably going to do the ministry in some way.
Are you that serious?
Are you actually flirting with it?
So the irony was my parents didn't want me to go into the ministry because they
looked in the church.
They they grew up in the church and they saw how preachers in our church were treated.
They weren't paid well.
Everybody thought they knew more.
They I mean, it's so they said, Bobby, be a professional baseball player like your dad
and like his father.
And and so I mean, I my father's superglue to baseball bat to my hands.
And I everything I did was about playing baseball.
And they knew that the driving thing in my life, the thing that define and to this day
defines me as a human being in any realm is I want to know how things work.
I just I want to know how things work, whether it's biology or whether it's how to build a
house and a treehouse in my backyard or political systems, economic systems.
I want to know how things work.
And so I was a human fizz, pre-med, you know, pre-med major at school.
I was I was an athlete.
So I wanted to know how the body worked.
And they said, OK, good, go be a doctor.
And I was like, good, I want to do medicine.
I was going to be a I was pre-med.
So I was going to be a doctor.
But what I couldn't get out of my mind was this theological thing.
Look, I was raised Christian.
But when I was around 10 or 11 years old and I don't know how familiar we are with
the theology of the Church as a Christ, but baptism is a must.
You have to be baptized or you burn in hell forever.
Exactly. Yeah, salvific.
Right, right. It's and that's even for good kids like me who were raised in it.
And it's not one of those things that you just do as a symbol of you're a part of this church.
And it's for the forgiveness of sins.
And if you know that you've committed a sin, if you're if you're of the
age of accountability, what is basically a bar mitzvah type thing.
If you know that you've committed a sin, you were lied to your parents or you did something.
And you know that you did that.
That's a sin.
And you die, you'll burn in hell.
I was taught that I was by everyone.
It's not just my parents by everyone.
I was taught that.
And so my my baptism story wasn't going forward after a sermon with all my family.
And you know, going out to the Baptist.
It was a Tuesday night in bed crying because I thought I was going to burn in hell.
And my parents came in and they said, well, we got to take you down to the church,
write this.
So they called friends and we went down to the church on a on a Tuesday night at 9 p.m.
Because I was so traumatized that if I died in my sleep or if I got in a car crash the next day,
I was going to burn in hell.
It was a theological trauma of a 12 year old kid.
And I just thought this was normal, right?
I just thought this was and I was baptized and I felt great.
Now, if I die, I can go to heaven.
I've got this insurance policy and that's the kind of theological pressure that's put on children across the country every day, including me.
And you know, you're you're you're 12, you're trying to figure out how to be a friend, how to how to, you know, just, you know, you're about to die.
You're about to go through puberty. You don't you don't know you're awkward. You don't know anything.
And you've got this you're going to die and burn.
And and so that was how I so now I'm going to make my parents happy.
I'm going to make God happy.
I'm going to that's in the back of your head at all times.
And it's just an unnecessary burden, right?
Today, most Christians would say, oh, that's terrible.
Why would you why would you except for fundamentalist conservative evangelicals who who are focused on baptism?
This is why they want to go knock on doors and get people dunked in the water.
It's like counting foreskins, in my opinion.
It's it's it's something that there are like I see it in like Roman Catholicism and stuff, too.
There's some pretty conservative sex of I know that there's a lot a lot of a lot of different ways of doing it.
Right. There's different splinter versions, like more liberal approaches who are like, well, you know,
and then there's others in that same category that are very, you know, if you aren't in Mother Church,
you weren't baptized in the Catholic Church, you aren't, you know, taking sacrament in the Catholic Church.
You're not in the church.
If you're not in the church, you're going to be thrown into the outer darkness
in the eternal Lake of Fire the whole night.
You know, but I was a smart kid.
I was a good kid, but I grew up terrified, terrified.
And so and it wasn't my parents doing it was the system.
It was the the church.
It was the and, you know, it's this is all of your friends.
This is all of your your your political party.
This is your it's it's it's everything.
This is why I tell my students.
Religion isn't just some thought that you have, you know, you know, Hotel California is a great song.
And then one day you learn, I think they got that tune from Jethro Tol.
And you go, oh, I need to change my opinion about what I thought about Hotel California.
Because, you know, it's just not just some cerebral thought that you can then just dismiss one day.
Maybe I don't like the this team so much.
Maybe I like this team.
It's not that this is part of your identity.
Your religious beliefs, you have to unwind it, unwrap it from your family, from your job.
Remember, I taught at and worked at Pepperdine University.
We'll get to this, but a lot of people teach and work at.
And if they suddenly change their religious conviction, they're going to lose their job.
I have a lot of colleagues who, if they actually said out loud what they believed,
they would lose their jobs.
They would lose their livelihoods.
They would lose their homes.
Because a lot of them live on campuses.
And so we'll get to this, but wow, there is a fear.
There's an absolute fear.
And I understand this fear.
And what I'm saying is I understand it of not wanting to let go of this thing and holding
on to it much longer than a lot of people do because this thing that they're raised in,
even though intellectually they're saying, I got some questions that aren't being answered.
And I'm going through all the motions and I believe it.
I still believe it at this point in my life.
So I actually didn't take the MCATs.
I was, I was a, I went on to junior college, right?
I mean, I'm a big advocate for junior college.
Don't spend all the money.
Not everybody's built for a four year college.
Go to junior college.
I did 12 bucks a unit at the time, saved me a lot of money.
I worked the graveyard shift at Walgreens to put myself through junior college.
When I was done playing baseball and then transferred to Fresno State and was a pre-med major.
And I, instead of taking the MCATs, I wanted to go to Pepperdine because I had some questions.
I wanted to go to seminary.
I wanted to know the truth.
I wanted to know for sure.
Just let me recap real quick here because this is super powerful.
I want to share this too.
You're, I love where you're going with this.
I relate with you so much.
So your education has you at Fresno College liberal arts, right?
You're already here.
This is where we're now approaching.
This is the beginning of kind of your educational serious background.
And by the way, I went to college for two years at a Carolina Bible College.
I was going to go into ministry.
That was what I was thinking was going to be my calling because I love the Bible and learning this stuff.
I was changing my theology so much that I was actually like not sure.
Hey, along the way, I had serious doubts like, do you really want to get in a position?
And the next thing you know, you find out you were wrong about that.
And now you're leading an entire church.
You really have to say, I don't believe in the doctrinal statements here.
But anyway, education, Fresno, this is where we're at.
Should I zoom in?
See if we can zoom in.
Yeah.
And then I see Pepperdine pop up.
So where are we at?
You're saying you went to Fresno here.
To play baseball.
I was, I was there to play baseball.
Okay.
And then this is also your human physiology, which is evidence you're working, you know,
you're going into some medical premed.
Yeah, I'm a premed major.
Awesome.
I was a smart.
I mean, I'm a professor now, but I was a, I was a smart kid.
I just didn't try very hard because I was okay to play baseball.
But your baseball, your athletic, you're an athlete, you were raised to do that.
Okay.
Boom.
But you also have questions.
That's where Pepperdine comes in.
Yeah.
Okay.
We're, we're caught up.
I just wanted to emphasize that.
Yeah.
So, so instead of going implying to med school, I applied to Pepperdine and sure enough, I
got a fellowship, a full fellowship.
And most of the people there were going to be ministers or preachers or counselors.
I wanted to dig into the, the meat of things.
I wanted to learn languages.
I wanted to study archeology.
So by first semester there, I jumped into Hebrew.
I had taken one Greek class at Fresno State, but I jumped into Hebrew.
I took an archeology class from John Wilson, who was an excellent professor, a good mentor for me.
And I fell in love because, you know, I'm, I was a baseball player.
So I was in, I was a catcher, right?
So I was in the dirt all the time and, and, and I was a scientist, right?
I was a pre-med guy trying to reconcile.
This was one of the other things that really did it for me, trying to reconcile what I
accepted in human evolution.
I accepted evolution.
I knew it was fact.
I knew it was, and then I was starting to read the Bible, not as, you know, six day creation.
I knew that, that I can't accept that anymore, literally.
So I have this cognitive dissonance going on.
I know this is what the Bible says, but I understand science is a fact.
And so here's the first of my, you know, cognitive, that I'm just holding on to.
And in our, in our previous interview, I talked about cognitive dissonance.
It's, you, you, you've been taught one thing, but you, you accept the reality of something else.
They are in reconcilable, your reconcilable.
And so you either have to pick one, or you just try to wrestle with them and make them.
And I, I was just wrestling with them and accepting them both.
I go to Pepperdine, I get into archaeology, I get into languages, and I never look back.
I'm going to, I'm going to try to be a professor.
I'm going to try to study this.
I don't want to be a preacher.
I don't want to go, I don't want to work for a church.
Lord help me if I, if I work for a church, uh, because I see what they do to people.
Right.
Uh, but I also start looking at the social issues around me.
And I realized that there are a lot of social positions that the churches of Christ have
traditionally advocated for suppression of women, especially in leadership,
but even in ministry roles, um, anti-LGBT, they didn't even call it that.
They just say anti-gay.
There were just a lot of issues that I recognize that I didn't really want to support
or didn't support, but I was told this was, this is where we are.
This is where the Bible, what the Bible teaches.
And I just kept saying, actually, I have a question about that.
By the way, I also have questions about why this first doesn't match this first and why
this, this doesn't matter.
They, they keep saying they're quoting this prophecy, but I can't find this.
So I was having text critical questions.
This is in, you know, my, in my seminary.
And this is a Kennedy program.
This is a Christian institution.
You had to sign a faith waiver, correct?
No, no, no.
He didn't.
Not this one.
Pepperdine doesn't require a statement of faith, not for their professors
and not for their students.
And that sets it apart from a lot of other colleges where you have to do this.
Pepperdine requires you to be in, uh, for the faculty, uh, for the, in religion,
only in religion, not in the other disciplines.
Uh, but for people who teach religion, you have to be an active member of the churches of Christ.
And so most, that's how they, that's how they get around it.
So I was in as an active member of the churches of Christ, but as I started asking
questions and moving and, you know, started moving more, I became more of a progressive
Christian, uh, which there were progressive Christians at Pepperdine when I was there,
but they kept very quiet because the administration still held to this conservative stuff.
Um, as I was starting to ask you questions, I, people began to kind of, you can't do it.
And I, but I was learning the languages.
I was learning the, the, the ways to basically argue back.
Okay.
Well, you want to say that, but what about this?
I was actually being equipped, uh, by them to have these debates.
If, if I may, I want to, I want to probe here because this, sometimes we remember things
if someone asks us, that's my whole goal.
We're going through your brain, right?
Trying to find this.
Were there any scholars at this point, um, like I had certain conservative academics
and apologists and things that I liked as I was going through college and I was into this stuff.
Were there any scholars you can remember or works that you came across that kind of geared you for
Hey, but this academic saying this, or can you remember anything, any of those kind of questions,
maybe professors who you ask questions and they're like, those aren't good questions.
Don't ask those questions.
Kind of, kind of hinting.
Yeah.
And I also had professors that were excellent professors who knew what I was, where I was headed
and where I was going, didn't necessarily agree with me.
Didn't necessarily, but they, they were good professors.
They were, they were critical professors.
They, they, they were trained at good universities and they were good professors and I'll name them.
Right.
It's, I already mentioned John Wilson, who was an excellent professor, an excellent mentor for me.
Randy Chestnut at Duke, who had his PhD from Duke University was just an excellent mentor.
He, he would, he, I would ask him questions and he would often say, why don't you read this article?
So, you know, this was a, a confessional guy.
This was a good Christian man, faithful Christian man teaching at Pepperdine.
And yet he was a critical scholar.
And I've said this publicly on, on YouTube before.
It is absolutely possible to be a confessional Christian man and a critical scholar to do good,
credible scholarship.
You can do that.
Now, it is also possible to try to be an apologist and to, to just put forward ridiculous arguments
and be a poor scholar.
But I, I had the luxury of having good, well-trained critical scholars.
I had Randy Chestnut from Duke.
He was trained at Duke, right?
He was a great scholar.
I had Tim Willis, who went to Harvard, right?
Who taught me Hebrew.
He taught me Hebrew and was just an excellent scholar.
I had Rick Mars, who went to Johns Hopkins, who was just an excellent scholar.
I mean, these guys taught me.
I had Fran Carver.
Fran Carver was one of my professors while she was at Pepperdine.
I had Royce Clark, who was, who was a Hawkeye, right?
What I didn't know.
I had one of the most influential professors that I had was Richard Hughes,
which is one of the most prominent historians of American religions at the time.
There were, there were many, many others.
One of the most valuable courses that I took was from Tom Albright,
of Blessed Memory, who just passed.
I just had, I had these wonderful, wonderful courses from these, from these people
who knew that I was already probing and challenging these things.
And they were confessional people.
And so they would say, they wouldn't get in a fight with me.
They would say, why don't you read this article?
Why don't you read this here?
Why don't they would, they would push me towards the right things.
And I was able to complete that degree at, I didn't drop the degree.
I didn't, as I would, I finished my master divinity.
I will admit that I saved all my theology classes for the very end.
I didn't want to, I didn't want to do theology because I, I knew what I was going to get into.
I wanted to do all the toolbox stuff.
I wanted to do the languages.
I wanted to do history.
I wanted to do archaeology, right?
I wanted to do all the, the New Testament text criticism, Old Testament text criticism.
And so I was able to finish this degree without getting into too much trouble at Pepperdine.
And keep in mind, I was still attending the, the Church of Christ, Earth University.
I was still participating.
I was still taking communion.
I was still a Christian.
I graduate from Pepperdine with my MDiv.
I come back and I apply to UCLA and I'm admitted there
to do a PhD in Near Eastern languages and cultures under Bill Schneedewan.
And why, why would you want to do that?
Because I'm obsessed with, I went to try to work in a dot com and try to work in the,
in the dot com, make some, make some money.
And, you know, right, but I am obsessed with archaeology and obsessed with
language.
I want to study the Bible.
It's where my heart is.
And, you know, they have this story about the guy who wants
to become a rabbi and he goes to the rabbi's office.
I want to become a rabbi.
And the rabbi says, no, no, you don't get out of here.
You don't want to be a rabbi.
And the kid leaves and he comes back and he says, but I want to become a rabbi.
No, you don't.
Everybody thinks they're the boss of you.
You don't make any money, kicks them out.
And he comes back the third time and he goes, okay, I've driven you away twice.
You know all the problems.
Only now do you understand that, you know, what's, what's at stake.
Now you can be a rabbi because you know how horrible it's going to be to be a rabbi.
And you still want to do it.
Okay, I'll train you to be the rabbi.
That's, that's how I was.
I still wanted to do this, even though that I knew there's no money in it.
You know, there's, it's, you know, it's, it's archaeology.
It's dirty.
It's, but for me, this was a passion and I love teaching.
My sister's a teacher.
My mom's a teacher.
And so I went to UCLA and I started studying, you know, the origins of religions.
And I'm studying language in an intense level.
Bill Schneiderwin is, is just one of the greatest human beings on the face of the earth.
He's a kind man.
He's an excellent scholar.
His students get placed all over the world.
You know, he's just, he's just one of the best scholars in the country.
But he's a, he's a genuine man and he let me develop into the person that I needed to become.
Right.
And he was just a good friend and he said, I could only wish that every scholar,
every graduate student could have an advisor like Bill Schneiderwin.
Because he, he, he, like a coach, he understands what every person needs and says,
okay, how can I develop you to, and he understood that I was different,
that I was a late bloomer, that I was a baseball player, that I was a,
and that I, that I was coming at this from an approach like,
I'm going to do this a little differently, that I had these public skills.
And he said, all right, let's craft something for you.
But in that process, especially early on at UCLA,
I was on my way out of Christianity.
And this is where the rubber hits the road.
Yeah.
I want to talk about the rubber.
Yeah.
He knew that I was basically at a point where I wasn't going to declare it publicly,
but I was having not just serious doubts,
but I was basically an agnostic.
I, I was, I was a, I was still attending church.
I was still going, I had actually quit my job.
I was still going, I'm still working at Pepperdine and teaching adjunct at Pepperdine,
but it had gotten to the point where I was still teaching these things at this confessional school.
But I, I was now finding myself trying to teach things at a place where I,
where, let's put it this way.
I was going to church there and I was teaching there,
but I couldn't take the, the, when we take communion, right?
I couldn't take the sacraments in good faith.
And I feel that that's what it should be about good faith.
And since I couldn't take it in good faith, I decided to leave.
Basically, I was looking for a way.
I mean, I needed to make the break out of Pepperdine and to just move and work and do everything at UCLA.
I needed to make a break.
And so I did.
I left Pepperdine.
I left my job.
I left teaching there and I moved over and started teaching at UCLA as an adjunct and as a grad student.
So you, you just, I want to look at that.
I want to look at the kind of tire that's hitting the road here.
When you're talking about the rubber, that's a big, that's a big change.
That's a big move.
If, if you can remember, and our memory sometimes doesn't serve as well,
what were some of the things?
Because usually it's not one thing.
It's several things.
If you can recall that time in history, what were some of the things you personally couldn't
reconcile anymore and cognitive dissonance didn't work anymore?
Where you, you realized if this is the case, then I just can't put my confidence in thinking
that this is true anymore.
Therefore, I'm, I'm going the secular path.
I'm sure.
There were all of the, the standard things, right?
The Genesis one versus Genesis two, six day creation versus, you know, the fact of science,
you know, the fact of evolution.
There were, you know, the two flood stories that don't, there were all of the gospel accounts
that don't quite line up and then there's John, you know, whatever John's, you know, doing.
There were all of the text critical things that I had learned.
There was the origin of religion that I had been studying at UCLA now.
And it was just beginning to snowball.
And it, it came to a point where,
If I may on the origins of religion, is that comparing?
Is that seeing where Yawism comes from?
Is that seeing kind of ancient Near Eastern deities,
kind of a comparative mythology type of thing?
Or let's put it this way.
I had become comfortable in talking about the origins of Judaism,
the origins of the deity, the origins of the religion, being critical of that and being
critical of Egyptian religions and Mediterranean religions, Mesopotamian religions.
But for some reason, and this is true for many scholars in this situation,
we didn't want to do the same thing to Jesus and to Christianity.
I think it's why you see so many scholars who are confessional,
going into Egyptology or Assyriology or everything but New Testament scholarship.
Because they can do this, they can try to reconcile that cognitive dissonance,
as long as they don't have to go into a classroom and teach about the critical issues about Jesus.
They can, they'll do it with Judaism, fine.
They'll do it with Egyptian religion, fine, right?
And this is another issue, right?
And it's where I, I was never a student of Bart Ehrman,
but it's why I, I really appreciated what Bart Ehrman was always doing,
because he was just talking those same critic, text critical issues,
but he was doing it about Jesus.
And I discovered him and I was like, oh God, where, where has this guy been, right?
And I just became a fan of Dr. Ehrman's.
And there were many other people doing it, but he was the one that I kind of latched on to and said,
and when I watched him be attacked online, I was blogging by this time and I would just stand up for him.
And I just, I, I, these were people that I wanted to stand up for now.
My father was six six, is six six, and he was in law enforcement.
And he always taught me, you know, do your evidence, you know, figure out what it is.
But when you make a decision, stand up for yourself.
And so, you know, my father taught me to be very self-reliant.
He was a, my father's basically Jeremiah Johnson, right?
And I don't know if you know this movie, but he, you know, he's, he, he hunts, he fishes, he,
he knows his horses, he, and he taught me, he passed this on to me, and I'm very grateful for this.
Doesn't like to be around other people too much, but, but he, but he,
but he taught me, you stand up for, you stand up for yourself and you stand up for other people.
If other people are being oppressed, you stand in between them and the oppressor.
And so that, you know, he wouldn't call that social justice,
but he would, he understands you have to stick up for people who can't stick up for themselves.
My mother taught me this as well. You, you show a tender heart to people when they're in need.
And so all of this is coming together.
And I'm learning about, you know, the, the, the, you know, I'm doing it late.
Let's, let's just be very, I'm doing this in grad school, early in grad school.
But I'm also, it's happening. It's at least happening.
And at the same time, I'm, I'm having to wrestle with, you know, California's prop eight. Now,
I'm not gay. I'm a, I'm a, I'm a very white privilege, straight, white male, able-bodied,
six, one, you know, big, strong guy with a bunch of kids, not, I didn't have a bunch of kids at the
time. I just had one at the time, but, but I realized that if I just remain silent on this
prop eight thing, even though I'm not gay, I, I'm basically just, I'm basically just letting
other people bear the brunt of this thing. Wouldn't it be nice if straight white males
actually stood with these guys and marched with them. And so I, I made a decision in 2000,
whatever that was, 2008, 2007, to write a piece called, it's okay for Christians to vote no on
prop eight. Basically, it's okay to legalize same sex marriage in, you know, even, even if you're
a Christian, even if you don't believe in it, even if you don't think it's okay, it's okay to, to,
to vote for this, to allow this. And I remember being advised, you know, if you, if you publish
this online, you're going to lose about 70% of your job opportunities. Because when you do biblical
studies, when you're trained with a PhD in biblical studies, most of your job opportunities are going
to be at private Christian schools. That's just the way that the landscape is in this country.
Most of your, most of my job opportunities are, but I said this, this needs to be said,
and it needs to be said to the audience that I'm from. So I wrote it in such a way that it addresses
the people that I, you know, my people, the people that I grew up with. And basically,
all the places that I could have adjuncted, these private crit stopped calling. I knew that I was
never going to teach there. But then again, I was at a point in my life that I didn't want to teach
at those places where you had to sign a confessional statement of faith. I wasn't ever going to teach.
I was never going to be happy there. I didn't believe those things anymore. So by 2007, 2008,
I knew I wasn't going to be going back to a place like Pepperdine, to a, you know, to these places,
I won't name any others, but that I, that I wasn't ever going to teach there,
that if I was going to be a professor, it was going to be at a state university. And by the way,
my entire education, with the exception of Pepperdine was state, I was public elementary
school, public junior high, public high schools. UCLA was a public university. I was going to
teach you to put, and this is why I always say, thank heaven for the University of Iowa.
University of Iowa saw what I did, saw the, the movements that I had made, the, the things that
I had been published subsequently, the research that I had done, and the stances that I took
publicly. And they said, that's the kind of person that we want teaching here and representing us,
somebody who is going to stand up for everyone, regardless of their faith position.
And that's, that's what they were looking for. Someone who, even if they're not in a particular
group, is going to stand up for everyone. And we can talk more about how I teach or what I,
but that was it. That was, when I was at UCLA about 2007, 2006, I decided, I need to just admit
where I've grown. And it wasn't out of trauma. And it wasn't out of, I wasn't angry. I had just had,
I had been afforded the luxury of having the time to learn my way
out of this conservative religion. And I, that was the first time that I referred to it.
Or can we, can we refer to it as conservative identity?
Yeah, I was much more than, it was the first time that I went into a classroom and said, I'm an agnostic.
Wow. So you're agnostic. You, you've, you've said goodbye through studying, not because,
you know, you were treated bad by Bobby over here or you were treated, you know, a certain way.
And you found that a critical approach made the most sense of the data. Now you, you stand up for
people who aren't you, but that you empathize and understand, Hey, the world doesn't, doesn't look
like me. It's not all about me. You start to go outside of those boundaries you were raised and
taught. I'm sure some of these things go beyond your parents'
upraising of what you were to do or what you're supposed to do. You're becoming your own man.
I'll put it that way. Yeah. And, and now you're going to Iowa or Iowa sees you and then you get
hired there. This might be jumping ahead a little, but you're now agnostic. You're following kind of,
I would say a secular approach to, with historical critical methods, which means you kind of approach
this with a naturalistic methodology. It doesn't presuppose miracles exist, but it doesn't necessarily
mean that there weren't. You've now seen the bigger world, though, so you know what you're
dealing with. You get in Iowa and how'd you end up on National Geographic History Channel?
How the heck did you end up on TV? I mean, there's a lot here in your life. I'm sure we won't ever
touch, but maybe some of these highlights we can discuss. Yeah, that's, that is a different story.
Okay. It was parallel, parallel thing. So I always say I've lived a bunch of lives
and they, they run, it's just, it's a, it's another story. Let me, let me, and I'll tell it,
I'll tell it, but let me say this. While I was at Pepperdine, I met some other people. I had a
professor that I have not yet mentioned named Stuart Love and his wife, Diesta Love, who was the
chaplain. Now, churches of Christ don't typically have chaplains, but she was the first one. And
Diesta and Stuart were not, they were not your typical right wing. They weren't, they weren't
right wing. They weren't conservatives, right? But they, they didn't say that. They, I didn't know
that. But they meant so much to me because they didn't always lead with theology and policy and
dogma and they led with their hearts. And Stuart Love, you know, blessed memory who recently passed
and Diesta always welcomed us into their home, always welcomed the students in. They, they
showed empathy, they showed love. They always wanted to demonstrate. They, they, they walked the talk
and they didn't really care where we came down on policy. I mean, they did, but that wasn't the
thing that, that led Stuart and Diesta were about, you show love, you show empathy, you care for
people, you give that cup of cold water. And I looked back, I began looking back to my upbringing
and identifying people in that small church that I was raised in who were like that.
I, I began to recognize, oh, there were people like that around me. That were those cup of cold
water people. They weren't dogmatic. They weren't mean. They weren't, it wasn't all about you.
These were kind, gentle people, right? Who were, who were just trying to show love and show empathy.
And I was always, it was always the people who were the loudest and the most dogmatic and the
most apologetic who dominated every conversation. But in the back, there were always those people
who were kind, who, who were giving, who just cared about making sure that the people around them
were loved and cared for and felt. And I said, what a great example to show, to be, and I started
to pattern myself after, you know, Rick and June England back, back in my, in my local church,
you know, people like this, Don Larson, who was one of my junior college professors,
you know, Stuart and Diaz to love at Pepperdine. I wanted to start to, if I became a professor,
I wanted to be like Bill Schneedewan. I wanted to model myself after these people who cared about
people. As an agnostic, correct? As an agnostic. And I, and I wanted to, and I wanted to do this.
And I realized that once I let go, once I, once, and I knew that once I started saying this out loud
and this truly, and this happened, this is one of the things, a lot of my friends that I grew up
with stopped talking to me. Oh, you're not a Christian anymore. Or, you know, you don't,
you don't believe, they just stopped talking or they just faded away. A lot of them didn't tell
me off and have an argument. They just stopped calling. They stopped Facebooking, right? They
just, my parents and I don't talk about religion so much anymore, but my parents love me. I love
them. We respect each other. They understand what's happening. And we talk about the Red Sox,
right? We'll talk about something else. It's, there's a mutual love and respect for each other.
They have progressed as individuals. I have progressed as an individual. I love them. They
love me. And what I realized is that once I let go, you know, people say you find out who your
real friends are. It, it is true. It's just terrifying. And I understand for, for people
watching this, it's terrifying, but it is also liberating. Oh my gosh, say it again. Amen.
There are some people that I'm like, I don't want to lose that friend. But then I think to myself,
the only reason that I'm friends with that person is we were friends when we were young.
We don't have anything in common, not politically, not religiously, not, we don't, we don't have
anything in common. The only reason I'm friends with that person is we were friends when we were
very young. And so I had a, I had a friend once tell me it's probably better to preserve
our friendship if we just don't see each other on a regular basis. And I was mad about that at
first. And I was like, no, that's probably right. And I, and I just had to learn to let go. And once
I let go of, of this conservative fundamentalist upbringing of religion, I realized that I was
a kinder person. I was just about to stress there was less anxiety, there was less fear.
I wasn't always telling people what they needed to do. There was, there was less of this, right?
And I was just, how can I help you? What do you need? How can I be an encouragement to you?
How can I be a team player? How can I, now I was still a leader. I'm still, I still have this
skill set where I'm, I'm an educator and I'm a leader and I'm an entrepreneur and I, I, I still,
I still have this skill set. But it's, it's how can I build something greater than myself? And
how can I help those around me? How can I, it's a, I'm a father. Let's just, it's not just because
I have five kids. I transitioned into this role of it's got to be bigger than me. How can I help
you be a better person? And that's what I do with my students. And instead of telling my students
what to believe, I walk into every single class. And I don't know if you have any of my students
watching this now, but I start every class with, I will never, I'd make a promise to them. I will
never, ever tell you what to believe, ever. I will give you facts and data and you get to decide
for yourself what to believe. I will never try to convert you or de-convert you. I'm going to give
you facts and then you get to decide what you want to do with them. But if you ever need to talk to
somebody about anything, please know that I've been there. I've probably been there and you can
come talk to them. I'm a big advocate for mental health. I'm a big, I've been through that anguish.
Yeah. I've been through that. And so come talk to me. Is it fair, is it fair to say that
there was a bit of judgmental mentality that comes along with that ideology, that worldview,
that you're so much more accepting of everyone, anyone, color, creed, race, gender, doesn't matter
at all. There is a freedom that has come. It's like you're born again, honestly, in a different
way. You know, Derek, that's a good way to put it. By just letting go of, you know, and first I
will let go, I went from being a conservative, fundamentalist Christian, dogmatic, you know,
apologist to becoming a progressive Christian. I read my share of, you know, Blue Light Jazz and
Max Locato and I became this progressive guy. And then I realized that's also not sustainable
to me, because I was, now you're fighting battles on both sides. And so while I'm a,
while I'm a, you know, a left-leaning political, I'm a bull moose, by the way, if you're, if people
wondering, where is this guy politically now? I'm a bull moose, a bull moose progressive. It's a party
that existed under Teddy Roosevelt, but that's kind of where I am politically since I don't,
I'm an independent, but a left-leaning one. But I realized that by letting go of all of this stuff,
you actually become less judgmental. I don't have to always try to enforce, you know,
here's what you need to believe and here's what you need to, I'm not trying to defend policies
I don't believe in anymore. If you're gay, great, good, let me, I love you and I support you and
I want you to be the best version of yourself. I, I really do. And by the way, that was shining
through when I was still at Pepperdine. I had gay students at Pepperdine coming into my office,
because they knew that my office was a sanctuary. They knew that I wasn't going to condemn them.
They, they just knew that. And it was, it was one of the things that I, that I could do
there to just kind of, they just knew that even though the official policy there was,
you can't do this. I don't know what it is now. They knew that they could come talk to me about
it and I wouldn't judge them. And when that became kind of my official stance on things,
I, I want people to be the best versions of themselves. And I just, I couldn't do that
when my faith tradition was, you, you can't allow that because this ancient text says you
can't do that. I want to ask you, you became agnostic at UCLA, then you're at Iowa. Iowa
sounds like an amazing college, by the way. I, I am so glad that you're happy. And especially
when I was interviewing you and you were like, was it Go Hawks? What's their, what's their Go Hawks?
Yeah. Go Hawks. You're like, Go Hawks. I mean, like I can tell you got pride for Iowa. Um,
you, you, you titled yourself agnostic. You kind of want to go out public about it, but then you
did go public about that. Um, where do you put yourself today in terms of pigeonholing yourself,
which really at the end of the day, I have a little philosophy and it's kind of like, we don't
ultimately know, right? We don't have any ultimates, but we're doing the best we can with the data.
Um, and I think there's a freedom in not knowing. It's almost like the Socrates wasn't a Socrates
who says how little he knows and he's the guy who like knows so much at least. Um,
there's a freedom in not having all the answers right and learning to be okay with that. But
where do you put yourself now? Are you still agnostic? Yeah. Yeah. So I understand that there
are people who say that agnostic agnosticism is the is the weak way out, the cheap way out of
atheism. And I hear all that in the same way that I'm a political, I mean, I'm a moderate. I'm not,
I don't like the far right as much as I don't like the far, far left, right? It's right. I'm,
I'm, you know, 60, 70% of this country is in the middle. And yeah, I'm more of a progressive,
moderate, but I, I believe that if we talk to each other, if we talk to each other,
that's the only way we're going to move forward as a society,
whether that's about religion or politics or economics or whatever it is, we have to be able
to sit down and talk to each other respectfully. You can't, you can't condemn people for what they
want to say. It is, I don't like cancel culture. Now, I don't like idiots, right? I don't like
people who just, there are some things that just need to be done away with. But for most people,
we need to be able to listen to one another and be able to work things out, be able to,
you know, we used to be able to do that in Congress. We need to be able to do that in
religion. We need to be able to do that in a classroom. Classrooms should be these spaces
where you can talk about anything. And that's what I try to do in a classroom is, I call it a sandbox.
The students should be able to ask questions and discuss things without being punished or penalized
in a classroom for raising, even raising the issue. So what I do a lot is I say, let me,
let me ask the question for you so that none of you get in trouble for asking and I'll ask the
question and then I'll rate and then I'll answer it. And a lot of times I'll say, by the way,
I was always afraid to ask this question, but let me, let me bring it up and you'll be surprised at
how effective that is because then they'll come in, they'll send me an email or they'll come into
my office and they'll say, that's, that's, I'm terrified of asking my parents that question or
asking my pastor that question. Most of the students who take my class are Christian kids
who are asking these same questions. And what I just finally decided one day, it's one of the
reasons I've decided to do this interview with you, is I wanted to give them an example of a
professor who was willing to say, look, I've been there. I lived this. You are my people, right?
These are, I was, these are my people, right? I have had these feelings. I was raised in a similar
way and there is a way through. You don't get out of it. It's not like a prison that there is a way
through and there's a way through without being angry or without being afraid or without telling
people off. The way through is to be kind and to ask questions and to seek answers from people who
are willing to talk to you about it. And I wanted to be one of those professors like Don Larson
before me, who was willing to say, let's chat. I'm happy to. I won't get mad at you. What do you
want to know? And I'll talk to you about it and I'll answer the question and I'll do so with as
much honesty and sincerity as I can. And if I don't know the answer, I'll tell you I don't know the
answer. But I don't mind sharing my own personal life with them. A lot of people aren't comfortable
doing this and that's fine. A lot of people just aren't as open as I am. But I'm happy to share
this stuff because I've experienced it and I want to give people, I don't know, hope.
There is a way through and if you are wrestling, if you are struggling with the way that you were
raised or with what you believe and yet you have questions, there was a way through. There was a way
to, it gets better. I don't want to steal anything from any other movement, but it does get better.
There is a way to say, I don't believe this anymore and I know it's going to cause me problems
with my family and it's going to cause me problems with some of my friends and I might lose my job
and I might, but there is a liberation on the other side and there are a community of people.
Some people you don't even realize who are in your community, they're just afraid to talk about it
too. They will come and they will talk to you and they will help you.
So I'll tell you this, I love everything you've said. Just before I pivot to the thing that you
were just saying there, I just want to point out your philosophy as an agnostic is similar to the
tribalism we see within politics or the tribalism we see within us first, them, atheists first,
theists type mentalities. Even if you might on a certain day go, I don't think there probably
is a God. I don't know. I can't be certain that there isn't something, all that kind of stuff.
On the note that you just said, I think it's very sad that we're in that kind of situation
where our children or our loved ones, our spouse, our friends, our partners or whatever,
have to suffer. The reason I've been having these conversations, not only with lay people
that aren't experts in the field, but also with the top upper echelon of academics such as yourself
in the field, is to show we need to normalize this. If you want to have faith, go for it.
And I'm not out here telling you you can't. I don't want to do that. But in society,
I don't see it systematic where if someone becomes a believer, they're now being condemned,
ostracized and whatnot. Now, I'm not saying that wasn't the case in Russia.
Atheist Russia was like that. They would have condemned you for believing. We need to prevent
that condemnation, that kind of dogmatism from ever arising. And I think we're doing justice
one piece at a time by having someone like you come into a platform like this publicly speaking
out and saying, I love everyone, even the ones who couldn't love me anymore because I made this
choice. I loved them. And I still do to this day. But we need to normalize this and not make it
systematic where if you don't believe you are the black sheep of society, this is where we have
higher mental health issues. There are people who are in LGBTQ communities that are committing
suicide. And they want to just say, oh, they're just mentally ill from the beginning. That's the
kind of systematic nonsense that goes out there rather than the social ostracizing of these people
is causing this. So we need to make it normal. We need more groups and communities that are
speaking out that are making this normal. And that's kind of what my goal is. I think we have
the same shared ethic on this and our same goal at the end of the day. Yeah, my goal is not to
make everybody an agnostic. Most of my colleagues, to be sure, are still confessional Christians,
Jews, Muslims that are academics, that are critical scholars, that are teaching in some
of the best universities around the country. But what you don't hear from them, they don't
lead with it, is their religious side. You don't know if they go to church or if they go to
synagogue or it's just their scholars. I interface with them on a scholarly side,
and so you read their publications, you hear about them presenting at conferences.
If you get to know them very personally, you might know that they go to church, but it never
comes up on a research side because they're never taking off their academic hat and putting on their
theologian hat. That's not, it doesn't matter, right? So it is absolutely possible to be a
confessional scholar and to be an excellent critical scholar. It's absolutely possible.
But for me, looking at the origins of religions, looking at the text of the Bible, I could no
longer, I could no longer, I no longer wanted to reconcile this. I no longer believed that that
was the case. And so I let it go and I became an agnostic. Now, do I believe, do I believe that
there's a deity out there? I never say no, there might be. There might be. And that's why I don't
say I'm an atheist. There might be something else. I don't know. So maybe there is. Probably not.
I think that when we die, we die. And that's the end of us, which makes sacrifice, which makes this
life so much more important, so much more valuable. I think we live on through our legacy and through
our children and through what we leave behind, which is why it's important to live a righteous life,
which is why it's important to do good for others, to have a good family. I think there's
what we would call theology. I think there's a philosophical rationale for living a good life.
This whole notion of how could you be ethical if there's no... That's nonsense. Of course,
there's rationale for living an ethical life if there's no God or if there's... People do it every
day, right? I mean, look at Buddhists. I mean, they're literally philosophical atheists and often,
not all, but yeah, look at how moral... People from different philosophies are doing very good
things on a daily basis and it is. I agree. It's important to live a righteous life. It's
important to do good for others if for no other reason, just a purely utilitarian reason, so
that they're good to you. Call that karma, whatever you want. It's just you want to live a good life
so that your kids have the best possible shot at a good life so that people don't speak ill of you
when you're gone. And if they're speaking ill of you now and they're going to speak ill of you
because you left a faith, that's not the people you care about anyway, right? It's...
Bob, I think that any student who ever took your class is privileged and it's got to be a great
honor to have been taught by you and to learn from you. I'm really honored that you came and
gave your story here today. There's so much more. I'd love to dive into you and we need to cover your
books in the future episodes. We do have some Q&A super chats if that's okay. We'll get to those
but I just want to say get his books. We're going to check and see how many people subscribe to you
here shortly after Q&A. I hope that we've at least gained you 100 or 200 subscribers,
so please, I pinned his YouTube channel in the chat. It's at the top. It's also in the description
of the video. Go subscribe now because we will refresh that at the end. Bob, I can't tell you
how much I relate to you. There's so much. There's so much there and love your story. Really do.
Hope that more people will listen to this. Kamesh? Kamesh? Forgive me? Thank you for
becoming a member of MythVision's YouTube channel. You have access to several videos.
I mean, I've got so many up there. You can go watch them now for helping and supporting
that are early access for anybody who's a member. Imnag with the super sticker man. Good to see
you here, Imnag. David Aaron Hill, thank you for that massive super chat. I really appreciate the
support. If not himself, who is Dr. Cargill's best guess for the scholars behind the now defunct
N.T. Wrong blog?
This is a boy. The short answer is I don't know. This goes back to my blogging years.
I was never able to determine who N.T. Wrong was. Of course, this is a spoof on N.T. Right
and it was a joke account about N.T. Right. I was always more interested in trying to figure out
who the Twitter account of Kim Kierkegaard Aschian was. This was one of my favorite Twitter
accounts. It was half of a quote from Kierkegaard and half of a quote from Kim Kardashian and to
put it together to make it sound like philosophy. But the answer to the question is I was never
able to figure out who N.T. Wrong was. And if you think I'm just saying that because I know
what I'm trying to keep, I don't. I just never figured it out. Best guess.
It would be, it's not one of my close, some of them know that I have a close little group of
people that I blog with. It's not one of them. Okay. Thank you, David Aaron. Thank you for
that massive super chat. Really appreciate the support of the channel. ImNagAgainz has just
subscribed. Thank you. Looking forward to all the lectures. Bob, you've got quite a few videos
on your YouTube channel, so I hope people will go over. We're going to refresh that here shortly.
Right now it says 2.51K. Let's see what happens when we refresh it here. Chris White in the
house says, Hey, Bobby, that's the name that you were called when you were younger. I went to YBC
with you every year. Great to see you and hear your full story. Yeah. Chris, now YBC is Yosemite
Bible Camp. For those of you not familiar, this is up the road going up to God. It's highway 41
going up and then off into the Bass Lake region. So for those of you from Central Valley,
this is a beautiful, beautiful camp that was basically maintained by many of the
churches of Christ in the Central Valley, but especially many of those with the church that
I grew up in. It's a beautiful camp. It's got a rich history. It's a wonderful place. I had many,
many good memories there. And yeah, I just made lots of friends. And again, when you see Bobby,
you know that these are people that I grew up with. Thanks for saying hi. I appreciate it.
Thank you. Imnaq says, Dr. Cargill, in your opinion, do you think the real danger of indoctrination
of children comes from the evangelical church itself, believing in fantasy?
Yeah. When we start talking about systems and organized religion and obviously,
there are, you know, this is, and you've got multiple religions as well. I need you to keep
in mind that I married a youth minister. So my wife, Roslyn, was a youth minister. She was
a youth minister at Pepperdine. It's one of the reasons I kept going to Pepperdine after I had
left because I was really into this woman whom I love. And we have, you know, all these children
together. Roslyn and I have decided not to, my kids know that I teach ancient religions.
They know some of the characters from the Bible. They also know the Greek gods and they know the
Mesopotamian deities and, but we have chosen to wait until they are older and then they can,
you know, learn about this from themselves. I'm a believer in when a child's brain is still
developing and they can believe just whatever they see on YouTube or whatever they see on TV,
that that's a very malleable of impressionable brain. And if you're telling them things that
it's just going to terrify them, that's not necessarily, in my opinion, the healthiest thing
to do for a young child's brain. So we've elected not to raise them in this tradition.
Now, granted, we're agnostics and so we're not going to do that anyway, but
I think it does have, there's a reason that youth ministry is always trying to educate children
while they're very young and bring them up in the faith because if you can get them while they're
young, right, it's just like any marketing tech, get them while they're young and then they're easier.
You don't have to worry about trying to, the conversion ratio is much easier when they're
young and when they're in high school, you follow these campus ministry things where flirt and convert
is a very effective, if you can get some of the girls to flirt with the guys and get some of the
guys to, right, that's an effective technique. What's much harder is knocking on the door and
saying, let me give time to talk about Jesus. That's very ineffective. So there is this strategy
that's very well known. People don't like to talk about it, but if you can raise them in this tradition,
then they're more likely to, it becomes part of their identity, maybe it becomes part of their
social network, maybe their business network, and they're more likely to stick around to it
and it makes it more difficult to leave it as I've talked about in this interview.
Thank you so much. Imnag again. Thank you for all the support today. This may be a bit off topic,
but since you teach archaeology, do you have any thoughts on Graham Hancock's claims? If true,
it will put the final nails in the coffin of young earth creationism.
Graham Hancock. Geez. You were on ancient aliens episodes. Of course, that's a skeptic.
I'm the debunker on ancient aliens. Graham Hancock, I think, wanted to do his own little
version of it. It got picked up on, I don't want to say all of the inside stuff on it.
I don't buy a single thing that he says. Let's just leave it at that. It's bogus. I don't buy
a single thing that he says, nor do any other credible scholars, and we'll just leave it at that.
No, no, no, no, no. Thank you for that. Jay Z says, and thank you Jay Z for the super chat.
Any chance we could get Dr. Cargill and Dr. Tabor on together to talk Church of Christ
restoration movement stuff? I know Dr. Tabor came out of that tradition as well. Thanks to you both.
I like James Tabor. And we have talked about this topic. I think he went to Abilene Christian.
He comes out of the same tradition that we've had this conversation.
Yeah, his experience is a little different than mine, but also has many similarities.
I just saw, I've been out of town, I just saw that I got an email from him. I think in response to
the interview that we recently did, I need to write him back. He emailed me too. I like Dr. Tabor.
Now, when it comes, his research on resurrection is, he's a guy that you need to,
he knows his stuff. He knows his stuff when it comes to resurrection.
Yeah, I think that would be an interesting conversation. There are, by the way, there are
several scholars that are in the Church of Christ tradition who are no longer in the Church of
Christ tradition. There are also many scholars who are still there. That would be a fun,
fun chat to have. I don't know if they necessarily want to have them with me,
but yeah, I think that would be a fun get to have to sit down and talk with Dr. Tabor because
I like him. I love James. Yeah, he's a great human being and he spoke highly of you. He messaged me
the other day and says, hey, I know him quite well. He's a good guy. Yeah. Thank you so much, Jay-Z.
And then ZZ Lyon Dad says, moderates right wing are right wing, sorry, moderates are right wing,
conservatism don't want change. No such things as cancel culture. When was Russia atheist?
Please check facts on that respect. Yeah, I don't know if moderates are right wing.
I said I came from a right wing tradition and I would say now I'm a progressive but not
on the far left. I'm a very practical progressive. Conservative doesn't want change. I would agree
with that. I lost the rest of it there. Sorry, sorry. I don't know what no such thing as cancel
culture means. When was Russia atheist? The official policy was that doesn't mean that
everybody gave up their faith, but the official policy was. They were indoctrinating children
actually. Yeah, and when they were Soviets, not Russian, maybe when they were Soviet. That's what
I mean. And they just weren't allowed to do this. But the Greek Orthodox, I mean the Russian
Orthodox Church was always there, but they were certainly the official policy was different.
I'm not sure what to do with that one. Yeah, I don't either, but I do appreciate the love and
support. They said respect and threw Super Chat at us. So Bob, we're at the end, right? We've
gotten our Super Chats. I got the Q&A out of the way. You've told us some of your story. I would hope
if you're down to talk to the wonderful queen and see if she's interested in sharing some of hers.
I know that this is like really your life, right? Yeah. But you and her, I'd love to hear just the
love story about how you stuck around Jesus just to probably be around her. I will tell you this.
When we first started dating, she kept saying, you're a Christian, right? She knew that I was
going through this. And I honestly was still when we first, I was still like, yeah, but I'm asking a
lot of questions. And what she didn't really tell me at the time was she was too. But she was
employed by the church, but she was asking a lot. And about, I don't know how long it was, a few
months after we got married, she quit. And so I was like, I see what you're doing there. And so,
yeah, she, you know, my wife is fun to talk to. Did you hear that? No, what she can hear?
She's calling me a liar here.
Does she want to come and say wave or is she not?
She is my person. This is what we call each other. Rosalind is my person. I keep,
and that's just the way I was raised. It's what you have to do in scholarship.
I keep a shield up. And I intentionally don't have a lot of people that I'm close to.
I do that on purpose. It's a defense mechanism. I'm friendly with everybody. But nobody gets to
accept her. She knows, she knows me well. I love her to death. She's my person. And
I'm so glad that I met her.
I'd love to, and if it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen, but it'd be really cool to just hear
from her perspective. She's a riot. She's a lot of fun. People who know her, she's a blast.
Well, I did get a couple more little pop-ups here. ZZLine says, hey, politics was my first
super chat respect. Hey, thanks, ZZ. I really appreciate it. Now, this, I will, I love politics
because I don't have to do it for a living. But I, with much respect, I agree here because
I hate the political system as it is now, which is why I'm a bull moose, right? I just,
I want nothing to do with either party at this point. I see what you mean. Thank you, ZZ. David
Aaron Hill says, besides Hebrews, what are the Christian or Jewish mysticism comments on the
figure Melchizedek during the first two centuries? Ah, thank you. Great question, David Aaron Hill.
This is my next, this is my next monograph. So when I wrote my Melchizedek book, I actually wrote
what is essentially two books, and I just published the first half of it. And the, the, the first half
of it is down through essentially the Second Temple period. The second book, which is, is will be
coming out hopefully soon. I've got so many things going on, uh, is all the way up through Hebrews
and the, the Maccabees and, and all of the different Vitzi scrolls, all of the different other
interpretations of the Melchizedek tradition, including this one, what Hebrews tries to do with it.
Yeah, I'm curious. What the Vitzi scrolls try to do with it. So this is the, this is the next volume.
Uh, I'd love to hear what it is. I, what I find happening, and I don't know, you can tell me if
we're on the right track here. I'm not asking for the interpretation. We'll have to read your book on
that. But it's, what I find is interesting. It's like, did you ever watch the, uh, Breaking Bad
TV show? I never got into it. I know the premise of it, but I never,
What about Sons of Anarchy? Did you get into Sons of Anarchy?
Nope. I don't watch TV a lot. And I shouldn't say that. Well, let me watch a lot of TV. I don't
watch a lot of new dramas. I'm in the blacklist right now. So I'm trying to catch up on blacklist.
Got it. Got it. That was actually a good show. What happens is you find these, these very blip
important narratives or people, and then they make entire narratives out of them. So like
Enoch walked with God and was not. Okay. Whoa, there's a mystery there. And like, now you can run
and create entire narratives and stories out of things that just, you don't know much of anything
about. And in fact, you're at, people are sitting around campfires for thousands of years talking
about it and inventing new tales and narratives about it. So it gives that leeway to kind of create
your own theology surrounding this figure, imaginations, things like that. And we see that
with TV shows today. That's why I wanted to use it like a good show. If it's really, really good,
there'll be like an offshoot of a character or characters from it. And they create their own,
like better call Saul, that comes off the Breaking Bad or the Mayans that comes off of the Sons of
Anarchy. And like, and I think that might be Melchizedek or Enoch or, you know, these kind of
traditions. So when I, when I teach pseudopigraphy and apocrypha, the example that I used to set up
the whole class is Star Wars, right? They did the original trilogy. And then there were certain
plot holes, right? How were you able to blow up the Death Star so easily really, you just down a
hole and it blows up the whole thing. And then they basically, when they went and did, what was the
the one that comes right before they blow it up, I forget the, I don't even remember. There was
a movie that they made where they go in and they, they basically reveal that, oh, they built in,
they're fixing the plot hole, right? They're, they actually built in this, this flaw on purpose
so that they could sneak it out and so that they could, you know, blow up the Death Star. It was
done on purpose. You know, they do this with Solo. They do this with Rogue One. My wife just chimed in,
my wife's watching. She said, when they did Rogue One, see, it wasn't a, it wasn't a mistake. It was,
was done intentionally. I argue that a lot of the pseudopigraphy and the apocrypha, that inter-testamental
stuff, was basically trying to go back and fix plot holes in the Hebrew Bible. And with Melchizedek,
Enoch was easier because Enoch was such a popular figure. They write this story about it, right?
You get the book of Enoch, you get Jubilees, you get these things and, and then he kind of comes
a tradition. Melchizedek, what they do with him in the Dead Sea Scrolls is different than what they
do with him in the New Testament and different than what they do with him in the rabbinic text.
So you have all these different Melchizedek traditions and that's what the next volume of my,
of my book's gonna, actually in the Hebrews, it looks like a manifestation of Jesus, right? Or it
looks like him, he comes in, he comes out, no, no father, no genealogy and they're trying to argue
that maybe, you know, maybe he's been around for a long time and it's like, no, it's the king of
Sodom. It's the son of the king of Sodom, right? It's the next king because the king of Sodom
actually dies in the tar pit. Read the book. It's a good book. I, yeah, I need to read that by the
way, but we're gonna do our next episode, I hope, on that or your other book. We need to cover that.
Constellation Pegasus in the house. Thank you for that super chat, my friend. What's going
on in Ezekiel 24, 15, 16? Why would Jehovah murder his wife as a symbol?
Ezekiel. Oh, God. I always, I always say Ezekiel is like the street preacher out on the promenade
or on the, on the Pedmal, who is basically acting out his, his prophecies. He's a, he's a
street performer, right? Why would he murder his wife as a symbol? Everything that Ezekiel does,
not everything, but a lot of the things that he does are symbolic and let's just be very honest,
not everything that is any Ezekiel is necessarily going to hold up today as something that,
let me say it a different way. A lot of the things that Ezekiel says are pretty cringe worthy by,
by modern standards. Of course. Hosea too. Well, yeah. I mean, it's just, these are some of the
issues and I know you're pressed for time here and this is a whole other, a whole other chat, but
we just, you need to remember that this, these texts were written in a time when
women were understood as something, well, for most of us, women were understood as something
completely different. There were, there were, there was a hierarchy and there were, they,
you know, they weren't chattel, but they were darn close to it. And the treatment of women,
whether it's chopping up a concubine and sending out the pieces or was throwing them out the door
to let them be raped or, you know, they were treated in a different way. And yet this same
text is held up as, you know, this is the will of God. This is the way that, you know, the prime
example of ethics, you know, and this is part of one of those things that I was always, always
frustrated with is, it can't be, it can't possibly be that a deity who endorsed slavery,
who told you how to be a slave, who could be a slave, here's what, here's how you sell your
daughter into slavery, that that deity, who in the New Testament didn't give a, I have a dream
speech who said, slaves obey your master, slaves obey your master, so that that same deity that
said slavery is okay. By the way, those verses never went away. We had to fight a war in this
country to stop slavery, right, to end it. That there would still be people that say that same
book should be the book that we should be legislating our modern laws after. What about this verse?
It talks about slavery. Pay no attention to that. That's, we don't, we, that's, we don't,
you can't do that. And this is what I, this is what I mean about fundamental, fundamentalism
is the scourge, not just Christian fundamentalism, Islamic fundamentalism, Jewish fundamentalism,
fundamentalism, period, problem. And when I hear politicians get up there and say
that we shouldn't obey the secular laws, that the Bible, that God, that that's the country was founded
on the opposite of that. And so when they talk about this should be a Christian nation.
This is when, if you're not politically active, you should be, because that's what's coming. And
that's what I'm trying to get people to at least pay attention to.
Wow. Thank you so much for that. I really appreciate it, Bob. Let's see. This is your YouTube.
Again, we said we would refresh at the end, but before we hit refresh, I'm giving you kind of
my little apocalyptic, the end is nigh. Here's the warning, the signs, or what is it? It is the
last hour, brethren, you know, give you all the apostle Paul signals here. Some of us standing
here will not taste death, you know, all those kinds of things. Before we do, let me go ahead and
end the poll. And we asked, have you subscribed to Dr. Cargill's YouTube? And we have ending the poll
now. It says 282 people voted on that. 69 said great reminder, 69%. Great reminder doing it now.
And 30% said yes. I didn't put the no. I did originally. I put a no option. And there were
tons of people putting no, but that's probably people who are coming in kind of trolling and like
not a fan of the deconversion narrative. So they're like, no, we will not subscribe no matter what.
That happens. So please forgive people in the world. Sure. Your website, you're here,
you know, obviously you got your ancient Near Eastern civilizations, Near Eastern languages,
we are going through your background. This website, what can we find here before we go over and
refresh? You can find any, whatever the latest news is about archaeology coming out of the Holy
Land, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, Egypt, you know, any place there, you're going to find it. So this,
we want Bible and archaeology to be the hub for anything having to do with biblical archaeology.
We also put links to the latest videos. These are interviews. We also put up words. We like,
we find that a lot of people like to learn the origins of words. So we have one for Greek,
one for Latin, one for, we call them right to left words as your Hebrew and Aramaic words.
And then we do one for the origins of names. And then we have some trivia and some
frequently asked questions. And we put all of this out there. So the idea being, if you missed a
story, hey, I read something about having to do with biblical archaeology, you can always go to
Bible and archaeology, and you'll find it, if you click on news at the top, you will find that
story, if it's happened in the last couple of years, on our Bible and archaeology news feed.
Just click right up there and you click on that and you'll find that news listed there
in the news. And it's any news story that comes out from any source about biblical archaeology
will be listed there. And so you're also debunking stuff here, right? Oh, yeah. No, look, we've been
having a ball with the, no pun intended, with the Mount Abal inscription, just because, you know,
we think it's important to report the legitimate stuff, but also since the Mount Abal inscription
is a media campaign, it's a public media campaign. And we know that, you know, no legitimate
publication, no legitimate scholar is going to take the time to, you know, publish on this because
it's an unprovidence object. So we would deal with it in social media. And so that's what we've
been doing is trying to convince people who are, and I feel bad for them, they're being duped by
this. So we're trying to demonstrate why this is a bad claim. Again, you can support us on the
Patreon. I got a crap ton of videos. I work very hard. I edit endlessly to bring you good content.
I got a tongue with Richard C. Miller and many other academics. And then we also have, if you're
interested in actually educating yourself, taking an extensive high quality, you know, course, you
can, you can go to MVP courses. It's down in the description. I've got courses with Kip Davis, Dennis
McDonnell, the list goes on and on. I mean, Delcey Allison Jr. and David Litwa. I've got one with
Richard Carrick, James Tabe, or we did one on Creating Jesus. This one was really fun. A lot
of people enjoyed this one. But you can go take a course, own it for life, watch it. You can
download it at mp3 if you want to just listen. Video the whole night. Now we are at your YouTube
channel. What should we expect? At least 100, at least. I have no idea. I do know that I've
encouraged my managing editor to go out and tweet on socials to send my viewers, my subscribers,
to go out and subscribe for your, on your site as well. So with A should be, if they're not, go do
that. Go sign up for MythVision. I'm going to hit refresh. Let's see what happens. 2.51. How it's
going to be 2.51. Subscribe, please. So I don't look silly when I hit refresh. Please. Here we go.
Let's see what we got. Holy moly. Holy mackerel. Yeah, that's a number of people.
How many is that? So 2.51, would you, would you, what would you say that? How many people subscribe?
5.1. That's a 6.8. That's a hundred and...
150? 160? It was my understanding that math would not be on this test.
170? What was the old Chevy chase line?
Yeah. So what's that? 160? Somebody, somebody will do it there in the, in the comments.
Yeah. I'm trying to do the math in my head, but... 170 there. Thank you, Daniel.
Yeah. 170 new, nitty. I'll take it. Thank you. Daniel, thank you. Yep. Everybody said they subbed.
Look, you're going to have a trickle over the next 24 hours. There's going to be tons of people
coming in. Let them know. If you've made it this far under the stream, let him know in the comment
section on his YouTube channel. It doesn't matter what video. Go and say, I came from myth vision.
Let him know. Let's flex. We're being proud, right? Go Hawks. We'll go myth vision. We want
everybody to know. I seriously appreciate you. Are there any final words that you'd like to leave
our audience with? Maybe something encouraging, motivational, anything personal that you would
like to share with them? I would, I would say go to the Patreon of myth vision and send your money
and then go to the University of Iowa and consider applying here. Come take some courses. We are
going to be pushing an online course that will be available to everyone that's in the works.
That'll be available in the fall. But I just really appreciate you. Thank you for, for, you know,
this is something that I haven't discussed in public. And I'm sure I'll have some feedback.
My wife is already giving me feedback. And so, yeah, I really appreciate you taking the time.
And thank you. I'm sure she's going to be proud of you. And I'm proud of you. What you said today
really, really meant a lot to me. And I relate to a lot of it. And anyway, I have a person as well.
And that person is the only person who's really behind. I mean, my mom has some leverage, but
you know, the queen is that person in my life. So thank you, Dr. Cargill, Bob. And we will see
you next time to talk about your books. Never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are myth vision.
