Dr. Richard C. Miller, the author of Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity, has radically
changed my mind on understanding the mythic and literary origins of Christianity, along with
other great classicist minds and New Testament scholars like Dennis R. McDonnell, Robin Faith
Walsh, M. David Little, etc. The list goes on. He has three master's degrees, Dr. Miller does,
and also a PhD from Claremont. In this episode, we're going to journey from his devout,
fundamentalist roots in Christianity. As he explores and becomes more rigorous in his scholarly
work, how that has driven him away from believing that this is true to begin with. And this more
serious he investigates and discovers what the reality is, understanding the cultural milieu
in which this material pops up, the more he sees comparisons to the surrounding mythologies,
legends of the day, and how Christianity looks very much like what you see when it comes to the
Caesars, sons of Zeus, Greco-Roman world, and other non-historical Jewish literature.
Dr. Richard C. Miller, welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Thank you, Derek. Good to be here.
It's been a while coming. We've been talking about it. And you have a story. You have a journey.
We all do. I mean, every human I know has a story. And when you listen and try to relate
and understand, anyone can learn anything from anyone and their story. Your story,
I think we have some similar path, but I'd love to get your background. There's no way we'll be
able to exhaust your life or play it like a camera for everybody to know. But kind of your journey
from faith to non-faith, if we can get that focusing in on that and your research.
You are an expert. Can you tell us your background and stuff before we get into the journey leading
up to youth to where you are today? Yeah, certainly. I think probably a fair description
of where I'm at right now, I would say, is a humanistic scholar of earliest Christian traditions,
particularly including the New Testament, but broader than that. I come to this from a standpoint
of evidence-based, kind of more of a scientific rigor around my research. And so I'm not interested
in modern faith constructions or being a custodian of anybody's belief systems in the modern world.
Interested in answering some very particular questions about what the earliest Christians
thought and how the movement got off the ground and what the texts were doing in that environment.
Yeah, I love your book. We're going to get into that in the next recording.
Tell us about your story. Were you also evangelical or some form of fundamentalist? And then
what happened to you? Yeah, I started out with Calvary Chapel out here, the Jesus movement way
back in the day. I was reading how Lindsay got into end times prophecy. And this was when I was,
gosh, 13 years old, something like that, gave my life to the Lord Jesus. I remember my heart
pounding going up to the altar and kneeling. And my grandmother was there and in parents and
they were crying. It was a big deal. And I was soon thereafter baptized and began to lead Bible
studies actually out of my own home in junior high. I had all my buddies over. We would have
soda pop and have Doritos and read Ephesians and this kind of stuff and pray. And we took it very
seriously. That was once a week. That's a little bit of my journey. I began to fall out of faith
a little bit once I got into high school, got involved in any number of other things, hung
out with a lot of different friends that kind of broadened my world a little bit, got even into
some trouble. Eventually, though, came back around. I was always reading my Bible that whole time
and eventually started going back to church again a lot more once I got into my college days.
And again, started to lead Bible studies at Cal State Fullerton with the Intervarsity
Christian Fellowship there. And so became a leader in that group for quite a while.
So you took your faith pretty serious. I mean, if I can relate, right, I know
there are theological positions out there who won't grant me the fellowship. They'd go,
you never really were one of us. But if you were to estimate your own experience,
you were as diehard and as serious about this as anyone else.
Yeah, I find those, I mean, I know where Christians get that. You went out from us
because you weren't really of us, that whole kind of idea. And that's why you left because you
weren't ever legit, right? I was legit. I was as deeply committed and faithful and sincere.
And I felt like my experiences of the Lord Jesus and the faith community were genuine
and compelling. And I had a very rich and very meaningful experience at that time in my religious
faith. So how long would you say you were an active Christian? I mean, I know it's hard to pin
that down because there are times where we fall away for a while or we just kind of forget about
it for a while. We're back slid in a little bit, but we're still believers. How long would you say
in your life you were a Christian? Yeah, it depends on how you define Christian. As you know,
if I describe some of those later stages, I'm sure some of your viewers are going to go, okay,
that's probably not still a Christian. I started to fuse it with Buddhism and all sorts of things
later on. And so I get that. But I would say probably up until fairly recently in my academic
work, I went to Talbot School of Theology and was an intern pastor during that time. I
graduated honors with a specialization in New Testament. That's William Lane Craig's school,
by the way. At least they try to claim him there. And I did really well. I specialized in New
Testament. I was a believer that whole time as much as anyone probably could be. And my wife left
me at the end of that time. I was married at that time. It was a big dramatic moment for me.
It caused me to rethink a lot of things. She left me because of some of my fundamentalist kind
of staunch positions at that time. She found it hard to even live with me because I was so
dedicated to that. We weren't even watching the television. I had cut the cord on that.
That was too worldly. The school I was going to, you couldn't drink or dance or watch R-rated movies.
We're talking about some pretty far right stuff there. And I was sold on it,
hook, line, and sinker. And there were other reasons why she left me. Now looking back on it
psychologically, and I just wasn't really fit at that time. The religion wasn't serving me well.
And so I can't blame the religion entirely, but that was definitely a major component.
So we're going to back up a little bit because I know this is about when you start to pivot.
You are not just a devout Christian, but you were getting master's degrees and taking this so
serious. What kind of career or what kind of education were you getting along this way?
You have what, three master's degrees and a PhD from Yale or something?
My PhD is from here at the Claremont Colleges. So my wife had left me. I moved out. I tried to
reorient my life. I started actually to get into their THM program over there because I just
still love the topics. I just realized I didn't belong being a pastor. I loved all the questions
that were too upsetting for everyone. And already they were kind of showing me the door because I
was not fitting into the Biola mold. I was already uncomfortable with their little boutique of a
library that they have there with highly curated selected books. And so I was heading down to
Fuller Seminary. Eventually I met with Don Hagner down at Fuller Seminary who was one of the,
I think he was the director of the New Testament department at the time. And
he said to me something along the lines of, and forgive me, Don, if this is wrong here,
if you watch this, but this is what I recall. Mr. Miller, I need to make an hour conversation
last about five minutes. This is me trying to get into their PhD program. I need to get to a
luncheon. So I'm going to cut right to it. And he said, are you okay with the idea that the New
Testament authors don't agree with each other? Because if you're not, this isn't the department
for you or the program for you. We are a history department, not a theological department. And I
hemmed and hawed now at Biola where I went. If I said I was okay with that, that means I might not
even graduate. That was part of their confession statements. And they were very much into those
confession statements. I had to sign it at the beginning and at the end when I left, it was a
big deal. And so I said, well, I see development in their thought, but I see continuity. I didn't
see discontinuity or disagreement. They're all kind of on the same page. He said, okay, thank you,
Mr. Miller. It was good talking to you, shook my hand and basically shuttled me out the door.
And I realized, okay, I guess I'm not going to get to come here. And so, but that got that question
that he planted in my mind eventually detonated as I start to think about, you know, I've never
met two people in my whole life that agree across the board religiously ever. So why am I thinking
that's going on with the New Testament authors? And I got that that started the egg started to
crack at that point. I started to realize, okay, there's some diversity here. And I need to start
thinking about that. And what does that mean? Theologically, as you start to see different
perspectives, like what's the truth then? What's going on there? And what does truth even mean at
that point? And it's all of my system of thought started to unravel. And it's interesting with
that one question. It got so many things rolling for me. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, I can look back and
remember certain things for me along the way that kind of chipped away that armor, and made me realize
what am I doing? You're going in, you're doing education, you obviously we're going to do an
episode discussing the issues with scholarship as far as we see it today. But you are continuing,
you had at this point, where you're at now, you have what, two masters or three or? Yeah, I gave up
on Fuller and I thought, you know what, I might as well go to a real, a real school, forgive me Fuller.
I thought, you know, if I'm going to leapfrog beyond where I'm at into the kind of world
that I thought my thought, my thinking was taking me at that point, I decided on a lark to put out
an application to Princeton Theological Seminary. At the time, I was, I had already matured, I was
kind of out of the Baptist tradition, I was in, I was in the Presbyterian USA Church at that time,
I was talking to people that had already gone to Princeton Seminary, I was getting exposed to some
of the cool kind of research that they were doing there and kind of the avant-garde theological
work that they were doing there and decided, I need to go there. If I can get in there, I want to go.
And so they accepted me, they don't accept everyone there. I don't think they take it,
some schools do almost take every applicant, they're one of the ones that don't.
It's a little harder to get in, but I was admitted to their THM program in New Testament
to study under James Charlesworth. And so I went out there and took a look at the place and I said,
I am so coming here. And so I packed my things, got my cat in the car, and we drove across the
United States to Princeton, New Jersey, once I was admitted, of course. And yeah, probably a few weeks in,
Professor Charlesworth and I were really hitting it off well. He liked some of my
computer science background and some of the things I was doing with technology in the field.
And so he decided to make me his research assistant there. And so I spent my time during
my master's degree at Princeton, under him as his research assistant.
Wow. So you were at Princeton, and that was some, as far as your journey went from fuller,
you're like, now this, I have found it, this is it, right? You think, I found the thing,
this is the best, the highest, you can't get better than this. And then I suspect your journey is not
over. You're like, man, I think that the best, greatest is the Dale Allison's and the Charles
Worth's and the, what happened to you? I thought you figured it out, man. Well, I ran into it.
It's funny because I was, even then, I was, I was more tenacious, even all the way from the
beginning of my academic work in this field, I was always asking the upsetting questions.
That's where I feel like the treasure's at. That's where people aren't going. And that's where the
answers to the most important questions reside. And so a lot of taboo questions I was asking along
the way there. And even there was not fitting in the box in some ways. I had considered doing my
PhD there. I wrote my thesis there on kind of the evolution of hell through triangulating between
the Enoch tradition, the Searcha Yahad, which is the rule of community in one QS in Qumran,
and the Apocalypse of John, a revelation in the New Testament, trying to locate where John's
apocalypse is with regard to the fate of the wicked through the trajectory of that period in
apocalyptic literature. And so that was my research there. But even then, I was thinking about applying
there for my doctorate and was advised by my thesis advisor, Professor Charles Worth,
that this is a theological institution. And so if you want to do research here,
you need to present yourself as someone who's theologically interested. And I wasn't at that
point. I wanted to know the answers to these questions, history questions. I was no longer
interested in what people believe today. It was irrelevant to me, in fact, in the way.
That's how I am today. It's sure it's a historical question to figure out how people
interpreted things over time, how they understood it in certain periods and why.
I'm interested in knowing that, but it's not my number one priority. My number one
priority, and I'm sure you relate to me, is that what did they mean when they wrote this?
And I had the biggest rough scuffle on a phone conversation with Del Martin on this,
because he has such a postmodern approach to the meaning of words, to the point where it means
whatever you want it to mean, almost like a Jordan Peterson type of thing. And though he
wouldn't like that because he's so conservative, he wouldn't say it's subjective. But it is
like, sure, there's some things we may not and may have that flexible allegorical,
metaphorical meaning to it. But I wanted to know what revelation meant when he says let
him who has wisdom calculate. I wanted to know who he was writing to, who are the seven churches
in Asia? What are they teaching? What are the condemnations in this letter? You know,
things like that. I wanted to know what it meant to them on the ground then. That was more important
to me. Right. No, I'm a big fan of Del Martin. In fact, he and I have had a number of conversations
he's even helped me with my book. He reviewed it in its final proof. And so very grateful to him.
He's an excellent scholar in many, many ways. I would agree, though, that getting back to
how the ancient linguistic signals in these texts, the ancient meaning or intent behind the text,
and more importantly, how these texts were received and how they were consumed and digested.
You know, some have talked about Roland Barthes, famous linguist. If you haven't read him,
check him out. He's very, very good. One of the things he talks about in there is in his research
is the idea that we preference the reader over the writer, over the author, that a chef goes to
make their dish not for their own personal consumption, but for their consumers. And so
the digestion, the eating and all of that, that's where the meaning is taking place. It's not
taking place in the ingredients or in the mind of the chef. And so that's where I think we need to
kind of shift. And so in that sense, I kind of agree with Dale, but at the same time, though,
how do you get there? In the ancient world, you have to immerse yourself in their thought world
to such an extent that you're acculturated in understanding the initial kind of impressions
that these texts might have had. Those are the interesting questions to me, because if we're
doing something different than the texts that they were doing at that time, we need to be
self-conscious about that. There's a dishonesty in that in some ways.
But you didn't see that when you were at Princeton. I mean, maybe you saw something,
but you figured it out. You thought, oh, it's in the Jewish, only in the Jewish kind of approach.
Sure, they'll allow sprinkle here or sprinkle there, but the icing is all Jewish. This is
pretty much Jewish only expectation. Don't really dwell on the Mediterranean. Don't really dwell
too much outside of Jewish milieu. And what happened to you? I mean, you obviously started
seeing something else. Well, yeah, John J. Collins happened to me. And so I ended up
applying. I got into Harvard and Yale for another master's degree. I didn't feel like I was ready
yet to get into the caliber of PhD program that I wanted to be in. Very competitive and hard to
get into those programs, especially at that time. I think that's still the case today.
So I wanted to prepare more. I wanted to get stronger with my language study. I wanted to
broaden that. So I ended up applying, got into both places, ended up going to Yale and
John J. Collins was my advisor there. One of my earliest conversations with him in his office,
he says, I want you to look into the Roman and Hellenistic world. So I know you are
interested in early Judaism, and that's what I teach here. But I feel like there's a lot
there to be found yet in your field of New Testament. And so he advised me to take some
courses downtown outside of the Divinity School down in the Classics Department at Yale. And so
I was in there with the big boys studying stuff with people that did not have the theological
lines and rules and all that stuff that I was used to. And getting very rigorous about language,
about ancient customs, top way, literary trends, and studying all sorts of things there. And it
was there that I made several revelations that end up becoming basically the beginning of my
thought towards this book. Yeah. And would you say your faith at this point is far obviously more
liberal, but are you still a believer at this point? Yeah. So at this point, I was already
starting to entertain the idea that God speaks through myth and legend, not just entertaining.
This was becoming part of my faith at that time. I was still going to church.
Whether even at Princeton, I was still in the Presbyterian Church. And even when I went to New
Haven, Connecticut, I was still in the Presbyterian Church there. But at that point, I started to
think, at what point then, what's left once this project kind of completes and runs its course,
as I start deconstructing and finding the myths and finding these other meanings that are there
and these non-literalistic interpretations of things as I dove deeper and deeper into the
ancient world and how they perceive things. I could no longer honestly hold to the kind of
religious framework that had so long, it was long deteriorating. But at that point,
there were just a few pieces left of it kind of holding it all together. It felt like a house of
cards with only four or five cards left. It was very, very difficult and painful at points,
because I was letting go of a lot of my most cherished comforts. And I had to do that with
a certain amount of internal bravery, because I was not surrounded by a lot of other people
that were doing the same thing, at least as rigorously and as deliberately as I was.
I want to bring the memory of our discussion as we're closing your story here to where we are
today. And that is the moment that something really cracked. You described it. You were at the
library. You were reading something. And what happened to you? What were you reading? Can you
take us into that? Yeah. So I was taking Veronica Grimm's class there in the ancient Helen. It was
a Roman, a course in Roman religion in the Classics Department there. And she had us reading Livy,
which was a Latin text written in the 1st century BC, the history of Rome. So Aburba Condida,
I believe, is the first part of it. And so basically the founding of Rome. And so you're
getting back into the five original kings of Rome. This is a legendary period. Even Livy admits this
as much in the beginning. He says, you know, a lot of this is kind of piecing together legend,
but he's kind of wobbling back and forth because there's cultic significance to some of this as
well in terms of the Roman government and the emperor cult and all this. And so it's a very
interesting text. And so I was reading through that and came across the basically the apotheosis
story or the appearance narratives of Romulus. So he's on Mars Hill. He's bringing his troops
together. And there's this event that takes place where he's taken up in a cloud in front of them.
There's an alternate account where also maybe he was torn to pieces by his senators or whatnot or
the people. And so I started to see echoes there. There's a thunderclap and all these
sorts of things. And I started to think, uh, oh, this sounds a lot like what I'm used to reading
in the gospels regarding Jesus. And there were two, my mind started to fire with all of the
skills I had at that time in terms of ancient history and language and understanding tropes
and all the things I had been doing up to that point set me up for that. But I didn't see it
coming at all. It was like a sucker punch. And when I got to that text, I remember sitting there,
I was reading it out in the garden in front of the Yale Memorial Sterling Memorial Library there.
And I remember just getting almost like dizzy and getting emotional. I put the book down,
I'd read through, I don't know, maybe 15, 20 pages up or whatever. And it was the Latin text and
with the English Facing Pages and the Loeb Library. And I walked back to my car, which is a long
walk, typically they're not parking. And it was a mile or two walk. And I just started crying
during my walk, because I realized, and it was both for loss and for joy at the same time.
It was a very strange moment for me emotionally. And I didn't see it coming. You ever cry,
and you didn't expect to or even desire it to happen. But here you find yourself in kind of an
emotional spot. And that's where I was at unexpected that day. And I'm not one to cry a whole lot.
I remember praying to God at that moment. And I said, God, I don't know where this is going.
But I want the truth, no matter what that means.
So you had an aha moment, in a way, kind of the Eureka, as Dennis McDonald would describe it,
that these were texts that were as meaningful to Romans as New Testament would be to Christians.
You stop playing special pleading games, that this is special and all others aren't kind of ideas.
It seems like it almost hits you. You already knew that. You already knew that it's literature.
But it was a moment where this meant something to you, the same way the New Testament at one
point meant something to you. And then it was like, this is special as well. Why are we making that
the special and this is not? And what always really blew me away in the recent years of
my learning is that, sure, over time, Christianity ends up ruling practically,
meaning it becomes the world religion, right? Most people end up being Christian.
But when I really think in an honest, being fair analysis of this, as a Christian, I once was,
I have to stop that. Here you have an empire that literally ruled the world. Without the
Roman Empire, Christianity would have been nothing. If it didn't have that vehicle to drive
through, what would it be? If it weren't for Octavian, if it weren't for the Caesars and their
Roman imperial cult, to be able to fight against Christianity wouldn't have had what it ended up
becoming. So it's like, this is a real world, actual people who made huge, actual impacts in
this period that are getting buried underneath the Christian dogma.
Yeah, that's a thousand percent correct. And so, I mean, one of the aspects that may make me unique
in some ways in terms of what I present and kind of my methodology, it's been this way
for quite a while, even back in these days. I don't foist upon the ancient texts, any kind of
later creedal or theological framework. I let those texts just sit on top of the ancient framework
and world within which they bubbled up. And so, that's the world. Romulus was well known.
Do modern Christians know who Romulus was? If you gave a sermon at a church and you included
discussion of Romulus, would anyone even recognize this story? Would they even know about it?
Every early Christian would have known the story. This was the founder of the empire.
And they had temples in most of the major cities where Christianity sprung up,
dedicated to Romulus. Can I ask a question with what you know to paint another picture as we
proceed in your story? And that is, Christians who are devout who go to church, who sit there and
cry. They're on their knees. They're at the altar. They're worshiping Jesus. They're devout. They're
sincere. Would you say the same thing about the Romans toward the story of Romulus and the
celebrations of the Roman gods and the festivals and the story of Romulus and remiss and stuff?
Did they do the same thing to those as we see Christians do to Christianity or Jesus?
Yes. I think there's some nuance there that we need to put in there. But,
yeah, I think that, well, first off, to answer the more fundamental question is,
were the earliest Christians similar in their orientation to cults and religion and belief
as other people that were constructing their own belief systems and cults and religious
experiences and antiquity? Was there any difference between insincerity between those?
No. They were equally sincere and dedicated. And that's one of the things I was surprised at
as I started to read Roman literature, that these were very sincere people.
Now, they weren't putting to it the scientific certitude that you get today with this kind of
literalism that we have since the Enlightenment. You really don't see it a whole lot in medieval
time all the way back to late antiquity and the earliest Christian movements, this kind of
certainty, the scientific kind of certainty or posture that we find in kind of modern Bible,
divlicist kind of patterns. Yeah, that's very alien to anything up to relatively modern history.
But when you talk about modern sincerity, these are the stories that help human beings process
their most important and difficult experiences in life, help them to come to terms with death,
help them to come to terms with their own hopes and dreams and their own security in a world where
they might not have all the answers about how all this works and our gods and myths and things
like that fill in those gaps. And that's been going on for quite a long time in the human
experience. And so there's a lot of continuity there. So you know too much at this point. And so
now that you know too much, and nothing can go back to the way it once was, you're always moving
forward, John J. Collins helped steer you to go start something that started something you
can't stop at this point. What happens then? Because you said you got a PhD at Claremont,
that must be down the road a little bit. You're going through a transition of faith, so to speak,
and learning so much about the period. Can you take us into your PhD? You meet
McDonald, Dennis McDonald, like what's going on? Yeah, yeah. So that was a very, I had a chance
coming out of the Yale program to apply pretty much anywhere and have a decent chance of possibly
getting in. And so I was pretty well poised to, you know, at that point. My language skills were
running well. And so what I just, I looked around and I thought after this Romulus.
Continue please, we were interrupted there, but you were describing how you were putting into,
was it Claremont? Yeah, so I sent out some applications to various schools. I applied
here to Claremont, reason being that I wanted at that point, because of my research with Romulus
and the paper I wrote there and that seminar and everything, I wanted to, I knew at that point,
I needed to be somewhere where I could continue that research. And as I looked around, I didn't see
a lot of great options for that, because I didn't see a lot of programs deeply invested in contextualizing
the New Testament in classical antiquity. And so a lot of early Judaism, a lot of, you know,
some of these, you know, more higher critical methods that are more avant-garde these days,
programs that are advocating for that feminist criticism, the sort of thing.
As I looked around, I thought, what are my options? And so I applied to what few schools I felt like
would allow me to conduct that research further. And this was one of the, one of my top picks.
And so I got into reading Dennis's work on, you know, Homer and Mark and some of this work. And
I realized, okay, whether he's right or wrong on that, and the jury was still out at that point,
at least I know that he's getting rigorous on some of these questions. There's a whole generation
of Harvard scholars, Dennis was one of them, that came out of that time period where they were
basically doing transdisciplinary work between classics and New Testament early Christian literature.
And so they'd all sit out on the lawn and read Loeb library, you know, Greek texts together and
this sort of thing. And that's the milieu, that's the place where he was educated. And I knew I wanted
to study under one of those cats that had done that kind of work. And so, you know, it limited
the places I could go. But then again, it also made me very interested in wanting to go to those
places for particular reasons. And so. So you ended up going to Claremont. He's one of the
professors you're bumping into and learning brushing shoulders, becoming friends with.
Would you say at this point in your journey, not only are you no longer technically Christian,
you might be some believer in something, but you're not necessarily a Christian.
Would you say that you realized you were getting closer to the truth of what was really going on?
How was your confidence on that? It was strange. The way I talked to myself about my faith at
that time was that I'm actually being a truer Christian in some ways, because I'm being better
aligned with what the earliest Christians might have thought or how they would have processed
this thing. Of course, I'm putting on that my own interpretation in terms of myth, not quite as
indulged in the belief system a little way an ancient would have been. I was kind of backing
off of that. But at least I felt like I was better aligned with understanding the thought world and
what was going on there. And so, yeah, I continued even in Claremont to attend church and even teach
in the church occasionally. They asked me not to eventually because I was
too off the wall for them, too outside of the box. But yeah, that's kind of where I was at.
There was still some threads that were holding it all together in some ways, even though I had
already deconstructed in many ways many of the most sacred aspects of the religion, at least in
terms of where my research had gotten me at that point. What would be the fair statement of what
happened to you at the end? What made you finally go? All right, enough. I don't think I believe
there's something wrong. I think there's a comedian, I can't remember. Was it
the bar, Bill Barr, one of those guys who says something about that he left the faith and it's
not like he left it. It just kind of like trailed off into the distance behind him and
was kind of like a voice that got quieter and quieter and then went away. That's kind of my
experience. I started to find that going to church wasn't meaningful to me anymore. What are we doing
playing an organ with all this funky music and reciting hymns? I didn't even believe in any
of that anymore. It felt like it was in the way of my research, not helpful. I was way outside of
the box in terms of what Christians that might attend church would want to hear from me. I can't
give anything. They can't give anything to me. I thought, my time is pretty precious. What am I
doing? I started to kind of not go all the time and that sort of thing. I also started to investigate
Buddhism and so I was interested in learning that. I was in a religion program and so part of my task
there as a PhD student at the Claremont Colleges was to be able to speak to all world religions,
not just this narrow kind of investigation into one. I started to get into reading about other
systems of belief, Buddhist, Indic, Hindu, etc. Islam even took a PhD seminar on the
history of the interpretation of the Koran. My world started to broaden and I started to realize,
okay, it's kind of like somebody that thinks they're a specialist of studying
mountains, say Mount Rainier, but they don't bother studying geology, tectonics,
any of this or any other mountain ranges or any other larger geological topic. They're just
narrowly talking about that one mountain. Well, that sounds like a very ignorant and kind of confined
project, right? And I felt like that's what was going on with New Testament studies. I felt like
my training up to that point as I reflected back felt very narrow and almost designed for
ignorance in some ways. I wasn't really studying the larger patterns that are commonplace throughout
all the religions and how Christianity is just one participant in a larger kind of
a broader set of phenomenology that needed to be understood and understood across the board
and not just studied in some kind of isolationism and so, yeah. Thank you.
