Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, Dr. Bart Ehrman.
I've read several of your books.
I think almost every book that you have, I've read.
Maybe not your dissertation,
as I saw you, apology I talked about, but.
There's a common theme in some of them
of you mentioning your past.
And I love that because I can relate to you
in terms of a journey of learning and growing in a world
where you realize, hey, maybe what I believed
or what I thought isn't true.
And so you're doing a course.
We'll call it a course about why you're not a Christian.
It's gonna be free.
Anyone and everyone can come and sign up.
And I hope to see them there.
Can you tell us a little bit about that?
And then we get into your story a little bit,
just teasing us with what we might hear in that course.
Yeah, sure.
No, I'm really interested in doing this course.
I've never done a course like this.
And a lot of the stuff I talk about in this course
are things I've never talked about publicly before.
The course will be explaining why I'm no longer a Christian.
I started out as a Christian
and I talk about how I was raised, but briefly,
and about how I converted to be a born again Christian
in high school and then eventually became a very strong
evangelical, conservative evangelical Christian
within how my, especially my scholarship
made me understand that the Bible's not
the inerrant word of God.
Many people have heard my story before think
that I went from that to being an atheist,
but I was a liberal Christian for many years.
I was a pastor of a Baptist church for a year
and I talk about how I started moving away from the faith
and what was driving that.
Eventually, I did leave the faith all together.
It's been 30 years ago now,
but it's not for reason of my biblical scholarship.
And so I talk about that, about what made me want
to be a Christian in the first place,
I'm a born again Christian, what made me leave that,
what made me then leave Christianity altogether,
not related to my scholarship,
but my trying to understand the world better.
But I also spend a lot of time talking about things
I haven't talked about very much publicly,
which are issues involving the struggles
when one leaves the faith and the fears one has
when one leaves the faith and why it's traumatic
and what one can do about it.
And if one does leave the faith,
does that leave one without any moral compass?
Does it mean there's no reason to be ethical anymore?
Does it mean that you have no hope?
Does it mean that there's no meaning in life,
no purpose in existence if you think this is all there is?
And so I deal with that over the course of four lectures,
about 45 minutes long, each of them.
And I talk about a lot of stuff in there
that I've never talked about before.
So if people have heard my story,
it's not gonna just be repeating stuff I've said completely.
And those who haven't heard this will be for anybody, really.
It's really for anybody who's thinking
about leaving the faith,
if anyone's wondering why somebody does leave the faith,
anybody who has left the faith,
anybody who's just a Christian
and interested in hearing some other view.
So it's really, it's not meant to convert or decompress
anybody, it's just meant to tell my story
in light of the kind of scholarship
and the kind of thinking I've done about the world.
So you'll get into how Satan appeared to you
at one point in your life and you sold your soul
and all that, right?
Yeah, no, actually I was unaware of that.
And yeah, I just, I just, I know.
Right, right?
No, there's something about the personal narrative
that you do put in your books where I relate to,
for me, I have to admit,
learning the scholarship has broadened my understanding
in a way that the infantile, inerrant,
you know, fundamentalist approach that I had,
that bubble for sure popped.
And I can relate in a way where there was a transition
between like, what is the meaning of this material
and how there's other ways to understand these things
than what I once did.
So I still held on to something
and then eventually it was like, for me,
it was more of a scientific
and then trying to observe what we can know
and work from there.
And so then I stopped assuming things
that we don't have evidence for
or things just don't seem to point in that direction.
Is there any relatability to the things I'm describing
in your own kind of story or?
Yeah, no, very much.
I mean, I think that, I think scholarship on the Bible
and on early Christian history
and the kinds of things that I teach at university
can be very useful for showing,
just on an academic level,
why fundamentalist Christianity is highly problematic.
But people often think that if you don't have
a fundamentalist view of the Bible,
that it's inerrant in every way,
then you can't be a Christian.
And that's my focus.
I mean, I was a Christian for many years
with understanding that the Bible was fallible
and I have lots and lots of friends
who are New Testament scholars who are Christian
and they know what I know about the Bible,
but they're not fundamentalists.
And so leaving fundamentalist Christianity
isn't the same thing as losing your faith.
And so losing your faith usually involves
broader issues that you're referring to,
like how you know what you know about the world.
And some people think, well, you should just believe.
Well, you should just believe what?
I mean, and people have reasons for believing.
They may not know they have reasons for believing,
but they do.
I mean, maybe they were just brought up this way
and it's what they've always thought,
so it makes sense to them.
Well, that's fine, but you know,
you're brought up thinking all sorts of things
that you don't agree with now
and what you thought about it
and you've had other experiences.
And I don't think it should be any different for your faith
because the faith is very important to people.
And so they should certainly use their heads
to try and figure it out.
It's not that you can kind of outthink God or something.
It's not like that.
It's what really makes sense to you,
given what you know about the world.
And it sounds like that's what you went through
as you started discovering the sciences
and started realizing that there are the ways
to explain what happens in the world.
And different people have different reactions to that,
of course.
Some people will stay in the faith, some won't.
But I hope at least people will become more thoughtful
about it and part of the goal of this course
is to help people think through some of these issues.
I'm excited about what you teased us about,
just saying meaning, purpose, value.
Cause I relate to you in saying that you have more meaning
now, more purpose now than you did when you were this child
of God living in this world, soldier for Christ,
trying to, a pilgrim, voyaging through,
trying to save souls, the whole nine.
I tend to see that I have a lot more purpose now
and even I enjoy life better than I once did.
Will we get in behind the curtain
and see the wizard on this course with you?
Such as he is.
I hope he's not a fake wizard, like in our,
but I mean, I think a lot of Christians, not all,
but a lot of Christians are not bothered
by a number of issues in our world
because they think God's gonna make it all right
in the end, that this is kind of like a dress rehearsal
for what it's really gonna be like afterward.
And if some people have a hard time now,
God will make it up to them.
And if you're suffering now, you know, it'll be okay later.
And so it's deferring, deferring when the real thing happens.
If you think this is the real thing
and it's not a dress rehearsal, it's not practice,
this is it, then it actually changes your view of life
and the meaning of life and how you ought to,
how you ought to enjoy this life.
This life is not about preparing for some later life.
This is the life.
And for me, I'll explain in some detail why that provides
more meaning and purpose for me.
And it shows why I can't neglect issues
about what's happening to our world
and the pain and the suffering in the world.
Some of it caused by other humans, others not.
And how, you know, if we don't help people now,
and they die, that's it.
So it's better, you know, we really need to help people.
And we are in ourselves, we live for a fulfilling life
as much as we can in whatever our circumstances are.
It's interesting.
There seems to be a lot of people I've met
who have gone through a deconversion
who've become better people since leaving.
Maybe Christianity works for some,
but others it seemed to have more of a negative impact.
I tend to be one of those for me in terms of,
I'm more humanistic now.
I care more about the now.
I care about helping the people now rather than,
don't worry, don't store your treasures up there on earth.
Let's, you know, we got this other place we're focused on.
And so I love what you said there.
There are people who contact me at MythVision a lot
who are suffering, they're struggling,
they're like in fear of nihilism.
They can't believe, they tell me,
they can't believe this is true,
but they also like are in this existential crisis
of not knowing where to go from here
and is their meaning, is their purpose,
what's the point freaking out
or even the whole idea of what if I'm wrong,
but I do think that it isn't true,
but what if I'm wrong?
And I'm like, one person I said,
become a Christian again then,
just go to sleep at night.
You know, I literally told them,
be a Christian again if that gives you some hope.
And they're like, but I can't,
I literally don't believe it anymore.
I can't think that it's true,
but I worry at night if it's true
and if I'm gonna go to hell and stuff.
So will we get into something of this kind of sort
in your course?
Yeah, I'm gonna talk a lot about that kind of thing
about how traumatic it can be to leave the faith
if you've been very committed to it
and even if you just grew up with it
and how disturbing it can be.
And some people are afraid of hell.
And so I'll talk a little bit about the fear of hell.
Some people are afraid of non-existence.
The idea of not existing really freaks a lot of people out.
And so I'll talk about that a bit.
And so I think often what happens
is people are afraid of things that come out
to be not true once they leave the faith.
They realize, yeah, I was afraid of that,
but it actually didn't happen to me.
And you're right.
I mean, if they think, oh, I was better off as a believer
and then go back to being a believer.
But the other thing I'll say is that
the kinds of issues that I think about
when I'm talking about doubting
or wondering whether the faith is right,
these are issues that are important for believers
to think about too.
So we shouldn't sell short the importance
of reflecting on faith, even if you stay in the faith.
I have a lot of people in my undergraduate classes
in Chapel Hill where I teach.
I have a lot of students who come out of the class
who they remain Christians,
this has made me a stronger Christian
because now I understand the kinds of things
I need to think about.
And I think I need to find answers for.
And if I find answers for them,
then I'll be an informed Christian.
And I tell them, I say, it's great, it's better.
I mean, if you're not an informed believer,
you're an ignorant believer.
What's the ignorant?
The same thing applies to skeptics though.
I mean, a lot of skeptics just kind of assume,
God talks crazy.
And so they need to be challenged from the other way
because we all need to be more thoughtful and reflective
about what we think about the world and our place in it.
Thank you so much, Dr. Ehrman.
I look forward to it on the 23rd.
I hope everybody signs up, it is free.
So I will be seeing you guys there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
