Welcome back to MythVision. This is probably going to be about a 10-second live stream.
We just wanted to give you breaking news. Many people made many claims and claimed many
prophecies would come to pass, and they didn't. And so, if you didn't know, they failed.
I hope you have a wonderful day, everybody. It was a great episode. Kip, thanks for being
here just to, like, put your PhD stamp on that. Yeah. Anytime. Have a good one. I'm happy to
prostitute my credentials for... Absolutely. Let's get out of here, bro. Thanks a lot, everybody.
Welcome to MythVision. Subscribe to our guests, or else our all-loving, all-powerful, omniscient mind
that we are will punish you because we love you, and we expect you to subscribe and whatnot.
So, Dr. Kill is in the house. I've got Matthew Hartke for those who don't know in the flesh,
so you dosetist? Shut your mouth and don't even act like you know. I know. This is him.
See, I, until today, I always just thought Matthew Hartke was chat GPT, so...
No. Touch my hands. See, are they not real? Oh, my gosh. You know, the other day,
the Egyptologist, I had Karakuni, was like, look at the medieval scar, the scar on Jesus' side.
It's actually a vagina. And I was like, are you serious? I looked it up. She wasn't kidding.
So, it made me really weirded out just now when you like to touch my hands, and I'm like,
kids, turn off. Kids, turn off. Gotta put a rating on this one.
Well, everybody in the chat, welcome in. If you feel like harassing us, you feel like challenging us,
you feel like you just want to slap a question or a topic or whatever, feel free to. We do take
those in the form of super chats, obviously. It's what keeps God's business running. You know,
like, you got to tie at least 10% or else. But seriously, we've done some recordings, Matt,
two. Yep, might do some more. This guy is crazy. He is a machine. He's just constantly
turning out content. I'm like, two videos, and I'm like, okay, I've done two videos over the last
two years, so I'm good. Like, this is quite the rate of acceleration for me.
Kip knows all about it. I know all about it. He's always working on everything except for
editing course videos. Of course. Of course. You know what? I really do. This course is never
going to come out. Oh, yes, it is. Yes. How long, oh, Lord. How long, oh, Lord. How long.
Well, look, we need to address the subject matter of the live. And that is Bible prophecy
failed. Should I become a preterist with regards to... It's already been up. The course is available
now. I've seen it. It's great. Y'all need to stop. Yeah, so Matt has come to a conclusion where the
best hypotheses he can think of is that cognitive dissonance is explaining all the above, like
spiritualizing passages to... It didn't happen passages, recalculation passages and stuff.
It seems to best fit all of the data. I think it has a lot of explanatory scope and a lot of
explanatory power. I wouldn't say it explains. I don't think there is any such thing as one
hypothesis that explains all the data. But I think that cognitive dissonance does have a lot going
for it and... I mean, I saw these. I mean, yes, you say that, but then, I mean, didn't Joel Edmund
Anderson write, you know, this powerful rebuttal of... We... Matt! Matt!
Ideas. I've been debunked. I've been debunked. I mean, he's a scholar on his level of his caliber.
I mean, he pantsed you, dude. It just... It... I... Yes. But you know what? He doesn't know.
Matthew likes to get pantsed.
So, I was joking.
Back to the topic. So, there's a lot of stuff. You brought up last night the idea that
Micah gets mentioned in Jeremiah. Yeah. And, like, how Robert Carroll handles this thing.
Yeah. This one blew my mind when I read it in Robert Carroll's commentary on Jeremiah. But what
I'm really fascinated with right now is the way that the Jewish and Christian prophetic and
apocalyptic traditions are constantly doing hermeneutical work to explain earlier prophetic
and apocalyptic traditions and hold on to their inspired high status while still making them
relevant for today. And the way that Robert Carroll in his commentary on Jeremiah cites a
really early example of this. And according to Carroll, he says that it's actually the only
example in the early prophetic traditions of the Bible where we have a prophet citing a prophetic
text explicitly citing, quoting an earlier prophetic text and doing exegetical work with that,
doing hermeneutical work, mounting an argument, a theological argument about the way that God works
and employing that earlier text in order to make his point. And the passage is Jeremiah 26, Jeremiah
2619. And the passage that it's quoting is Micah 312. And Micah 312 is this prophecy of doom,
of judgment on Judah, on Jerusalem, where it's saying that Zion is going to become like a
wooded plain, it's going to be completely desolate basically. And Jeremiah quotes that and says,
but you know, didn't the people repent and didn't God then relent of the disaster that he had said
he would do against Judah? And it's this place where Jeremiah, because the text of Jeremiah has
this view, this Deuteronomistic view of prophecy as being contingent upon human response. So that
we have in a passage like Jeremiah 18, it says, God says, whenever I speak concerning a nation
to bring judgment on them, if they repent, I won't bring that judgment that I promised,
instead I'll bring blessing. But if they don't follow me, and I've prophesied blessings,
then I won't bring those blessings. And instead, I'll bring judgment. And so Jeremiah pulls from
Micah in order to make that point about the contingency of all prophecy. Problem is, is that
Micah doesn't give any indication of being a conditional prophecy at all. And it seems like,
if anything, scholars like Klaus Koch and Robert Carroll also argue that like,
if there is any kind of extension of the, the opportunity of repentance that would change
God's mind, that's, that's not explicit in the text at all. And there are several places in the
text of Micah where it actually says like, you won't be able to remove your necks from the judgment
that I'm bringing against you. Like, if you cry out to me, I won't hear your prayers because this,
this train is coming and you can't stop it. But the thing is, is that the complete destruction of
Judah, the complete destruction of Jerusalem that Micah prophesied, didn't happen. And so
Jeremiah or the editors of Jeremiah are dealing with the fact that here's an unfulfilled prophecy.
And so Jeremiah superimposes its own Deuteronomistic theology onto Micah and reinterprets Micah so that
it becomes a contingent prophecy and fits the theology of Jeremiah. And, and thereby gets, gets
it off the hook, gets God off the hook for this unfulfilled prophecy of destruction that didn't
happen. And says, well, didn't the people repent? And that's why, that's why God changed his mind
and didn't bring the thing. And so Micah is still the word of the Lord. It's still the word of the
Lord. And we can still believe it. But it actually, it was contingent. It was conditional.
That all sounds very convenient. Yeah. Yeah. It's been a while since I've read Carol, but I'm,
I believe he, he was, was toying with the idea too that, that Jeremiah was a literary
creation. Am I right about that? It's, I mean, he, he definitely sees a lot of redaction going on
and it not being a coherent, you know, piece from one person, but there are early, you know,
texts from the prophet of Jeremiah. And then there's a lot of layers of editing and redaction
will work on top of that. I don't know about a complete literary creation if he does toy with
that. No, I remember he, he sort of, he's, yeah, not a, I don't think he ever goes that far. But
other scholars certainly have. Like I know I was, I was at a conference
a while ago about, about Jeremiah and Reiner Krotz gave a very interesting,
gave a very interesting paper about, about Jeremiah as an invented literary figure. I,
I don't particularly like the idea because I'm, I'm sort of a, I mean, one of the things that,
that I, I love most about the Bible is all the drama. Yeah. So for me, it's just way more fun
if, if we can push that historical envelope as far as possible, right? Which is why I'm still,
you know, I, I'm, I'm totally aware of the, you know, of, of the exceptionally poor quality
of evidence we have for someone like, you know, an historical David, but God damn it, I want
there to be an historical David, right? Hey, I was talking, wasn't I talking to you about this
yesterday, just briefly? Yeah, I mean, there's guys like a mob boss, dude. I mean, who doesn't
want a Game of Thrones guys really exist. And same with, same with Jeremiah too. Like when I,
when I read Jeremiah, I, one of the things that I think is so really interesting on maybe another
level than any of the other prophets of that book is just how intensely personal it is. Yeah.
And I'm just like, Oh my God, I so badly want this guy to be like a, like a real guy.
Uh, so, yeah, I'm sorry, I just, that's kind of, it's kind of off topic, but I, you know,
it's, it's, I mentioned Jeremiah and I'm gonna. Yeah. Oh, totally. I mean, the thing that fascinates
me with all this though, talking about the drama of the biblical tradition and I mean, the thing
what is so interesting to me about cognitive dissonance is the way that it gets into that
drama. And I mean, if we, if we just talk about, you know, well, prophecy fails, that's one thing,
but what's really, what's more interesting than just the observation that prophecy fails
is how the communities that believe in that prophecy maintain belief in spite of failure
and the way that a prophetic tradition like the Jeremiah Corpus or like the Isaiah traditions,
Isaiah and Judo, Isaiah and Trito, Isaiah and the book of Daniel. I mean, something as explicit
as Daniel saying the exact day, the exact length of time that this stuff is going to happen in.
And the fact that we still over, you know, what, 2200 years later, believe, I mean,
believe in it and think that like, Oh, it's, it's actually talking about our future.
And do the hermeneutical work necessary to recover those texts and still believe in them
as the word of God, that is what's fascinating to me. And the way that, I mean, Robert Carroll's
book, When Prophecy Failed is all about the way that the prophetic traditions aren't doing that.
They are. It's such a good book. It's dry, but it has so many gems in it.
And he focuses a lot on the Isaiah traditions. Oh, I mirrored our camera. That's why it's
backwards when prophecy fails. Yeah. It looks, it looks fine to me, Derek.
You're able to read that like straight up. Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, it looks good. And I just
checked the, I just checked the YouTube feed and it looks fine. Oh, nice. It looks backwards to us.
But that's, that's odd. Let me see. Oh, it is. Oh, right. That's wild. Okay. Cool.
Interesting. Very. But I would love to hear from, from you, Kip, especially like about
with your expertise in the Dead Sea Scrolls, because we have the Habakkuk, the Habakkuk
Pecher, you know, the commentary on Habakkuk from the Dead Sea Sect and the way that they're dealing
with passages from Habakkuk and saying that these are about our time, but seem to be dealing with
an element of delay and interpreting Habakkuk in such a way that it accounts for the delay
of their expectations so that they can maintain the truth of their belief in the Teacher of
Righteousness and so forth. But yeah. Yeah. I mean that, I think they're a fascinating example
of that reinterpretation of failure. So yeah. And I, I actually, so I really think like this is
when, when Derek mentioned to me, you know, 75 odd minutes ago or so that, that he wanted
to do this story on the whole, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna talk about cognitive dissonance
and apocalypticism. And if you could, you know, just, just draw everything you're doing right
now and come and join me. Yeah. And, and oh, by the way, it'd be great if you could pull up some,
some, some shit on, on the Habakkuk Pecher while you're at it. But as I was, as I was thinking
through this, in my mind, I'm like, yeah, like, it's the, the, the, there, you have two things
working at Qumran. And the really interesting thing that, that happens when we look at Qumran is
because there's no, well, I guess there are scenes still, these ridiculous people who
call themselves the scenes, but the scenes are gone. Yeah. The Jewish scenes are gone. They're,
they all died. The movement ended. Nobody is going to look back at the literature of the
scenes and say they got it right. But the funny thing is, is that if we look back at the literature
of the scenes, we can look at stuff and we'll talk a little bit about both of this, we can look at
stuff and say, yeah, you know, they, they totally said this was going to happen and it didn't happen.
But then, oh, but look, they've got all this stuff where they talked about how
there's prophecies in the Bible that are being fulfilled and have been fulfilled. And
we're the proof of that, right? Like, that's what, that's what the Habakkuk Peshir is,
that people are unaware. This is a man, this is a smallish manuscript. It's,
it's, and we have pretty much like the whole thing. It was one of the very first of the scrolls
discovered. It was one of the first three discovered and, and, and sold. It, it's, it's, I think 15,
15 lines per column and I think 11 columns in total. And it's just the first three chapters
of, of Habakkuk. And, and I, I, I opened it up here, you know, to take a look at it, like the,
the text begins at the very top of the Habakkuk Peshir. This is reconstructed a little bit, but
something to the effect of oracle received by the prophet Habakkuk in a vision is just how it
starts, right? For how long Yahweh do I ask? And now he's, he's, he's quoting from, from Habakkuk.
For how long Yahweh do I ask for help without you hearing me? Shout violence to you without
you saving me? And then there's a break and the scroll continues. The interpretation of this
concerns the beginning of the generation. And then there's, there's close to the beginning,
there's, there's, there's some, some missing bits that, that we can't quite fill in completely
accurately, which will come upon them. They will shout against. There's another quotation of a,
a bit of text from Habakkuk. And, you know, it follows with another interpretation, but the
entire text is structured this way. And this manuscript comes from pretty late, I believe,
in the, in, in the life of what we, we believe to be the community that wrote and collected the
Dead Sea Scrolls. So this is, you know, this is from around the, the mid to late first century
BCE, I think I'd have to go back and double check that. So there's a beautiful pictures of it.
Yes. So, and you can see exactly there on the, on the right hand side, why, why, you know,
they've, they've had to reconstruct a bunch of it because lots of the text is missing. But as you
move further into the scroll, you've got lots of, lots of complete bits. And of course, the, the
bottom part of the manuscript has, has unfortunately worn away to nothing. But this was a, this was
a manuscript that was written by the people who wrote and collected these, these scrolls from
Qumran. When did they date this? I think, so I, I have to double check, but if you hold on for
just a second, and if I look closely at the, at the handwriting here, I could probably give you
a bit of a ballpark. So this is, this is probably just guessing here. So don't, don't take this as,
as gospel, haha. But this is, this is probably like mid first century BCE.
But yeah, I just, I'd have to take a closer look at it. And, and I, you know, I hadn't taken the
time to actually look at the, look at the date either before I, before I opened it up. So this
is, you know, it's, this, this is while it's, it's, it's, it's written as this, as, as this
perspective on the prophecies of Habakkuk. This is also a very important historical text.
And one from which scholars reconstruct a lot of the history of the community itself, because
there's a lot of wild things that are in here, in terms of how he's looking at the Book of Habakkuk,
whoever, you know, wrote and put this together, and then understanding what the book of Habakkuk
actually means. So I'll pick up some of this here in, let's go to Column 7. All right. So,
and here he's, he's, he's starting with Habakkuk chapter 2, verse 2.
And at the very top of Column 7, it says, God told Habakkuk to write what was going to happen
to the last generation, but he did not let him know the consummation of the era. Right. So
the author here is basically saying, you know, Habakkuk wrote this prophecy,
you know, but he didn't have a clear understanding that he was actually writing about not about,
yeah, not, not about the, the Assyrians, right. He's actually writing about us. He's actually
writing about what's happening now. So kind of like Paul does that weird thing where he talks about
you shall not muzzle an oxen while it threshes. And then he goes, he's not talking about oxen,
he's talking about us. And it's like, dude, he's talking about oxen in the original context.
This is, this is, and I say this so often when it comes to looking at, at, at the way the Old
Testament is handled in the New Testament, right. And I say this over and over and over again.
These people were just doing good Jewish Bible exegesis. This is how they read the text. They
weren't, they didn't care so much about, well, did this actually happen? Is this, you know,
how much does this align with the, with, with the writings of the Babylonians or, or the texts of,
of the Greeks, you know, can we, can we actually believe in an historical day? These aren't the
questions that these people were asking when they, when they looked at the text, right. This was,
this was, you know, God's word to us, but it wasn't, and because it was God's word,
because it was for us in their imagination, this isn't, this doesn't have anything to do
with what happened then. It has to do with what's going on right now. So this is, you know,
one of the signs of what scholars like to talk about, you know, this, this, at what point a text
becomes, you know, emerges from being just a, just a popular old ancient text to being
scripture, right. Something that's, that's, that's inspired or sacred or
authoritative. One of the signs of that is this, at the point at which readers are starting to look
at it and say, it doesn't mean just what it says it means, but there's secret messages in here from
God, right. So we can actually read this and, and figure out esoteric things, secret things,
hidden things that, that means something for us today, that were written hundreds and hundreds
of years ago. And in that sense, it becomes like fulfilled prophecies. So I'm just going to read
a little bit of this, right. Just to be on the same page, you're suggesting simply put this
Peshir, which is a density score Peshir is saying, Habakkuk wrote these prophecies God told them to,
he was ignorant of knowing it's actually speaking about us today, but that is what he says. Yep,
they're about us. What he says. And that they're the last generation. So this, this is exactly
thinks this is it. These people, they're one of the, one of the reasons we believe
that they're sitting out in the Judean desert at this, at this site is because their expectation
is that this world is coming to an end. Imminently, it's happening, it's happening, you know,
now soon. And for them, you know, this was, and again, this is, this is in part, they're,
they're living out the fulfillment of what they see as, as a, a, a prophecy and one QS,
the, the Serk Hayyachad, column eight, one of my favorite, it's, this is one of my favorite texts.
It, it, one QS actually cites, it quotes Isaiah chapter 40 verse three, which is a very, very
popular, famous texts for Christians. Because this, so this is a, this is a text that appears in
all four of the gospels right at the beginning. And it says,
a voice is crying in the wilderness, go out and prepare the way of the Lord make straight
the paths of our God. Of course, the gospel writers all said, this is a prophecy about the
coming of John the Baptist, who is going to, you know, start this spark, this movement
of the new kingdom, which was going to be fulfilled in, in Jesus. And he was going to do so by,
by baptizing people in the, in the Jordan, Jordan Valley out in the wilderness. So
this passage appears in one QS. But the way they, without changing a single word
of this text, this is why I think it's so brilliant. The people who wrote and collected the Dead Sea
Scrolls have come to understand it completely differently. So when they read Isaiah 43,
they read in the wilderness, sorry, they read a voice cries out, comma,
in the wilderness, go and prepare the way of Yahweh make straight the paths of our God. So what
they're doing is they're saying this passage from Isaiah 40, verse three is actually instructive to
us to get out into the wilderness and get ready for the coming of Yahweh. Right. So this is, and,
and I, I think it's amazing because it's the same text. It's the same text. It's the words are identical.
They didn't, they didn't have to change anything to come to complete two completely different
understandings of what this text is actually about. So like this is what's going on here.
But I'm going to just read a little bit more about what, how this works, right. So Habakkuk
chapter two, verse two, so that the one who reads it, oh, sorry. And as, and for what he says, so that
may, yeah, there's, there's, there's an issue here with the text. The one who reads it, it's,
it's interpretation concerns the teacher of righteousness. This is the, the leader, the founder
of this community. We don't know a lot about him. He's never identified explicitly scholars tend to
think that this is a figure who had something to do with the, with the Jerusalem priesthood
during or shortly thereafter, after the, the, the, the Hasmonean revolt and was, was disenfranchised
from the priesthood and, and had a major dispute with the, with, with the priesthood in Jerusalem
and, and went off and, and kind of started doing his own thing as a result of this. So this concerns
the teacher of righteousness, righteousness, whom, to whom God has made known all the mysteries
of the words of his servants, the prophets. Habakkuk chapter two, verse three, for the visions has,
for the vision has an appointed time. It will have an end and not fail. So that's the text from
Habakkuk, right? And then the Habakkuk pastor continues, and it uses this word, Pishol,
which basically means it's interpretation. It's interpretation. The final age will be extended
and go beyond all that the prophets say, because the mysteries of God are wonderful. And then he
continues, Habakkuk chapter two, verse three, continued, though it may tarry wait for it,
it definitely has to come and will not delay. It's interpretation concerns the men of truth,
those who observe the law, whose hands will not desert the service of truth when the final age
is extended beyond them, because all the ages of God will come at the right time as he established,
for them it is the mysteries of his prudence. The text continues, see, it is conceded to say,
and it is conceded and does not give way his soul within him. It's interpretation,
they will double upon them, something is missing, find no mercy at being judged,
something's missed. So, but I hope people can can see and appreciate what's happening here,
where all this guy is doing is he's looking at these ancient texts, he's completely oblivious.
And maybe I shouldn't say that, he just doesn't care. That's a type of oblivion. He's maybe a
better way of saying is that biblical exegesis in this period operates on a sense of
treating the contents almost in an obtuse manner, whereby it doesn't matter. What?
It's kind of an ignorant, it's kind of a naive egocentrism, where it's just, you're not even,
God wrote this, it's inspired, and you're thinking about your own life and your own present situation,
the problem of evil as it affects you, where you're standing in history, and you're wanting
God's answer to that present distress that you're living in. And so you read the Bible,
just as today, you know, we would, I don't know if you guys ever did this, but the Russian roulette
thing that you do, and boom, what do you say to me, God? They were doing the exact same thing,
and finding those places where it seemed like God was going to speak to them, and it's that
egocentrism that I often, as I kind of evolved out of the fundamentalism and the kind of
dispensationalist futurism of my youth, I wanted to kind of absolve the biblical writers of doing
that kind of thing. And so the way that the New Testament writers often quote the Old Testament
and say, this is about us, I wanted to try and get them out of that and say, no, that's a modern
dispensationalist way of reading these texts, they didn't actually, when Matthew was talking about
this was to fulfill that which was spoken, he was really saying like, you know, this is kind of a
pattern that this is the in that same kind of pattern, it fits within the larger biblical story
and history repeats itself. But like it, the early Christians were doing the same kind of thing that
the Qumran community was doing and saying, no, no, no, no, this prophecy, this, you know, even
not prophecies, just Psalms and historical narratives, anything, anything, Bobby took his
dog to the parallel, parallel Armenia, where they're just like, this is about us. And you just
Well, that's why I was saying, can I pull up that one passage real quick here? I think it's worth it.
First Corinthians nine, believe it is, it's, I know it because I always talk about it, Paul's
talking about money. Okay, and he's talking about rights as an apostle. Have I not seen our Lord?
Are you not the results of my work in the Lord, even though I may not be an apostle to others?
Surely I am to you, exclamation point. For you are the sill of my apostleship in the Lord, scrolling
down. Verse eight, do I say this merely? Okay, let me go up. Who serves as a soldier at his own expense?
Who plants a vineyard and does not eat its grapes? Who tends a flock and does not drink the milk?
He's trying to say, why am I not getting paid? Why am I not treated like the other apostles?
Then he says, do I say this merely on human authority? Doesn't the law say the same thing?
Well, what does the law say, Paul? For it is written in the law of Moses,
do not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain. Oh, okay, that's what it says.
Is it about oxen that God is concerned? Surely he says this for us, doesn't he? Yes,
this was written for us because whoever plows and threshes should be able to do so in the hope,
you can't even get through a normal mundane law about not muzzling your oxen so it doesn't eat
while it's working without it meaning, oh, it's actually talking about me because I'm a last day's
prophet and this is all talking about me and what I've got going on. That's Paul. Well, and then in
the next chapter he, in 1 Corinthians 10, where he says, these things happened as an example
and they're really about us upon whom the end of the ages has come. So it's like this was all just
prefiguring our own time and the point is that it's all leading to this place where we are now.
And this is what the Habakkuk, Peshir, the teacher of righteousness, this group's doing the same thing.
So I need to say something about this too because this is good, actually, this fits right. And the
next video in my series, The Dead Sea Scrolls Unapologetically, is about prophecy and Peshir
exegesis and it's a little bit behind because I've had a bunch of other things that I've got to get
done this month. But I have nothing to do with that. That's on Derek, but I've got a few other things.
He's going to blame me forever. Listen, I'm doing this for three thousand years. Where does
the buck stop, Derek? Where does the buck stop? So there are a handful of texts from The Dead Sea
Scrolls, which are really interesting. And when scholars first started seeing them and rating
them, they developed this whole category of texts that they call Peshirim. And it's based on this
word, Peshir, Peshir, which you see in the Habakkuk Peshir. And this indicates a special kind of
treatment of the text. They've been identified as the earliest form of an integrated commentary
on the biblical text, which is pretty exciting. I think it also illustrates a particular method
with regards to treating the text. And they're not just, we have the Habakkuk Peshir. We have a
nearly complete text of the Book of Nahum. There's a Peshir for that. There's one for the Book of
Micah. I think there's two copies of Peshirs for Isaiah. And there's a Peshir for the Book of Psalms.
There's another manuscript that's very intriguing, which has been called.
Am I going to, what is this? What is it called? It's the commentary on the Book of Genesis.
And my Dr. Fodder did his, he wrote the edition for this manuscript and has argued pretty
persuasively that this is a very early stage of this type of exegetical handling of the text. And
this on the basis of, he sees, you know, within this text, we start to see a transition whereby,
like at an earlier period, much of the literature that we have in the Dead Sea Scrolls, which deals
with what we understand to be scripture, is of the type where it's like very intrusively just
entering the text and changing it and, you know, very explicitly altering what's within the text
to help to make it more sense or to provide it some sort of contemporary meaning and application.
So we see this taking place within the so-called commentary of Genesis, but then you also see
some of these, some of these types of, of pressure interpretation. So, but I mentioned that just,
just as a means to show we actually, so we have specific examples from Koum Rom where this is
taking place, not just within texts that we would understand to be prophetic, but like you said,
the Book of Psalms, it's happening in the Book of Genesis. But oftentimes when it comes to this,
I, I, I am giving people two messages here. The first thing I want people to understand and to know
is that this is normal, right? This is, this is just, this is just what, what, what everyone did
with their, with their favorite texts. Because quite often the, the, the temptation on one side
is to say, well, well, look at what the, the, the Gospels are doing with the Old Testament. They
can't even read it properly. They're taking it out of context. They're, they're, you know,
misunderstanding and they're misappropriating things and, and they're changing the meaning of it.
And this is so, this is so dishonest. It's so disingenuous. No, this is not, this is,
this is just how you read texts back then. That's how they function. That's what they were for.
And then on the other side of this, I think it's important to point out that, yeah,
this is what everyone was doing. And in so doing was arriving at exactly the same results.
As I pointed out in the, in the Dead Sea Scrolls, you want to talk about fulfilled prophecy?
Let's talk about all the fulfilled prophecies in the Peshir Habakkuk.
Let's talk about all the fulfilled prophecies in the Peshir Nahum, in Peshir Isaiah, or in the
commentary of Genesis, because from their perspective, it's fulfilled certain things.
It's all fulfilled. Well, they're still expecting that to be the last generation, that kind of
stuff, right? So like kind of like the New Testament says, this is fulfilled, like this is
being fulfilled right now, it is written in, look, it's being fulfilled in front of your eyes,
yeah, all of that's happening, but there's still kind of future expectations, and those fell,
is what you're saying. A little bit, yeah. So, and that's, and we have to go somewhere else,
like, like what the Peshir's are doing, what the Peshir Reem by and large do is say, we're,
we're using these texts of scripture, these, these old prophecies as a way to legitimate what
we're doing now, makes sense, right? But there is another, so there's another, another thing
that's happening in, at, at Qumran, and that's, to, to, to kind of give you a sense of, of, of
what's going on there, let's take a look at the war scroll. So, I just have to say, like, this is,
this is, this is a picture of, of one of my favorite manuscripts in the entire world. This is,
this is 4Q Jeremiah, sorry. No, this is 4Q MA. This is a copy of text from the war scroll. The
war scroll was, was discovered also in cave one, and it's, and it's not quite intact, but it's,
it's largely intact. We have, we have most of it. It's a, it's a really, really challenging text.
People for a long time, and it's maybe the best, the best comparative text that we have for something
like the book of Revelation in the New Testament, but it's, it's, it's not the book of Revelation.
The, the war scroll is, is like a rule text that's got, it's loaded with, with things that you have
to make sure that, that you're doing in preparation for this, this greatest pathological war that's
going to be taking place. It's a collection of songs and hymns, which, you know, you sing and,
and you, you perform. Either anticipation, I don't know if Alex Jason, who teaches at NYU,
um, has, has written about this and, and suggested that when it came to the war scroll, this is stuff
that like, like these songs and these, these rituals that, that we see within there, they were
actually like this, this is part of a regular liturgy that they were, you know, enacting and
reciting and chanting and, and, you know, like you would in, in, I guess, I don't know, in Anglican or
Coptic church or something like that, right? So, but then it's also loaded with a bunch of,
expectation about what's going to happen. So there's a narration within there about what's
going to happen in the last days, in the war between the suns of light and the suns of darkness. And I,
I need to point out, so, um, oh, so what are the reasons I pointed out this manuscript?
There's a couple of things that are very interesting that's going on here. So this is the,
there's not just a copy of the war scroll from cave one, that's the, the largest copy,
and it was the first one that was discovered, but then there were four or five other manuscripts,
fragmentary copies of things that looked very much like the war scroll that were found in cave four,
another one also found in cave 11. But importantly, these texts differ pretty dramatically also
from the copy of the war scroll that we discovered in cave one. And this is very
exciting because what we see happening here is that we've got traditions, individual larger
blocks of texts that are being strung together. And you can see the text itself developing
over time from earlier versions, some of which we have in cave four. This is probably an exemplar
of one of the earliest, um, to something that was much late, that was not that much later, maybe,
you know, 60 years. The text has changed dramatically into now this, this copy that we have
in, in the cave one copy. And the other really, really interesting thing about this manuscript
is that this particular fragment that I, that I have here is, is two columns, right? So this is,
this is the first column, and then there's a, there's a break here, and then there's a second
column. And your audience can't see it. But there's actually two different hands. This was written by
a scribe. And then this column was written by a different scribe. So we have, and then we have,
we have a bunch of fragments from this manuscript. And the real fun is attempting to, to put them
together. Because the original editor, Maris Baye, he just, when he was going through the
fragments, he just said, well, I'm gonna, I'm gonna put this together in the same way that it,
it matches, you know, the war scroll from Khrumran cave one. But when he did this, what he ended up
doing is putting stuff, because he didn't recognize it's subtle, the, the difference between the,
the two different hand writings is pretty subtle. So he apparently didn't notice
the difference and ended up just, just following the layout of what I call one QM, the war scroll.
And in so doing, had, you know, stuff written by scribe A next to stuff written by scribe B,
and then back to scribe A again. And so it, it didn't make any sense at all. So it's really
interesting and what, what scholars are working on right now in particular with this manuscript
is trying to figure out what this looked like. And what we are discovering is that the order
of material here is dramatically different than what appears in one QM. So lots of the same kinds
of traditions with developing them, development in them, but in totally, totally different orders.
So I'm sorry, I just get excited about this kind of stuff. So I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna pull up
column 17 of one QM is really, really cool, because so this is, this is the expectation
that the people had of what was going to happen in this, this catalogical war that they were
getting ready for. They had this, this belief that there was going to be a global, from their
perspective, a global war, all the nations of, of the earth were going to, to start, they were
going to descend on Palestine, Roman Palestine, Israel, Judah, and they were going to have this,
this total conflict. And it was going to be the, the, the sons of light, as they identified themselves,
they are the true followers of God. And they were going to be fighting alongside literal angels.
One of the neat things in, in the war scroll is all this, all these rules have to do with how the
camps are to be set up and, and how people are to get themselves ready for, for, for fighting in
this war, right? And the rules in the camp are incredibly strict in terms of purity and in terms
of what you can do and can't do. And the reason for that is because they were certain that they were
going to be living and fighting alongside the angels in God's army. And because of this, you had to,
you had to make sure that, you know, you're, you had to make sure that, that you were, you were
as, as pure, as ritually pure as, as absolutely possible, right? So this war was going to happen
and, and all the sons of light and, and who, who were the true followers of God, this, this tiny
little minority, small group of people fighting alongside the angels was going to be up against
the, the force of all the nations, all the, the, the, all the bad Jews, all the Jews who
didn't think like they did, were also going to be within this, this group called the sons of darkness.
And they're, they were going to be fighting in the camp of Belial, which was the name that,
that the writers and collectors of the Dead Sea Scrolls had for the devil, for their view of,
of Satan, right? Never called them or as far as I know, I don't have to look back on that on,
on Satan and the Dead Sea Scrolls, but more, more often than not, he was called Belial. Sometimes
he was the, these, these demons were called the, the angels of the Mastamot or angels of Mastama.
Sometimes they were called the, the Shadim, but the forces of Belial are what's featured in,
in the war scroll, and there's going to be seven battles. And after six of them, it's going to be
a tie. Three of them are going to go to, you know, the sons of God and, and, or the, the, the, the
sons of light and, and the angels and God, and three of them are going to be won by all the
nations and Belial and the sons of darkness. And then in the final battle, God's going to
himself like intervene and then just, you know, wipe everybody out, right? So it's, it's this wild
interesting text, of course, because this is a, this is an expected cosmic battle, but it, it also
involves real people. For them, the, the, the enemy, the, the representation of the human enemy
was always the Romans. And the people who collected the Dead Sea Scrolls called the Romans the Katim,
which is a term that, that was pulled out of the Hebrew Bible and applied to the Romans or to people
who lived on the other side of, of the Aegean basically there, right? So I'm just going to read
a little bit of, of column 17. And this is, this is just kind of at the crux of, of, of the battle,
the last battle when, when they're finally going to, to win. Here's what it says.
He has placed their success in the burning something. Those tested in the crucible. He
has whetted her weapons of war and they shall be blunted until every wicked people is destroyed.
And you remember the trial of Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, by judging them, God
showed his holiness in the eyes of the people. And Eleazar and Itamar, he confirmed for the
covenant of an everlasting priesthood. And you exert yourselves and do not fear them. Oh, this is,
so this is part of a speech that's going to be delivered by the, by the high priests to get
everybody, you know, ready for this, this final battle. Do not fear them for their desire goes
towards chaos and emptiness and their support is without, there's a break. Do not, do they know
that from the God of Israel, everything is and will be in all that will happen eternally. Today
is his appointed time to humiliate and to abase the prince of the dominion of evil. He sends
everlasting aid to the lot of his covenant by the power of his majestic angel for the sway of Michael
in the blessing of God's lot to exalt the sway of Michael above all the gods. And the dominion of
Israel, over all flesh justice will rejoice in the heights and all the sons of his truth will
have enjoyment and everlasting knowledge and you sons of his covenant be strong in God's crucible
until he shakes his hand and finishes his testings, his mysteries concerning your existence.
Then after these words, the priests shall blow for them in, in order to, they're blowing trumpets,
by the way, I should probably make that clear here. So in order to arrange the battalions of the
line in columns shall deploy at the sound of the trumpets until each man is in his position. The
priest shall blow a second call on the trumpets and signal for attack when the infantry men shall
reach the side of the cateen line at throwing distance. Each man will take his weapon of war
in his hand and the priest shall blow the trumpets of the slain. The Levites and all the throngs
with ramshorns shall blow the call for war. The infantrymen will stretch out their hand against
the army of the cateen. When the sound of the call ends, they shall start to cast down their slain.
All the throng will stop with the sound of the call, but the priest shall continue blowing the
trumpets of the slain and the battle of the cateen will be directed and the troops of Beliah
will be defeated in front of them in the third lot. And then it kind of breaks off, but you see
what's going on here. So this is the ultimate prediction about the end of the Romans. And of
course, lots of this stuff was written in the late 1st century BCE. I think some of it probably
was written already in the 1st century CE. So we're decades away. We're decades away from
the Jewish war. And the people who read this text, undoubtedly,
on the eve of the Jewish war, they saw what was happening. They saw that the Romans were
were coming and encroaching on Jerusalem. And they're like, what are they thinking, right?
This is it. It's coming. It's about to happen. One of the things that to me is so interesting
about the war scroll is I think the light that it can shed on Jesus and the early churches,
non-violence, because I think a lot of modern scholarship has a tendency to read
modern pacifism, a more principled, ideological stance on non-violence back onto the early church
and see them as being principled, non-violent people in that same kind of way, where I think,
famously, the Qumran community, the Essians, were non-violent in the sense that they were
quietistic, they removed themselves from society, and their solution wasn't like the Maccabees who
were, let's rise up and fight against the enemy. Their solution was the exact opposite,
let's withdraw. But it wasn't principled pacifism. It was apocalyptic pacifism. It was pacifism on
a schedule. They were violent in their hearts. It's just not the time yet. What we're doing is
we're waiting on God to descend. We're waiting on God to bring the angels to usher in the messianic
age, where then we will be empowered and anointed to fight in the eschatological battle.
And so it was all just, they're just looking at their watches saying, it's not time yet,
but when it is time, we are ready to fight. And I think when you read the Gospels and you read
Jesus' sayings with that in mind, you get this picture of his pacifism, which, I mean, he is
preaching this kind of interim ethic where you listen to his eschatological parables, and there's
always this story about the landowner going away, and then when he comes back, and when he finds the
wicked servants not doing it, what does he do? He's going to destroy those men. And I mean,
in story after story after story, Jesus tells, when the Son of Man comes back with the angels,
he is going to judge, he's going to sit on his throne, he's going to divide the nations,
and he is going to send the wicked to Gehenna. And the violence of Jesus' eschatology
is really, really apparent, and it shows that he wasn't this pacifist that I think a lot of scholars
like John Dominic Crossen want to kind of paint them as, and that's one of the reasons why John
Dominic Crossen doesn't like the apocalyptic emphasis that the Gospels have, is because
apocalypses are inherently violent, and it's those violent fantasies that are offensive to
our modern mindset, but the Kumran community and the war scroll, I think, is really illuminating
to the particular brand of non-violence that Jesus probably helped.
Two things real quick, Kip. We've had a lot of super chats since we started that we haven't
addressed, but the second thing is my recent interview with Bart Ehrman on Revelation, the
apocalypse that I did, I asked him about this, like, what, like, does he see a difference between
the Jesus of Revelation, Jesus and the Gospels, and he was like, oh yeah, big time, there's a big
difference, but like, I was trying to get it out of him, and I don't think he saw what I was trying
to say exactly what Matthew's saying here was like, I don't know, I mean, yes, I think there's a lot
more upfront, open crap is going down, blood, the enemies are going to be, you know,
scorched earth anger toward the enemies of God, that was obvious, but he kind of said, yeah, yeah,
well, Jesus isn't painted that way in the Gospels, and I'm like, but he's apocalyptic,
he has the expectation of like, burning the wheat in the chapel, the sheep in the goat,
there is like, it's not, it's not Jesus meek and mild, Gospels is not this completely different
picture. No, we're reading through our churchy type of interpretation.
That's just it, right? Like, I think so much of this, it's so hard for us to get out of our
like, thoroughly apocalyptically conditioned worldview with regards to these things that
that the expectation is, you know, within when I was when I was still a Christian,
the expectation was that there was going to be a violent end, yes, but it, you know,
I don't have anything to do with it. It doesn't involve me, it's besides what I can even control,
but it comes out of this apocalypticism from early Judaism, but I think you're absolutely right
in that we need to be really careful about how we're blunting. You know, yes, they were,
they were, it's exactly as Matthew put it, they were pacifistic, only in the sense that
it was because they were on the clock. Like, in their heart, there's nothing more that these
people wanted to see than dead Romans. That's what they all wanted. And just because they were
smiling and they're, you know, smiling and nodding and turning the other cheek, you know,
it didn't change the fact that deep down, they just wanted to see dead Romans. But they,
yeah, there was this part of the part of the apocalyptic worldview is this recognition that
that you as an individual have absolutely no, you have no real agency within the world. Virtually
all of your, your own decisions and your character and your life has been plotted out
beforehand. It's been charted, right? So you are, you know, God's got this, this plan and
everything fits within it. In fact, in the Dead Sea Scrolls, there's, there's a sermon
also in the community rule called the treatise of the two spirits, which, you know, illustrates
this explicitly that virtually everybody is either, you know, on, on this side or that side.
And, and it's by design and there's nothing you can do about it except work out your destiny.
Yeah, that's how it was when I was a Calvinist. In fact, it was, I had already figured it out,
like it was already part, like there was no changing what was set determined from beginning
to end. So it was about my behavior that I just needed to mimic and show that I was an elect by
my behavior. And there were moments when I'd relapse. And that's where I bring this up about
how my behavior, there was a struggle. Am I your child, God? Why, why did I slip up? Why am I stuck
in addiction and things? And it gets really, really, it was a, it was a nightmare torture of
like wondering if I'm at sun. There's all sorts of stuff. There's all sorts of mental hell I put
myself through. Can we get through a few of these supers? Can I plug a book? Yep, plug it. If you're
interested, this is a book that I edited. It's a, it's a Brill book. I haven't looked, but you
could probably get it for a free PDF somewhere. So this is the War of Scroll Violence, War and Peace
in the Dead Sea Scrolls and Related Literature. And this, so this is a book of collected essays
from a whole bunch of different scholars. And I'll just like just some of the, some of the essays
in here. I think they're all pretty good. I'm a little biased because I helped put this together.
I mean, I only killed myself doing it, you know. Yeah, that's it. So text Timing and Terrorist
Thematic Thoughts on the War Scroll by George J. Brooke, writing a descriptive grammar. Oh,
that's, that's about syntax. You guys probably aren't interested in that. The Mysteries of God
in the Kumeron War Scroll by Anthony Meyer. My article is not interesting to anybody.
Priestly Covenants in the War Scroll and One QSB, War Rule Texts and a New Theory of the People of
the Dead Sea Scrolls by Robert Coogler, Violent Imaginaries and Practical Violence in the War
Scroll by Alex P. Jason, The Naval Battle in the Kumeron War Texts by Brian Schultz, Wisdom,
Poverty and Nonviolence in Instruction. It's loaded with all sorts of good stuff. Prophecy,
False Prophecy and War in the Dead Sea Schools by James E. Bowley. So if you can get it,
I think it's a great book. So it's, but yeah, it's, it's a, it's a Brill book, unfortunately.
Are you wanting to read something before we get moving? Okay. So I just think it's interesting.
I saw this super chat and so I'm waiting on that. Oh, this here? Okay. Well, let's start. Let's start
having some fun because, you know, the chat is probably wanting to tune in. Feel free to super
chat if you want to tune in with us. Mr. Monster says, let's talk about prophecies in Daniel. They
are fun. Yeah. This is what I was hoping to get at in talking about the Habakkuk Pescher too,
because in the same way that the Habakkuk Pescher is inspired by specifically Habakkuk 2 and how
Habakkuk 2 speaks of an appointed time of the end and has this emphasis on a foreordained time of
prophetic fulfillment that, uh, that they, that inspires them to, to become more deterministic
in their thinking about this is about our time. It's appointed in God's foreknowledge. It's going
to happen. Um, but then also in Habakkuk 2, how it says, you know, though it appears to delay,
wait for it and has a kind of a room for there being a, uh, a time where, you know, we thought that
it was going to happen. It didn't happen. And there is this, this delay, this apparent delay
and the way that Habakkuk says, you know, though it seems to delay, wait for it because it will
come at the appointed time, the authors of the Habakkuk Pescher are inspired by that because
they find in a, in the prophetic tradition, in, on the voice, the voice of God, a justification for
their own time of eschatological delay and, and that, that, um, that strengthens their hearts in,
in order to say, see this experience of dissonance that we're having in this time of non-fulfillment
was actually, it's a part of the plan all along. God had this in mind and he wrote about it. He
told Habakkuk about it. Habakkuk had this understanding that there would be this period of
partial fulfillment, but still we're waiting. There's a delay and it's all a part of God's plan.
And so it, it kind of envelops their own time of, of, uh, of anxiety, of eschatological anxiety
within this broader understanding of God's sovereignty and that he, it's all, it's nothing
to see here. It's all according to plan. Well, this is, this is, yeah, no, Daniel, this is just
go ahead. Sorry. No. Well, Daniel does the same thing. Daniel, in the same way that Habakkuk,
the Habakkuk Pescher is inspired by Habakkuk to make that claim about God's for ordained purpose
and the delay is just an apparent delay in Daniel eight, which is the first place where Daniel
actually, and it's as far as I know, and correct me if I'm wrong, Daniel is the only place where we
get a specific prediction of time where it's the, you know, you give the exact days in a Jewish
apocalypse. They actually make an attempt at saying it's going to be this many days until
the fulfillment of God's promises. But the first place in Daniel, where that comes, is in Daniel
eight, and it's counting from the, uh, the, uh, when, uh, Antiochus Epiphanes, um, uh, had, it took,
took the daily sacrifices and offerings away from the temple and they could no longer
offer sacrifices. And so it says from the, the time when the daily sacrifices are taken away,
it says that there, there will be 2300 evenings and mornings, um, until, and it says the appointed
time, the appointed time will come. And it's, it's actually echoing Habakkuk about that,
that emphasis on the appointed time. Um, but the 2300 evenings and mornings is, uh, when the
sacrifices would be made in the temple in the evening and in the morning. And so it's, it's, uh,
what, 1150 days. Um, it's one thousand five, uh, one thousand, uh, 150 days, um, that it's counting.
And, and that's the first prediction it makes. It's 1150 days. Obviously that number is different
from then in, uh, 1280 in, in, uh, later in Daniel, in Daniel, uh, 11 and 12, you have 1260
and then 1290. And the 1260, I mean, it's all, you're already, you know, you've got 100 days more.
Um, all of these can be more or less three and a half years. You can say, I mean, three, you know,
time times and half a time is the general timeframe that Daniel gives where it's in Daniel nine, you
have 70 times seven or 490 years. And the main focus is on the time after the burnt, the daily
sacrifices are taken away after there's the abomination of desolation set up in the temple.
Um, and then there's this time times and half a time. And so it seems like the author tries to
make that time times and half a time more specific at several points throughout the text. And the
first time is in Daniel eight, where he says it's, it's 1150 days. Then he says in Daniel 11, uh,
or Daniel 12, 1260. And then he says, but, but blessed are those who wait and come to the end
of 1335, isn't it? 1335 days. So adds 45 days to, uh, to the, the, the second prediction of time.
And that, blessed are those who wait, John Collins points this out in his
hermenea, gold standard commentary right here, best commentary on Daniel,
um, points out that again, as in Daniel eight, Daniel is echoing Habakkuk and saying,
blessed is he who wait, it's a Habakkuk too. When it says, uh, uh, what's the exact phrase that Habakkuk
says is that, um, you know, uh, that speaks of those who wait. Um, the righteous will live by
their faith, but it's those, those, um, and there's this emphasis on, on waiting and being
patient in the midst of the apparent delay. And it's only an apparent delay. The time is appointed,
but there's an apparent delay. And so it seems like Daniel, the author of Daniel, sitting in this
time where he had made a specific prediction, a specific amount of days, those days pass.
And some critics of the, the explanation that the author of Daniel is just adding then
another extra one is, well, why would he just add another tag on another amount of days instead of,
instead of, you know, getting his eraser out, erasing the previous prediction and, and, and
saying, Oh no, no, no, this is, this is the amount of days I sat all along. The reason it is found
in his exegesis, in his use of Habakkuk, there's an apparent delay and he is inspired by Habakkuk to
say, yeah, this apparent delay sits within the purview of God's perfect plan, just as the authors
of the Habakkuk Peshir did. And they said, no, no, no, this is a test of our faith. We are called
to wait and blessed are those who will wait and come to the end of this extended, this time of
apparent delay. Um, and, and so it's all that he is, he is justifying his previous prediction,
saying it wasn't wrong. It's just that there's an apparent delay here and it's the time has been
extended a little bit. And so we have to be patient and wait just like Habakkuk said.
I'll tell you what, Daniel's a fun one. Daniel's a fun one. Seth, uh, Haydek says, I want a historical
borat. And then Seth says, how can you not like a guy, send to bears to attack children for calling
him bald? And then Seth. Hey, I gotta say, yeah, oh, I, I didn't, I didn't mention Elijah there
anywhere or Elisha, but, uh, yeah, I don't know. James brother Jesus as TX share of righteousness
teacher of righteousness. Okay. Okay. Disnance after it was tossed down the stairs. Uh,
no, I don't think that's, uh, I mean, it's just, it's, it's so late. It's so late. Um,
you know, you're, you have to basically shift. I know, I know there are, there are some,
there are, there are some pockets, uh, where, where it's, it's popular to try and shift the
entire Jesus movement back a couple hundred years. But, uh, yeah, you just can't do it.
Uh, and that's, that's what you would have to do in order to make any sense of,
teacher of righteousness, teacher of righteousness in line with, uh, with James.
Thank you.
Lebowski appreciate you. Lebowski Ichipod. Dude, this is, this is a good one right here.
What's up team? Derek, please treat Matthew to a coffee on me. His video on cognitive
dissonance explaining Christianity was fire. Thank you. Go subscribe to Ichipod. I'm telling you,
he's doing some great stuff. It's been showing up everywhere. I'm, I'm like hoping that more
people will get involved in the community. I seriously, seriously appreciate, um, everybody
here in the chat today. Brady Goodwin. So, you know, the, the rapper, the, the, the hip hop Christian
artist, that's Ichipod. Oh, is it? Is it Ichipod or is it Ichipod? When I see that, I want to,
I want to think it's the Greek, the Greek pronunciation on that. Yeah. You remember,
it might be Ichipod, but you remember, um,
It reminds me of Ichipod.
He's a darkness where he had to remember three words and he gets to the end and he forgot one
of them and he's like, shot rock, knee shot. I said your words. I don't remember. I don't know. Ichipod,
Ichipod, I don't know. Ichipod, you know, it's a pod. Okay. It's a pod.
Uh, subscribe to him for sure. MNAG in the house, just here, putting my support and something
important. Thank you guys. Thank you. Very important. Thank you. I seriously appreciate
that support. We're giving it to the Apocalyptic Feld Funding, uh, uh, foundation, um, that we
just created today. Um, I don't know how to pronounce this name, but they became a member.
Guts. Guts. Yeah. Wynreik. Wynreik. Wynreik. Wynreik. Dude, killer name. You just became a member.
Thank you for that. I seriously appreciate your support and being a member. I want to just say
one more thing about Daniel while we're still on that previous, uh, chat, but just talking again
about the drama of the way that the biblical tradition reinterprets previous prophecies.
We were talking about Jeremiah and how Jeremiah reinterprets. He updates Micah,
where Micah had a, an unconditional prophecy of judgment. And then Jeremiah reinterprets that
to be conditional. Well, then Jeremiah makes this prediction about 70 years until the time
of restoration, until the end of exile. And then Daniel takes Jeremiah, reinterprets him
through Daniel's deterministic apocalyptic framework, where Jeremiah was conditional.
Daniel become, is, is very deterministic, but reinterprets Jeremiah so that it's not 70 years.
It's 78 times Daniel Gabriel reveals to him. Actually, that speaks of 70 times seven. And
then she's us in the apocalypse in the, in the, uh, all of that discourse says actually the
abomination of desolation. It's, you know, Daniel was about the, the solution. I mean, it was about
the, uh, uh, uh, you know, anti-exipophanies and the solucids and Jesus and, uh, uh, uh, Baruch
and other apocalypses in the first century, reinterpret Daniel so that it's now about the
Romans. Yeah. And it's about their time. And it just keeps going and going and going. One of the
things that we see in the, in the Dead Sea Scrolls is, is a number of texts, which have latched
on to this 490 years of Daniel. But what they're doing is they are, they are calculating, they're,
they're attempting to, to, uh, provide different calculations on how to, how to divide it up,
how to, uh, how to understand, uh, what happens within that 490 year period. And you've probably
got, I don't know the wall, but I think you've probably got about as many as five different
ways of, of calculating and, and, and, and, uh, parting up this, this 490 year period,
uh, depending on the texture rating, uh, and, and all just in this one place, right?
So it's, I mean, so much of this stuff I think is, uh, it's so flexible. It's so malleable.
Um, and the people who, who, who read this literature were just, were just like,
like creative kind of literary geniuses. That's why earlier I was getting up, Kip. And I was
looking, I, I had this like spark of, you know, interest in finding John Jay Collins book, uh,
apocalyptic imagination, because he has a chart. Yeah. Book. Oh yeah. Kind of checks off all this
different literature. No, it's somewhere. I've got, I've got my copy over here. Do you want to
grab it real quick? All right. You guys are getting the shen dig here. This is the, the skinny,
you're on the front row C, C in the good stuff, but there's a spot in there where he specifically,
I think it's the Habakkuk Pesher that actually is doing this 490 year thing. Um, I'll have to
double check. Yeah. It's the, they're using the Daniel thing as well. So they're like,
they're like doing all sorts of stuff. There are a blender of ideas.
So two things. First, this one highly recommended.
Back it up a little bit. I think that's better. You can see that.
Apocalypticism and the Dead Sea Scrolls. Excellent stuff. Goes into the Habakkuk Pesher a lot in
there and relates it to the book of Daniel. Um, but then Apocalyptic Imagination. I think I have
an earlier copy than your edition probably. Yeah. Mine's the black cover. Yeah. You got the newer one.
Which one does, which one does, uh, does it have? Oh, see, that's, that's the one that I have,
but I was just looking at my, my bookshelf now and I, I believe that is another boy that is still
in Norway. I'm going to do something here temporarily. Forgive me for butchering here.
We're going to try and set this thing up. All right. Let's see if we can get,
so this chart in here, you can't even see the words, but in fact, let me get up in there.
So he goes in like checks off like all the criteria that these particular manuscripts
cover. And yeah, you can pause this later. If you're watching this after it's live and actually
read these, or you can just be smart, you know, and buy the book. Oh, that's an option too.
But, um, I might as well, uh, let me get you rather have your face and clear because I just
scoot to your distance and then we're good. All right. That's better. So in this, uh, section,
you highlighted the hizzy out of this thing. So there's some really good stuff here. I don't
think he has, Habakit Pecher is not in that list on the chart, but in this section, dude, it's been,
I don't know, a year since I read this, um, somewhere in the section, he brings up the 490
years and it's related to this Habakit Pecher and it's felt apocalyptic expectation. And it's
just a blurb. Like it's like two paragraphs, but it's like dense. And I'm like, Oh my gosh,
that's a killer. Cause it fits right into this Daniels felt apocalyptic expectation.
I mean, they, they thought it was going to happen in their time. And one comment on that,
I just one comment, I'm popping up the next super chat. So we don't get rabbit trelling here and
forget that we're trying to make sure everybody's happy. Look, the reason this is a problem,
today, of addressing this issue is that, well, we don't have a scenes like, like a continuation
of this movement standing up, trying to defend themselves and go, no, no, no, no, the teacher
of righteousness was correct. In fact, it did get fulfilled in all the words he said, yada, yada, yada.
Christianity is still like an active living organism that is like really holding and
maintaining to this literature. So when we're poking holes at the, the beehive, the, the hornets
are going to come out and they're going to try and sting you. They, it's a living thing still.
Does that make sense? So it's very sacred. It's very special. Don't touch this. This is why I
continuously say a special pleading this and that. And it's like, the one Christians that we do hear
that come on who are being called not Christians by other Christians, by the way, such as Jonathan
McClatchy calling you Delcey Allison, Jr. a not Christian on Twitter. Right. Like, yeah, get a
Christian to tell you, they'll tell you who the non-Christians are in no time. But he admits.
Yeah, they were wrong about that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Those are predictions about the soon near,
they were wrong about that. You got to have a lot of respect for people who do that, no matter
what they believe at the end of the day, because that guy is like taking a strong stance on something
that really is sensitive and tough for your faith. And the ones who act like there's nothing going on
here. Christianity does not fail. There's no failed apocalyptic stuff. Jesus was right on
everything he said. And Paul was right on everything he said. I imagine if the Essenes were still living
and there was still a community going, they would say the same thing. Kind of like Orthodox Jews
say there were no failed prophecies in the Hebrew scriptures. Yeah, they go along with the conditionality
if they can, they go along with whatever they can to make sure it's not fail the same way I see
Christians. So I just wanted to make that comment if that's something you guys wanted to add something
to. No, that's good. No, not to that specifically. I wanted to read another text here. Just as an
example of here, this is an example. This is from a manuscript cataloged as 4Q390. It's one of the
manuscripts that I did. It's been called a copy of an apocryphon of Jeremiah. I don't particularly
like that title because I don't actually think it has anything to do with Jeremiah, although it's
based on another text that has something to do with Jeremiah. But this is an example of one way
in which one of these Dead Sea Scrolls manuscripts was thinking through this idea of 490 years.
So this is a reading from Fragment One. I will turn and deliver them into the hand of the Sons of
Aaron for 70 years. And the Sons of Aaron will rule over them and they will not conduct themselves
in my way, which I am prescribing for you, that you may warn them. But they will also do what
is evil in my eyes, like everything that Israel did in the days of their former kingdom. Sorry,
this is my... That's a jab at the priests. Yeah, exactly. Well, specific priests, right? Of course.
So except for those who go up first from the land of their captivity to build the sanctuary,
unto them shall I speak and I will send unto them commandments and they will understand everything
that they and their fathers abandoned. Then from the completion of that generation in the seventh
Jubilee, after the devastation of the land, they will forget statutes, seasons, Sabbath,
and covenant, and they will invalidate everything and will do what is evil in my eyes. So I will
hide my face from them and will deliver them into the hands of their enemies and I will surrender
them to the sword and I will let survive from them fugitives or a remnant so that they may not
be completely destroyed by my wrath. When my face is hidden from them and the angels of the
mast will rule over them and I will reject them and they will return to do that, which is evil in
my eyes and walk about in stubbornness of heart. So that's just an example of the way... There's one
way in which someone is taking this 490-year period and then they're mapping it out but then
assigning periods of time within there to correspond to stuff that's happening
in Jewish history from the time of Nebuchadnezzar, basically up to their current time or their
expectant immediate future time, right? And then of course you can lodge
all your own complaints about specific groups and specific people like the Benayacharo and the
sons of Aaron who were sacrificing in the temple, right? Distinct from us, of course, the good guys.
So, but that's just one example. There's others.
Shenfa, Shenfa Xi, thank you for that super chat. That's very interesting about Satan.
I've learned that that wasn't a name but rather an office within the Council of the Gods. If that's
the case, how many different characters occupied that office? Well, let's see. We are currently
occupying the office, so who were the characters? Listen, I can't even remember.
Well, we won that election by stealing it, so...
You know, that's what we need to explain.
How many different characters occupied the office of the Satan, the accuser?
I suspect. I mean, you've got Bilal, you've got like Azazel, like various demonic names and stuff.
Yeah, I mean...
An evolution that takes place where like in texts like Job, the Satan is not an enemy of God.
He is a part of God's heavenly court and he has an official occupation which is to
like the lawyer in the court bringing evidence against people. He is accusing people to God
so that God would act against them. But there is that evolution that takes place.
Thank you for that. J.R., thank you for the super chat, my friend. Usual, the Hebrew-Israelite
sure do embrace the Jesus of Revelation. Which is the Jesus of the Gospels, too.
That's the thing, right? I think Bart was kind of trying to kind of separate a little bit of what
we're seeing and I'm thinking maybe this was just a little more upfront about what he's trying to
accomplish, whereas the other one is not clear because I think the churchy interpretation model
we've been living with. I think there's something else I think is worth saying here with regards to
to perspectives of violence within apocalyptic imagery and apocalyptic texts.
One of the things that scholars tend to do is they'll look at a lot of this apocalyptic literature
and read within them or reconstruct as a result of what they're seeing,
you know, conditions of what's happening at the time to prompt this kind of stuff.
And invariably what we tend to think is that apocalyptic literature is all a product of
persecution. People are going through a really shitty time which prompts this heightened expectation
for change and for the end and escalates these feelings of resentment and hatred and otherness
when I have taught introduction to the Old Testament before and something that I used to do
when it came to teaching going through the Psalms and centering on what scholars like to call the
imprecatory Psalms, which are the really, really violent ones that talk about how much they want
to see Babylonian babies' heads smashed against rocks and their enemies, you know, utterly destroyed.
One of the things that I like to do is show a clip from the movie that Michael Moore made
back in how long ago was this now Fahrenheit 9-11. I think that's got to be 20 years old by now.
And I don't know if you're familiar with it. It's a documentary of sorts about the Bush presidency
and the Iraq war. And there's this really harrowing scene in there of a group of American soldiers
who have just fought a battle or had an engagement with some people in a residential
neighborhood in Iraq and, of course, you know, ended up destroying all sorts of
private property and killing civilians and all these so-called instances of collateral damage.
And there's a woman who is screaming out to Allah in this amazing scene, just screaming out to him,
you know, how badly she deserves justice and how much she wants Allah to come down
and to destroy the Americans and to cut their limbs off and to, you know, disembowel them.
And she is, you know, in the heart of it after having just seen her entire family or her friends
or neighbors, you know, cut down by soldiers, has this visceral, you know, emotive reaction
through which she expresses these fantasies of violence, right? And that's what, I mean,
that's what so much of this is, is a product of this kind of world where these people saw
and lived through like horrible, horrible things, atrocities and persecution and oppression that
none of us can even imagine, which prompted the production of this kind of very, very strong
violent language and imagery. I just thought that was important to point out.
Yeah, you got him and his curiosity is popping off.
So, excellent book, another one by John Collins called Apocalypse Prophecy and Psydupigraphy,
and there's a chapter in there. Chapter 18, the title is Cognitive Dissonance and
Eschatological Violence, Fantasized Solutions to a Theological Dilemma in Second Temple Judaism.
The whole chapter is talking about the dissonance that Jews were living within in believing that
their God is the creator, sustainer of the universe and that they are his special chosen people
and that he has promised them blessing, he has promised that they would be the head and not
the tail, and yet they are living in a situation of occupation. They are living in a situation of
persecution and that this is the context in which apocalyptic fantasies of violence emerge
because they are trying to respond to that dissonance, the chasm between their belief
in the one God who is good, who is all-powerful, and who has chosen us to be a blessing to the whole
world and yet the situation of destitution and of persecution and of lowliness that we find ourselves
in continually and that it's easy often to judge those kinds of apocalyptic fantasies of violence,
but Collins does a really good job at describing and empathizing with that experience of felt
persecution and in showing how if you're in that situation this sometimes feels when you're in a
situation of powerlessness, this is the only way that you can find release, you have all this built
up pressure, and of course the belief is the problem, I mean the belief that you are serving
the one God that controls what's happening, that is what's creating that. My best friend
controls the universe. Yeah, that's why you need to find an explanation, but either way that experience
is going to be rough and those fantasies of violence are a way for them to release that
built up pressure without resorting to an ill-advised violence right now. Yeah, you see that ill-advised
go full-fledged with rebellions that end up getting squashed like bugs by Rome, it's pretty
intense. Imnag, thank you for the super chat, as this channel picks up popularity, fundamentalists
will come after you guys full force. Any thoughts on how prepared you are? I believe it's already
started, any concerns? They can get very vile. I've already, I mean like, I do this for fun and
I mean this is just, I'm a hobbyist and I really am not, I mean this guy, you've got a thick skin,
built up over the years where you're used to all that stuff. I don't enjoy that kind of stuff and
for me it's just, I'm fascinated with the subject itself and so as long as I can just keep my mind
focused on the fun of it, then I'll keep going and I try and I'm not the best at it, but I try to
ignore the negativity as much as possible and just do what I'm doing. Oh, so the solution,
I would say, is what I'm gonna get good at and more over time you're gonna notice is becoming
someone who ignores and blocks because what I'm doing right now, because I'm on a friendly
basis with most people who disagree with me at the end of the day, the goal is to try and keep
decent relationships with people. If I find that it's getting heated or out of control or too much
or there is kind of like just throwing people under the bus, at some point you got to go,
all right enough, even the Dalai Lama after getting bit for the third time by a mosquito,
killed the mosquito, okay? They don't take life at all, they're supposed to not at least. He said
strike three, that's it. My point is if it keeps coming, block and move, block and keep going because
what I'm gonna do isn't gonna stop. We are educating and if someone who is sincere wanting to investigate
figure out what the case is, historically, you've come to the right place. If you want to know what
your Protestant packaged deal offers you, go check out some Protestant Christian channel or
Eastern Orthodox channel or Roman Catholic channel. We are coming at this with historical
methodology, we're not interested in drawing a conclusion in particular on any of this stuff.
Yes, we have our bias. Yes, I have my conclusions, but it's more of a historical research channel.
Sometimes I sprinkle in my anti-apologetic stuff, but it's majority not that. It's mostly what is the
case and deal with the data. And I have Christian scholars who come on and they set that standard
pretty good too. So it's like, hey dude, if I can get Christian scholars to come on, maybe Christians
should follow suit with Christian academics, not necessarily their apologetic ones. Anyway,
that's my thoughts, Imnag. I really appreciate the super chat. And you know, Kip, even the other day,
you kind of corrected me and I didn't really let you know that I reciprocated that. You were like,
no, your channel isn't anti-apologetics. Yes, you do that kind of stuff, but you mostly are
interested in historical inquiry and the history of stuff. What's the case on things? And that is
my goal. And I think the less I do that, I'll sleep better at night too. J.R. is back again.
This had nothing to do with the Romans. This war scroll was from the time of Melchizedek and Abraham.
Nope. Sorry. Yeah, no, it wasn't. I'm wondering where that thought comes from.
Like what would be the evidence or justification for that?
Well, think about it this way too. I imagine Orthodox Jews will argue that they have some type
of genealogical line all the way to David. I think Rabbi Singer thinks that he's either connected
to Aaron or David or something. There's no way to genealogically prove it, but there's something
about carrying that. Well, no, we have a lineage that goes all the way back. And I wonder if this
literature is sacred to J.R. and they're going, no, I believe it goes back to Melchizedek.
You might have hard copies of what we know from the first, second century BCE,
but I think this goes back to Abraham or Melchizedek. But as far as data or evidence,
there's none to prove or show that. Yeah. So, I mean, the way that we do this,
the way that scholars do this is I start with what we have, which are manuscripts.
In the case of the war scroll, we've got copies from as early as 50 BCE to as late as maybe 30
or 40 CE. And then we look at conventions within the text too. If you can gain any sort of
internal historical insight on the basis of what an author is writing, that's always really helpful.
One of the things that scholars look at in something like the war scroll, so
I believe it's Jean Duhain has pointed out that lots of the structure of the descriptions
of the eschatological battle within the war scroll align with pockets of things that we see
in first and second Maccabees. And then someone else has pointed out that the war rules themselves
and the way that it talks about arranging yourself for battle, the kinds of formations
that you take in fighting this war actually looks very close to Hellenistic Greek war texts.
So, I mean, there's all these little pieces. Doesn't it refer explicitly to the kitam?
It refers explicitly to the kitam as well, I mean, consistently throughout the text. Of course,
the kitam are mentioned in the book of Numbers. That's what I was going to ask you. Didn't later on,
oftentimes Jews would find in the family tree of Noah or find within the nations that are described
and they would attribute them to contemporary nations that they had, so they kept reapplying
biblical terms to these things. But all that to say is there's a combination of things that
we're looking very carefully at in an effort to provide as clear a picture as we can of when a text
was written or why it was written without just accepting on the face of it everything that the
text says for itself. Because, you know, authors all write from these these agenda perspectives,
we can't help it. So, this is kind of what we do and this is, with regards to the war scroll,
this is where we've ended up. So, I'm afraid it just doesn't work to see it coming out of the Bronze Age.
Christine Elise, I hope it, I was, forgive me if I butchered your name. Thank you for the super chat.
I didn't see a comment but I didn't want to leave you hanging or question or something like that.
Really appreciate the support and I seriously thank you for that.
Vesper, are there any other forged prophecies like Daniel?
I don't like the word forged because I think it provides an anachronistic sense
of intellectual property on on texts and traditions which, you know, didn't function
with the with the same sort of values in place. In fact, I mean, this was a common convention
within early Judaism certainly was to ascribe, if you had something really important to say,
then you needed to ascribe it to somebody who was who was bigger and better than than you were.
So, you know, this is more often than not the apocalypses were pseudopigraphy in that way,
right? They almost all of them. Yeah. Yeah. The book of Jubilees, you know, was written by
angels with with the with the plates up in heaven or so this isn't this isn't an apocalyptic text,
but my favorite is is is the ultimate the ultimate mic drop of authority. Sorry, I didn't the ultimate
mic drop of authority has to be the temple scroll which which claims to have literally been written
by Yahweh in the first person. So, you know, this is it's a writing convention.
As for so but that's but that's what we're yeah, there's there's lots of this kind of stuff.
You know, the the text that I read from a little bit earlier was was been called the the apocryphal
of Jeremiah because it's been it's part of a collection of literature featuring the prophet
Jeremiah in a in a position very similar to Daniel where he's doing the same thing, right? He's
he's expounding prophecies about what's what's going to happen, you know, in in the future.
Of course, you know, he's writing from from the time of like the eve or in the apocryphal of
Jeremiah actually he's writing from from toughness which is where he was kidnapped and taken after
the destruction of of Jerusalem the the final destruction in in in 587. He was taken to Egypt
and and this is where, you know, he he speaks this long prophecy about everything that's going to
take place, you know, you know, talking about the Persians and about the Greeks and about the
about the Hasmoneans. So yeah, I mean, it's very, very common, but we shouldn't we shouldn't call
these things forgeries. It's just it was what it was a popular common convention of writing
in antiquity. Thank you so much for that. Margaret DeVeldin in the house. Good to see you,
Margaret. Haven't seen you in a minute. Christianity changed from mainly Jews to mainly Gentiles. So
the Roman hate Katim should have faded comments. Thanks and love these sessions. Yeah. I think so.
I think the re the renegotiation or reinterpretation of revelation, for example, became like and then
eventually noticed like Athanasius and Eusebius and like Irenaeus even thought it was about his time
because the Romans were put one of his people to death in the arena. The emperor at the time
was being told by one of their guys was like, Hey, we can't afford these gladiators like,
but we can afford criminals that are breaking our laws and these Christians over here, they're
breaking our laws, not listening to what we say about obeying, not speaking in public place,
whatever it might be. And so they're taking Christians throwing them in the arena. Now,
of course, we get the side of the Christians saying, Oh, poor us. Now, yes, poor them for sure,
over silly law like that. But the point is, like they put themselves in the predicament oftentimes,
they weren't always hunted down, myth of persecution, Candida Moss, go read the book.
Anyway, and then there were bad times. I'm not trying to say it was all like that. But yeah,
the idea of it going from like hate the Romans to hold on, we're all Romans now. What the heck to
actually the book of Revelation is an allegory and like symbolic Athanasius starts talking about
and later on, the Protestants start to realize it's actually the Catholic Church. So it gets
used all over again, and it keeps working. So the interpretation is quite interesting. Well,
and you can you can see this progression specifically of the, you know, antipathy toward
Rome that kind of fades away. If you just read the Gospels chronologically from, you know,
Mark being the first gospel to Matthew to Luke to John, you can see a progression in the trial
narratives, the passion narratives in the portrayal of Pilate. Pilate is portrayed much more negatively
in Mark, the earliest gospel than he is in John, the latest gospel. And you can see that progression
pretty clearly where Pilate gets whitewashed and the the bad guys become more and more the
leadership of Jerusalem, not the Romans. Yeah, keep them off our backs. Margaret,
thank you for showing up. And it's great to see you here. Seriously, JB has a good one. It's
big time cognitive dissonance when you're singing praise songs to God, hallelujah, one minute,
and wondering if he will fry you forever. The next cracks developing, though, this fell
prophecy thing has legs. Yeah. You know, the the reason why I mean, I as as right as, as,
as Matthew is about this, it's unfortunate that I don't I don't see a solution here.
Because one of the one of the remarkable things about prophetic literature is just how how
how malleable it usually is. So even though prophecies fail, and that's, and this is a big part of,
of, of what, of, of what Carol is writing in his book, too, right? They're, they're never going to,
they're, they're never, they're never going to fade. Because as they fail, you can just,
you can just find new ways to understand them, and reapply them. This is, I, I, this is something
I noticed myself with regards to the, the literature at kumron. They tend to be quite specific.
But not so specific. And I, I think that's actually, I think that's a design feature.
And part of that is this, I think there's, there's this, I don't, I don't know if it's, if it's,
if it's explicit, but it's, it's, it's kind of a way of ensuring the, the, the permanence
of these texts, right? You know, once it fails, there's still, there's still an element within
there that you can recycle and then just reapply to, to something new. So, I mean, look at, not even
the son of man knows the day or hour. Just before that, he says, here's the season. Here are the
signs. This generation will not pass, but I don't really know the day or hour and whether we could
focus on particular Christians who still hold onto these expectations will say, well, he didn't
know the day or hour and he could be talking about today. And it's like, dude, everything he said
before, like, what did you, did you, are you in the same, are you reading English with me here?
Like, we're not reading the same book or something. Like, what happened? And so there's like,
if they find a weak spot, a wiggle room, a place that gives them the chance. And like you said,
you're thinking it'll stay alive as long as that's an option. JR came back says,
we do have the Ahad still living today. They are still at war with the rabbi sort of.
It's amazing. Oh, I don't know anything about that. And then JR said, Bilal has them brainwashed
and the Ahad still fights to wake the nation of Israel. Wow. Wow. Yeah, that's, I,
I don't have much more to say, but wow. And then Allen Bird says, recently learned that
Urban II and the first crusade was based on apocalyptic ideas. The book armies of heaven
by J Rubenstein is a good intro. Interesting. I haven't, I haven't either. Yeah, I don't know that
either. Huh. Oh, well, that's cool. That is. Wayne Rossi says, are the characters who undergo
apotheosis understood to have joined the council of the gods? Are the other accounts of apotheosis
than, than Ena? Are there other accounts of apotheosis than Ena, Elijah?
Within the, within the, the Christian tradition or sorry, within the, within the Jewish tradition.
I imagine Jewish. So there's actually, you know, I, I, I don't know if,
so I don't, I, I don't know if, if we can say that they are understood to have joined the
council of the gods, because I think where this, where the apotheosis starts to, I guess, form
out of this, this ancient Israelite religion, people need to understand that
like the many of the traditions with the, within the Hebrew Bible while they, they come from,
you know, the, the Israelite religions of the Iron Age have been heavily redacted and reshaped
and revised during the Exilic, post-exilic period during which Judaism actually emerged as like
this new diasporic expression of the old religion with the second, with the new Second Temple,
but now with also these, these new communities of Jews living, you know, in Alexandria and Babylon
and all over the place. So what we're talking about with, with something like Enoch who walked with
God and then, and then was no more, you've got this whole tradition, this whole tradition developing
in the Second Temple period, you know, traces as far back maybe as the time of Alexander,
but probably not even quite that far, this idea of him becoming like a divine figure.
And so this is, this is a product of this much, much later worldview which, which no longer has
the same kind of sense of a Canaanite pantheon that we see expressed in, in, in views about the
Council of the Gods or the Council of God appearing in, in various places within the
Hebrew Bible traditions. And I, so I will say while he's not, while he's not a figure who was
directly apotheosized, is that a word? Yeah, I guess.
So we have, we do have other examples of figures, you know, who live in heaven
in the, in the Second Temple period. I mean, famously Moses is, is there
with Elijah and Jesus at the Transfiguration. In Second Maccabees, Chapter 15, I think it's
Chapter 15, Judas Maccabees is, is, is given a sword by the Prophet Jeremiah. He actually
like hands it to him from out of heaven in order to, you know, to help him, him defeat
Niconore. And so it's, it's, so we have examples of this kind of thing, this, this idea of a,
of a, figures from, from the history, heroes of, of the Jewish faith functioning in this,
this cosmic realm. But I, I don't think, I don't think you can, you can juxtap, I don't think you
can map that back onto, like the old ideas about the Divine Council. Right. Digital
Hammurabi in the house, Dr. Josh says, MythVision, why do you continually have fraud scholars on
your channel? Embarrassing, embarrassing, wondering the same thing. Yeah. You know,
cognitive dissonance, we've been talking, how do you not know this by now? I mean, I'm literally
trying to make sense of why I'm suppressing the truth and unrighteousness and want to live in sin.
This is the reason, and you know that. You know why I don't want those true scholars on my channel.
You know why? I'm, I'm here because I hate Jesus. Right. Someone's gonna clip that.
Someone clip that, clip that and put that on something right there. And put that in a remix.
I'm here because I hate Jesus. I'm here because I hate Jesus. Oh my God. My, my mother's gonna
see that and she's going to disown me all over again. Oh my gosh. Well, Josh, I'm inviting you
next week on the channel and I'm going to keep the consistency of scholars I have on the channel.
So you're welcome to come. The ship fraud scholars. Yeah. Yeah. Those fraud, those fraud scholars.
JR says, Katim City of Cyprus, Sons of Belal. Sons of Belial. Are they? Thank you so much for JR.
The Belial is actually a play on words, eh? So this term Belial comes out of First Samuel
and it's applied to the sons of Eli. Eli is the priest at Shilod. He's got these rotten sons who are,
you know, they're enriching themselves out of the sacrifices being offered at the shrine and they're
also having sex with the women serving in the shrine. So they're really bad. And the text actually
says it calls the Benelie Belial. So it's, and when you see it, when you see it written in Hebrew,
it's actually, it looks like, it looks like a play on words. It says the Benelie word,
the Benelie Belial. So that's fun. I think. I'm letting everybody know you can vote right now in
the chat. Press one if you like our fraud scholars please. You have an opportunity now to participate.
If you don't, should you press two or any other number? Any other number
if you don't like the fraud scholars? There's only one option. Or how does this work, Derek? If not,
everybody is pressing one, then does that fuck up the algorithm or should everybody press?
Um, you know, honestly, they can press two or three if they also do like my fraud scholars. So
almost any number if they like our fraud scholars, but if they don't like our fraud scholars,
they can also type any number in right now. Vote whatever number is subjectively true to you right
now. And then I will like have my mind reading capabilities let me know who's for the guy and
who's not. What numbers should they press if they hate Jesus? You know what? I'll let you determine
that because you have a way of knowing. You have a sense of omniscience in your thinking here.
So I trust you. I trust you with your atheist powers. You know, it's pretty clear. I've seen
you do some things. I'm hanged for shy. I always feel like I'm butchering 90% of the people's names
forgive me, but they probably love super chatting so they can hear me say, forgive me. That's very
telling that you would structure their mill. What is it? Is that millennial strategies? Millennial
strategies probably. Okay. Okay. Long contemporary Greek ideas. Oh, military strategies along.
He's talking about the war scroll here. Yeah, absolutely. Greek ideas. The strength is the
idea that all meant that that idea this is all man made. I could believe it if they imagined
heavenly heavens weapons or something. Yeah, no, it's a mister. So I mean, this is this is,
you know, we write what we know. Right. Well, the next the next one's Vesper says, I mean,
are there other texts written after events? So when you said forged, I think what that's what
I was trying to say is like, yeah, X event two, right? And yes, there's several pieces of literature
that act as though something is fulfilled. And we have good internal and external clues,
oftentimes depending on the text on this was written well after and they're acting like
it's happening or in it's in their future. So John, that if you take a screenshot of that,
that you shared earlier, you got to hold it up to the camera that chart he has.
It's the same one. He has the otherworldly journey apocalypses and then the historical
apocalypses. And of the historical apocalypses that apocalypses that he lists are apocalypses
of Abraham, Second Baruch, Fourth Ezra, Jubilees, apocalypses of weeks, animal apocalypses and
Daniel. And on the X event two question, are they are they written after the fact,
post dating their prophecies? Every single one is X event two, every single one is post dating
their prophecies. And this is this is not a and this is not even even something that's restricted
to like the the second temple period, like the the post-exilic stuff, this this is this is in the
Bible too, you know, the the the the little apocalypse which is in in the book of Isaiah
is is sort of a it's sort of it's thought by by a lot of scholars to be like a very early
sort of form of this. You can see some of that in there. But I particularly like
first Kings chapter 13. I think I think that's right. I think it's first Kings chapter 13.
There's a story of Jeroboam who has taken control of of established basically the
the northern kingdom they've separated from the the the Davidic kingdom and set up their own
their own their own place there in Samaria. And he erects these shrines at Dan and Bethel so the
people, you know, don't have to go all the way back into any made territory to Jerusalem
to worship Yahweh they can worship Yahweh represented by a golden calf of course at
either of these two shrines. And so he's he's at the shrine at Bethel
sacrificing to Yahweh and we're just the the text just calls this guy a man of God
comes out and prophesies against Jeroboam and mentions to him how you know in hundreds of years
Josiah is going to come and he's going to he's going to break down these altars and he's going
to burn on them the human bones of the priests and and you know this is this is all going to
this is all going to take place hundreds of years from now and of course when this does happen
when Josiah does arrive at at Bethel and sacrifices all of the the priests of Yahweh there
he he he makes sure to take note of this prophecy that was uttered by the man of God
and you know instructs everybody that that his his his place his burial place is still there
and we need to make sure that that we look after it don't disturb it don't touch it
you know so it's yeah it I think most of the literature it works in this vein of like it's
either Kepa traditions you have second and third Isaiah you have people later writing and then
tacking on acting like they're this guy in the past the also the other interesting thing is
apart from just the literature has archaeology buried the bible Israel Finkelstein and and
sovereign literally show like a lot of the sites that the bible claims that joshua's conquest happens
and this and that happens and yada yada yada there is no layer of archaeology before the
seventh century bc in many of these sites which what i'm saying that means nothing ever happened
at these places before the seventh century the bible writes them as if the 12th century
at the time of moses and joshua no they're 500 years later and there is significant in some of
these cases significant things happening but they're happening in the seventh century not in the 12th
so there's a lot of like anachronistic like inserting narrative into the past by 500 years
but really this is stuff that's maybe happening in the current day can i just go for it no i i
just wanted to say something about about second third isaiya um because i think it's important
to point out that what's happening there is is different this is not x event two prophecy these
are so what's taking place there is these are these are our songs and uh and poems and um um
literature that's that's basically expressing the the zeitgeist of the present day which happens to
be post-exilic uh or or exilic and then and then post-exilic uh uh judaism um but they're not the
they're not written these are not prophecies and they're not they're not written as if this is
something that that uh is being fulfilled now so what happens though is because this literature is
appended on to the prophecy of isaiya proper um over time it gets subsumed under this rubric
of isaiya right so even though this was never intention to be the kind of thing that we're
talking about about you know um making prophetic fulfillment after the fact it becomes that just
by virtue of the association to uh this earlier literature even though i don't believe there was
ever any that there was anything of that intent in the writing of this stuff in the first place
i just wanted to say that it's almost like compilers or redactors put it together anyway i'll just
say it but it may not and yeah so somebody over time as you're reading this this text that has
been put together you start to think about the whole thing as isaiya when in actual fact it wasn't
and even at the time this stuff was written i'm not even certain was intended to be isaiya right
it just it it ended up that way were you about to say something before we get to yeah say something
guys had ever heard of the of george washington's valley ford vision you heard of george washington's
valley ford vision so george i've heard of george washington so george washington had a vision at
valley forge at the battle of valley forge where he saw the outcome of the battle and he saw you
know 100 years into the future he saw the civil war and he saw what the outcome of the civil war
would be um and and then he saw even farther than that and uh the um the apocalyptic community that
i was a part of actually in our prophetic history we had george washington's valley ford vision as
a part of our story that was incorporated into our prophetic history wow go to wikipedia and look
up george washington's valley valley ford vision you'll read a whole bunch about it but the thing is
it was written in a paper during the civil war by a uh i forget which which side of the war the guy
was supporting but he was writing it basically as wartime propaganda for uh for one side and he was
he was predicting the outcome and i mean he must have been i guess on the side of the union
um of the north um because he got it right he predicted the the correct outcome of the war and
then uh and then charismatic christians you know century and a half later reading that and thinking
this was actually a prophecy of george washington and and then we reinterpreted it to then be looking
even past that and looking at world war three coming just in the future um and and to our future
and because then it's predicted accurately all these things after george washington's time
now we know it speaks accurately to our future um but that's an example i mean it's that is how
accidental prophecy works it fully is exactly just like daniel and inoc and all the others
um but it it's a more modern example and it's fascinating when i realized that because i believed
it i thought george washington actually had this vision and then coming out of that community and
i literally just read wikipedia on on that and found out oh my god like i found the the paper
that was written in who the guy who probably wrote it and all that it's like i cannot believe like
we just we just believed that this was true because it fit in with our worldview
thank you someone prophecies never fail is because multi generations could literally
wait forever latest i heard every year in the bible is actually 50 jubilee years so this time
the rapture will truly happen before 2023 or 2030 sorry well at least we'll live to see it right
yeah i'm hoping you can't wait thank you someone uh dmg does the old testament explicitly state
what a messiah is the term seems vague and it seems odd that jews and christians are awaiting
someone with few if any recognizable attributes great chat so um now this is i i mean the messiah
mashiah is uh is is a noun that just literally means anointed one like one who's anointed and
it's always applied in the old testament um it's applied to to kings and to priests and
i'm not sure if it's if it's applied to a prophet but this is uh i tend to think we see we see pockets
of of messianism emerging in some of the later texts in the uh Hebrew bible in the old testament
certainly in the book of daniel um you see it in in Zechariah's night visions um the second part of
Zechariah you see it uh in the book of ahagiai um uh so but interestingly uh this term mashiah
is almost never applied in this period to um this figure who is who's going to be the deliverer
of the the impressionation of israel um there are other terms that are used uh to apply to him
usually uh something like the son of david or usually like the the um um uh the prophet
or the priest there's there's this expectation right of of this figure uh the term i think most
famously applied to a figure uh of deliverance appears in uh second isiah where it speaks of
of uh cyrus as the messiah of god uh and it calls him that because he's the one who has
made it possible and and uh issued this this proclamation of uh of um um release in and
nation building for for not just the jews but you know for many people uh but the jews think
they're they're special so you know that's where it's first mentioned and then we see this but we
do see this term picked up later um in the uh in the in the post probably probably more in
in like the hellenistic and later period so after 300 you see it then uh applied uh pretty pretty
frequently in the dead sea scrolls two special two special figures uh quite often the dead sea
scrolls call the prophets uh mashiachim uh it it's explicitly i was on this channel
a couple weeks ago and i read a text which explicitly identified moses as the messiah
of god right so it has a pretty flexible term uh the the term messiah itself and doesn't really
come to to solidify into uh i guess the greek translation christos um you see it it taking
on this this this firm uh expression as it's applied to jesus right um and then certainly um
you know bar kochba uh was was identified as as a messiah and you have others um from
uh this period of time like the first century uh ce second century ce who are also then identified
as as mashiach but it's an interesting question in terms of like an historical investigation of
where this term came from and and how it's meaning developed over time um i'm sure somebody's
done the work on that but i i i can't think of anything specifically offhand thank you thank
you jr i was typing ba baal and the spell check put belial wow thank you that's yeah hey yep
wane rossus can you recommend a commentary on isiah i would always start with the hermonia
series um the there's the hermonia uh commentary on some of those are and they're pricey um
but uh that that'd be a good place to start for a critical uh perspective um that would really
you know deal with the texts and not assume not come from a position of uh of doctrine or of
you know harmonization or trying to defend a particular faith stance but uh very scholarly um
some of uh i think i think the the the hermonia commentary for um
um utero is a might be a little old um unless i unless i've got something new i don't i don't
know uh but i was going to say uh hu williamson um has uh he so he published um the first volume
on i think he's doing the whole block but his this first volume which is i think is a one to
16 was just recently published it's five years old nice maybe i think so that but that's a
that's a pretty good one um but again it's it's just those chapters and he's he's working on
yeah yeah so but yeah hermonia is good uh uh anchor anchor bible is really good too
and those are sort of like like within um within biblical scholarship those are sort of like the
the industry standards the the interest industry standard texts um for for critical scholars
to consult hermonia which is published by fortress press and uh the anchor bible
which is published by by double day and Yale university press thank you thank you for that
i really appreciate it last one and then i'll get out of here and let you enjoy the rest of your
weekend Zachary what new testament equals jewish christian revelation james matthew
so pretty much what literature in the new testament would you say is like a jewish christian
oh i see yeah definitely those um
um
it's hard because it's all it's all on a spectrum um and so i mean it just depends i don't think
that there was an older generation of scholarship really liked to build a kind of iron curtain
between uh you know judaism on the one hand and hellenism on the other um and more recent
scholarship recognizes that all judaism was hellenized judaism right right in the time that
we're talking about so it's not as simple as saying well you know these are these are you
know greek ones and then these are jewish ones um i mean paul is extremely jewish but he is also
very comfortable in the hellenized world um the stories that he's living with are the stories of
the patriarchs the stories of the law and the prophets um but he is fleshing them out in a
way that i mean he obviously he he is the thing that made christianity palatable to the roman world
and if it wasn't for him it's questionable whether christianity would have succeeded
like it did in the roman world but paul was jewish um so yeah i don't that's a i think that
according to paul he was the best jew yeah the most humble definitely released but he worked harder
than everyone he'll let you know how much he worked harder than all um seriously appreciate you guys
gotta give you a quick little plug here as we're wrapping up this video subscribe to dr kip davis
did we get you some subscribers today let's see if we got you some oh did you uh did i get any
i don't know i can't see because i was just putting in the chat we actually have fewer now
weird why is that probably that's funny uh so and and matthew's too subscribe i want to i want to
see if we can get some people who haven't subscribed to you matthew that are watching the stream right
now but christine's laughing at you yeah i'll laugh it up my god is he wearing a shirt uh yeah he's
wearing a shirt all right we'll give him skin color skin colored shirt um yeah any final words you want
oh um just i there's a couple things uh coming up um i'm going to be with uh with dr josh and
derrick on secular soapbox on monday evening talking about the documentary hypothesis so
please check that out um i am also uh going to be at the University of Helsinki the first week
of may and on star wars day may the fourth i am i'm giving a i'm giving a public lecture
titled these things are written that you may believe sellers scholars apologists and the fake
dead sea scrolls um so i'm working with the people there uh now to try and figure out if uh if we can
if we can uh uh stream it or at least record it and then broadcast it later but uh yeah i hope
i hope that uh that's something i can and if if anybody's in in Helsinki then like come to the
lecture so what time is that going to be on monday uh five o'clock pacific okay so i think that's
eight o'clock eastern making sure make sure you show up yeah i gotta make sure i make sure i show up
to listen to you guys tell everybody because i or you know yeah i i don't know or because you know
josh and i probably got this if you've got some something else that that you know you need to get
done well yeah i hear you know i think i'm picking up what you're putting down i think i understand
what you're trying to say here um non-fraud scholars only no pressure at all on getting the
course done let's and we should tease everybody just to let them know there i am working right now
on an 18 lecture course with kip kip recorded it i just am trying to edit it all together
then ryan my queen upstairs is going to be packaging it all and getting it right and then
um it'll be up for sell it helps the scholars such as kip it helps myth vision it keeps spreading
the information um and it goes through everything human sacrifice polytheism the tribe clan kind
of dynamics in ancient israel um i mean you name apoc we get to apoc yeah that's and there's some
really cool iconic scenes from huge famous shows that we've seen that play a role in
him teaching this course but it's a lot of information it's a it's a lot okay it's a lot
trust me but yeah thank you so it's coming that is coming um very soon okay soon uh not three and
a half years not 1260 days not 160 days none of that seriously though i really appreciate you um
for coming on kip and matt doesn't do this kind of stuff nope he's like probably like burnt on
both ends right now you probably i gotta take a nap sleep 12 hours this is and this is my first
non twitter exchange with uh with with matt so i do believe um i i i do believe you are correct me
if i'm wrong but you're reviewing um you're reviewing uh lydia maguru's book right now aren't you
yeah well i've been reading like a chapter a week and it it it you know it gets harder and harder
to finish the book the farther i get into it the less the less energy i have for it but the goal
yeah i mean i want to i want to what's that but but i was going to say i mean i mean you and and
ben the amateur exigene and non alchemist uh yeah we were gonna get together right and uh
just have a discussion about it because i think it definitely deserves it needs it needs responses um
i'm waiting on that man yeah you know no matter what this is so hey i'm gonna predict something
this is a prediction which is gonna prove that i'm a prophet are you ready for this
buckle up buttercup and clip this because this is the case i predict hold on i predict
that after your review and after you and the others get together and you rip this thing into
pieces and then give a praise here or there because that's what will end up happening you'll say oh
wow she noticed something i never really paid attention to cool because that's a cool guy you
are but once you give a critical assessment of her material that's right a cool guy you can pay me
later um the people who are what are called mcpollegist they are the mcrew apologist no
matter what you say they're not going to change their views it doesn't matter what you say oh yeah
i mean i don't expect that but i'm predicting it i'm not i'm standing here today call me a false
prophet if i'm wrong about this you're not going to change a single person's mind that follows the
mcrew's position at all because they're right you know that you're actually wrong i'm resisting
the truth yeah right i know i don't oh yeah no but i i am i'm seriously i am i am very excited uh
to see what you guys we're reading it so that you don't have to yes thank god thank you i thank you uh
oh if i could oh one more thing um i uh i so i recently wrote a book review
and uh and published it over at um at the amateur exigate that uh that that that people should check
out if they're they're interested in stuff that i do write sometimes so if people are interested
in stuff that i write you did a killer review of francesca's book but really reviewing you
give a good assessment yeah that was really good so where's the link to that i'll put it in the chat
right now oh okay um it just just go go to the amateur exigate it's i think now it's like the
third post on there uh it's called good god an anatomy of a terrible horrible no good book review
um so it's pretty it's pretty long it's like uh but it's not as long as joel's joel's book review
where's it at just scroll down on this oh scroll down on here and it'll oh okay good god an anatomy
of a terrible horrible no good very bad book review guest post by yeah so uh i i was um ben ben took
a picture of his copy of uh of god an anatomy for the for like the the blog post um splash page
and unfortunately he's got the he's got like the the shitty american one so it's not the super
it's not the super sexy uh blue cover um but that's just you know well guys yeah this is good
i'm outie i'm heading i'm heading out um don't worry kip i promise to start editing continuing
editing this and i'm gonna need that download so we can keep doing what we're doing i'm watching
time brother i'm watching the time watching it is the last hour you know so all right guys all
right thanks a lot we guys never forget we are myth vision the like button love you guys
so
