And all this stuff, you know, it does completely shipwreck any of that old conviction about the
earth being 6,000 years old and the Bible being literally true in the plain sense.
At the time I remember seeing like a demon or something in a bonfire. The plan was always
to go back to church. It messed me up, I think, emotionally. Not in the super rebellious way,
I didn't turn to drugs or booze or, you know, end up on the streets or anything like that.
I was just an angry kid. She just came up to me and said, you know what, I don't think it was that
Oh, thank God. Hey, guess what? Me neither. Sign up today for the real ancient Israelite
religions with Dr. Kip Davis. Dr. Kip Davis, I'm excited about this show we're going to be recording
today. I have never seen you actually give a formal testimony of your story. I'm looking forward to
hearing where you come from, what you believed, where you were at, your journey into what you
learned, what you have become, and how that has impacted you with your faith and where you are
today. So with that being said, I'm going to hand the mic over to you and I'm curious to know.
So I'm a Canadian. I grew up in evangelical. I would say my family upbringing was very
seriously evangelical. We went to church twice every Sunday and we went every Wednesday evening,
like all good evangelicals, had a personal conversion experience at the ripe old age of five.
I accepted Jesus into my heart. I had a really, really very good, very happy childhood. It was fun
being a kid. I had lots of friends at church. So church was never a... I mean, of course,
I hated sitting in the services, but I never really had bad feelings or bad thoughts about.
It didn't bore me, I think. I will say, however, Sunday evenings were... Sunday evenings made me
a little bit resentful because in the 80s, every Sunday evening at six was the magical world of
Disney on TV and we got to see the first five minutes of every episode and then we had to go
and we never got to see. And of course, it's before VCRs. So that sucked.
So I was baptized, I think, as soon as I was able, I was baptized and there was an age limit
in my church. I think if I remember correctly, you had to be nine or 10 years old before you got
baptized. I famously, though, at my church, when I was six or seven years old, we had a Sunday
service and then we had a potluck and all the kids are running around like maniacs around the
church and it was a big church too. Running around like maniacs in the church and they
had a baptism plan following the potluck. So it was like a big baptismal font, like a big pool
at the front of the church. And I, being the precocious young lad that I was, I was six,
I was like, I was there at the baptismal tank and there was like a little, there was like a
like a centimeter of water, like a half an inch of water, like on that first step into the tank.
And I was being a bit of a smart ass and thinking, oh yeah, I'm just going to step down, you know,
into the, onto this first step. I don't know what I was doing, but I slipped and I felt like right
into the, into the baptismal font with all my clothes on. And so, you know, my family and
everybody used to joke that I got baptized twice. So, but it was, yeah, I was a happy child. It was
good childhood. Things kind of fell apart for me in high school. My parents got separated and
divorced when I was 16 years old, which is something that did not happen in my church,
in my, in my, my, my Christian world. It messed me up, I think, emotionally. But, you know,
not in the, not in, in the super rebellious way, I didn't, you know, turn to drugs or booze or,
you know, end up on the streets or anything like that. I was just an angry kid. I lived with my dad
and he bought me or he bought this book and he read this book and then he gave it to me,
to read. Maybe you, you've heard of this book. It's called, He Came to Set the Captives Free
by Rebecca Brown. You heard of that one? Sounds familiar, but I'm not sure. So,
you've heard of Jack T. Chick publications, Chick Tracks? Yes, yes. Right. So, I mean,
they are classified as hate speech by the Southern Poverty Law Center in the United States. Like,
he's, he is out there. But he was the publisher of this book and this book purports to have been
written by, it's written by a medical doctor and actually says on the cover, Rebecca Brown, MD.
So, but this isn't a book about medicine and it's not a book about, about being a doctor. It's about
having encounters with demons and with Satan and, and, you know,
rescuing people out of a, out of like, like a satanic human sacrifice in Cabal living in
somewhere in, in Ohio. It was crazy stuff, but I bought it. I bought it hook, line and sinker. This
was, this was in the, like the late 80s, early 90s, right at the height of the satanic panic. And I
was, I was all in on this and it was kind of at that time, I just, you know, I had, I started having,
you know, like visionary experiences. I started having encounters, which seems like spiritual
encounters, but like real life kind of spiritual encounters that I interpreted as, as seeing like
angels, you know, in the street on my way home from work or on my way to work, just really
weird. I, you know, there was a period where, where I, I'm pretty sure at the time I remember seeing
like, like a demon or something in, in, in a bonfire and, and like, so this, I mean, I was, I was
messed up emotionally. I was messed up, but I think what this did is it sort of pushed me
into the direction of focus on my faith, on my beliefs. I really, really, I was always a bit
of a Bible nerd growing up. I had a, I had a picture Bible was like my favorite. My parents
also bought this, they got this, like it's a set of 80 cassette tapes called the Bible in
drama and it literally is like a radio drama, a radio dramatization of the entire Bible.
That's pretty awesome, but I listened to these things over and over and over again. So I always,
I had a deep love from the beginning of the Bible and like with all this, with all this stuff that
was happening to me emotionally, spiritually, I think it really pushed me to just dig deep and
to get serious about it. And when I graduated from high school, I went to like a, like a discipleship
school overseas. I spent a year in New Zealand there and it was while I was there that I felt
really convicted, commissioned to go into some sort of professional ministry to become
a pastor, a minister of the gospel. I got married and then I started Bible school.
The first Bible school I attended was far too warm and fuzzy for my tastes. I got in with a
crowd of these James White kind of Calvinist reform theologian types. And of course, I was already
kind of an angry person and this just made me more angry. But as I said, the college that I was
attending was way too warm and fuzzy for me. So I transferred out and my wife and I packed up our
stuff. I was in Calgary, Alberta, my hometown at the time, go flames. And we moved across the
mountains just outside of Vancouver to attend what at the time was called Northwest Baptist
Theological College and Seminary. Much more closely aligned to my angry James Whitey and
Reformed Theological beliefs. But the college at the time was located on the campus of Trinity
Western University, which is an evangelical Christian university, but it is a proper university.
It's an actual school and there are very good people doing good serious academic work there.
And it was while I was at Trinity that I was introduced to real academic biblical studies.
One of the things that my college didn't offer was language classes. So I was very excited right
away going to Northwest Baptist to take language classes. And the way it worked at Northwest
being on the same campus as Trinity is a lot of the courses that they offered were actually
cross listed. And so you'd actually go and attend, you know, a university course. So and this is what
my language courses were offered through Trinity New Western University. So my very first teacher,
my very first Greek teacher, was Marty G. A. Begg, who the great Marty G. A. Begg,
Dead Sea Scrolls scholar. He was also brand new at Trinity when I started. And he was brought on
campus by Craig A. Evans, both him and Peter W. Flint that same year to start the Dead Sea Scrolls
Institute and to start a new graduate program at Trinity with a special focus on Dead Sea Scrolls.
So I'll be honest with you. I knew nothing, almost nothing, about the Dead Sea Scrolls
before I got to Trinity. And then my, my, I really, really liked Marty right away. And it
started to make me interested. And I eventually transferred out of the college into the university,
abandoned the thought that I would ever become a pastor in large part because I wasn't
particularly fond of people. It's a bad mix if you don't like people and you're, you know, a pastor.
So I shifted and I had, I was good at the languages. I took Greek and I took Hebrew
before, before I even got to my fourth year of undergraduate, I already had two years of Hebrew,
two years of Greek, and a year of Syriac, which was a lot for an undergraduate. So
I really liked it and I was good at it. So I decided, you know what, maybe, maybe I can,
maybe I can become a Bible professor. And that's sort of where it started.
Very early on, while I, while I had enrolled in this very, in, in this especially James Whiting
and Reformed Theological College, very, very strictly conservative, pretty quickly, I think
within a year or two, after I started, I, I was no longer a, a conservative Christian. You know,
I had to, I, I, after transferring into the university, I had to take courses in biology
and I had to take courses in philosophy and in psychology and all this stuff, you know, it does
completely shipwrecked any of that, that old conviction about, you know, the earth being
6,000 years old and the, and the Bible being literally true in the plain sense and, and,
you know, I pretty quickly became a fairly liberal progressive Christian, certainly before I graduated,
graduated from, from university. But I went straight into grad school.
And I did, and that's really where I started to focus in earnest on the Dead Sea Scrolls. I did,
I did a thesis focused on the, on, on a particular manuscript from the Dead Sea Scrolls,
4Q382, the Papyrus paraphrase of Kings, which is, which is an ugly son of a bitch. It is 152
papyrus fragments that look terrible. And, and I, but I, yeah, but this is what I did. I went to
grad school. When I finished grad school, I pushed on and I entered a PhD program at the
University of Manchester, still, you know, still very much within, very committed to Jesus,
very committed to the faith, but more in like a Randall Rouser kind of a way. And, and very happy
to with, with this whole arrangement. My wife and I, who my, yeah, my wife and I at the time,
right around when I started my PhD, we had been married already for, I think, over 10 years.
We didn't have kids yet. There was some question about whether or not we would even be able to
have kids. So we had sort of decided early on that we would know, you know, we would always
adopt at least one kid didn't have any of our own at that point, but decided, you know, we need to
start a family and it was difficult for us. We made the decision right around the time I started
my PhD that we would adopt. And so we adopted and literally right, right, I got, I got accepted
into the PhD program at the University of Manchester. And right around that time, we had adopted my,
my oldest son, Jayden, he was, he was four years old, going on five at the time. He is now 23,
going on 24. But he was a, so he was a kid who grew up in the foster system. He had eight placements.
He had already had a disrupted adoption. He had serious attachment issues. And the adoption workers
really liked Lisa and me from the outset, just because I think we're pretty chill. We're pretty
easygoing people. And as people who were, you know, like this, but also didn't have any of our own
kids in the first place, like hadn't born children. And maybe didn't have any, any expectation of having
biological children in the future. I think we were able to, we were able to parent
this little boy with these, these attachment difficulties. But wow, did that ever do a number
on many of my thoughts and beliefs about who God is, you know,
being faced with and recognizing that there's this, there's
biochemical changes that can affect a person's entire life, just on the basis of, you know,
their genetic material. And also on the basis, socially speaking, of like their inability to
properly attach to a mother. It really, I don't want to get into a lot of the specifics, but it
really had me challenge, it really challenged my thinking about, you know, about things like,
like the nature, human nature, sin, these sorts of concepts that we grow up with as,
you know, as part of our being as humans, but also something that was, was correctable. We all
have this, this under this deep understanding of right and wrong and stuff. Oh my, my son didn't
have it. Right. And I, it was difficult to explain that or to, to confront that from this
perspective. So that did a number on us. I went through the PhD program. We adopted two more kids
while I was in the PhD program. And, you know, also out of the foster system and also with their
own issues, like one of my sons has, has crippling anxiety to the extent that, so he was able to go
to a Sunday school, but would not set foot inside the sanctuary, like the, the, the auditorium,
the sanctuary of the church, because he was so terrified, terrified of hell, terrified of dying,
terrified of heaven, which, you know, for me, in my upbringing was just kind of like,
that's, I don't get that. I don't understand, but seeing it, I'm just like, man, like
it, it, it forced me to recalculate so much of my faith that by the time I finished my PhD,
you know, I was a Christian out of necessity. I would tell people, I'm like, my focus is the
historical critical study of the Bible and, you know, through the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Um, but I, I have to, I literally have to take off my, my, my scholar's hat at the end of the day
and go and put on my church hat, you know, just to, just to survive in church, because so much
of this stuff started to, it doesn't, it didn't make rational sense anymore. So in order to
continue to believe, and I deeply, deeply wanted to continue to believe, I had a wonderful Christian
life. I cherished it. I loved it. It was very fulfilling, very rewarding. So I fought like a
dog to make sure that I would stay in the faith. But over time, I just, you know, when my, when I
finally came out to my mom that I, I no longer believe that I was, you know, an atheist. And she,
you know, when she pressed me for how or why this happened, the only thing I could tell her was that
I just, I just stopped believing. There are, I just could no longer believe the things that seemed
incredulous to me. And I could not force myself to believe things that seemed incredulous to me.
I'm like, you either believe this or you don't believe it. You can't pretend. I'm like, I feel like
I had been pretending for a long time and I just couldn't pretend anymore. So I, I had, I had a
position in Norway, shortly after I finished my PhD, working on squirrel fragments from a private
a private collection there, the squirrel, the sky, the scion collection. I was also involved in the
publication project for the re-edition of the cave one manuscripts, which was supposed to come out
in Dead Sea Scrolls editions from Brill. So we went over there, packed up the whole family and moved
the whole family to Norway in 2012 to take this position. And while we were there, the pretty,
the language barrier more than anything early on caused us to stop going to church. And after a while,
my wife and I looked at each other and we're like, you know what, I much prefer hanging out
at home with you and with the kids than I do in a church. So it just, it was one of these
gradual things that just kept chipping away. And you know, I was for a long, I think I had,
I had already come around to the point where I decided I don't believe any of this anymore.
But I was terrified of telling my wife about this because I, you know, I love her and I wanted,
I wanted to be married, to stay married to her. And I was terrified of what this might do to our
marriage. So I avoided it at all costs. I avoided it. And it came as an enormous relief to me when
one day she just came up to me and said, you know what, I don't think I believe this stuff anymore.
Oh, thank God. Hey, guess what? Me neither. Oh, shoot, we can go on and live our lives now.
I know, right? So, yeah, yeah. So I mean, I think that's, that's my story.
I've got to add, let me add some icing on the cake, because this has been an amazing story,
Dr. Kip. I really, really love what you did here. Your story to your deconversion and the
fact that now you can live happily ever after without having to worry about the tension in your
relationship because one is a believer, unequally yoked, that kind of thing. Then there's also the
children in the upbringing there. I don't need to get any further into the deepness of your own
family situation and where your family is. But I am curious to know, since you've come back from
Norway, you're in Canada, and then your appearances on YouTube and stuff, can you fill us in on this
and what you see your role as? What do you think when you wake up in the morning or you
project a mirror of yourself in the world, how are you trying to present yourself? What is your
mission? What is your goal in the internet world? Wow, what a great question. First of all, I want
to say, coming back from Norway, I think the plan was, even though we didn't believe anymore,
my wife and I, the plan was always to go back to church, mostly for the kids, just because we saw
it as a stable place for them. Circumstances being what they were, my contract was three years,
but my wife ended up getting a job back home after two years, and she left with the kids
to go and work this job. I ended up alone there for a full year. In some respects,
certainly at first, it was so lonely, and it was so hard right away that all I had was work,
and I literally, I got up at like six in the morning, and I started working, and I worked
until I went to bed at 10 or 11 at night, every single goddamn day. It was the most productive
year of my life, but wow, it was tough. When my wife went back with the kids, they started,
tried going back to church, but she was working really hard too, because she's effectively working
as a single mom. We were still together, and there was never any. I was going home to be with
my family as soon as I was done, but she was effectively functioning as a single mom, so
just way too tired to do much more than just go to work, make sure the kids are healthy and fed
and safe, and that's what she had time for, and they stopped. They never got back to church,
and I always thought, oh well, when I come back and I'm able to be a contributing member to my
family again, then we'll be able to do this, and it just never happened. It was one of those things
where it just didn't happen. My life changed so much, I think, from that point prior to going
to Norway and then coming back. It was so different all of a sudden. What does it look like now?
Who am I now? What do I see as my goal, I guess, my contribution? I started the channel.
When I came back from Norway, I worked a few contracts at my alma mater, Trinity Western
University and Evangelical Christian School. I'm still not publicly an atheist,
which is the only way that I could continue to work at Trinity. I worked for a few years at Trinity
as an atheist while still holding my nose and signing off on that community covenant
every year. I needed the work, and it was the only viable place for me to go
when I came back. I felt bad about being dishonest about this, but by the same token,
I've been a Christian for so long, I could play the role. I would go to my classes.
One thing we never did in my classes was pray, I'll tell you that much.
Some professors did, some didn't. It wasn't something that they cared too much about,
but that's something we never did in my classes. Thank goodness for that,
but if they had required it, I could have done it. I put on a face while I was there teaching
students of ensuring, of fostering their faith in Jesus. How weird is that? Here I am, an atheist
professor who is doing his damnedest to make sure that these kids are still the best Christians
they can be. A big part of the job when you're teaching at an evangelical or a Christian school
in a Bible department is soothing all that angst that develops from the cognitive dissonance that
you're developing by challenging them with historical, critical biblical scholarship.
So all this was going on. I started the YouTube channel in 2017 or 2018,
something like that. The reason I started, I had already been watching YouTube for a long time.
I was a big fan of Logic, still am. I watched a lot of Aaron Ra, I watched Atheist Experience
and Matt Dillahunty, and Josh Bowen popped up on my radar, and I'll be honest, my first
impression when I watched Josh was, I could do that. I'm like, why am I not doing that?
But I was also not overly confident in my own skills working with the videos.
So, but I started the channel because I was asked in whatever year that was,
2017, 2018, to do what's called an independent study. At Trinity Western,
if not every course is offered every year, a student has to take certain courses in order
to graduate. And if a student comes up on the end of their, at the end of their term,
I guess, they're close to graduation, and they're missing a course, but it's not offered,
then they can ask a professor to do a directed study, which is basically like a one-on-one
course. They pay like shit. It's terrible. You barely get enough money to, I mean,
it's really, really awful. But anyways, that's beside the point. I was asked, and I agreed,
to do a directed study for a course that I taught quite a bit at Trinity. And it was one that,
department deemed me good enough to ask me to teach it a few times. And that's my course on
what was called Israelite religion and Old Testament theology. And this is the course
that I've essentially developed for MVP courses. It's, you can imagine, it's quite a bit different
now than I ever taught it at Trinity Western, but, and it's like a million times better. But
I was asked to teach this course, this independent study, and I thought, you know, the best way to
do this is to sit down, make these video lectures, upload them to YouTube, just give her the link,
and she can, you know, go and watch the lectures on her own. She can read the textbook,
we'll meet once a week, and we'll talk about, we'll talk about what's in the lectures and
in the textbook, and she'll write assignments and tests and she'll be done. So that's where the
channel started. I started uploading this stuff. And shortly after that, I made my very first
video response to Michael Jones on a presentation he did on Genesis chapter one to 11. And I think
at that point, and that's kind of my channel, right? I see my channel as a teaching tool,
and also a counter apologetics tool. So let's back up a little bit and talk about apologetics,
because this is an important part also of my story. While I was a PhD student, I got a job
at Trinity Western, working for a theologian, an apologist, who ran the, what the department
was called, interdisciplinary studies. And he taught it as a Christian worldview,
he taught it as Christian worldview courses. Every student at Trinity had to take
one course, and they had to take it in their freshman year, and it was this introduction
to Christian worldview. So it was a huge class, there was like 450 students. So he needed help
with it, and that's what my job was. He did all the lectures, I was liaising with students,
I was doing, you know, marking all the assignments, I was helping him out basically with whatever
he needed. And then he taught this other course for all the seniors, everybody was graduating
had to take developing a Christian worldview. And, you know, that class was, it wasn't 450
students, but it was usually up to like 100 every year. And this is, so this again, this is what I
did. And it was so frustrating for me because of these courses being offered in a serious
university, promoting Christian apologetics. I mean, that's all it was. It was how to manage
your faith in a critical world, you know, how to respond to skeptics, how to make sense and
harmonize all the problems in the Bible, how to properly view science in light of religion and
Christianity, it was awful. But this, I think this really is where I started to pay attention
to apologetics and to apologists. And I think it was in that moment that I realized, oh my god,
this is a serious problem. Apologetics in my mind is one of the worst things about Christianity,
because the entire enterprise, I won't even call it a discipline because it is not a scholarly
discipline. The entire enterprise is founded on essentially placating the feelings, placating
the hurt feelings of insecure Christians. It is entirely in-house. The goal of apologetics,
I'm convinced modern apologetics is not about saving souls. It's about making Christians feel
better about being Christians. And of course, the only way, as a biblical scholar, with so much of
the problems within Christianity, especially the more fundamentalist or evangelical brands of
Christianity, are centered on the Bible. The Bible is a problematic book because of the history,
because of the very natural origins of the text and all the problems within the text. It's incredibly
difficult for them to deal with, which is why apologetics is there. So it's all about helping
Christians to get over their anxiety about the Bible. And the only way to do that is to do so
through fabrications and weak arguments and exegetical and historical fallacies.
So that pretty quickly became kind of my goal with at least my YouTube channel.
I love the Bible. I am a Bible teacher. And I see my role as a Bible teacher and a content creator
as helping people understand what the Bible is and why it's so great. Because it's not a great
religious text, but it's a great piece of ancient literature. It's not a great book around which
to construct your life and your worldview. But wow, is it interesting? Wow, is it exciting? When you
really get right down into the text and you understand it within its original context, when
you understand it from the perspective of the early readers and interpreters of the Bible,
wow. To me, that's where it comes alive and that's where it's exciting. And I think
that's what people need to hear. Because in my opinion, I mean, Josh was out there and
yeah, he was doing a good job of what he was doing. But it felt to me like there is a concerted need
for quality Bible scholarship that was publicly accessible on YouTube. And in large part because
so much of the stuff that was publicly accessible was coming from this apologetic perspective where
we're constantly forgiving the text and attempting to maintain this horribly flawed
hermeneutical model, which maintains this weird integrity of the text that we need
as evangelical Christians. So moving forward, that's what I'm all about. I'm all about teaching
the Bible. I'm all about countering apologetic nonsense when it comes to the Bible. And I'm
still convinced too, even those apologists who want to fixate on philosophical arguments or who,
I don't know, want to fixate on scientific arguments for God, you can't ignore the Bible.
No Christian can ignore the Bible. And because the Bible is so problematic,
at one point or another, they're going to have to deal with someone like me.
