Dr. Richard C. Miller, you have three master's degrees. You've gone through various ranks from
Princeton University. You've been to Yale. You've been to various colleges, Fuller. You were
theologically minded. You were a very devout Christian. So you know what New Testament
scholarship is. James Charlesworth, you've really dug deep into the various schools from the
Christian-Reformed, N.T. Wright types to the maybe more serious James Charlesworth types to
the Allicens, Del Allison juniors, and all the way now to what you would say is the peak of
classicist non-faith requirement type, just research and the real historical like don't have
limitations on what you can draw, etc. What is the problem?
The problem. Well, let me talk about some of the manifestations of the problem. Maybe we can get back
into the problem by talking about that. Well, let me first start by saying I am not a member of SBL
at this point. I don't believe it is a valid discursive framework for this field. I think it's
very important to pick your discursive partners very carefully. Those that share the same kind of
foundation in terms of what you're trying to do in your project. And so I'm very much an evidence
based, evidence grounded. I try to, you know, as much scientific rigor as I possibly can. I use that
term in a broader sense than the hard sciences, but I try to put as much rigor as possible around
my work and to not let other frameworks, religious, intense, modern feuds about what this means or any
other particular conflict of interest get involved in any way or even to worry about what that may
mean for anyone else. I feel like when I go to SBL, that is not the project. When people are showing
up half of them with name badges from schools where they are required to sign doctrinal statements
and confessional creeds, many of them would get fired. In fact, I would say most of them,
if they took my book seriously and to the extent of even agreeing with me, that would be hazardous
for many, many, many careers. And so to me, that is not a discourse.
So already 50%, just no real numbers here, but a huge percentage of what is considered
serious academics, these aren't even evangelicals. These aren't even fundamentalists. These are
like what are considered real academics, like 50% of them, right? They have to sign a statement
of faith. I'm not going to name a person. I interviewed a person and I'll just say that.
I don't want to do this because I care about people who I was interviewing. They said some
things about Jesus being wrong about apocalypticism. They've asked me to please remove the interviews
from YouTube because they're trying to get a job and the job was going to be at a church
for them to teach. I had no problem doing that for them because I care about people more than I care
about an argument on YouTube or like, you know, like I'm more of a people person than people
realize about the whole, you just want to debunk Christianity. Look, I got friends with Christians,
but they could, they did not want to answer certain things on camera that they were willing
to tell me in private. And that alone made me even go like, what, and I know we're sounding
a bit conspiratorial here, but I want to start off. This isn't a conspiracy when you have like
the micro conas, for example, who literally take that Matthew 28 zombie apocalypse as allegory
because he can't accept that as historical for good reason. And he gets fired from his evangelical
college, but SBL typically has people who aren't in these evangelicals. Some might be, but most
from what I understand are some prestigious schools like Princeton. Yeah, yell. Maybe,
maybe it yells some spots. I don't know. What's, what's the problem with that? Dr Miller,
can't they just sign their confession and get to the truth? Well, so let me give an analogy.
You're going to have a heart surgery. Now, how much witch doctorism do you want involved in that
procedure? None. Right, right. Now, when I put that forward, you want, you want the kind of rigor
that you would get, like say at Stanford Medical Center or UCLA, real people doing real scientific
work that are not interested in some kind of hocus pocus idea about health or, you know,
the spirits being involved or any of these kinds of things. That's what I'm after. I'm a Carl Sagan
kind of person. I want to know. I don't want to believe. I want to know. That's what I'm after.
That's not the discourse that I see, that I saw all the way even up to the top,
even at Yale Divinity School. And I don't mean to criticize those places. I know that they are
well intended people. And I learned a tremendous amount from, from any number of them all along
my journey. But at this point, that, that discourse is not helpful to me. It's in the way.
In fact, it's even offensive. And so anybody that's operating from trying to answer historical
questions when they, you know, having the answers before they may even know the questions,
that's not a scientific approach. That's some, we have to call that something else. I don't
even know what that, that's madness in my view. And so, and that's really what's going on. And
people are entering this discussion already determining what the conclusion needs to be
before they even begin. And then going back and trying to marshal the evidence to get there.
And to me, that, that is the dark ages. I have no tolerance for that. And so I love the people,
but I have no respect for that approach. And so I don't, you don't see me arguing a whole lot
with anyone in my book. I try to treat, treat everyone with respect and dignity. I'm not interested
in feuds and, you know, shoot out at the okay corral or anything like that. You know, I, I'm,
I'm interested in the human plight. And I almost had to write this for an audience that doesn't
exist now, where the discourse isn't broken, maybe in 100 years or something like that.
And so that, that's kind of the, so when you talk about mainstream scholarship, you're talking
about SBL's big tent. Okay. And that means let's invite everyone. Now already you've just exited
the academic world, at least in terms of what secular academia means. Let's invite everyone
and have them equally able to give presentations on this and that topic. And it ends up becoming a
negotiation, a cultural negotiation in our time between faith and these historical methods that
we're trying to apply to the Bible. The midpoint between that, if you were to create a bell curve
of where all of the scholars might just, you know, distribute across, you know, on the spectrum between
literalism or, I mean, between historical rigor and, and a faith, more of a faith approach.
The midpoint between those two is not the answer. And so I find that oftentimes you, you go online
or you see in articles, things like mainstream scholars say this and that, that doesn't prove a
thing. Mainstream scholars is midpoint between which doctor is an actual medical science.
These are people that are in orbit around faith communities living in a world that is still under
the spell, Western world, still under the spell of these sacred texts with students giving them
student reviews based upon their faith. Why are they even taking the class? Because they think
it's an easy A because they were raised in the Christian tradition. And so when they show up
to the class, they judge the teacher based upon how comfortable they were, what they got. And so
professors are worried about their own student reviews. They're worried about faith based academic
boards, a publication, you know, how do you publish something like what I, what I've published
to a society that is still very much under the spell of these texts is not interested
in hearing them be what they find dear and comforting deconstructed. I understand why they
feel find it dear. I sympathize even with it. But when I get to my academic work, I need to let go
of all that and get rigorous and honest in its most pure form. And I want to be in conversation
with others that are like minded in that way, not toward atheism necessarily, but toward answering
these questions without the distraction, the hindrance, the, the, the arbitrary lines. Like
for instance, what is biblical Greek? What is that? I never heard of such a thing.
Do you think that there was a distinctive use of Greek that only the New Testament authors
were privy to? That sounds like a category people do use as if like, I have heard it said that over
the, these Jewish Greek speaking Greek writing people, they were using things, but they didn't
use them the same way. Like Hades in Revelation, yeah, you know, that's not Hades, the Greek,
you know, Hades, that's, that's, that's, that's a, that's a totally new kind of idea they're using
in the Greek world to describe the Jewish concept of Sheol or something, you know what I mean? Like,
and, and I'm sure there's, there's some fusion that does take place when the Jews
obviously are Hellenized, but certainly, yeah. And, and, you know, you could say Sheol,
why did they even use the word Hades? Why did they translate it that way?
Right. Well, that's because that's their analog. And so they're moving that direction,
because there's a whole world of stuff we can unpack with that particular puzzle itself.
But, you know, I think that we need to get honest about where people are starting from,
what their project is. If your project is to influence modern faith and constructs of theology,
I don't want to talk, that's not the person I'm trying to be in conversation with
in terms of my own work. So if I can press you back, I want to press devil's advocate here
so that I can get you to, to, you know, maybe even nuance some of this so people understand.
Yeah, but, but, but John Jay Collins, Paula Fredrickson, as far as I'm aware, she's not a
Christian. You know, I could probably name a couple people that you would probably say
find ways to speak at SBL. Collins' wife, Yarbrough. Isn't that, isn't it?
Adele Yarbrough Collins, yeah. Yeah. Like, I can list some of these, these people who I would say
aren't Christians, but they're, they're finding themselves sometimes at SBL speaking or they,
they speak some of these places. What, what, what would you say if I was trying to bring back some
pushback against what you said? Oh yeah, no, I, I'm, you know, I'll let them speak for themselves
to some extent here. I mean, maybe, maybe you'll have them on the show and they could talk about
that. But from my perspective, I have, I have a deep respect. You know, I, I took classes with
Adele Yarbrough Collins and John Jay Collins and all those, and, you know, they are Catholic,
from what I understood in them, in the loosest possible sense, probably,
they do affiliate with that tradition in some way. But the students, you had priests in there and
pastors and all sorts of people in there that have their, their, their going on to be shaman
in our society. They're not going on to be historians and, you know, secularists. They're,
they're going on to shape modern religious mythological constructs in the minds of people
that are practitioners. And so let's not kid ourselves what's going on there. That's a divinity
school. That's what's going on there. That's not, this isn't the place. Now they're setting up shop
there and they're finding their ability to have careers there. And I respect that, but that's
not what I'm trying to do. And so I'm not interested in trying to help pastors become
more effective in being pastors or anything like that. I have no interest in that project at all.
I'm interested just like the classicist in understanding what the earliest Christians
thought and what they were trying to do and how it would have registered in the ancient world.
And then how now as a humanist, this should best be processed in, in terms of our modern
scholarly investigation of that. And so that, so this, that is kind of one of the things that
emphasizing this, you know what they're teaching. You went through this for well over decade,
two decades of like going to school, doing this stuff as a Christian, doing this stuff as a Christian
scholar and getting to the end of the road and you're looking back and you're seeing the journey
you took and you went like, I could have cut out all of this and been right here toward the
conclusion. If I had started researching this from the beginning, now there's some stuff. I'm
sure you owe a debt to the idea that you've learned some stuff along the way that was valuable in
your research of knowing what you know today. But would you say that you could have saved
yourself a lot of time and money if you would have just gone to this? Is that what you're
suggesting? Well, I mean, let's, let's start with it. Had I been reared in this society to
have those critical faculties from the jump, I wouldn't have gone on this big journey into
delusion and trying to find my way through the labyrinth out of it at the other end.
I would have been, well, just like we understand Roman history and lose a lot of sleep understanding
it, I would have had more or less the same ability to reflect on whether the early Christians were
doing and the early Buddhists, it would have been just another garden variety, secular topic of
investigation for my own humanistic kind of enrichment. Had I done that? And I can't tell
you how many books I've thrown away or given away that are no longer useful to me because they are
steeped in theological, they're theological projects. They're, you know, there's, there's all
even the most distant participants in our discourse often are still, even unbeknownst
to them unwittingly often, still in orbit around that gravitational center of faith.
It's such a powerful influence. You know, no one wants to, there's too much at stake there.
And so Pascal's wager, maybe we can get into that in another video, but that's a major part of this
that needs to come into play that doesn't exist for other subject matters. And so
what's at stake for society, culture, their own eternal destiny, their own sense of comfort and
construction of their own identity. There's too much self-interest in this field. And in my view,
that disqualifies nearly all of the participants. And so I know that's going to sound crazy, but
I think that's honest. So this leads to the final question in the scholarship issue.
We pick up classics. I go to Yale. I want to go in the classics department. Just suppose I already,
I'm already an undergraduate. I'm already on my way up there. I'm going to do a PhD program.
I'm going to be a class assist. I go into this and I'm going to pick up the study of ancient
Greek Roman mythology. There is no nexus surrounding some center gravitational pull of like Hercules
really without with him or without him. You never know. You can go to hell. But I want to know
what the truth is about Greek and Roman society, the ins and outs. There's no, there's really
nothing about Hercules, Asclepius, anything Greek and Roman that is untouchable. There is no limit
to what I could explore pertaining to classics. And so it's a fair safe go in. You don't have to
deal with any someone going, Hey, Hey, Hercules really did jump on that pirate actually did go to
heaven. Nobody's arguing that in the classics department. And so what would you recommend
since we talked with the problems and how we really cannot sit here and throw around consensus
or like, I have 10 scholars who say you're wrong because you could do that with evangelicals.
And this happens in the discourse online with people I deal with. They list off, well, look,
Craig Evans said and NT Wright said and William Lynn Craig said and so did the Lydian Tim McGrew
and all these Christian apologists. Look at all these scholars who said this. And then the other
guys come in and go Bart Ehrman said and John J. Cullen said and someone says, and actually I do
think that they're closer to the reality of what's going on from that side. But what do we do? How
do we solve this problem? Do we create a new department and focus on this is non-faith secular
humanist studies on New Testament studies and we're going to do it new and different and we're
not going to be in the communication with what do you think? Well, I've, you know, identifying
this problem. First off, I want to say a lots of times I've seen I'm perceived as on the radical
far end of the discussion. Like, in fact, I even read there was a blog or something that came out
of it a few days ago where it was like Miller and like a few of the where we're kind of like
pushed off to the margins like just these wild like desperadoes. I mean, we'll, you know, even
carrier, you know, and he's I understand, but he, you know, there the the the problem is that
yeah, we look radical to this discourse, what I would call the big 10 or circus of nonsense.
But if you get to the actual discourse, the human discourse, the secular academic discourse,
we're smack dab in the middle. We are mainstream. Those guys don't want to go to SBL. They think
it's a circus. And so they they don't want to have any part of it, that maelstrom of of belief
and all of the loaded topics and all that's the charged kind of politics that's going on with that.
And so I even brought up to Cusco, the former president of SBL, when I was more involved there.
Before I got completely frustrated, I said, Why don't we have a checkbox at least so that
when people start sessions at the at the conference, they could indicate this is a purely secular
session or this is a purely evidence driven humanistic kind of platform. Please do not,
you know, we do not invite, you know, discussion that's that's aimed at theological constructs or
anything that's motivated by faith whatsoever. Even if you were to announce that people would
show up and still import all of their beliefs and so on. So yeah, it's almost impossible,
it's impossible, basically, to get out of that. And so I just decided that that my discourse is
going to be outside of that. You know, I take my hat off to those people that are still out there.
A lot of them are orbiting so far out there, like the John Jay Collins is and stuff that they're
still extremely informative to me and helpful and I respect them.
But they also there's a there's a place they they've kept their career.
Like you're suggesting that there would be no way to probably keep that career
and do what you were doing and write what you're writing and actually teach what you're teaching
here and keep a career at somewhere like Yell Divinity or Princeton Theological or any of
these places you would probably lose your job without a doubt.
Well, I haven't heard the phone call yet and I don't know. I mean, I understand that I maybe
I maybe they see me as not qualified or something like that. I don't know what the
I you know, they're very selective and they only have openings here and there and I'm probably
not on their shortlist at this point. But but just this kind of stuff. I mean,
that's what they'd have to weigh through. Do we want somebody like this that's doing work that's
so upsetting to so many people in a context where we're training ministers and clergy and,
you know, clerics and this kind of thing. Is that is that where he belongs?
Yeah, I'd love to see scholarship. The institutions incorporate people like you
just to give people of faith at least knowing like they do. They teach them things about
contradictions. They teach them all the stuff. They don't preach that stuff. They're not but
it'd be at least in the right direction of letting them hear that discourse instead. You're not.
So the final thing about that I'd like to say is you're suggesting that the people who think
SBL and other societies like that are circuses to use your words are as a big clown show of
like circus. I have to emphasize that. So is that these are probably classicists who see
they don't want to wade into the to the storm of New Testament drama that goes on even though
they might see it actually categorized in that vein. It is a classicist thing. It is a Greek
thing. It is a Hellenized thing that would fit right into classics and work perfectly.
But because so much drama is attached to it because we have a living religion still,
whereas like there might be people out there who worship Zeus in the world or think Hercules is
true. There is no systematic power. They have no power. There's so little in the world. So it's
okay. Like we have irrelevant discussion. Yeah, that's that's the opposite of the case here.
So you're saying that's why the living religion has that much power, strength and struggle
that they don't even want to engage in dialogue because of this. Yeah. Yeah. I think that and
my doctoral work was transdisciplinary. I took a lot of classics courses. I had a lot of classics
and you know, professors over me training me from various places, UCLA, Yale, the Claremont
colleges and and other places. And so I was in those contexts and I got to hear what the
backroom discussions were at a lot of these places. And no, they don't want to touch this
with a 10 foot pole. They're not interested. Even the people that I got on my dissertation
committee, it was a little bit of a struggle to get them to be part of it. And I thank them
because their careers are now tied to my work in some way that they might not have signed on for
that. They don't want to be part of being pulled into some apologetic debate with people throwing,
you know, mud and poop at them. And they they're they've got dignified careers all in their own
right. And they didn't sign up for that. And so there it definitely spoils and ruins and I think
utterly destroys the discourse. The Greek lexicon, for instance, you know, there's no such thing as
as a New Testament lexicon. It doesn't exist. There's there's no such thing as the New Testament
in its own right. That's a construct that we're foisting upon it. This is just earliest Christian
writing. Okay, so last thing, I'm sorry I'm adding this on, but this is important what you're saying
here. In your private discussions with classicists that come from the Greek Roman research that
have they know some New Testament stuff. Yeah, are they looking at this like you're looking at this?
Do they see this stuff? I mean, I'm sure there's maybe there's some people of faith in classicist
departments, but the ones that you're saying are secular that are like obviously not engaging at
all. Are they looking this cone? This is another legend. Like this is another this is obviously
another one. Yeah, yeah, there's mixed I've seen I've seen that I've seen a lot of that actually
backroom discussions. I've shared my research at places that some of the list I gave you
with top people and and they'll look at it and say, yeah, you're correct. In fact, Veronica
Grimm that who who initially got me on my way to reading Romulus, I think in the back of her mind
later on talking to her, she said, I selected that text sort of at the beginning because I knew
you were coming from the divinity school. I thought you should maybe take a peek at that.
And so they're quietly doing that using and there's it's kind of like I'm a proxy in that way,
but you know that so those are backroom kind of ivory tower academic discussions that the world
you know, the larger world is not privy to. There are others too that were trained to because
they're also trained to have that dividing line. And so some of them their Christianity course
that they take basically says, no, nothing to see here, you know, move on. This is all Jewish
and so they're trained also to draw that line in the sand. And a lot of that line starts to,
you know, get disrupted as they begin actually doing their real work over time. And that's
where I find these these interesting and very honest discussions. So you Robin Faith Walsh,
Dennis McDonald, Litwa would be in this category at least. And you of course, we'll get later into
some of the criticisms of the of the recent work, how the Gospels became history and stuff,
Gospels became history and stuff. But these are people that we can say are at least engaging
as fair and as close to what the reality is with this literature in a Greek Roman Jewish world.
Yeah, now that doesn't mean we're all right, but at least we're on the golf course.
Got it. We're on the golf course, we're hitting the ball. Now what's bizarre to me is oftentimes
when you go to actual new normal, what we would call mainstream New Testament studies,
they think they're just on the putting green, perfecting their discussion.
This group that you're talking about these, those that are doing true transdisciplinary work
that's untethered to theology from a classicist, hybridic kind of perspective.
We don't even think they're on the golf course. You know, and so you might quibble about where
we're at on this and that, I actually think I'm pretty damn close to right on this, about 99%.
My core arguments, I'm a thousand percent confident in some of my ancillary arguments
are up for discussion. And that's part of the discourse. You know, this is like a science,
we're going to grow and learn. No one's going to have the final answer on it, but we're going to
advance in our understanding. And so that's where I think it's at. And I believe I've made a strong
contribution in that right in that way. But yeah, I think that basically you've got a group of people
that are they're doing rigorous work in that space, trying to truly contextualize these writings
within the world that they grew up within the world that they found their initial meeting.
And so I don't find that going on at a lot of the divinity schools and seminaries in this country.
Thank you. I hope you liked my dad Richard Millard in this interview. Remember to like and
subscribe. And never forget, we are Miss Vision.
