John Stormer, who was the author of Nundair Call it Treason, he was talking about against
liberals and so on. And I shared that ideology generally. At the end of the lecture, Bob Jones
Jr. came to the podium and said, Martin Luther King Jr. has just been shot in Memphis, Tennessee.
And the president has asked us to fly the flag at half-mast but will not fly the flag at half-mast
for an apostate at which time everybody that I could see, everybody stood and clapped and cheered.
It is the most hateful, racist thing I had ever witnessed. And it just shook me and I couldn't
believe that I'd let myself get sucked into an ideology. And I told myself, I am not going to be
a Christian like that. That is simply wrong.
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald, I really appreciate your time and coming to my house to do these recordings.
Oh, it's a pleasure. I've had a good time. And so what are we doing now?
So in this video, I want to get your story. I want it to be authentic. If you say anything good
about me, I'll send you a check. I'm just kidding. No, I'm curious to know what your story is and
we'll focus specifically on the topic of religion. Because I mean, you only have your degree in this
very issue. So tell us your story.
I was the son with three siblings of a conservative Baptist pastor who was proud to be a fundamentalist.
My mother converted from Judaism. And my father felt so strongly about anti-Semitism and anti-Judaism
in the Christian church that when he did his thesis for his Master of Divinity degree before
becoming a pastor, he was on anti-Semitism in the church. And throughout my father's career,
he really worked at making his community interreligious and interracial. And for 10 years,
he was a missionary in Italy with my mother, of course, and did his best to make it to. It was
a church mostly for military people in Naples, Italy, often with the Navy. And of course,
the Navy has lots of African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asians in it. And he worked very hard
to make sure that his church was open to everyone who's there. Now, I'm going to take the story
all the way to Bob Jones University, where I went to college, because that's where my parents had
gone. And they wanted me to follow in the Christian fundamentalist tradition. But again, they were
more socially responsible and open than most fundamentalists. This was my senior year, 1968,
in early April. And during my studies, before that, I had taken lots of Greek and philosophy
because I wanted to become a pastor or a missionary. And like my father, save the world for Christ.
And we were all of us students and faculty were at a large meeting for a lecture by John Stormer,
who was the author of Nundair Call it Treason. He was a John Birch Society member, and he was
talking about against liberals and so on. And I shared that ideology generally, at the time.
At the end of the lecture, Bob Jones Jr. came to the podium and said, Martin Luther King Jr.
has just been shot in Memphis, Tennessee, April 1968. And the president has asked us to fly the
flag at half mast, but will not fly the flag at half mast for an apostate, at which time everybody
that I could see, everybody stood and clapped and cheered. It is the most hateful, racist thing I
had ever witnessed. And it just shook me. And I couldn't believe that I'd let myself get sucked
into an ideology that was so awful. And of course, Martin King was not an apostate. He was a Christian
with a different ideology. But he was ordained himself. And he was a preacher. And it was just
so outrageous. Well, in the dormitories at Bob Jones, we had prayer meetings every night for about
20 minutes before going to bed. And so I met with that group because I had to everybody did. And I
said, we are not praying today. We're going to talk about what happened. And I said, that was the most
disgraceful, racist thing I'd ever seen. And I want nothing of it. And you should be ashamed if you
stood and clapped with that. And I'd like to have you talk about it. So we talked about it. And then
we went to bed. And the next morning I was called into the dean's office. And they were going to
expel me for preventing prayer. That's what this was about. And it happened that the dean of students
was a friend of my father's. They had gone to college together. And he called my dad. And I can still
remember this conversation clearly. Ronnie, I hate to inform you that we have to expel Dennis for
preventing prayer. And then he talked about what happened, but said nothing about Martin King and
all that. And my dad said, I need to talk to Dennis as he there. And this person said, yes, they handed
me the phone and I told him what happened. And I handed the phone back to the dean. And I heard my
dad shouting, Gilbert, you do what you need to. I've never been prouder of my son. And so my dad
supported me in the courage that it took me to oppose what was going on at Bob Jones. So instead of
expelling me, they moved me into a dorm room with one of their stooges for the final two months of
my stay there. They piled up the so-called demerits. So that if I did anything out of order, not
including not making my bed in the morning, they could expel me. So I felt imprisoned by it. And I
told myself, I am not going to be a Christian like that. That is simply wrong. But I would had studied
Greek and philosophy and was kind of growing up intellectually. And I had a scholarship to Princeton
Seminary. But I wasn't ready to do that yet. So I postponed my scholarship for a year and took
a job at a Baptist church in California, Salinas, California. And during that time, Derek, I
translated for myself the entire New Testament and so solidified my Greek. And I was amazed at the
moral sensitivity of early Christian literature, interest in compassion and a certain amount of
inclusivity and a concern for justice. And it became clear to me that the ethic of the New
Testament and especially of Jesus had nothing to do with the religion that I had seen at
Bob Jones University with fundamentalism. And it totally changed my understanding of where I was
going in my quest. I finally went to Princeton Seminary and that was then in 1970. And that's
the year that Ivy League school shut down out of opposition to the Vietnam War. And at that time,
I was still pretty much a nationalist. You know, I was, I believed in the military, I thought about
being a chaplain. But it was clear to me during that year that what we were doing in Vietnam
was motivated by wealth and not by compassion and not really by an ideology of freedom.
And I became solidly anti-war. And at that time, then I became really alienated from my own parents
who remained very patriotic and faithful, even though we agreed with each other on issues of
race and anti-Semitism and so on. I left Princeton after one year and was looking for a form of
evangelical Christianity that would have some continuity with my past, but was more progressive
on political and moral issues. And I went to Trinity Evangelical Divinity School
north of Chicago. And it was as bad as Bob Jones. And I helped found the Sojourner magazine
with Jim Wallace. Jim Wallace, you may know, is a spokesperson for a left-leaning evangelical voice.
So we helped found the Sojourner magazine, which moved to Washington, D.C. at the same time
that I had a scholarship to go to Harvard to continue my studies. So I went to Harvard. And at
that point, I was still a theist. I was still a Christian identified radical, I guess I'd have to
say. I was a part of the hippie movement and I didn't do drugs and I didn't do free sex and so on. I was
still very much a goody-goody two-shoes. But I was taken in by classics. And so I wasn't in the
seminary. I was in the university, you know, a program that merged the classics and early Christianity.
And studied with some amazing people. And my minor was a Roman reception of Greek philosophy,
so we did a lot of translating of Latin and Greek. And I really became quite good at it
and became friends with classicists and people in folklore. And after that, I took a job at,
after graduating, took a job at Goshen College, which was a Mennonite College. So it was the
Peace Church tradition. And they had a strong social ethic, but I was still a theist at the time.
But what I didn't realize is that my academic work, that took me into Christian apocrypha
and classics more and more, made me a humanist more than a theist. And I realized that doing
theology, and for me being religious, was really getting in the way of my being a scholar.
Because there was the assumption that in the New Testament, we had revealed truth.
And God was speaking through scripture. And I loved the Bible. And I was interested in working
through. Then I took a job at the Claremont School of Theology. And so I'm still a Christian
identified person. I want to make the church more responsible to the war, to the environment,
to race, racial equality, income equality, and so on. I wanted to live out the moral values
that I saw in the New Testament that were so violated by Bob Jones. And I had a good career
at the School of Theology. But even there, even in the liberal Christian environment,
my work really wasn't understood or accepted well. So I just had, it was my becoming an atheist was
a gradual thing. It probably started at Harvard, when I became so interested in other cultures
and in classics, and became much more interested in history, and human diversity, and the humanness
of the Christian movement. And became really suspicious of all kinds of theology. I've said
it before in other broadcasts, but maybe I should say it again. For me, theology is a long four-letter
word. And people sometimes think that because I'm a biblical scholar, I'm a theologian. No,
I'm an anti theologian. Theology usually gets in the way, not all of them. But often it does
because it's looking for normativity, a revelation. And of course, theology is discourse about something
that, in my view, doesn't exist. So, you know, save your breath, and let's talk about humankind,
and let's talk about ethics, and let's get politics right, and so on. So basically, that's my story.
So when I was at Claremont, I had a wonderful library. I became the director for 10 years of
the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity. We had several funded projects going in antiquity,
including Greek rhetoric, the Hebrew Bible. We had our own archaeological site in Palestine.
We had a project on Christian apocrypha, and so on. So I had wonderful support there in great
libraries and bright enough students, some of whom are carrying the torch even now.
And so during that time, I published probably a dozen books and I don't know how many articles
and reviews, but now we have it distilled in my new book, Synopses of Epic Tragedy and the
Gospels. This is not going to be my last book, but it's a penultimate book, and it's the crowning
achievement of my career. So the next book is going to be an argument that builds on this book
and justifies some of its conclusions and methodologies. So really, that's it, Derek.
I came from fundamentalism. I became disaffected with fundamentalism because of racism and then
American patriotism. I became enamored of the moral vision of Jesus and the Gospels,
which continues to nurture me. So I consider myself a Christian-identified humanist and a
theoskeptic. I'd rather talk about myself that way than being an atheist, but what I believe is not
so important. What's more important for me is the contribution I can make with the education that I've
had in order to help others break away from fundamentalism that has so many dire consequences
in American life right now. And from America to the world, you know, the January 6 crowd
are largely Christian nationalists, and we have others who are suspicious of environmental science
because they believe in revelations Jesus is coming back soon. I don't think the world can survive
Christian fundamentalism very much longer. And so this is my weapon in the culture war to say,
you know, get over it. I'm not telling you not to be a Christian. I'm telling you to be a smart
and a morally responsible Christian. And I would say the same thing to Muslims or Jews or I'm not
trying to get you to change your religion. I'm trying to make sure your religion doesn't harm
yourself and others. And that's why for me, I'm an ethical pragmatist. I want to know what ideas
do in the world, who it hurts and who it helps. And so basically, that's my story.
That was really powerful. There's a lot in there that I definitely like relate with. And
I really appreciate you telling us this, you know, you said at the end, I don't want to change
people's religion. And I literally heard myself say in my head, I don't want to change people's
religion either. But I want to change people's religion. And what I mean is, you can believe
what you want. You know, you want to believe that Jesus really is there's something that may have
happened. I don't know. It's a faith thing. Cool. I have nothing against that. Really don't. I really
don't. Now, I personally have my reasonings, I can give you those. But I definitely would say,
I want to change their religion in the sense that keep your religion but change it. You see what
I'm saying? If that's what you want, would I be happy to see other humanists? Absolutely. And in
fact, I would say when you said that you became a humanist over time, people have asked me, when
did you become an atheist? And I'm like, that's a good question. Because when I use the term an
atheist, I no longer believed in a God. What I, what they think is that means you don't believe
in anything. No, I believe in something. And it's us. You see, I believe in what I could see,
what I can experience and believe that humanity can do good. And in fact, I think that humanity
is ethically, I would say, more moral than we give ourselves credit for. We think it's the
gods. We think it's this. We think it's that. Sure, there's a lot of bad out there. But I'm saying
there's no Adam and Eve fell. We all fall on this treachery downhill. No, we're rising apes,
not fallen angels. And so I, I love your story. I love your story. I about teared up when your
dad said, I've never been more proud of him. And I've had my dad do stuff like that for me in
ways where it makes me think back and tear up. So Dennis, I hope somebody listens to your story
and understands how someone like you just wants to do better. And I hope that people will get your
book because your book is taken all your experience. One day it'll be a memory. And you've put all this
hard work into this one area where people can go and they could see the beauty reflected in what
you're observing in this literature and take back the literature from those who might use it in a
negative way. So yeah, I guess I want to end by by this. In my date book for every week,
I have a sticker that I created that says create something beautiful.
And if at the end of the week, I haven't created something beautiful, I remind myself that in
the next week, I need to do it. And so that is always in front of me. But create something beautiful
means one uses one's skills. And for me, they happen to be about ancient history and languages and so
on. I need to do that. But another way to create beauty is to be a good parent. It's to be a good
custodian of the earth. Because environmental damage is not beautiful. It's ugly. Child abuse
is ugly. It's not beautiful. So when I talk about beauty, I talk about it in the Socratic
Platonic way. Beauty is a moral category. It is not an aesthetic category only. And so what I encourage
people who are engaged with my work to put in their calendars on a monthly basis anyway,
to create something beautiful, to use the gifts and the time that you have as a way of making
this globe and the human experience more manageable.
