Welcome back to MythFusion Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. I'm also somebody who
has de-converted from Christianity, who was once a very devout, fundamentalist believer
in the biblical text and in the worldview we call Christianity. Today, I'm going to
be discussing, really not discussing, actually interviewing Dr. Jennifer Grace Bird on her
life story, where she was, what happened, and where she's at now. Her story is her
story and nobody can take that from her. I hope if you're watching, no matter where
you're at in your journey, on what you think reality is, what you think the truth is, wherever
you are that you try to relate and empathize, to understand by putting on her shoes through
her story. She is a PhD. She's a New Testament scholar. I won't bore you with the details.
In fact, I thought I would bore you with the details, but I want to keep this as fun and
as authentic as possible without getting bogged down. Without further ado, let's introduce
our guest. Dr. Jennifer Grace Bird, welcome to MythFusion.
Hey, Derek. Thanks for having me.
Thank you. This is a little different than what we're used to doing. I want to dive into your
life. This is your life and where you're comfortable going. A lot of times when I interview academics
who are experts in particular fields, they specialize on New Testament or Old Testament or
whatever the particular is, I ask them to take us on a journey through their life and why they've
come to conclusions that they have today. With you, I'd like to ask you, if you don't mind,
just to start us off in entering into your life, to introduce yourself to the audience in case
they've never met you or they don't know who you are, and then take us into your early years,
were you born a Christian? Was your household Christian? Did you convert to Christianity?
Take us on that path. Sure, sure. Well, the quick introduction, I suppose, would be,
right. Let me just name quickly that my undergraduate degree was in mathematics.
I'm a philosopher and mathematician by trade, I guess, and then I ended up going to,
for instance, Theological Seminary for Master of Divinity. That's a very intense three-year
program, which is long. I say that because I want people to understand. I've spent many years,
is my point here, thinking about and learning about these things. Then I started PhD work at
Baylor University and finished, got to transfer to Vanderbilt, which was a much better fit for me.
So I have a PhD in New Testament and early Christianity. Those are my credentials, if you
will. I've taught in many places along the way. There's the basics. I'm from Virginia and I grew
up on the youngest of four siblings, the only female, and most of the stereotypes apply to me.
Right. Yeah. And I grew up in a family that was, you know, I'm a Methodist. So you Methodists are
kind of middle of the road in terms of they're not typically very extreme and not typically
terribly like proud and loud, but just kind of social justice-y focused. In case people don't
know, different denominations where they kind of land and what their flavor is.
It's interesting. I've returned to my hometown and I have attended. There's been in those spaces
again and many of the people there are much more conservative than I realized growing up. So I don't
know if that's changed, but so my experience growing up in this Methodist church was
not very exciting and I did not enjoy it. In fact, I think the spaces made me uncomfortable.
That particular building, it's not like it was because of aesthetically, it was like a feeling.
And I've mulled this over quite a bit actually in the last 20 years, 30 years. Like, what was that
about? Why do I feel uncomfortable in that building? But I do. And I think that in general when I go
into churches. So it's not about the people as much as there's something about what happens in
the space I think that is just registering for me. I'm not trying to get all kooky on you.
I'm just, it's just something I've mulled over quite a bit. If I could, I'm going to just,
as your story goes along, maybe dig out some of the things that I think might,
the viewer might be interested in hearing because I know I'm interested in that is
where your parents devout. I mean, if you were putting on a scale, how sincere were they about
believing Jesus rose from the dead? They may have been normal in their day-to-day lives,
but did they, did they pray at home? Did they read the Bibles? Were you kind of
involved in that? Was dad more religious than mom? What are some of those aspects?
Yeah, well, they weren't very religious. Like, we prayed, we prayed for before meals and we ate
breakfasts and dinners together. And so we set a grace, as people call it, before every meal. And
my parents still do. And, but like, I never saw them reading a Bible. They didn't pray, you know,
do the whole like evangelical, like, let's pray for, let's pray for them or let's pray together
over that, nothing like that at all. And, you know, they, I don't know that they have ever
like thought of Jesus as saving us from sin. I don't, I don't think they've ever bought into that.
And in fact, I've recently been having conversations with my dad and, you know, he's,
you know, they just bring up stuff. They're like, what does this even mean? I mean,
my mother is a former pastor and she's like, what does eternal life even mean?
Yeah, she's like, I don't buy it. I don't buy it. You know, so, so very not, you know, they were not
conservative, you know, for us growing up. And so what I did experience was we were there every
Sunday morning, you know, Sunday school, church, and then back in the evening for like youth group
stuff. And I went much younger because my oldest brother would be going. So like our whole family
would go back to church, you know what I mean? Like my oldest brother is nine years, eight years
older than me. So by school year. So yeah, so it was, they were our friends. They were our kind
of social outlet, if you will, you know, like that was, that was a community that we were a part of
and that meant a lot to me. It meant a lot to me, though I wasn't conscious of that at the time.
You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah, they were just there for you. And we did mission trips,
we'd go help rebuild homes, not wasn't about converting people, it was about taking care of
people, right? That was really, that was, that was great. You know, those were really interesting.
And those were good things to be a part of. I'm really grateful that I got to be a part of that
stuff. My dad still does Habitat for Humanity, actually. So yeah, that's where my family was
coming from. It was not, we were Christian, but not flagrant about it. You know what I mean?
Right. What about you? Did you as a young teen, going through this, see, my parents,
my mom has always believed in things. I'm using an analogy to kind of get yours.
My mom was more serious about it all, I would say than dad. But they both believed, but kind of
culturally believed they weren't devout super over the top. Mom would get really serious when
she'd go to church and she'd cry almost like she had guilt and shame when she walked in.
That environment always put that setting. But I had a conversion experience as a young teen
in middle school. Did you go through a moment in your religious life where you were really,
I'd say more serious and took it more seriously, had an experience? Was there anything like that
in your own life? Yeah, there were a couple I wanted to share. One was when I was eight or nine,
I stopped, like I started skipping going to the church service because I was starting to be annoyed
by the content. And I remember hearing like the pastor must have read from the beginning of Genesis
because this whole thing about creating the world. Because I remember turning, I remember
mulling it over. And this whole idea of if God created the universe, then where did God come
from? These are things that a lot of people have had. I'm not saying I'm unique. I'm saying
at eight or nine, I was thinking about this. And I think it's important to note because it does say
something about where I ended up going. And that's all I'm trying to get at here. I don't think I'm
special. Right. Where did God come from? If God created everything? And also, and this was really
important to me, what existed to be able to create the world into? Like you had to have space to
create the world into but spaces itself. And the whole thing just, it didn't register for me.
It somehow didn't connect. And I started skipping church. And I just like, I'd go spend the time
in the nursery because, you know, like that's way better time, but time better spent, you know,
anyway, that was, that was, you know, elementary. And then in like 12, 11 or 12, there was a
gospel choir, but United Methodist, you know, umbrella, but a gospel choir came to town. And
they, I remember going with my mom and the, I was the only one who went to the youth pastor.
I wasn't even technically in the youth group yet, or maybe I was, it was for high school,
I don't know, there was just something about it that I was only one who showed up to go
because I was there with mom. And, you know, they did a whole, they did the whole thing,
it was beautiful, your outside concert. And, you know, they did the whole altar call at the end,
which is not Methodist normally, right? That is not a thing Methodist do. And,
and I just, they were like, they were asking, you know, if there's anyone, you know,
here who has never accepted Christ into their hearts as, you know, forgiveness has said all
the things, right? And I just started bawling. And I just walked up. And my mom was like, what the
hell? This is not in her mind, right? This isn't what we do. And I walked up there and I,
met this one, this really lovely, I'm sure she was just a teenager, maybe early 20s, but she,
you know, she was old to me. And she, I can't remember her name, but we became pen pals for a
while. And it was like, she was like a little Paul to me, writing to me, using scriptural
language to talk to me and encourage me in my new faith in Christ and asking me questions, you know,
to kind of see how I was growing in my walk with the Lord, you know, like that whole, the whole
thing. Like, and it was sweet. And I really enjoyed it. I, and I liked that she would use
scripture to talk to me, you know, because that was, that was kind of cool, you know, and, and I
liked that. And so that happened, but then nothing else really, because she was the, Phyllis was
running, she was the only person who was kind of on that vibe with me, you know, wasn't happening
in Sunday school, wasn't a part of the youth group at all to be like that. Not at all. So
then in high school, I followed a very, I followed a guy I had a perpetual crush on for like, you
know, eight years or whatever, I followed him to campaigners, which was a, like a Bible study
with young life. So enter the young life phase of my life, right? In a junior in high school,
I went because of him. And well, I, you know, I'm a Christian and I go to church and I study
Bible, you know, and so that led to me going to camp over the summer. So I don't know what you
know about young life there. I don't know. I kind of want to say that you're fortunate. And I don't
mean, I feel like, you know, it was a big part of my life. And I'm not trying to throw that part
of my life under the bus at all. But it's, it's, it's such a mixed bag. So, you know, I think I
was, anyway, it is a mixed bag for me because it really does in lots of ways people, you know,
older, you know, young adults, older adults come alongside teenagers at a really difficult time
in life. And that can be really helpful. And I know that that is true. I also know that there's a
lot of, there's an element of brainwashing and there's an element of fear and guilt and all
that stuff that goes along with ABC, right? Admit your center of belief Christ died for you and
commit to, you know, is this an evangelical organization? Yeah, safe to say, like leading
kids to Christ. Very missionary activity. Very, but it's, it's very, but they're fun.
Right, right. Lots of energy, lots of fun things, right? Much better than the hometown in the sense
that you were going to. Got it. Okay. Right. And so when I went to camp that summer, you know,
the whole point of going to camp is to lead kids to Christ and that you go and these are,
these are five star camps in terms of like what you get to do and
incredible food and blah, blah, blah, you know, it's, it's well set up and, and it is brainwashing.
And because you just, you're in this camp and it's 300 kids and they're, you know, they're youth,
they're young life leaders that we don't call them youth leaders, young life leaders and
all these great fun people. And, you know, they kind of just break it and break down the gospel
and to like bite size, you know, elements of it, like the sin talk and the this talk and the cross
talk and the, you know, and so, yeah, at the end of the week, they're asking how many kids have
accepted the Lord, you know, accepted Christ in your heart and they ask you to stand up,
you know, at the last meeting, all the stuff, you know, right. And I remember there were some
things going on in my life as in high school, but the, I've always kind of wondered why the
young life leaders wanted, like you, you kind of focus in on kids, like you want to get some kids
who are strong leaders in, because they'll bring other kids like that cute guy that I followed.
But then, you know, so like what, where did I fit in their spectrum? I'm not quite sure why
they wanted me there. But anyway, I remember talking with my young life leader, just the two
of us, you know, like, how are you processing this? And she was really worried about me for
reasons that were actually not true. It didn't, weren't actually true about me. And I knew,
so I just kind of, at that point, I just said, yeah, you know, I think I want to, you know,
kind of rededicate or accept Christ in my heart, but it was all rational. And it was,
it felt awkward and weird, but like, it just seemed like the thing that I should do.
And again, a thing that I've thought a lot about, like, what was going on there, you know,
it was peer, was it the peer pressure? No, I don't give into peer pressure. Of course you do,
you know, like, what was that, you know, right? And then for the environment, had you rededicate
in a way, you felt compelled in that environment to want to do that. That's what came to mind when
you said that was how many times Derek, have you been saved in your life? And I mean,
True for a lot of people, right? Yeah, like, I've been baptized several times in several
denominations, and I've been saved over and over and over. And I mean, that is a funny joke,
because I believed in what saved always saved, but I still don't think it's saved again.
Just for sure. But it didn't feel like that to me. You know what I mean? Like,
there was something different, like, I'm going to really commit this time. That, you know,
and again, I know that sounds like it's very similar to what lots of people say, but
for whatever reason. And I think there was also something about the fact that I was,
it was now in a place where I was going to be supported with it or something. I don't know.
I don't even know, to be honest. But, but then there was this like, okay, now you're a Christian,
and now you're going to like commit to Christ, and now you're going to do these discipleship
kinds of things. And we're going to have, you know, encourage you, but you're going to walk
through this program with us and like, because we want you to be committed. And, you know,
and it was all in love on their part. Like, they really meant the best. And I'm a good scripture
memorizer. I got it, like digging into the text, you know, kind of appealed. And it was with this
dose of excitement and energy and, and like, you know, something alive that I didn't feel at my
church, right? So I think that was part of the appeal, you know, for me, was the energy that
they had. And then of course, the certainty, right? Like, these people understand me, and they have
answers to my questions, and they have answers to the things, right? Anyway, so, so I was, that was,
that was the big moment for me. Big deal, you come back and you're born again, right? Like,
the whole thing, like, all that language. How old were you if you don't want to answer? That was
the summer turns 17. Okay. Yeah. And so then my senior year in high school, I was kind of a,
kind of a high school, like, kind of helping out with the young life stuff, you know, like, I'd
help out with, you have a weekly club meeting, and you do fun skits, and you sing fun songs,
and then they do a talk. And so I was one of the people that would help with, you know, help with
running things or doing fun things. And so then for me, that kind of continued through college. I
went to Virginia Tech. And I was, because I was already involved in young life, that was a,
you know, an automatic community for me, right, to go see who is, and I was already connected,
like I had my, my young life leader in high school, or there were a couple of them, and one of them
had a son already at Virginia Tech in young life. So like, I had people introducing me to get me
there and connected. And then you're, like you said, you've got this fun community of people,
you know. And so I was, I was a young life leader for four years. So you're volunteering multiple
hours a week on top of my part-time job and trying to be a student. I wasn't a very good student.
Got it. It's amazing to me, actually, that I did as well as I did.
Anyway, so yeah, I was involved. That's where they were my people. They were my community,
you know, like it was, again, it was just a ready-made community. We all believed pretty
much the same thing. We all engaged scripted the same way. We all, you know, encourage each
other and hold each other accountable. And, you know, want to encourage each other in our walks
with the Lord, like very open about all of this language. And that appealed to me at the time.
You know, I did. Is it safe to say, and I'm sorry to pause. Is it safe to say at this point in your
life, you believed the Bible the way that typical Christians believe, evangelicals believe,
it's literally true. And they're trying to make arguments for whether it's young earth creation,
or if it's this or that, like these various kind of, it bypasses logic or bypasses skepticism.
It's more that emotional. And yet I buy this Bible is true. And I've been taught this and told this
by this group that I'm now involved in. I believe these things. And now we're looking for answers
that back up those things we believe only we're not looking to poke holes. Is that safe to say?
Young earth thing wasn't a part of our conversations, that issue. But pretty much
everything else, like we talked about it all, like it was history, you know, like this is what
happened. And, and I believed the Adam and Eve story happened. Like I know that I did, even
though it's really hard for me to believe that now. It's like, no, I did, right? Obviously. Yeah.
And, and right. And you take it all at face value. I today I call that reading with a grain,
right? You read with a grain and you agree with the message, right? And it is all for your good.
And it is all what God is trying to tell us. I mean, that that framing is also really hard
for people to get past, you know, because it's well ingrained. It's you're taught to think of it
this way. Very important way of thinking about the Bible. So yeah, I was, we were regularly
using scripture to, you know, to try to reach kids for Christ. But we were also
using scripture to talk, to encourage each other and to correct each other and hold each
other accountable and all of the things. And it all was, it was a very positive thing in my life
at that point in time. It really was, you know? I mean, I was like, I helped start a new club
as a college student. Like this is like, I was big time, like I was in it. And I had such a good
time. And I had leadership skills, you know, and people could see that. And, you know, like, so
they encouraged me to do the leadership program after college. And I did it. Two year training
program is what it's called. So I did that. And you have to raise some of your support and all
that stuff. But yes, scripture is not questioned, right? It is read and it is ingested and it is
honored. And that's everything. Everything you painted so far sounds a really positive.
You went from a very, very young person who had questions that didn't seem to have
sufficient answers in a boring setting in a mundane, dry church that did not have the Holy
Spirit clearly. And you got into my own church that way. Yes. When I was in your life, like,
they don't really understand. Then you go into, no, no, no, this is a give and take, you know,
and I love your, this is your story. And then you go and you see the, this almost yellow brick
road all the way to go find the wizard. You're having a great time, your experiences, memories,
I'm sure were positive in many ways. But you get into college. This is kind of your lifestyle,
your people group and how you speak scripture and live scripture. And I imagine it doesn't
always stay that way. And usually somewhere in this period of people's deconversions,
something happens, questions arise, problems, things happen. And I'm curious to know if you
have any memory or if we're there yet. Maybe you have some more years of happiness you want to cover.
But as you can see, I'm, I know there's going to be an elbow that starts to occur. And I want
that picture to be vivid, if possible, to express maybe what you remember you were thinking at the
time and how we can try to go through that with you. Yeah, sure. So there, there's like one detail
I need to fill you in on for those who don't already know this, but I often refer to this story. So
it's, some people are already going to know. But when I was in college, so whatever, second,
third year, my mother was ordained in United Methodist Church. The methods have been ordaining
women for a long time, actually. But, and I had two different female associate pastors when I was
growing up who were really important to me, I still, I still am in touch with them, like I've
reconnected with with them both in the last, you know, five or 10 years. And they're just beautiful
humans really. But when I was in college, I was there, I was using scripture very differently
and engaging it very differently. And so, and I did not agree with my mother being ordained at
this point in my life, like it's a bizarre, like it's, it's bizarre, right? So on her ordination
date, like this is second to childbirth. And that's about it. Like, it's a big deal. Very big, right?
You have elders from the whole conference gathering, you know, this whole kind of,
you know, great cloud of great witness of people in the, you know, that you've known anyway, laying
on of hands, people crying, laughing, you know, celebrating everybody, except for me. And I,
you know, like I had to be there because it's my mom and, and I was there and I just tried to
just hold my tongue. Like it's her day, it's her thing. I don't like it. I don't think it's
appropriate. And thank God. You were the scriptural Christian who was against your mom doing this
and becoming ordinated because the text. Yes. Okay. I do not permit a woman to teach or have
authority of her man. Yeah. It's, it's, it's displeasing to God for my mom to do this,
but she's doing it anyway. And, and the, like alongside all of it, I could see that she had
like the skills, the gifting for it. I could see that, like, you know, but, right. But that
doesn't matter. You find another way, you know, you, you accommodate the texts about, right?
So, so my mother, so I don't know why I should ask my parents why they did this.
All six of us, right? Both my parents and my, my siblings, we were all there for this.
And I'm probably, my sister-in-law was probably there even. But that was in Virginia Beach and
we had a five hour drive home to Roanoke. And for some reason they put me and my mom in a car together.
Everybody else went in the other car. Like, what the hell were they thinking?
Now you have to talk. Yeah.
This is one of the most important days of her life. She's literally just had hands laid on her,
you know, kind of part of this community of people and leadership and will you believe in you and
all of that. And the first thing out of my mouth. You couldn't help yourself.
Of course. I never have been able to. I was like, Mom, I just don't understand how you can do this
because it's against God's will for women to be ordained. And I meant it. I wasn't laughing.
What a wet blanket. And she didn't, she didn't, she paused, you know, I always, when I tell this
story, I'm like, and I just appreciate that she did not push me out of the moving car.
Like what, you know what I mean? Like looking back, pull over and leave me behind.
Um, but she just, you know, she paused and then she just proceeded to tell me her story. And that
was something I hadn't heard her version of it, right? I had lived it as a child as her daughter,
right? And, and that was challenging at times because like when she went to seminary, she went
to Duke seminary and it's a three hour drive. So she, so I was in high school and she would
just stay down there for the week, you know, and sometimes she didn't come home because
she needed to study on the weekends. Like it all made sense, but it was like my, my junior,
senior years of high school, I didn't have a mom around, you know? So it was like hard not to just
see it through that lens, but to hear her story and to hear her tell me about all the ways people
had encouraged her. And I, you know, she wasn't seeking this out even. She didn't seek this out.
People kept telling her, Mary Ann, you're so good at XYZ. Why don't you do this?
Why don't you, and it just kind of progressed and it led to this. And she's very intellectually
curious. It still is. I mean, she, you know, she got a doctorate at the age of 73, you know?
Like she's, yeah, she's just, you know, and so probably the only time in my life I've been
speechless. Like I just had to listen to her story. You can't challenge someone's story,
right? As we're sitting here having a conversation about that. And it, and I just sat on that,
you know, sat on it. Like I tucked it away, you know, like I hear that, I hear what you're saying.
To me, it doesn't square with scripture, but I hear what she's saying. And I cannot, I can't
reconcile these two. And I'm going to choose scripture, but she's my mother. And so here we
go. Like I'm just, and I, you know, proceed, you know, so then the next couple years, excuse me,
next couple years, I'm still doing that thing. And I just didn't talk about it. You know, she was,
she was a method, she was a minister doing very busy as a Methodist minister and having a great time.
Anyway, so that, that's an important thing for you to know, because the, the piece that you're
asking me about, what did, where did things shift? What happened? Like there are actually,
it's interesting to me as, as I was reflecting on, I was like, it's interesting that it was,
came around to two separate papers that someone showed me. Okay. So while I'm on the
training program in Virginia Beach, the guy over me, the regional director, area director,
is what he's called, knew that my mother was ordained. And, and, and he, we had talked about
it because I wasn't okay with it. And he knew that I wasn't okay with it. And I'll, you know,
and I was trying to, you know, I'm kind of wrestling with these things and I don't have time to
wrestle with it. And so one day he shared a paper with me, it was a single spaced 20 page paper
on, you know, on women in leadership in the church. So here's the thing about young life that
also you need to know. And that is that it's considered a para church, as in it's like parallel
to, it's not church, right? So women can be in leadership in young life. You can do, you can
be president if you want, as a woman, you just can't pastor a church, because the church is
different. We're using some of that, but we're okay with this. So it's really, so, you know,
like he hands me this paper and has had actually said to me, Jen, you can go all the way to
president of young life if you want, like you're good, you're, this is who you are.
But here's my stance on women and leadership in the church. Okay, so here's the thing, I agreed
with it all. And it was very as, I mean, you could probably guess all the scriptures it's
going to quote, right? Right. And it's thorough, which is the point, right? And I have this paper,
and I had it, you know, this is clashing with my mom, but he's, you know, he knows, like,
still don't know, I still don't know what to do with you know this, right? She's still my mom.
And then shortly after that, someone, one of my former young life leaders
was getting a master's degree. And she was, she had a course on,
anyway, she had a course on the Gospels, it doesn't really matter. But for that,
for that course, she wrote a paper. And in the paper, she was engaging the passage some people
were referred to as the Martha Mary passage, which I know you're familiar with it, Derek,
but just to summarize briefly for those who might not know, you know, it's a story where
Mary is sitting at Jesus feet studying, learning from him, right? And Martha is in the kitchen.
And Martha was like, Hey, Jesus, why don't you tell Mary to get off her butt and get in here and
help me? And Jesus' response is typically handled this way. Mary has chosen what is better,
you know, basically leave her alone. She's chosen what's better. And then I don't even remember
how it wraps up, I haven't read it in a while. But, but it's, it's so formative for millions of
women, like there will be conversations in, in churches, are you a Martha or Mary? Do you like
to study or do you like, are you a, you know, you know, or, or are you a doer or are you a
muller over or whatever, you know, like it's a thing as if there's no variation in between
all that stuff. So this is a really important passage. Okay. And she was looking at the Greek
and she she with her professor, you know, we're talking about the fact that well, it's possible
and may even be more likely that what this phrase is actually saying is that Mary chose
implied for herself is better. Instead of again, implied giving into what's expected of her,
which is what you're doing, Martha, you're just doing what's expected of women, you're in the
kitchen, and you're upset that someone else is in here doing something, not helping with this,
but she's enjoying what she's, you know, like take play it out however you want. But in that moment,
for me, Derek, I had, I do talk about this, but I don't know how to explain it. It felt like I
was sitting on the stairs reading this. And I looked up and it just, it was like a warp in the
universe happened. And it felt like something opened up and closed back up differently. And
that sounds weird, but like, whatever it was, some sort of on my head, I don't know, but
it was significant because this is Jesus saying to a woman, it's better that you choose what you
want to do instead of doing what you're told you should do, right? And in this paper, my former
young life leader referred to me by name as being guilty of being the Martha, giving in to what is
expected of her. And she knew I was on the training program. And she, she's here and all about what
I was up to, right? So she named you, it's not just that she named me, it's just that I mean,
it was true, right? I was, I was putting, I was changing my clothes, you know, so I won't cause
men to stumble. I was putting a lid on myself so that the men around me wouldn't be intimidated.
And I was deferring, you know, I was doing all the things and I was do like I was doing what was
expected of me instead of being true to myself. So that is the moment, that is the thing that
shifted for me, that shifted things unalterably for me. And it still took a couple years, but I was,
I ended up in Portland shortly after that, again, connected to a community of very excited young,
you know, evangelical Christians through a young life connection, right? Someone knew
a person out there got connected, had automatic community, it was fantastic, you know, very fun
people. And but, but at the same time, it was all very surfacing. I'm, I tend to be kind of deep
and I, I live in the depths and I needed depths and I didn't have depth. And so I ended up calling
my young life leader, the same woman who had sent me that paper, right? And she was in seminary at
the time. And I was still in a place with the scriptures where I still wasn't okay with women
being ordained, right? Even though she had, you know what I'm saying, like she'd sent me this
paper in 94, it's 97, and I'm still like not there yet. And, you know, so.
But the seeds are planted. You're already seeing things, things are already.
I'm starting to right there. Just starting. Yep. And here's the thing, I reached out to her
specifically, because she's a charismatic woman and a really compassionate, really brilliant
woman. And I knew she's in seminary and I didn't want to ask her about it, because I didn't want
to go there. Like I didn't want to have to acknowledge that she was going to be ordained soon.
I did, you know, but it was like, Jen, you cannot call her up and not ask her about her life. Like
you can't do that. And so I was like, okay, it's a house seminary. You know, 45 minutes.
How's that, how's that ordination coming along? Yeah. Like 45 minutes of meat, like venting
and scared. And what am I doing? And then I do that. And then it's like, oh my gosh, by the end
of that, I was like, I got to go to seminary. So she persuaded you in a way to take pride and be
yourself. And you seem to have a passion for God's word and for the truth. And isn't it interesting
how that passion and drive for the truth ends up coming full circle and causing you to end up
exiting the very thing that you think is the truth by which you're fighting for it to start with.
It's like the truth will set you free from the following the truth of this, what we call the
truth isn't the truth anymore. What happened? Anyway, I'm jumping the gun here. Forgive me.
Please tell us. That's fantastic. That's spot on. And spot on. And to be clear, what she did
really was, I think because it was big for her, right, to engage scripture differently. And so
she would know that that's important to me, right? The way I have been, depending on scripture and
trusting it. And so what she said to me that, and I don't remember specifics, but it was basically
she was asked to learn the Greek and the Hebrew and being able to engage those for herself and how
that changed the way she reads the scripture. And what she was learning about the Bible was made
things different for her. And she wasn't leaving her faith. I mean, she was literally going on to be
pastor. But she had been an evangelist, like I, she evangelized me. And here she was
shifting that, but in a more honest way for herself. And so whatever she said, it didn't take long.
But whatever she said, it was more, it was about, yes, searching for the truth. But for me, yes,
I mean, it really was, it was that idea back before in that paper, what else is there that can be
potentially understood differently if I can look at the Greek and the Hebrew.
And she's kind of confirming that for me, that things change. Go ahead.
This is an important point, just so I'm rehearsing what you said to make sure I'm accurate here.
Because I'm relating to this. I've read something a certain way. Women are not to be ordained,
not to rule over men, supposed to speak to their husband in private and silence in the church,
the whole nine, you know, like, like, you know what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. And then you find out,
hold up, there might be some weird loophole or a different interpretation or different texts that
actually is contrary to this or something. And whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, what's going on here.
And so you are going to favor that one that seems to match your identity of what you're passionate
for and what you're aiming for. And your friend is probably hinting at some of that,
including the Mary Martha scene where Mary is viewed in a higher standard than being just the
obedient expect, do the dishes kind of wife or woman. And you're like that. I'm not saying I
won't wash dishes, but that's not that's not me. I want to know, I want to sit at the feet. I want
to know the truth. And so you're still on fire for Jesus. And you're still, but there's something
wrong with how people are interpreting and using or weaponizing this material in a way.
I could see what's happening in your head in a way if I'm relating there. And I hope the viewers
can too. I think you are. I mean, what you're saying, you know, and this connecting for me.
But you're right. It's important to know I was definitely still on fire for Jesus. I definitely
was. And that was those are the people I connected with in seminary, right? I had there was a
like there's a whole range, even one seminary, there's going to be people just like at any church.
There are people who are practically Unitarian Universalists for real. And then there are people
who were even more conservative than I was, you know. And but so I kind of got in with a group
that they all knew each other. They were all friends, you know, whatever. Because I went,
most people go to seminary because they they're already being supported by a church.
And I wasn't like I was a free agent, you know, I just went because I wanted to study the languages.
I didn't care about it. You know, I certainly wasn't going because I wanted to be ordained
because that would not be okay. You know, like, yeah, so I was still tracking with all the big
things. I still didn't I still like I had friends who were, you know, in the LGBTQ community that
we didn't specifically call it that then. And I still didn't know what to think about that.
I liked them, but I still it was kind of the same with the ordination. Like,
I like you as a person. But I think there's something sinful about the way you're living
your life. Right. And I love you. But you're this thing doesn't square. But I don't I don't
I'm not going to be the one to like speak out about it. I'm just going to sit here and not deal
with it because I don't you know what I mean. So those were some there were some big things for me
to kind of confront that did happen for me in summary. Anyway, so yes, I was still kind of
towing that line of in the way I engage scripture and thought about the church and thought about
myself in a relationship with Christ, for sure. So yeah, so I don't want to I don't want to ask.
Go ahead. Yeah, yeah, the next big turn. But I almost want to dig in and if you're comfortable
with it to ask you about your private life, because, you know, we're trying to follow Jesus,
we're trying to be as good of Christians as we can. But then there's the sense I imagine you
go through puberty, I went through puberty, we all did. You're drawn, attracted to people,
you're dating people, maybe things are happening in that respect. Are you having any
personal life stuff that also may be impacting not just the fact that ordination for women plays
a role, but sexuality and these kind of things. Do they end up playing a role? Am I jumping the
gun or is any of this happening for you? Well, yeah, I have a I have a remarkably boring dating
life. Okay. In general, in terms of my the whole, you know, since I was 15 or whatever,
very much hit and miss. I had one, you could say serious relationship my senior year in high
in college. And so some things came out of that for sure, like, just the guilt over
basically having sex with our clothes on, you know, because, you know, like, what did we just
do? And why are we doing it? Like, we're not supposed to do that. And it was guilt ridden,
you know, you know, like, Oh, my gosh, it's unbelievable, really, you know, it's really sad.
But but because of, I guess, because of my own, my own dysfunction and relational issues coming
out of we all have them, right, our families give us lots of good things and and some some crap.
And so I think maybe partly because of my issues coming out of my family, I haven't had I haven't
dated many, many people. And I have dated men, just people are curious, the only dating men.
So that wasn't really a big thing for me until until after seminar, really. Got it. Sorry, I just
figured I checked the box off because some people relate and they they have certain things they
might want to mention. Yeah, what is the next I mean, you're on fire for Jesus, you're you're
going to get languages learning Greek and Hebrew, getting those understood because you love your
Bible. You are realizing there's more than one way to understand the Bible and that there are
various messages that seem to be conveyed from this literature. Is there something that ends up
happening next that takes? Yeah, yeah. And I you know, I'll say this, and it's it, I think,
I think everybody in this realm will go through it differently. And so I was, I think that there's
an element of blinders, when you're in the midst of it, that I'm just discovering one piece at a
time, right? I mean, the first year of seminary is it's kind of joked about that the first year,
they they go in and they just break everything that you thought you knew, pull it all apart.
Second year, they stir it together. And third year, you put something back together. And that's
kind of how I went about it. Although, I was still very much, I was still a few years away from
actually having like reconstructed from put back together for myself. Because, you know,
I'm learning that, that there are two creation stories. And that just that pulls you apart.
And I'm, and you don't have a whole lot of time to process that before you get to the next thing.
And like, the next thing is that there are two different versions of taking over Canaan. And
like, it's a lot to process. And I'm trying to process that while I'm also learning about the
church history. And that's like, that's a lot of stuff to learn. A lot of people, a lot of debates,
a lot of ridiculous, you know, you might learn about it or consider, you might go read about it
and be like, they argued about this, but they did. And so I was in the place of trying to connect
with it, you know, like this is, this is my tradition, like these are the arguments people
have made. And, you know, learning about each step was was all I could do. So I wasn't doing a whole
lot of like meta analysis yet. Does that make sense? Yep. And so, you know, what the next big
thing in another way for the audience, you're, you haven't processed or really thought heavily
about the entire system here, those who are interested, you're just taking in all these,
all this information, all this knowledge, all the facts, all the data that you're learning,
and you're just taking it in and it keeps coming in, it keeps coming in precisely. And in fact,
in seminary, they require that you do two, at least one internship, no, two internships.
And I did three because I'm good at two shoes. I don't know. Actually, I wanted the money.
And so I can't blame you for that. Right. And it got me into this, it got me into the city
once a month, or once a Sunday, once a week. So just so you all know, right, like I did an
internship as a youth pastor at one of the churches, you know, one of the Presbyterian
churches in Manhattan, I did a year long, you know, associate pastor kind of thing for one of
another really big Presbyterian church in Manhattan, like I was considered minister,
ministerial staff, right. And I, yeah, and all kinds of interesting stories about that, but we
won't, you know, that are tangential. But I was embracing that at that point, right, being able
to do that. I was definitely okay with that at that point. I think maybe anyway, and I remember
having these theological debates with the pastor there, I was still very conservative. And he was
Presbyterian, which is much more in a sense progressive. I, you know, they want to talk
about baptism very differently than I want to, you know, they want to talk about like the family
of God. And I'm like, you got to get your soul saved, you know, like, right. And then, and we
would throw down theologically about that. And it was fun, you know, it was kind of fun to argue,
but like, I was still, you know, like, so, so the, so right. So I'm, and then I also did like a
hospital chaplaincy, which was fantastic. The, the course that changed things. So the big course
for me in seminary, there were two or three that were pretty significant. But the one that's, that
is key for me is the course that was titled feminist womanist theologies. Now, where I was at the time,
that title alone scared me, right? Feminist, right? Like, like these, you know, these are
bunch of angry women. But here's the thing, my roommate and I, at the time, we were very good
friends through seminary and then parted because of our theological differences.
Um, shortly thereafter, but we both were like, okay, we can do this. We want to
learn about our enemy, basically, right? So that we know how to, how to help us. Like, so we know
what they're thinking so we can handle it. I mean, it was an apologist kind of an approach to it,
right? Right. Like, I'm going in here. Yeah. This class that's probably going to be pro-feminist.
I'm going to, I'm going to learn what they teach me to defeat it or at least give good
argumentation to show why this is an accurate. Yes, totally. I mean, full on. I want people to
understand that, right? We, like, I was, I was nervous about taking the scores and I didn't even
know what womanist meant, you know, like, and for people who don't, it's just a way of talking about
black women's experiences because of the race component that compounds all the things that are
also true for most women who are not black in this country. And see, that's all the whole other
thing. My point here, right? So we're talking about set, we're talking about gender and race is what
we're doing in this course and how that plays into theologies. So this was a course that just
week after week, it was something that I was like, oh my gosh. Well, now he can't argue with that.
Like, or, or if you do, you're actually just, it's because you're arguing with this woman who's
making comments about the way we talk about God and her observations and comments are solid.
And so people who don't agree with this are protecting patriarchy. And that is the predominant
vote voice of the church. So I'm, I'm confronting these reality, these things that I think are solid
and important challenges to traditional ideas about God. And then I'm also getting challenged
about, you know, one of the big things in this course for me was the day that we were talking
about sin. So we kind of covered all these big topics that you tend to cover and talk about,
you know, like creation, sin and all the different things. Right. And, and a womanist take on sin
will suggest one of them, there are many different versions, right? Everybody's slightly different.
But what, what came to the, to the conversation, I mean, I can picture the room where I'm sitting
with these, we're all white except for two people, right? In this, in this, and there's like 20 people
in this class, and we're all sitting around in a circle one day. And I remember Regina,
you know, I talked about like, okay, well, I understand, you know, they're talking about sin
and like, that certain groups of people have been sinned against and all that, you know, I didn't use
that language. But, you know, like, they're talking about sin. And it's like, all out there in the
world, like the problems in the world. I was like, but, but they still need to be saved. You know,
like, like, everyone still needs Jesus, basically, is what I was saying. And because I, it was hard.
And basically, Regina, you know, a black woman turns me, she's like, we have been sinned against.
And I need you to get that. Something like that. I'm not courting, of course, I was 20 years ago.
25. So that was, these are big things, right, to shift the way you think about what sin is.
It doesn't get much more central for someone like me as an evangelical, right? You just
challenge the way I think about sin. What, you know, like, and I, and again, my response was
quiet and trying to take it in. Like, I'm trying to hear her out, because I think it's, you know,
I knew it was important, but I didn't know what to do with it. It took, it still took several
years for that to connect for me. Wow. I wonder in that class, if there's, if, because they're
centralizing on the woman's perception, if they're talking about some of the harmful stuff that you
see about women being the reason we're in this to begin with, do they cover that? Like, do they go
into like, well, the Bible tends to say, you know, women are the fault for why we're in this
predicament of hell or death or any of this stuff to start with, because they ate the fruit.
Did you guys cover that? Or was that not, was that not really a big deal in terms of the
class that you can remember? Well, you know, theologians in general don't necessarily
feel the need to use scripture, which is very interesting. Yeah. But that would be, you know,
in that conversation about sin from a feminist perspective, for sure, like, you're gonna,
you're gonna start out by acknowledging the general or traditional understandings of these
things and these ideas. And, and yes, this idea of people blaming women, but that wouldn't, you know,
feel, you know, like a feminist theology course isn't necessarily the focus of what they're trying to
do. Got it. Right. So that would be in a feminist engagement with the Bible course,
right? This biblical passage gives us ideas, and those have been skewed or whatever. But, but,
so all along the way, sure, there are all these elements about men and women or how we think
about humans in general, right? This idea of sinfulness at all is being challenged in a,
it's being, you know, like this concept of sin, like all of it, we're, we're reframing it all
and in ways that make it actually more real, more realistic. And in ways that are, you know,
out of the realm of controlling people in the way that the church had the traditions
of the church have done for people and these ideas and what you have to believe and the way you
talk about it. For me, at the time, the big thing was talking the talk about God, right? That was
the biggest thing because they challenge, they challenge the fact that, yeah, in the scriptures,
God is predominantly male, right? And, and let's talk, and let's look at what that actually means
and how that has affected us. And we don't actually, you know, these women don't actually think of
God as having a body, but we're going to still use male titles or roles and all those things.
And let's, let's challenge all of that. And then let's talk about the effect it has on people
when either your scriptures or the theologians that people are reading to get ideas about
how we think about the world, they're all using male focused language. Let's talk about the effect
that has on you because it does. And so it was very, very deep and involved and radically important.
And it, by the time we got to the end of the semester, you know, I was kind of at this place,
I was like, I just agree with them. I just think they're right. It made sense to you.
It totally made sense. And I didn't know how to flesh that out, what to do with that because,
because they're challenging so many aspects of the church.
Is it fair to put, I'm going to just pretend that I'm like you here in the sense that I came out
of a very alpha male patriarchal household, very traditional. And yep. And we're hearing things
that we've never thought through. So they want you to almost pause and think things through.
And as you're evaluating the, the literature, especially as a female, how come they get all
the good stuff, these guys, and we're not getting as much good stuff here. You know, I mean, I don't
know. These might be questions you've thought through because I know that I've, I always use
this analogy with you on here because we talk about sex a lot pertaining to religion, marriage,
things like that. But the horror Babylon in the book of Revelation, why call, why call this mystery
Babylon the city, a horror, why use that language? I never pause. They think like, why? And so is it,
that might be an analogy, I guess? For sure. Sure. I mean, the thing is, it was like, at every step
of the way, I started having like, you do, they did theology intros the second year. So you do
church history, the first at the school I went to, and then, and then two semesters of trying to do
their approach to theology. And so I'm taking this feminist womanist theology course. It doesn't
matter. Here's the thing, I just remember, I was so good at playing along. And it just like,
okay, these are the thoughts, these are the, this is the beliefs, and this is what you believe.
And at some point, I just go at the point where I was like, I don't think that's true. You're starting
with an idea that I don't agree with. And I'm talking at this guy who wrote 1500 years ago,
for instance. And I'm like, your initial premise is faulty to me. So I don't agree with where
you're going to go with that. And even having that realization, it still took time for me to come
to a place where it was okay for me to say, I don't agree with you. And I think that's bullshit.
Like I still like, I'm, I'm in count, I'm reading Calvin's institutes for myself. And I'm so excited
to do it. And I'm going to outline it myself. And I start my own outline. And then all of a
a sudden, I'm like, Oh my God, wait, wait, wait, no, that's not who you make that's not God,
like God, I don't believe that God is like that. I don't believe this about humans either. I don't
think we're actually inherently evil. And I just, you know, but left and right, I'm having that thought,
but I don't have a way to fully just flesh it all out yet. And so I'm playing, I'm still just kind
of rolling through it, kind of numbly, like, not sure I agree with that, but I'm going to keep going,
you know, because I've got other things to attend to. And so it's like, all these pieces along the
way. And what I don't know what it is about, I mean, I do, but it's really hard to kind of put,
give a nugget about it, that, you know, why is it that God language was the thing that shifted
significantly for me, but it is because God is, God is the it, right? God is all. And so if you're
going to, I want to raise two questions, I want to challenge the way we talk about this thing
that we're calling God. That was a biggie for me. And it became kind of a litmus test. So that whole,
that whole thing played, I don't remember at which point in my, you know, those three years there,
I took all these different courses. But I do remember that when I wrote, so the third year,
you're applying for PhD programs. And again, I kind of backed into that. I started realizing that
there were just so many things I had learned about the Bible in seminary that more people needed to
hear about. Because it was changing things in a good way for me. It was difficult, but it was
helping me. And I'm like, not everybody gets to come to seminary. So I'm going to go get a PhD
so that they'll take me seriously, at least, or at least think they can, you know, like,
gives me some credibility, because there are people out there. And I remember thinking and
talking with some people about this, as long as there are women who are finding a way to accommodate
the Bible, who need the Bible, who've been taught to, you know, do Bible studies and to do all the
things and devote their lives to Christ. And this is the way you do it, is through regular
Bible study and devotion. As long as there are women doing that, there would be a purpose for me
as an educator to try to help people understand, learn, hear that there's more to it than just
the surface engagement with things. That was my thinking. So I'm like, all right, so what do I
want to do a PhD in? You know, so I write a paper. In fact, someone handed me a book that, again,
this is a piece of my story, I guess, but I don't know how much of the weeds you want to get into
here. Someone handed me a book by essentially the mother of feminist biblical scholarship. Okay,
so I had read feminist theologians, but I hadn't encountered any feminist biblical scholars,
which is funny, maybe, but it's like, there wasn't a course that was offering that, like,
that wasn't the thing that they would do or talk about, right? So a PhD student who knew me was
applying for New Testament programs was like, you know, hand me this book. I'm like,
holy shit, this blew my mind because now she's talking about what's going on in the Bible
with the same critique that I just went through in talking about God and God language and beliefs
and doctrines and things, but now she's taken that same thing to the words in the Bible that
are really important to me and so many people. And it's like, like, she just blew my mind,
couldn't believe there was someone out there saying these things I'd been thinking,
and she said it and it set me free. And oh my gosh, I had this.
You had a born again experience. I see it, actually. I almost orgasmed over this. I'm not
exaggerating. I'm not exaggerating. This is, I'm sorry. I need to know a few examples.
No, but you know, this is when I realized I was like, I'm actually turned on by how powerful
and important this idea is and how big it anyway, go ahead. This is your your life, right? So
what what example one or two things you can maybe remember from her writing that that went,
oh my goodness, this right here was powerful. I remember this. And it did some 180 in your head,
if you can remember, I was wondering if I have her book here on the shelf because it would be
easier to look at it. I should have thought I had to pull it because it's it's here somewhere. But
if anyone's interested, it's it was the book, Bread, Not Stone by Elizabeth Shusla Firenza.
It's one of her earlier ones, not her earliest stuff, but it's early. And she was basically,
she was pointing out in this, it was the introduction, like it, that's all I needed.
That the language of the church is patriarchal, that the ideas about God are patriarchal,
that people that resist acknowledging that are really just trying to protect patriarchy,
that none of this is is about freedom. This is about control. And this is, and it is not
life giving. It is the opposite. It is oppressive to women. And these right that were that and that
people will insist on these things. I'm sorry, I do wish I had thought to look her book. So I'd
that's fine. You gave a good description. I don't need an actual textual example. But
but based on your description makes me while we're moving in your story here, I need to check
your brain out for a second. What are you doing with God in your head at this time? Because now
that you see God through a male, patriarchal, very vindictive, jealous kind of perception we
see from the biblical text. And I'm going to ask it kind of a straightforward way. Do you believe
in that God anymore? Or have you stopped believing in that God? What would you know? I stopped believing
in that God, for sure. I think that God, I think everyone should stop believing in that God. Right,
of course. But that's a harmful God. But no, and that's the other piece of the feminist theology,
which is interesting too, because I don't agree with all of it, because they're also still
within the church, right? But they give alternatives, right? So feminist theologians
are not just pointing out that the traditional ideas about God are male and problematic. And
they're pointing out all the ways that they are problematic, by the way. But they're also offering
alternatives. They're offering other ways of talking about things and suggesting that, you know,
women's, you know, I don't want to get into it without getting fully into it, to be honest. But,
you know, because I don't want to sell it short, people will, it's hard enough.
So two things on that is that they're renegotiating with the text to try and find
softer ways of interpreting, or even potentially calling out ugly things and maybe looking for
good, more positive ways that there might be a good message. And you're saying you don't go that far
in some cases, you're saying, let's just call it what it is. And sometimes you just got to leave
that be. But at this time in your life, I mean, correct me if I'm wrong on that. And then at this
time in your life, though, you're still a believer. But you're something's happening to you, where
you're seeing God, you're now seeing it for what it looks like and what it is in the biblical text.
So, yeah, where are you at? So there's a there's an element here that I think is
really difficult to communicate. And that's, but I'm going to try briefly.
And that is that genuinely, the language, that there's an alternative being offered for how you
can think about God, that isn't what's in the Bible, and that that can be honoring and that can
be empowering and helpful. So for me, there isn't just, you know, there isn't just God. There isn't
just one thing. There isn't just one being that is God. Because there are multiple ways, many ways
that people understand or think what God is. So even while I'm in seminary, I'm seeing this,
this really glaring issue, and I'm embracing it for sure, and trying to do things like call God
she and mother. And that was really weird for me at first. But then I'm like, but, but why not?
You know, and the fact that it's weird for people as part of the, you know, like, that's,
that's the problem. We need to talk about that. Like, if God can only be he and father,
then God is male, right? That's the very daily quote. If, if male, if God is male, then male
is God. And that is the problem here, right? You mean to tell me men think of themselves as gods?
Goodness gracious. Never heard of that. Never heard of a man claiming to be a God ever. But go
ahead, please. I'm teasing. Anyway, so, um, yeah, so I'm still believing in God, but I'm starting
to think about God differently. God isn't the one described in the Bible. It's still at some points,
maybe, right? Because I'm still kind of thinking about Jesus as God, but not really like it's,
it's all very influx. Um, but to what extent do I think about, you know, anyway, this, it's anyway,
so I, it's very important to me, Derek, that you and hopefully people watching do understand this,
that there are plenty of people that think that believe in a God that is not at all like the
Bible, not at all like what's described there. And they, you know, all kinds of ways that they
all kinds of alternatives that they come up with or that they have that work for them.
So that this whole conversation is leading up to what do you believe? Are you an atheist? Or
I'm like, yeah, I don't want to do that because what, you know, so, so I'm still believing in
God. I'm just thinking of God differently. Okay. As I leave seminary and start PhD work.
And the first, I started a Baylor, which is a Baptist affiliated university and everyone in
the theology department on faculty have to be Baptist. They also have American Baptist though.
So there are some fairly progressive people on the faculty, relatively speaking, I should say.
Anyway, so, uh, so one of the, one of the faculty, one of the female faculty invited me to join,
to meet, to go to attend church with some of the faculty on the Sunday before classes started.
And then to join, well, they saw me, I guess, and asked and invited me to join them for lunch,
something like that. So I remember I'm sitting at the, so I've, I'm only like a month, a half a year
into processing my womanist feminist theology stuff. So it's still kind of new and I'm trying
to figure it out. And who I was when I wrote the paper that got me in, I'm very different from
that person. It's only been six months, but I'm pretty different already. And I'm sitting at this
table and the theologian at the table, the white male theologian, I remember watching him go red,
just go red because they had used the female pronouns for God in the, in the service.
And not just in the service, but in the bulletin. And he was so angry, he was, yeah,
he was so angry. And I was like, Oh, shit, what am I doing? What am I doing here? And so that
semester, formative in lots of ways, but one of them was, right, I have this feminist consciousness
in my theological framework now, and my biblical engagements now that I'm trying to figure out
and learn and, you know, learn more pieces to it more lay out more of the foundation, if you will.
And I'm trying it out in my classes, right? And halfway through the semester, we had a midterm
oral exam with a professor, right? So go in and talk about all the books you've read so far.
And so we have that and you did fine, Jen, but here's the thing. Are you good? Are you sure
you're gonna be happy here? Because you're asking questions we just don't ask. So I'm challenging
scripture. I'm not just asking what's the location who wrote this. I'm like, this is not, doesn't lead
to good things. Get out of my way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like, you know, people around the table
just kind of look at me when I speak. I'm like, if you're praising a God who's a warrior in this
and that, like, what does that, what does that lead you to that makes you warrior? Like that makes,
that's not helpful. And they're like, So this professor, you know, he gave me a heads up. He did.
And I appreciated that. And then he proceeded to shut me down at every turn and to counter
everything I said in any of his seminars. I took two courses with him in the Hebrew Bible,
even though I was New Testament, because I was just, I was still so into the Bible, right? I was
still so into the Bible. Always have. So big moment for me. So that story, I tell that story
because what happened was I had to conform enough, right, to get by. And all I kept telling myself
was, I just want a PhD. I just want to be so people take me seriously. I can do this. I can
make it. I can survive. But it there were times where it was this shutting down of critical
thinking was, I don't say this flippantly, but I don't know how to nicely just a little content
warning here, folks. I don't know how to nicely get into this. It had me in suicidal spaces,
that this, this issue of, right, this is, this is what this field is doing and thinking. And
this is how you have to, to, to get like, you have to agree with these. They're, they're not,
they, they're going to squash anyone who challenges it, right? That's what he did right
away. He squashed it, right? So I'm trying to play along and it's killing me. I mean, I, yeah.
You're broken. It's, it's just heartbreaking. It was breaking me. And I, and I started this
the second year and applied again for PhD programs, had all kinds of things lined up.
And I remember going to a conference after, and I didn't finish out the second year of coursework.
And I just hoped and prayed. I was still praying at that point. I've been prayed that I'd get in
somewhere else. And I did. And so I dropped out not, not having a backup net, right?
Also that second year of coursework, I had stepped in as an associate pastor.
So the, at the church I had been attending. So I'm still going to church this whole time,
right? I'm still a member. I am still doing the things. And I, as it's like kind of,
you know, temporary associate, I would do things like read the scripture. And then I would also
do the call to confession and the assurance of pardon. And this was big for me because somewhere
around halfway through that school year, me looking at these beautiful humans who I just
adored and telling them they are scum and inviting them to admit it, you know, all together and read
the confession that's printed. And then being the one to reassure them that they're forgiven.
Like I just couldn't stomach it. Like it just, I got to a point where I was like, I, I, I don't
believe in sin in this thing called sin. I don't believe in original sin for sure. But this even
just talking, bashing them over the head with it is what it felt. You know, I was like, I can't,
but I did finish out that year in that position because I needed the money.
Um, I, you're not the only one I totally agree. I get it. Yeah. So all, so these, you know,
it seems, it may seem really funny that it's taking so long, right? For me to kind of
come to these conclusions about all the different pieces, but it did. And I think that's,
I think that's part of why I try to just, I do try to hold onto these parts of my story because
that's true for other people. They're in the midst of it. You can't see the whole thing while
you're in the midst of it. You really can't. And so I try to have compassion on people, but
so those were some, go ahead, go ahead. Yeah, no, thank you. There's a lot here and I'm sure more
elements can, there's always more. We never cover everything. Um, but what you've painted a picture
of is, to me, is this gradual continuation of learning not only about the Bible, which is cool,
and people love that when they watch Myth Fish. And what I find interesting and deeper to me is
what you learned about yourself along the way, because you started to realize, I am a female,
and I've been working against females my entire life using this scripture to kind of hold us down,
not realizing it, of course, not intentionally, but in a sense, and this, this kind of new
perspective you learned when you were in Oregon that allowed you to evaluate the harm that's done
to females, and then also black females that are in ministry or in society at large, started to have
you ask other questions that led to more problems for the text, which put more of a, I'm going to
say, expiration date on the Bible. And then you're renegotiating your concept of God. So at this time
you're, you're saying, I can't believe in that God. I've got an idea of God that is different from the
biblical text. And that's why we titled this Leaving Fundamentalist Christianity. If you're
like me and I'm asking the question to get your thoughts, there are elements of Christianity
that I've learned. I'm sure that I'm always going to carry on and how I act or what I do,
maybe morally, certain things that I'm sure there. And, you know, you want to try and find
the good things and you want to use those good things because they have good pragmatic use.
Then there's some things that just, just don't, and they're just, I don't know how we justify them,
unless we were in a chaotic scenario being, I don't know, we could get into a warlike mind
if someone actually came and attacked us, right? Then he's like, okay, time to do something. But,
but living on an everyday life, like what we're trying to do in better the world doesn't seem
like that's pragmatic. So, you know, I'm not paging holding you and no one should have to go, well,
what do you, what are you now? Are you a full blown atheist? No. But, you know, for me,
it wouldn't matter because you've come out of a harmful ideology and you're now speaking out against
it. So, come in full circle, I guess, you were questioning things when you were young. You kind
of went blindly into this thing. Then you started questioning things again with a better understanding
of the world around you. And you've forsake the religion you were part of initially. What are
you doing now as part of your life? There are some more stories I want to share, but I'll answer
your question. What am I doing now with my life? So, I'm not sure, is that the question you really
wanted to ask me? I think it's more in the vein of like, at first, you were thinking,
I'm going to be a minister, I'm going to pastor, I'm going to lead these people,
which meant you had a, in your mind, a calling because of the person you are
to teach and you want to help people. That's really what pastors try to do. That's what rabbis
try to do. They want to help people. Well, that hasn't left you. I know you well enough to know
that you want to help people, but you're obviously not part of a church as far as I'm aware.
You have your own church. You've carved your own path of people, your own
group, and that's what you're YouTube and all that. So, can you tell us where you're at now
and what you're doing? Okay, gotcha. Thank you for clarifying what that question was about.
I will say I have always been a teacher at heart. I didn't mention this earlier.
The undergraduate degree was in math, but it was to teach high school. So, I had an education minor
and some of my earliest stories that the families like to tell about little kids or whatever are
about me pretending to be a teacher. I have always been a teacher at heart. And so,
that has been the thing that has compelled me, has kept me going, has led me in this direction,
in a sense. Once I had these realizations about my own misunderstandings about the Bible,
I wanted to be able to teach. I wanted to be able to help other people
learn about these as well. So, I do still think of myself as a teacher. I think of myself as an
educator, someone who wants to help other people who are interested. I'm not interested in jamming
this down people's throats. That doesn't ever work. Sometimes it makes me sad that I can't
connect with someone that I think I have some helpful things for them that they would benefit
from, but if you're not open to it, it's not going to work. So, I'm interested in educating people,
helping others learn more about X, Y, and Z. Predominantly, it does relate to the Bible,
since that's my wheelhouse. That's where my degree, and I've done a lot of work around that,
but it goes beyond that. Redefining God, I came on your show to talk about that at one point,
because I think that that can be useful for people. I don't think we need to have the concept of God,
and in fact, I don't think that's necessary. I think there are so many people for whom
it isn't possible to give it up that I would like to help them redefine it in a way that's more
humane and more empowering, and I think that can be done, and I've actually seen some examples
that I think are really beautiful, but I don't think about there being a God. I don't think in
those terms, I don't think about there being a God. I think I see connection and things like that.
So, what is it I'm doing? I'm trying to help people. I mean, yeah, I'm trying to encourage people
to seek their own better understanding about these things, right? Permission granted, ask the
questions. Ask it. Ask the questions. Your questions are welcome. Those are good. If whatever
your belief is about God and how we got here, you've got a brain, it's okay to use it.
It's kind of funny with me asking it this way, but are you trying to help people find themselves?
The way you said that was making it. You know what I mean, though. That's why I said it that way,
because you know what I mean. Like, paying a picture for an audience, I was going through
what I call like this metaphorical journey of looking for the truth and understanding what God
is, of course, within my framework of Christianity. And I told this to my family when they were like,
why don't you believe in just one situation at a barbecue? And I was like, it's like I journeyed
these hills and then I get to this last hill and I look on the mountain. I think there's Jesus,
right? He's going to be there. And there's a mirror metaphorically speaking. And I walk closer and I
notice it was me. And it was my loved ones around me who helped me. So whatever your concept of a
higher power, if that be yourself, if that be whatever that might be, you think it's something
else, it's good to have that concept not be what we're seeing necessarily in that text, the Bible.
And whether you say it's yourself, whether you say it's your friends, your family,
it's your spouse, it's whatever your kids, whatever you want to paint that God, I'm saying,
filling in that box, is that kind of what you're trying to do? Let them negotiate with this idea
of God. Let them negotiate with the Bible and allow to reject certain ideas as well along the way.
I think I'm actually doing something different than that in terms of God. But I am interested
in helping other people be more true to themselves, which is part of what I hear you saying there.
And sometimes that actually is part of that is just like figuring out who you actually are
instead of what you've been told to believe, which is what so many people who are deconstructing
are doing, which I think is great. Like, no, I don't agree with that. Good. Okay. Good. That's
good that you know that. Run with that. Honor that, respect that.
One of the things I am trying to do here is around this concept or topic of God is
is is pulling is is helping people get away from this idea that God is transactional and is
this puppet master so that I'm not trying to help. So I guess part of what I'm saying is like,
I don't I don't think calling our family God or what that's not what I'm trying to do, right?
So I'm if if you're going to have this label, this this word God, I think it needs to be
depersonalized. I think it needs to be removed from any kind of intentionality towards humans.
I think it needs to be talked about in such a way that it it's not offended by us. We don't offend it.
It's not that's not what's happening here. Like, that's not that doesn't have that's not real,
right? That's our own projection on to God. And I think that that that's where I am with
the realm of this topic of theology and God. I'm interested in helping people get beyond
that humanist human framework for this idea we have that we call God.
Beyond that, I'm just I'm very interested in helping people let go of
beliefs that they have idea, letting go of of needing the Bible to direct their lives. I guess
that's that's that's been important for me. And that's yeah. And so when people keep asking,
you know, like, what does Bible say about that? I'm like,
okay, first of all, I don't need the Bible to tell me how to live. And in fact, let's look at
what the Bible says because it's in this particular instance is actually quite unpleasant and harmful.
And so let's talk about that and maybe find help you find a place where, okay, let's talk about
why you need the Bible to be directing your life. Like, what is it? What's going on there? Well,
that's the authority of the tradition of the church or the family you're in or the community,
whatever it is. That's what's been done in your community. I get that. But guess what? This is
an ancient text written by men for men, addressing those kinds of needs in a very different kind
of a cultural setting and outdated views of humans and sexuality and relationships and all the things.
And so I, I get the desperate element of needing something to be in the Bible. I get it. But I
also think that that is keeping people back. That's holding people back. And so I'm interested in
helping people who are interested figure out how to do that, figure out how to let go. And here's
the thing, Derek, also, and I think on some level, you understand this, but I've had people tell me,
like, yeah, I've been an atheist for like 10, 15 years, but I still have a thing about the Bible.
Like, I can't quite let go or it still has strings for me. And I'm like, I get that. And so that's
what this is. This is what I'm trying to do. This is this thing will help you. I think this thing
could help you if you're interested, you know. So that's, that's kind of my helping people cut
the strings, maybe, right? That the Bible, their attachment to the Bible.
This is amazing. The way you summed that up beautifully, I agree with. And that's exactly
how I feel. I guess what I was saying when I said making your family, God, isn't necessarily
actually making that God. But like, you know, that, that, that hole in us that we think we need this,
this agency or projection of, we need that thing we call God, we've been told this from
Christian. It's like, actually, you need, you need connection to other humans. That's what I
mean by filling the hole and calling it God. No, you're fine. No, I'm just making sure people
who are watching also get it. And when I went to my five, when I had five years clean, I went to
a 12 step group that I usually don't go to. I don't need it anymore like that. But I go in to
celebrate and show them that I'm thankful for this room being here and stuff. And when I went in, I
said, if it weren't for God, I wouldn't have made it. Now I'm an atheist now. And I didn't say I
was an atheist. I just opened up. If it weren't for God, I wouldn't have made it. And then I said,
God being you group of drunks, God. And I said, this drunk wouldn't have made it. And of course,
I shared that and they were my God at the moment. And that was what they were the power that told
me I can do it if he can do it. And then, you know, it was the social setting. But I also love
how you summed that up because what I'm doing with the Bible, I felt like
I'm going to use language to make it sense. I felt abused by what the text was saying to
the harm psychologically in my own life and how I abused myself with hate this life. Love the one
to come. Don't store up your treasures. You know, this kind of trying to do something that I just
couldn't quite fully grasp and swallow the pill to live like the way Paul talks about it, the way
the Gospels portray certain things. And now where I'm at is I want to educate people to what you're
saying, like get them to understand what this literature is, problems with it, get them to
realize like face, face it, look at this face it, we need to realize wash our hands of this.
And so in a sense, I'm still attached to it in that respect that I want to get people who are
using it as weapons to bash their family members like I did and turning it and going,
actually, this is manmade and things like that. So I had to relate to you and connect because
it's your story, but like very powerfully put the way you describe it. Thank you. But I appreciate,
yeah, I also appreciate your comments and your part, what you're sharing. So it's very helpful.
Thank you. You had a story or two that you felt you needed to get off your chest and
to make sure everyone knew? I did. And now I'm trying to remember what they were because
we jumped ahead. Yes, I wanted to share a couple things. So I'm still back in my PhD work,
just to work there. Okay. And I have transferred to Vanderbilt. So this was 2003. I don't know if
these kinds of things help people. Like this was 20 years ago. And I am again, the weekend
before classes start, all these big things happen, right? We're having these conversations,
right? Have a conversation with two people I've just met. One is in the master's program and
Master of Divinity and one is a PhD student, maybe a year or two ahead of me. And I'm still in
contact with this person, but vague generally, not close. But this was the first time I had said
this out loud. You've probably heard this story before, Derek, so it's nice of you to play along
as if you haven't. But I said out loud for the first time at the age of, what, 31 or something?
You know, I don't believe Mary was a virgin. I don't believe in the virgin birth. And that was
scary to me to say out loud. That was a scary thing. And how, right? How old am I? And I said
that out loud for the first time. Yeah, oh my God. I really sang it out loud. That was hard.
That was hard to do. And then this guy in particular like takes me to lunch. So that was
the other thing I wanted to share with people because just to say that even with all that's
going on and all these things like even back at Baylor, when I left seminary and I went to Baylor,
I entered the ordination process, right? I was seeking ordination from the Presbyterian Church
because they have ordination to teaching positions. Okay, so still at this point in my life that I was
that much invested in the church and in being committed to this whole thing. But with this
feminist whatever, and I'm going to do Bible stuff, I'm not going to be in a church because
that's not me, but like I'm committed, I'm still valuing the stamp of approval of the church to
that degree. So when I moved to Nashville and I start this program, so this guy knows that I'm
in the ordination process and I've just told him I don't believe in the virgin birth and he pulls
me, so it takes me to lunch. He's like, you know, I really want to encourage you to pull out
an ordination process because you don't believe in the virgin birth, like, you know, and all that
blah, blah, blah, blah. So, you know, like, and then I had to mull that over for a few months and
like you're pissing me off that you want that you get to protect the that you think you need to
protect the church that way or that the church can only be that and all these different, you know,
and then I was like, you know what, that's not a fight I want to have, I'm going to leave the
ordination process like and I'm going to be free and be happy and move on. But that, you know,
that was still, yeah, I mean, I'm still not fully like gone because, you know, like, there's,
you know, there are people that stay in the church to try to help from the inside, right?
And I think there was a part of me that was thinking I was going to be something of that or
I'm not sure, but there, I guess I want to say there are reasons why I didn't just didn't fully
like announce and cut tie and all of that, right? And then the next the next spring, so 2004 spring
of 2004 was the first time I didn't go to Easter service. You know, so it's kind of going to church
off and on that first that first year at Vanderbilt. And I yeah, I didn't go to Easter. And I actually
was so nervous, nervous, right, to miss it, to not be there that I asked one of my professors to
join me for lunch so I could be with someone while I was choosing not to be in that space.
Wow. That was how hard it was, right? And it's been 20 years now. I haven't been in a church
for religious reasons in 20 years, right? I've been in them for teaching purposes, but not for
not for myself, right? So yeah, those were two important nuggets because of all the different
comments I saw this week leading up to this conversation. I wanted to highlight that.
Um, yeah. And, and there's one other, let's see, there were a couple other comments that people
raised, like when you, you mentioned, Derek, when you said, you know, there's some elements of
Christianity that are still relevant or still important, you know, love and kindness, some of
those that you didn't name any of them. But like, I get that. And I also think, here's the thing,
folks, Christianity doesn't have the corner on that. And there are other, right, there are other
spaces that don't have all the other baggage, right? There are other realms of thought or
communities and people who have all the good stuff. And they also don't have all that, what,
you know, all the, the harmful stuff. So, so when the question is, you know, Dr. Bird, are you a
Christian? Well, again, it's similar to, are you an atheist? Because now that I'm no longer an
evangelist trying to get people into heaven, and I can see and pay attention to what I'm seeing in
the scriptures about this guy, Jesus, let's just say there's a guy named Jesus and who's crucified
by the, by the state, right, by the, by the Romans. What got him killed was his need for justice.
And that is a theme I am fully on board with. That is something I work for. Like I, this is what
I'm doing with my life. Like that's why I wrote this book about marriage. Like, I care about that.
That is not what people usually mean when they ask if I'm a follower of Christ, because they're
usually thinking all the spiritual stuff and, and do I believe he's getting me into heaven?
And so I'm more of a follower of Christ, like the guy Jesus, than I ever was as an evangelist.
Because, but it's just a different part of his story that I think is helpful. And because I'm a
biblical scholar, and I'm engaging in this text and I'm engaging with people who read them,
that's a helpful connection for me to use. But I didn't need it, but I don't need it to be the
guy Jesus. And he's not the one, he doesn't have to be the one that's the model for social justice.
I get it.
Plenty of other people that don't have that other baggage.
That was the question I had for John Dominic Cross. And when I sat at his feet
and on the couch, we're interviewing, and do we need this tradition? And he thinks you have to,
he's like, we have to have this tradition. And I thought, I mean, this is his time to shine and
not for me to interrupt, but I'm like, do we need that? I mean, it's, it's good to have tradition,
but like, it almost sounds like when you use the word tradition, that the tradition needs to stay
the same, instead of saying, we can take this and change this, we can, we can have a long-standing
change. Like you talked about, this is what I think is so courageous about what your
story is and how I relate. And I'm sure viewers have their own relation to what you're saying.
I got excommunicated from the Presbyterian church, PCA, by the way, they weren't,
they were not progressive. They were the modern day Puritans. That's how far they came to my house
on Sunday and elders would come over and say, you broke the Sabbath. Why aren't you at church?
Like, not even kidding, you coltish, but they had five elders who sat me down because I was
starting to think theologically and eschatologically that study of end times more preterist wise.
I became a full preterist even while I was still in the PCA, became heretical. You stopped believing
in the virgin birth, became heretical. And next thing you know, I'm so uncomfortable. This does
not feel like home. It takes courage is my point in what you've described as a female scholar,
because I've had plenty of guys come on here and share their story, but it takes a lot of
strength and courage, no matter what the haters will say, to change based on your research and
study. I think it's much easier to go with the flow, blindly accept the, well, born of a virgin.
I accept the creed. Oh, I'm reformed Calvinist. Oh, Westminster Confession on my hat. Oh, I'm
Orthodox. Oh, I'm Catholic. Oh, it's much more difficult, in my opinion, to go against the grain
and yet still be trying to participate in the church community, then realize you're the wolf.
You're the wolf they view. They kind of see you as like, you're not one of us. That's when it's
quick that you got to go, I have to do what's right and have to be true to myself. And that's
why I said, you helping people find themselves, you know, like, because yeah, I feel like you
are, there's so much you're doing. Is there anything else you needed to cover, though, because I know
it's so funny? Because I was, when you were using the heretic word, I was like, oh my god,
I wrote a piece, like a poem kind of a thing about, you know, that I'm heretic, right? And
reflecting on this guy who took me to lunch and like, would he have been the one throwing the
torch on the fire to burn me to death if we'd lived 600 years ago? Like, that's, that's what
we're talking about, right? When you can, when you challenge the tradition, like you're saying,
it's interesting about Croson, because yeah, he's Catholic, he can't help himself. He needs the
establishment, but I do love that man and what he has done. And I think I was looking at my,
my notes, because I, I did make notes to make sure I covered things that were important to me.
I have this, this has been an important conversation for me. You know,
it's really just interesting because, you know, when people ask me lately, I've been saying,
you know, I identify as a humanist, because I don't want to use a label, the label a theist
is a negative label, it's saying, right, it's preference, it's putting theism in the center
as correct or proper or normal normative, and a theist is not is against that. And I'm not against
right. I'm not against in that way. I am trying to be humane. I am trying to help people be,
be better versions of themselves. I'm trying to help them in many ways try to,
you know, disconnect from harmful ideas. But if one, if someone wants to give me a label,
like I would choose something more like secular humanist, well, that's problematic in its own
way, right? Because what do you mean by that? And why is secular, right? But humanist, I'm,
you know, I believe in the good, I believe in the, the potential of humans. That's,
that's more important to me than this external idea. So anyway, I don't know, I, I, I feel like
we've covered important ground. Oh, for sure. Your life is still going and you're such a
lively person. I love talking with you, learning from you and thinking in ways that I'm not
familiar with thinking in. And it always is a good, I get a new revelation each time that you
come. It's like, you know, there's really, really interesting things. I'm going to go ahead and,
and get a few of these. Yeah, if you have a question, ask it while we have Dr. Bird. And
thank you again for your story. Jeremiah Miller, thank you for becoming a member. I really appreciate
it. Just for, for those who don't know, I'll be doing monthly or bi-monthly, depending on my schedule.
Zoom chats to meet those who are members and Patreon. So you'll, you'll get notified on the
dates in case you can make those with the myth vision. Supreme scientist, Dr. Bird, love your work
scholarship. Jesus used slavery very often in his parables. Why do you think this is ignored
downplayed by many Christians? Hello, supreme scientist. It's nice to see you. Thank you for
that kind word. And it's a great question. Why do I think because it's uncomfortable? That's why.
And I remember, you know, even for myself, like it's so funny, all these things, like even though
I've like left all the crap behind, I'm still like, you find you're attached to things you didn't
realize you were attached to. But I remember the first time I read an article that highlighted this
for me that, you know, on the Matthew 25 passage, where he's referring to these, they're probably
like they're called bridesmaids, but they're actually virgins. And they're probably, oh no,
not that one. Sorry, a different story. Sorry. The, the, the, anyway, um, what, sorry, I'm getting
confused about the different stories. But my point is, I had a New Testament scholar point out to me
that Jesus was using references to enslave people unproblematically. He was not challenging their
realities. He was using these examples in his stories. And that is a problem. And that is not
okay. That is unhealthy. That is, that leads to all these other problems. And this happened to be
an African American woman, but like, I, I didn't know what to do with that at first. I was like,
wait, Jesus, even though I've left it all behind, like I'm, I'm not, I don't need anything to be
okay. It was still a shock to me to realize, Oh, even Jesus's stories, the stories put in Jesus's
mouth or whatever are, are in perpetuating slavery, the frameworks of enslavement and,
and holding up as examples, people who live horrific lives and that you need to be like
that as a follower, looking for the kingdom or all the different things or whatever. And, and it
was a shock to me. And now it's like, I can't stop talking about it, right? I need, I need people to
see it, right? I need people to confront this and be honest about that. Like, and it's hard for scholars,
not just Christians in general, it's hard for scholars to do that because they know it's going
to be shocking for people. And their, their job might be on the line. Like it's their reasons why
this is hard, right? But to acknowledge that Jesus was saying things that are really inappropriate,
right? We could just say, yeah, that's racist, that's sexist, that's, what is the word for,
for this enslavement piece? We don't, we don't do that anymore. We're not okay with that anymore.
But Jesus said it, that it's just doesn't get more central for Christians than that, right?
What's attributed to Jesus, what he's depicted saying and doing, you don't get more important
than that. So it's hard to be willing to acknowledge this about your guy, right? I mean,
and on some basic level, that can apply very nicely to, to all kinds of people today, help us to see
why it's hard for people to, well, I like this guy, this leader or this person or this, you know,
this figure on some level, I like this part about him, but oh, that's, that's distasteful. I don't
want, I don't want that to be true about him. Well, now we can have some compassion on people
who do that today, about fully aside from religion, when you, right? Do you, are you,
do you miss my comparison making sense here? Absolutely, without naming names, you're making
plenty of sense. And it's a very powerful point that psychologically, when you realize it's the
best way, there's like a, it's like a bias that we naturally have toward people that we look up to.
My mom and dad, my dad can kick your dad's butt. Your dad gets in a fight with my dad and your
dad beats my dad up after I say that. I might try to go, my dad actually did still get the better
hand of your dad. Like you see how, right, right, right. Find an excuse. Yes. And this, I feel
like we do that with Jesus and, and as believers, I've said this and a lot of Christian friends of
mine hate it. They can't stand when they go, Derek, there you are psychoanalyzing again. And I'm like,
I can't help but imagine my father in heaven when I, I mean, like here we are using dad language
for God, of course. And that you're, I know how humans are with their actual parents,
you know, oftentimes there's some people who do different things, but most of the time,
my mom could do no wrong. And you can ask my wife, Ryan, she would, like, we would have our
earlier years arguments because mom was very active and almost in the midst of our marriage
when we were young. We were young. Yes. And she felt like, you know, mom sometimes stole the oxygen
out of the room and had her son's attention because I'm a mother's boy, mama's boy, dad was always
gone to war, mama always was there. And just giving you a personal example, like my mom could do
something wrong and my wife would call it out and I would side with mom. Totally. Naturally. Totally.
Why the hell did I do that? Great super chat because this could address that personal question.
I know now looking back, why? Right. But I, at the moment, I'd have been in denial about you
trying to accuse me about doing that. But yes, I was doing that. Yeah. So I think it's human,
as you said, showing empathy, but we're trying to teach people to think about those things. Yeah,
exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So many things about that. Yeah. Thank you, though, for that. Yeah. Yeah.
Thank you. Yeah. Lost fan. Thank you so much. Question for Derek. Are we or are we not myth vision?
You didn't start with it? Is that why? I don't know. I thought I said,
welcome to myth vision podcast. You did. You did. Please answer with some myth vision style.
OGs know. Thanks, Derek. Love your work. Yeah. Yeah. Lost fan, we are myth vision. I always point
to this. It's good. It's good. I feel like I don't get to point because it's, I'm not, you know,
it's your channel. Yeah. Seriously. Thank you so much, Lost fan. Chris McCarthy was touched by
the story of your mother's ordination. By the way, have you heard of church within a church,
LGBTQ or BQT ordination? I have not. I can tell you that I've been trying to help and support
the work of reconciling ministry, network, and some of the, some of the organizations I do know
that are trying to affirm and, you know, not just ordination, but also the marrying of LGBTQ
folks within the churches, within church. But I don't know which denomination or is it like
not denomination specific? I haven't heard of it. Yeah. But can I ask you a question about this?
Because it's always made me wonder, people go, why did you leave the church? And there's so many
problems and things that you learn and just the list, write a book, right? Write a book, Derek.
But the point I'm getting at is when a tradition, a long standing, deep, rich tradition has viewed
people in these categories in such a manner, you could see why I asked the question to John
Dominic Cross and to kind of point out, like, do we really even need these traditions? Because for
me, I feel like maybe some feminist scholarship will bend over backwards, not all, to accommodate
some of the hate or ugly to reinterpret ago. Actually, it didn't mean that or had no implication
of that. We want to know the cultural, historical, original setting and what was meant by Paul's
letter. For example, the famous Romans one thing, men with men and women with women. And what does
that mean? Is this there's so many people who try to find ways to make it not that. Well, if it is
something to that effect, whether you want to say it's a little different than they didn't have these
ideas of homosexuality, except the list can go on. I get that. But they had some concept of men
with men. Okay. And this is condemned according to this guy Paul. Why do we need to be
ordinated? I mean, this is my honest question of being very transparent here. Why do we want to
even be part of this tradition? Why can't we start our own thing and break away from this
textual tradition in that way? You see what I'm saying? I just feel for people, I feel so bad for
people who are in there, and then they're going to have fundamentalists weaponize the Bible in
which their tradition is kind of tied to. And here's this head honcho named Paul, who is giving
these words that are set in stone metaphorically speaking, and they're able to attack them.
You get your own tradition. You don't have to deal with that. I don't know. I don't know.
Well, I can, I can respond to that if that's okay. Please. Yeah, I, you know, I think
part of my response to that is, that is why there are different denominations, right? So
United Church of Christ, very affirming, very open, ordaining, marrying LGBTQ folks, right? It's not
even a question. At this, well, that's not true either, because some of the people in the congregations
aren't as fully informed about all those things. Anyway, I don't want to dismiss your question,
and you're almost your frustration about it, Derek, because I think it's a good question.
I feel bad. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right, for people. And the thing is, like, realistically,
pragmatically, how do you do that? It takes resources, you need building, you have to have
all the things. And so, so there's, there's a, there's an element of, well, you know, if you go
to a UCC church, they're just not going to talk about those passages that are awful, and they're
going to focus on, and the language coming from the front is always going to be inclusive and
affirming of whoever is here, and your identity is welcome, and you are okay just as you are. Like,
that is going to be preached on, that is going to be what you hear week in and week out. And
they're going to talk about God slightly differently, and maybe not to the extent I would
personally like, you know, because I'm not interested, but like, there, there's something
about like, when you were saying that, I was thinking about all these pastors I know who are,
who are very affirming and who are, you know, seeking to embrace and
right LGBTQ folks, they're just better than these texts. That's just the question of to what extent
are they dependent on texts to be loving is actually part of what's going on here. So they're
not engaging hateful texts. They don't end that tradition in and of itself, the people in those
communities want to be together, they want a positive, encouraging word, and they're not
fundamentalist about the Bible. And so we can, we can have this, we can piggyback on this ancient
tradition, but we're doing something slightly different, we're doing something new or, or
whatever, right? And it's, but we're still calling it church, and some people are even not calling
it church anymore, right, to get away from all that baggage. But so it's really, I think part
of your question is really about the, the role of the, the texts in these communities.
There's so much there. Like, I can think of dozens of pastors, right? Like, that are just,
it's not a question. You are welcome. You are, how, how you came into the world is fine.
You're talking to externally. That's fine too. Right. Like we're, you know,
anyway, sorry, I know. No, no, no. I apologize for interrupting.
You're talking to obviously someone who still has the chip on their shoulder and still thinks
through this, like, what's the Bible say? Just to me, it's kind of weird to me as someone who
comes from that kind of Protestant background. Yeah. Imagine an analogy, we'll use slavery,
for example, instead of that. It's pro, it's not anti-slavery in any way. It is not anywhere.
And imagine that, you know, we're dealing with a group of people pretend, hypothetically,
that they're modern slaves. And let's just say it's completely anti-slavery. And within that
tradition, we're going to use this, this text, but we're going to say, or at least we're going
to use this tradition that's been like, really affirming something that's been harmful to us
for a long, long time, or at least seems to be implied in it. And now we're using it,
but we're going to take away those ugly, harmful things. I get changing things. I get that. Maybe
that's what's the point. It's like, we're going to change this tradition, even if there's harmful
things within it, and better, try to better within. I don't know. I don't know. Trying to think.
You know, and it's, it's really interesting too, because, because of your experiences in churches,
I think you don't, maybe you don't, it's hard for you to imagine a church setting that isn't
as fundamentalist about the Bible. Is that possible? I mean, obviously, I know there are
way more lax versions of Christianity than what I came out of. I just, for me,
it's like, let's just go to church fathers. Are we going to find some bad things toward women?
Are we going to find some bad, where do you draw the line? Well, we don't rely on the Bible. We
rely on church. Let's go to some church fathers. Like, when do we say, you know, actually, we
don't need them. We don't even need this organization we call the church. We don't need this tradition
that has these heroes that are actually not really heroes to us in our communities. I don't know.
Yeah. I don't know. That's a head scratcher for me. So thank you. Okay. Aaron Colson.
I appreciate Dr. Bird's work. Her Patreon chat this month was fantastic. Thoughts on how Christians
are using Dominion theology to shape laws in this country, most recently in Alabama.
Yeah, I do have some thoughts on that. But I, I'm, it's funny because I need to be clear about, I
need to, I always, some of these ideas like labels Dominion theology, I'm not up fully on what that
actually is. Do you know, Derek? I mean, I imagine that's what they're implying.
Thank you, Aaron, about the plug for the conversation that was, it was nice. I'm also doing that,
actually. That's what, what you're, what you're starting to do also. So I will, I can tell you
this, Aaron, and anyone else who's curious, I did pull up the ruling, the, the court ruling,
it's 131 pages, but I'm just skimming four things about God and, and like their theological
justifications. And I had to stop because, and come back to it like on Monday, because it is
terrifying. They are quoting from, from 1200, like Thomas Aquinas in the 1200s. They are quoting
extensively from very, from like tradition, like guys in the church from the 16, 16, 1700s, like
they're actually quoting. That was my PCA church. And they were very active politically as well.
Yeah. This is the court ruling. Like this is the Supreme Court of Alabama is quoting theological
treatises in their justification. Like it's, it's terrifying. I, I, so I am going to try to
put, do some sort of official response to that. I'm hoping to connect with someone at WAPO who's
doing a, trying to do a deeper dive on this kind of, I don't normally use that language,
on this issue because it's really important. And so I don't have a better response. I'm sorry,
I don't have a better response, Erin, but it is something that's on my mind that I would like
to try to respond to in the next week or so. I keep doing that. Sorry. That's, that's the Holy
Ghost. Don't take credit. Don't take credit for what you didn't do. You know what I mean?
Thank you. Oh, look at the video. She's, she's heard me talking too long. Yeah. Well,
we're almost done here. So sense, sense of soul podcast. Thank you for being a member and thank
you for the super chat. I appreciate it. Thank you both. These conversations are important.
As a recovering Catholic, I felt like I had to grieve so much.
I hear you. I hear you. Good for you for doing what, taking care of yourself. Right. Absolutely.
Yeah. Sense of soul. Thank you so much. And then the final one I had in the list here is it's sage
question. What are your greatest fears since deconversion in life?
I don't have fears anymore. Like, I don't have any fears. What are my fears? I fear the, I fear
male patriarchy, perpetually, like getting to continue. And I fear the people. Like that's
where my fears are, right? Or guns and sharks. Like those are my fears. I don't, right. It
terrifies me that things like the Alabama ruling can happen. That there are people that can get
into such positions of power without any form of checks and balances on that. Like that there are
so, there are enough people around him that allowed that to happen that we're okay with him and his
ideas. Like that's the stuff that terrifies me. But I don't feel like I fear things anymore.
I don't know. I like the question though. I mean, you know, I'm sorry, maybe that's not
really what you're looking for. I'm not sure. I have to admit, if this question can be answered
by me, even though you're the one who I'm interviewing, I've thought a lot more about death
and the value of life since leaving. Because I took for granted, I had a weird, like,
chosenness about my mind and about me. The God had picked me and they special. He would, like,
I have this destiny God predicted before the foundation of the world, all of that imaginative
idea. Now I'm like, oh God, I mean, I had, I ate a lot of hot stuff for two days in a row, right?
Just to give you an example. And I went to go to bed on the third day. Notice three there on the
third day. Am I a messiah? No, I'm just kidding. And I couldn't sleep for hours. Something wasn't
right. I kept getting progressively worse. I kept drinking water. I'm laying there for hours. And
then I start panicking. I'm, like, hyperventilating. I'm, like, taking me to the hospital. What's going
on with me? Like, these moments of potential health crises make me go, I'm not invincible,
like I thought in a weird way. Totally. I believed in an imaginative thing about myself and my life
and, like, I can't get harmed. If God is for me, then who could be against me? These kind of
cliche sayings. Now I'm, like, often thinking about what am I leaving to my kids? In what way have I
left an impact on the earth or, you know, in humanity? Like these kind of things. I think
about death a lot more. And I do sometimes go, is it going to hurt? I don't want it to hurt. I'm
afraid of that. Like, how is it going to hurt? You know, that kind of thing. Because I've been
through enough pain in to know that it sucks. So those are the fears I would say that maybe I have
as far as that. I'm sure there are other things, but yeah.
I also think the language of deconstruction is interesting. It isn't something I've ever used
to talk about myself, because it's, I don't think of it, I think of my story as been one of being
more and better informed. And so deconstructing, I get and I love that people are doing it and
that they're calling it that. And so we understand what that means, right? I get that. But part of
the thing is, if people were better informed to begin with, there wouldn't be a need to deconstruct.
I'm coming at it from it. I guess I come at this whole thing from a different perspective,
do you know what I mean? Right, right. It's more about constructing instead of D. Again,
here we are with a A, this kind of negative like, and it is viewed by those who are in
Christianity that are, you know, very stuck in that and going, oh, they're deconstructing or
deconstruction. I get what you're saying. I'm building something better. Building something
better and not just breaking down. But I do feel like, I feel like the whole house was crushed.
It does feel like a deconstruction, for sure. And we're building new walls and stuff with
occasionally something's being reused. But like, I'm like looking at all the building materials
I had and going, none of it is very few things here are useful anymore for this new house I'm
building. And there's some things that are useful. Yeah. And some. Yeah. I think I just personally
need to problematize the label. I don't know. I just do, I need to for myself, I guess, right?
Because yeah, deconstruct. Anyway, sorry, that's not the point here. But I want to say thank you.
I told you that I would try not to like burden people too much up front with plugging. But I
have to, shamelessly, your new book, Marriage in the Bible, what does the text say?
What do the texts say? There's the emphasis on the do and the say that they don't show in that.
What do they say? Because that's our, that's our point here is, all right, you want to,
you want to talk biblical marriage, you want to talk about marriage in the Bible,
let's talk about it. Let's be really painfully honest about it. Exactly. I'm sharing the link
now. I put just, I am an affiliate of Amazon. If you do purchase stuff through this link,
it helps MythVision. And the queen of MythVision is always smiling when, when, you know, we do well.
So get, get a copy of her book. It should be on Audible at some point in the future as well. But
it's a beautiful book, hardcover. The one I got is hardback, and it's very beautiful.
And the way you write, as I say, it's fun. It's not dense. It's not complicated. It's fun.
You're going page to page. It's a page turner where you're enjoying your, your fun in it.
And so I hope people will get that book and let us know that you have, I didn't mention us at
the beginning, but I highlight 2.82 K subscribers to your YouTube channel. I'm going to give people
the next 1 minute to 2 minutes to subscribe. If you haven't subscribed, I want to see these
numbers go up. What's that? Wolf of Wall Street meme? Come on. You got to get those numbers up,
man. Get those numbers up. We're going to, we're going to renew or refresh the screen and see
what happens here in a moment. You also have the website. What's your website about?
Yes. My web full, full name, JenniferGracepord.com. And it's, it's just, it's all the things,
you know, so you can get to all my socials that way. But I also have on the website, I have,
I created a video series a few years ago for people who are like working through what to do
with the Bible on the topic of marriage. So it's kind of a parallel to the book in terms of the
content, but it's, it's a video series created to help people. Like you watch a video on an idea,
and then you talk about it with people you trust, right? So it's that kind of a,
trying to help you process, not just listen to a lecture, but like take in some ideas and process
for yourself. So there are all kinds of things like that. You can get to my books there. I'm
working on a podcast, just an audio podcast, very professionally done, separate from YouTube stuff.
So you can just see all kinds of what I'm up to on my website. Yeah.
Yeah. So you have the books, you have other videos, people can help. And does it that helps?
You have a Patreon. Mention that as well. You hang out with your Patreon.
Yeah. I have a Patreon and I have started doing a, every third Thursday. So the third Thursday
of the month, I'm going to, sorry, yes, the third Thursday of the month, I'm going to go live. So I
just have, just like what you described that you're starting to do, Derek, on, I'll send out a Zoom
link to those who are supporting me. So through my Patreon, not just the, so not free, but any,
at any level of giving and supporting me financially, because that's, you know,
that is helping me to be able to do the work I'm doing, right? Exactly. So I'm really pleased with
how it went. I'm looking forward to more of that. Yeah. And your community, you got a great community,
I'm sure, of people. I do. I'd love the people to show up for my live, I do a live stream on
Thursdays also, like that's just something I've been doing for about a year and a half. And, or
whatever, for not a year and a half, but I've been doing live streams and call it story time.
And it's, at this point, it's, I'm either doing story time on my own, so I'm reading a biblical
passage and giving all the commentary on it that I think is important to give. And then recently,
I just started having, I'm starting to interview academics. So people who are not trying to be
public scholars, but they're just honest to goodness academics. And I'm just trying to help
people discover more, because I think there are a handful of really lovely public scholars, right?
But there's more scholarship out there that help, that I think can help people
just know that there's more than just some of these, I don't know. I hope that makes sense. But
I'm having a great time. Is exactly what I'm doing. Yeah. I know it is. I know it is. Yeah,
so that makes perfect sense. And I can relate and I love that. And I'm certain you're going to have
scholars I've never, don't even know. Yeah, of course, because of their, it's been my field. But
yeah. And so the people that show up there are just so fun, you know, the people. Yeah.
I love that. I love that. I'm hoping more people will tune in. Have you subscribed yet to her YouTube
channel? Did I mention that if they don't, they're going to get eternal conscious tournament in hell?
I think you need to, yeah, it's good to remind them. Right. So let me remind them. We love you
so much. Don't want you to be. We're all loving. But if you don't subscribe to her YouTube channel,
you are putting yourself into eternal flames. So, you know, that's how much we love you. We're
giving you the chance to do that. Okay. Okay. I'm being silly. I do that from time to time. Forgive
me. We're going to go ahead and refresh. Yeah. Are we ready? Sure. 10. I'm actually a little nervous
now. Like nine making a thing of it. Like, yeah. Eight. Right. I'm fine. I'm fine with it. Seven.
Six. Five. Four. Three. You are so funny. Two and a half.
Two. Thanks, James. I saw James Apperson put. One and a half.
One. Does how much we love you? You see how we're going into the decimals here?
Right. Making sure that you all happen. Mm-hmm. Point five. We're doing Second Peter Three
a day is a thousand years. You know, we're stretching time here to make it, you know,
point seven, point six. Okay. Okay. Okay. Time's up. Refresh.
2.86. So, I think you've got 40 new subscribers, I think, so far while we've been streaming.
Which is pretty exciting, you know. Very, very exciting, I think. Yes. Yes. I'm grateful for all
the love. Oh, hey, Christine. She used to be a librarian. And she is just the most delightful
person. Oh, wow. Thank you so much for becoming a member. I really appreciate that. Okay. Any
final words from you, Dr. Grace Byrd? Dr. Jennifer Grace Byrd? Sorry. I feel like this has been
a fun conversation. I appreciate you hosting it and pushing me to do this, actually. I feel like
I should say that. Let people know that you have been very important for me. You've been very
supportive of me for four years now. And it was your idea to do this. Like, you had to talk me into
this. I did do that. You did. You had to talk me into it. And it was your idea. And I appreciate
that. I appreciate your support and the fact that you put your money where your mouth. You
know, like you say you like my work and then you do something about helping me and supporting me.
And so thank you for using your platform to help highlight some of what I'm trying to do.
I appreciate that, Derek. And I wanted people to know that, right? You have been encouraging me
on how to do, how to use YouTube to make a difference and what to do to, you know, to kind
of make things work better and all that. So you've been kind of a bit of a coach or a mentor to me
in this YouTube world. And I appreciate it. Thank you. That means a lot to me. And I'm
thankful for your courage because you were very nervous, I must admit. You were very not sure,
right? Yeah, it's the way labels work. And that was the biggest in my work, right? Yeah. Yeah.
You didn't want to end up coming up here and going, I have to have this
conclusion where I'm now an atheist or I have to say that I'm this thing. And no, you don't. I don't
expect that. Even like, since we're talking about it, it's even the label like on the thumbnail,
it's like person leaving fundamental Christianity, like the whole conversation. And I watch some of
the chat about, what's a big deal? Or it's a big deal because she's this or well, it's like,
and my field and in the work I'm doing, sometimes people care. And so it's interesting to me how
I'm still changing in terms of what my role is. When you ask what it is I'm trying to do these
days, like what is it you're doing? I'm like, well, that's a really evolving kind of in the moment.
Right. Right. Because, you know what I mean? So it's,
I respect that. And I did not want, I told you to, I was like, listen, you have every right
in this discussion to explain wherever you're at, whatever you've come to the conclusion. And I
respect you. You could have come out and said whatever you could have said, I'm a theist. I
don't care. It would not have bothered me at all. No, I know that for you. It's the reality of the
world we live in. Yeah, tribalistic. Well, and just, yeah, and just, anyway, it's a good thing
for me to have done and to just own it publicly and do with it what you're going to do with it,
right? People, you know, so the issue is about my work and my place in the, you know, it's not
about, there's nothing, I'm not embarrassed about what I think and believe. You know what I mean?
I get it. And you're absolutely correct. Trust me, you're not the only person
who has had that concern. I think Dr. Munger was a little concerned about his
deconversion story. And yes, colleagues heard about it, but he got a lot of compliments and a
lot of respect from colleagues, even if they disagreed with him, they were like, that took
a lot of courage to say what you said. And there's so many people who are going to watch this,
and they're going to feel like they're not alone. Right. That's what made me decide to do it.
People is going to help. Like, that's it, right? And as a female doing this, that
means a lot to me too, because we guys can go and talk all the shit we want. But like,
it really was powerful to have you on here and hopefully sets a path for other academics who
can be comfortable telling their own version of their own story. It does not have to be a set path.
It could be whatever. But I'm hoping to also explore that more with other academics in the field.
Hmm. Well, good luck with that. I don't think I could have done this if I were at an institution.
That's scary. It's real. That's the thing, Derek. It's real. I actually have questions like,
I'm thinking about the fact that I only teach online for community college in the Northwest.
And this process went through my mind about those that, like, I'll be fine. This is totally fine
for them. But that's the point. Like, this is political and it's power and it's money and it's
all the things. And you're not going to get many academics who would do this. You're just not. And
it's I'm okay. I'll be okay, because I'm trying to make this thing as a public scholar doing
something different. And that's what I'm trying to focus my energy, my attention. But that's also
why it was okay for me to do this. I wouldn't have when I was at Greensboro College full time.
I wouldn't have when I was an adjunct at University of Portland, because I needed that money and they
would not they would not have given me courses if I had done this then. Do you see what I'm saying?
Like, yeah, yeah. I think it's important for me to say this as a host, as someone who's been
successful on YouTube and knows what it's like to try and make a full time online thing. Support
Dr. Bird. If you like what she said, and you could be part of her community at whatever small
cost, a coffee at Starbucks cost a month for one, you know, one time, do it. And as many people as
possible, go and do that because this sucks. It sucks that we can't just get people to just be
able to do that without the risk of their jobs and their careers and stuff being transparent.
So back up the people who had the courage to do that and help support them because we need that
help. I think so. That's my saying. I'm saying it. I hope you'll help Dr. Bird become a patron.
Comment on our YouTube videos. Let her know that you saw the stream and compliment her.
Nothing hurts more, you know, than people who are just nothing but trashing and things like that.
It's show some love. Those are the people that help our days have the sunshine. You know, it's
good people make you feel good when you have good compliments and comments under those videos.
So thank you. Thank you, Derek. All right. I told you I wasn't going to open up with a cartoon.
Did you want me to close your call? No, we don't need to. We don't need to. Okay. Thank you so much,
everybody. Hit the like.
