What are the Codex Fuldensis and San Galensis? 1395 and what importance do they have for scholars?
What? Am I my PhD exams here?
Dr. Bart Ehrman, welcome back to MythFish and Podcast.
Well, thanks for having me.
It is honestly always an honor to have you on here. I love learning from you.
You're one of the more enthusiastic academics out there and I don't know what it is,
but when we talk, people are watching. Maybe it's your personality. Maybe you just
say it like it is and it sometimes gets a lot of attention.
I think it's my stunning good looks.
I'll let you have it. I'll let you have it.
I have a fantastic fan of MythFish and who really appreciate your work and he made this
episode possible, but I want to give a plug. You've got a Paul and Jesus course coming out.
Can you tease our audience with what that is and what they might expect?
Yeah, well, you know, most people think of Christianity as the religion based on the
death and resurrection of Jesus and that's certainly Paul's view. Paul's entire point
is that you may write with God by believing that Jesus died for your sins and was raised from the
death. The question is, is that what Jesus taught? When you look at our earliest sources for Jesus,
it appears that he teaches that there's a kingdom of God that is coming soon,
that God will destroy the forces of evil and bring in a utopian place for his followers.
And that means you want to be one of his followers, which means if you're sinning,
you need to repent and turn back to God so that he will forgive your sins and you can then,
you can start living differently. You can live for God, you can live for others,
love your neighbors yourself, so that you'll enter the kingdom. And so if that's right,
if Jesus is right, that he's teaching love of God, love of neighbor, enter the kingdom,
how can Paul be saying the same thing when he says, no, you've got to believe in the death
and resurrection of Jesus. Is that the same thing or is it completely different or is there
continuity between them? And so I play this out in a course of eight lectures, 30 to 40 minute
lectures each, where we play out what Jesus was teaching, what Paul is teaching and then
comparing, is this similar, the same or different? Bart, I look forward to seeing you there. I'm
actually helping put that thing together with you. And I know for a fact that this course is going
to be a game changer for anyone who's serious about learning the origins of Christianity,
who Paul is, what Paul's teaching, who Jesus was, what Jesus taught. So be sure to sign up,
myth vision will be there. I'm going to go ahead and jump into these questions from our fan,
an anonymous fan. Scholars from many nations have contributed to the advent of critical
biblical scholarship since the discipline began in earnest during the Enlightenment. However,
it is safe to say those academics based in central Europe, especially in German regions,
have provided a disproportionate number of scholarly discoveries and advances from the time
of Raimars to the present. Even Gerhard Kittel, who became a notorious supporter of the Nazi
regime, co-edited a multi-volume New Testament theological dictionary still in use today.
Del Allison in his myth fishing course, The Quest for the Historical Jesus,
devoted four of his eight lectures to German and Swiss luminaries. Do you have any thoughts on
why this development occurred? Could it be the Reformation followed by the religious conflicts
culminating in the Thirty Years' War weakened the influence of church control and dogma over
scholarship while enlightened rulers as epitomized by the flute playing skeptic Frederick the Great
of Prussia, fostered universal education and academic inquiry? Can I just say yes?
No, it is a very interesting phenomenon that people spend a lot of time thinking about.
When I was in graduate school in the 70s and early 80s, we always talked about,
we always called German the biblical language. Yeah, we had to learn, of course, German and
French, but as part of our research. But you know, all the hard, all the serious scholarship,
not all of it, a lot of the really serious scholarship was in German. And so you had to
learn German well enough to be able to read the books and the articles. And I would say that it
is pretty true that up until probably, well, into the 20th century, most of the really hardcore
stuff was in German. There were some in French and there were some in English. And so for a long
time, it was kind of Germany and, you know, and German speaking areas and England, somewhat France
and then somewhat America. Now, it's completely changed, though, I would say. I'd say it's
completely changed. I would say America really is more at the forefront and then and then Germany
and other play and England and England. And so those three are the kind of the big spots.
Even in other places in Europe, not so much France and Italy and stuff. And it's no accident, I think,
that those are the three areas that were that had a very strong Protestant influence. And it is,
it does go back to Martin Luther. I mean, once you once you say that the sole authority for
understanding our world and understanding God and understanding salvation, the sole authority
is the Bible, not church authority. Once you say that, you better start studying the Bible.
And so the the influence of Protestantism played played the role of significance,
but so much so that I mean, even into the early 20th century, when Albert Schweitzer writes his
quest for the historical Jesus, which is the Germans from Reimars to Vreda. So from from this
figure, Reimars to Vreda to German scholars, one writing in 17 published in 1770s, the other
published in 1901. That period, it's like Schweitzer says, like, it's all German, baby.
He mentions, you know, a couple of French people, a couple, but basically it's German. And he says,
only Germans could have done it. He says, only Germans have the mentality to do this. And so
that's yeah, so that's that's a large, a large part of it is because of the Protestant information.
Thank you. What is the pseudo Clementine literature, specifically the homilies and
recognitions? And how important are they to New Testament scholars, Dr. Airman?
Well, after the second bar first, to most New Testament scholars, they're not important at all,
because my guess is 98% of New Testament scholars have never read them.
And probably I bet the majority could not define them.
I certainly couldn't when I finished my PhD. No way. So pseudo Clementines. So these are the two
most important words, the recognitions and the homilies. They are better known now than they
were in the early 80s. Scholars have gotten more familiar with them. They're called the pseudo
Clementines, because they are about and allegedly by Clement of Rome. Clement of Rome was one of
the early bishops of Rome in tradition, the third or fourth bishop, depending on how you count.
He allegedly was converted by the Apostle Peter himself. And the pseudo Clementine writings
are called pseudo Clementines, because people now realized realized he didn't write them.
But they claim to be written by him. They are two versions of the same basic story,
which is about Clement's conversion, and then is accompanying Peter on his missionary journeys.
And so they're highly legendary accounts. They are long. And when I was in graduate school,
they were registered as one of the most complicated areas of scholarship in early Christianity,
because the only thing that people wanted to talk about, this is mainly rooted in German scholarship,
was the Ur text behind these two. These are two versions of the same story. And so with scholars
incessantly trying to get, you know, the four scholars in the world who are interested in
doing this, what they wanted to do was figure out what the original text was that these two raw
shoots of, and then to see what that would be useful for historical purposes. So anyway,
that's what they are, the pseudo Clementines. They date from the fourth or fifth century.
They're forged, but they're very interesting. One reason they might be interesting to some
New Testament scholars is because they do appear to present a view of Peter as being far superior
to Paul and Paul being a problem. That's a great apostle that we all come to know and love,
but being a heretic. That was probably the one part I was hoping you'd mention. Thank you.
There's one pseudo Clementine that the person didn't ask about that's a preface to the homilies
that is allegedly a letter by Peter to James, the head of the church in Jerusalem,
where Peter warns James against another figure who is converting Gentiles with a lulled-us gospel,
and Peter allegedly, Peter says, this man is my enemy, and it's clear as day. He's talking about
Paul. So this is a forged letter saying that Paul was Peter's enemy.
Real quick question on that before we move on is, I can't imagine they pulled all this out of the
air. When I'm reading the New Testament, I did not even read the homilies, the recognitions.
I see some strife. I mean, it clearly spelled out that he confronts Peter, but beyond that even,
it sounds like Paul makes little jabs here and there. So the question I have is, do you think
that this, I mean, there is obviously an agenda on the author's behalf to really downplay Paul,
probably for other reasons that aren't related to 1st century, but do you think that they're also
pulling this from the New Testament? To some extent, yeah. I think the conflict between Peter
and Paul in the New Testament is not really about what we would think of as the essence of the
Christian message that the death and resurrection of Jesus brings salvation. I think they both
completely agreed on that. I think they agreed that Jesus' death was an atonement for sins,
and you have to believe in his death and resurrection. Where they disagreed is,
it's principally in the book of Galatians that we learn about it, and there the disagreement is
that Peter and Paul draw different implications from this message. They both agreed that Gentiles
and Jews could be followers of Jesus, but Peter was more the persuasion that it meant that Jews
could maintain their Jewish identity distinctively from Gentiles, which would affect their behavior
within the Christian community because Jews and Gentiles would have to be somewhat segregated
at least some of the time for Jews to keep their Jewish identity. Paul thought that was
completely anathema, that in fact Jews and Gentiles were equal in Christ and there can be no separation
of any kind. That was their conflict. The author of the Pseudoclementines and the tradition standing
behind the author appeared to have been more favorable toward the idea of a Jewish Christianity
that maintained some kind of Jewish identity. We're keeping the Jewish law mattered. He was
more on Peter's side of that, and he championed Peter for that reason. He's kidding it. The
traditions go back to the New Testament already to Paul, but I think the tradition lived on even
apart from the New Testament. How have the discovery of the Ugaritic texts impacted scholars
understanding of the evolution of Yahweh from a storm or mountain volcano deity to one acquiring
some of the characteristics of surrounding Canaanite gods, including temporarily possessing a
consort? What is the Canite Midianite Hypothesis? This is a very long story that I'm not going
to get into because I'm not much of an expert. Ugaritic is a Semitic language that's very similar
to Hebrew. When the Ugaritic texts were discovered well over a hundred years ago,
at the end of the 19th century, it was recognized that they could be useful in unpacking the Hebrew
language because when you're dealing with Hebrew, the language of Hebrew, it's complicated because
the only ancient Hebrew text you've got, biblical Hebrew text you've got, that kind of Hebrew,
is found in the Bible. It's not like the New Testament, which is written in Greek,
but where you've got thousands of Greek texts to look at to see what words mean and to look at
where ideas came from because you've got all these thousands of texts. The Hebrew text, that was it
for the Bible. That's the Hebrew that you've got to figure out what the words mean, but now you've
got to start to find these comparable languages, these cognate languages like Ugaritic. So you
could figure out what the word cucumber meant. It was good for that, but what was stunning about it
is that these Ugaritic texts also contain stories comparable to those found in the Hebrew Bible,
especially a creation account that sounds very much like, in some ways, using similar words and
similar concepts to what you get in the creation account. The Ugaritic findings were part of a
larger phenomenon going on at the end of the 19th century where they found texts where you've got
creation stories and flood stories, for example, including Canaanite texts. In some of these ancient
Near Eastern texts, you've got this chief god who has a female companion. Scholars have thought
that Ashura in the Old Testament, who is a goddess that's worshipped in Israel, Baal and Ashura are
both worshipped. The idea is that Ashura is the consort, and some people thought that Yahweh
was understood within Israel like Christians and have Ashura as a consort, and they find
evidence actually in the Hebrew Bible itself. And so the significance of this kind of finding,
not just the Ugaritic but also the Canaanite and other in Egypt and ancient Near Eastern stuff,
is that it helps put these biblical ideas into context and helps you realize,
gives you kind of a fuller understanding of what it means. And so in one case, it might mean that
there were Israelites who thought that Yahweh was married. So that's important. Makes sense. And then
I guess the last was just the Midianite-Canaanite hypothesis. From what I understand, and then
you might want to fill in the gaps, is somewhere down in the south of Southeast Asia there,
near Arabia slash modern day Palestine, where we're looking today, this god emerges
out of like a nomadic tribal people, this god emerges. And because we have certain implications
in Exodus and other places where it sounds like the father-in-law, where Moses discovers this
god who's not named Yahweh before, is now being named Yahweh. But your fathers didn't know me as
this, but now they know me, that maybe this tradition comes out of this area and the Midianite
deity, that Yahweh might have been a Midianite deity. Fill me in, correct me. Am I on the right
track? Yes, I mean you are. And it's a complicated issue because we don't, it's not like we've got
extra textual evidence that can help us very much on this. You know, we haven't found a huge
cache of Kenai texts. And so this is largely based on an analysis of the Pentateuch, where it's
recognized that within the Pentateuch you have different strands of tradition. The thing from
the 19th century that many people still kind of basically hold to is the JEDP theory, the four
dogman hypothesis. And the deal is that within these four, these appear to be four different
sources sprung up different times, different places, were based on earlier oral traditions.
And you have this account in Exodus, where Moses is given God's name as Yahweh. And he's told that
no one has known him as Yahweh before, but now he's revealing it to him. Which is a little bit
confusing, because when you read the book of Genesis, God reveals his name Yahweh to Abraham
100 years earlier, and Abraham calls him Yahweh. And so the theory is that one of these Pentateuchal
sources had its roots in this region of Midian, because Moses' father-in-law, who's given two
different names in the Old Testament, whether it's Jethro and Ruthiel or something, that the two
names come from two different sources, and the Moses tradition come from two different sources,
and that one of these sources is different from the source of Genesis, and that the one source
that has this kind of Kenai, Midianite thing is a source that goes back from there. And so
in order to say, though, that Yahweh arose as that divinity, you'd have to say that that's the source
that's preserving a historical recollection more than the source that's recording that Abraham
got this thing in Canaan. See what I'm saying? So it's one of the theories that Yahweh rose
there as opposed to somewhere else. Thank you. Despite searches in the Sinai over many years,
no credible archaeological artifacts have been found supporting the Old Testament Exodus story.
Yet many believers argue the time interval from at least 1250 BCE to the present has destroyed
such evidence. However, the 1996 discovery of a Bronze Age battlefield site next to the
Tolentz River in northeast Germany dated to between 1300 and 1200 BCE and involving far fewer
people has already yielded over 13,000 artifacts since northern Europe's climate is generally
less hospitable to the preservation of artifacts than the Sinai. Is this not an additional talking
point to assert the biblical Exodus never occurred? Could you remind which modern discovery were
they referring to that's going to matter? Bronze Age battlefield site next to Tolentz River in
northeast Germany dated to between 1300 and 1200. So it's about the same time distance.
Yeah, no, it's a good comparison. Yeah, no, this idea, you get this in even, you know, even critical
scholars will sometimes say, look, how could you have any remains? It all got wiped out.
Well, you know, did chariots, you know, get buried? What happened to them? They would still be here.
And so there are, it's not just the thing in Germany. It's throughout, let me say several
things. One thing is, in terms of remains, many people think that Egypt's the only place where
everything's going to be remained because of the dry climate. And as it turns out, for most kinds of
materials, especially organic materials, it doesn't matter if it's a dry climate or not,
to survive thousands of years. What matters is that it has a consistent climate of humidity.
It's the humidity level. And so, for example, there's this, you know, there's this British
army camp that was discovered in England, where they found letters that these Roman soldiers wrote
2,000 years ago, it was in a bog. Bog, yeah, because the humidity was constant. And so,
the humidity, if the humidity goes up and down, then you forget it. But if it's constant, and so
it isn't just like, it isn't the amount of time, it isn't the dryness, it's like the consistency.
And so, but things like metal will survive, of course, in sand for basically forever. And so,
there have been many discoveries of, you just think about paleographic, paleolithic art.
Paleolithic, it still survives. So, the point about the Exodus is absolutely right. There's no trace,
including by the way, in the in the Hebrew Bible, in the book of Numbers. Basically, most of the 40
years of Israel in the wilderness was at Kedash Barnea, which is a, it's this place kind of south
of, south of Israel, that's, that was a, like an oasis, a big oasis. And boy, they dug around in
that place and found nothing. The people were there for decades, like eating off of plates, you
know, like sharpening swords and things. There's nothing. So, yeah. And, you know, as a fundamentalist,
we always heard that there are chariots at the bottom of the Red Sea. You know, yeah, that's
for all. And so, there's nothing in Egypt, there's nothing in the Sinai, there is nothing to suggest.
And I hope everybody knows, you can go in the description and you can actually sign up for
your Exodus course that you've done. So, you definitely need to check out Bart Ehrman's course
on that because he dives into this lots of fun. Yeah, we actually, there are actually two courses.
So, I did one on Genesis, which deals with kind of the Pentateuch, but deals with Gent,
but the other is on Exodus through Deuteronomy. And yeah, this wilderness stuff, the Exodus,
I gave you all the historical business on that. Sign up today. What is your opinion regarding
the authenticity of the James Oshuary and the Talpiat tomb? Do you believe either or both
provide evidence for the existence of Jesus and his family line? No, I don't think so.
I know that my friend James Tabor very much thinks so. And I assume that there are other
scholars who do, although I don't think I know of any others. I know a number of archaeologists
who don't give us any credence at all. Famous, famous, I mean, you know, Eric Myers,
Joseph Magnus. I mean, just, you know, people, you know, they think that these are not, these
are not ancient artifacts. Thank you. Do you think the early Jewish Christians of the Jerusalem
Church rather than Paul had a better understanding of Jesus, his message and aims? Certainly during
the early years, there must have been some in this movement who actually knew Jesus and heard him
preach. Few, if any, followed Paul as far as we know. Yeah, I think that's probably right.
I mean, James was Jesus' brother. He was the head of the church. Peter was his right hand man.
John was a pillar of the church. Those people spent a long time with Jesus. And I think they
probably did have a better understanding of the historical Jesus. Their conflict with Paul,
though, doesn't appear to have been about their understanding of the historical Jesus,
or about their understanding of his death and resurrection. Their big differences with Paul
had to do with the relationship of Jew and Gentile. And that was something Jesus probably never
talked about. Wow. So it might have overshadowed a lot of the other stuff. There was so much conflict.
It certainly did eventually. I mean, Christianity was about the death and resurrection of Jesus.
But that conflict was really... Paul thought he was the biggest thing that ever hit the
planet, this conflict. I mean, he thought the Galatians were going to lose their salvation
if they would get circumcised. And he blamed the Jerusalem apostles. But he didn't...
That was his opinion. I'm not sure they thought it was that important. They just thought,
yeah, that's not our view. They agreed on the death and resurrection of Jesus, though.
Why do you think early Jewish Christians objected to eating meat-sacrificed idols,
as mentioned, for example, on Galatians? Was it because they believed such a sacrifice would
allow demons to enter the meat, infect those who ate it, as well as those non-eaters who were
nearby like a virus? It's not Galatians. It's 1 Corinthians, chapters 8 and 10,
and also in the Book of Revelation. We're not told what the objection is.
There are hints about it. The hints about it suggest that some people think that this meat...
So the way it works is this. There's kind of a long backstory. I won't give the whole thing,
but the basic story is that in the ancient world, you couldn't go to the butcher and buy your meat
or the grocery store. The animals that are killed are being slaughtered, and they're being slaughtered
sacrifices in pagan ritual. So the worship of God would often involve sacrificing an animal
to the God. The animal, then, the fad and the bones would be burned, and the smell would be...
That's what the gods liked, and then the humans would keep the meat, and they'd have a party,
and they'd eat the meat, but then their meat left over, or the meat would be given to the
temple, or the priests sold the meat. And so if you ate meat, usually it meant that it'd been
sacrificed to a pagan god. And so the question about that is, how does that fit in? And the
one idea... So it looks like in 1 Corinthians, in the city of Corinth, there are people who are
saying there are two groups. One group is saying, look, the pagan gods don't exist. They might think
that they're sacrificing this thing to a god. There's no god. So they've got this statue of wood.
They sacrifice in front of this. So what? It's just meat. And so they say, of course we can eat the
meat. And there are other people who are saying, look, this is sacrificed to a pagan deity. If you
participate in this, you are participating in pagan sacrificial rituals. And so you're giving
approbation to pagan practices. You can't do that. Other Christians said you can't do that because
they said, yes, those are not gods. They're demons. And you're participating in demon worship.
And so there are a variety of views about this within the Christian community.
It's not clear that it was Jews against Jewish Christians, against Gentile Christians. It might
have been that Jewish... It might have been that Jewish Christians were concerned that the food
hadn't been sacrificed... Since it hadn't been sacrificed in the correct way, it was not kosher.
That might have been a thing. I don't know that there's any evidence that demons are rendering
into the meat and infecting people through that. It's an interesting idea, but I don't know that
there's much to say for it. I don't... Or maybe against. We don't really know. But Paul does say
in 1 Corinthians 10 that he's kind of debating the matter. And he basically ends up saying, yeah,
yeah, I don't want you participating in the worship of demons. And so you don't mean to me.
Thank you. Who were the dispossini? I'm trying here. And do you think they may have formed a
dynasty in the early Jerusalem church? How do you spell the word? How do you spell the word?
D-E-S-P-O-S-Y-N-I. Desposini? It would beat returning to Galilee and resuming a
substance lifestyle. What do you think happened to them during the Jewish War, 66 to 70? So
it's this idea of they formed a dynasty in the early Jerusalem church?
Desponi, if I know. I have no idea. I don't know what that word means, desposini. It sounds like
a Greek word. D-Y-S would mean bad, posini, posat. I don't know what the person's referring to.
Maybe one day we'll come back to it. What are the Codex Fuldensis and San Galensis,
1395, and what importance do they have for scholars?
My PhD exams here. I know, I know. Do you have any recollection of these particular?
I know Fuldensis. I actually know San Galensis because I think I used it in my dissertation
45 years ago. Fuldensis is an important Latin manuscript that is a gospel harmony
that some people think is dependent on dictation's diateseron,
or that somehow it's related to the diateseron. More likely it's just another case where
so a harmony is where you take the four gospels and you take the stories in each one and you
combine them all so that you end up with one big gospel. That's what the diateseron was,
done by Tashin in the second century. He was a Syriac Christian who studied with Justin Marder
in the middle of the second century in Rome. He made this diateseron. It's not clear if he did it,
what language he did it in, if he did it in Greek, or if he did it in Syriac, but it became,
got translated in Syriac or written in it, and it became the standard version of the gospels in
Syria for centuries. They didn't have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They had this thing. Codex
Fuldensis is kind of like that. It looks like it's a Latin version of a gospel harmony of some
kind. So that's what that is. Sangolensis. I'm drawing a blank. Sorry. No biggie. No biggie.
It says, what is Codex, the Codex Claremontanus, and what is its importance to scholars studying
the Western type text? Okay. So, Codex Claremontanus is what people call Codex D. It is a fifth century
text. It's one of the most studied texts of Greek New Testament scholars, because it's fairly early.
It's one of our earliest texts. It's one of our most complete texts, and it's one of our most
bizarre texts. It is a Greek-Latin book. So it's a diglot. It's got a Greek on one side of the page
and Latin on the other side of the page. So it has the four gospels and acts.
And so you've got Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John and acts in two columns. And it's a bizarre manuscript
because it has a lot of textual readings. It has lots of ways of wording verses that is completely
different from other manuscripts. And so the big question has been historically, is it just
aberrant by an aberrant scribe? Or is it standing in an ancient tradition that is aberrant? Or is
it standing in an ancient tradition that in fact shows that all these other manuscripts are aberrant?
And it has some really intextual variants in it. It has been much written about by
various scholars who have written entire books on it, a number of really important books on it,
that deal with various aspects of it, including, for example, a classic work by Elden Epp
that tried to show that in the book of acts, at least, the manuscript has an anti-Jewish bias,
for example. Wow. Thank you for that. What is the Johannine comma and when did it first appear in a
manuscript? Okay. So in grammatical terms, a comma is not just a punctuation mark. Our punctuation
mark, our comma, the punctuation mark in English separates off a kind of a sense unit that is
shorter than a sentence, for example. Or it's shorter than something you use a semicolon for.
Okay. So in Greek, when they talk about a comma or a colon, they're not talking about the punctuation
mark. They're talking about the sense unit. Like, so if I have a phrase, for example, you know,
whatever phrase. So the Johannine comma is a unit of text in 1 John chapter five versus seven and eight.
It is the passage that is the only passage in any of our manuscripts of the New Testament
that appears to affirm explicitly the doctrine of the Trinity. In 1 John chapter five,
the author of 1 John, whoever he was, says in the context of the discussion that there are three
that bear witness, the father, let's see, the father of the water and the blood. Okay. He's just
talked about how about Jesus attests to the water and the blood. It may be a reference to,
in the Gospel of John, when his side is pierced, water and blood come out. And so he says the water
and the blood bear witness. And so 1 John is saying there are three that bear witness, the father,
the water, and the blood. And that's what it says in almost all the Greek manuscripts.
When Erasmus produced his first edition of the Greek New Testament in 1516, it was the first
time anybody had printed a copy of the New Testament on a printing press, as opposed to somebody
writing it out by hand. When you write it out by hand, it's a manuscript. When you do it on the
printing press, then it's a printed text. Erasmus didn't have very many manuscripts to base his
text on, and he printed 1 John chapter five just with those words. There are three that bear witness,
the father, the water and the blood. In the Latin tradition, in the Latin Bible, in the manuscripts
of thousands and thousands of Latin manuscripts, and in the Latin printed Bible, the Bible that
had been used in the Western Church, the Roman Church for centuries and centuries, had an additional
line. There are three that bear witness in heaven, the father, the Word,
and the Spirit, and these three are one. And there are three that bear witness on earth,
the Father, the Blood, the water and the blood. So this phrase, there are three that bear witness
in Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Spirit. And these three are one.
that's the Johanin Kava. And it was a controversial issue because Erasmus in the first Greek version
didn't include it because it wasn't in his Greek manuscript. But many, many, many people objected
on the grounds that Erasmus had eliminated the Trinity from the New Testament. And Erasmus pointed
out it's not in the Greek manuscripts. But they finally found some manuscripts that incorporated
that they found that was actually from about the time that he was doing his editions.
Somebody was copying out the Greek manuscript and included it in Greek. And he ended up including
it in a later edition of his printed edition of the Greek New Testament. And that later printed
edition of Erasmus' New Testament was the basis, ultimately the basis for the King James version
of the New Testament. And so that phrase, the Johanin Kava, will be found in the King James version
and in conservative evangelical versions that will include it, even though textual scholars
are unanimous. This baby did not belong to him. This was added. And so, yeah.
One more, Bart. And then we'll hope people will go sign up for your new course and all the courses
that you have. But your Paul and Jesus is the latest. Due to similarities between Matthew and Luke,
scholars have posited the existence of a lost sayings collection called Q,
that the authors of both Gospels had access to and copied from. However,
some scholars have argued these similarities can be explained if it is assumed Luke had access to
both Mark and Matthew. Which position do you hold and why? So the first position is called
the Four Document Hypothesis. And it holds that Matthew, Mark, and Luke have four written sources
behind them. Mark was the first. I'm sorry. Mark was the first. Matthew and Luke both used Mark.
And so that's why many times Mark's wording, his stories, the sequence of his stories work for
words the same in places in both Matthew and Luke. It's because they were both copying him and sometimes
changing one thing or another thing. But they're getting, they're marking stories from Mark, but
they have a number of sayings that are not found in Mark, like the Beatitudes or the Lord's Prayer,
etc. The idea is that they got them from this, the source that no longer exists,
a source that contained mainly sayings of Jesus. The scholars have called Q. Q is short for the
German word Kavela, because German scholars developed this view. Kavela, the word Kavela in
German just means source. This is the sayings source for Matthew and Luke. So Matthew, Mark, and Luke
you've got Mark, you've got Q, Matthew has a bunch of stories himself, it's M, Luke has a bunch of
stories himself that's L. So you've got Mark, Q, M, and L. That makes up the three synoptics. Okay,
that's the theory. That has been the dominant theory since the middle of the 19th century.
There have been alternative theories, including many before that and many after, and one that is
catching hold now, especially because of my friend Mark Goodacre, with whom I completely disagree.
Mark follows the far hypothesis, which was taught by his,
Farah had a student who was Mark Goodacre's teacher and so it kind of was that lineage.
So Mark, Mark holds this far hypothesis. The far hypothesis is that, that Mark was first,
Matthew and Luke both used Mark, but that Luke used both Matthew and Mark. So that's why you have
similarities. That's why Matthew and Luke have a number of things in common that aren't in Mark,
because Matthew put them in his gospel and Luke copied them from Matthew. So that's,
that's the theory. The virtue of that theory is a very strong virtue that cannot be taken lightly.
It's that it eliminates a hypothetical source. And so Occam's razor would say,
get rid of the hypothetical source. And it's absolutely right. If you can get rid of a hypothetical
source without creating bigger problems, maybe go that way. Some of these, some of these solutions,
this is called solutions to this problem. This is called the synoptic problem.
How do you explain the relationships, the agree, the similarities and the differences
among Matthew, Mark and Luke? How do you do it? And some hypotheses are just crazily complicated
that you've got this source, this hypothetical sources, that sort of that source. And then it
came out of this. And there's, you have these diagrams like, Oh my God. And so you want to get
rid of the hypothetical sources that you can. The problem is that if you get rid of Q, you create
huge problems that cannot, in my opinion, be solved very readily. It's a probability case. And so you
have to judge which is more probable. But my view is that there are really good reasons for thinking
that Luke did not use Matthew. If you want some kind of obvious ones to begin with,
they both have birth narratives and genealogies. Look at their birth narratives and genealogies.
Does it look to you like he got, Luke got them from Matthew? They're all different.
They have pieces born of a virgin Bethlehem. Okay. And he's got a genealogy. That's nice.
Look at them. They didn't even give him from Matthew. He got them from somewhere else. Okay.
So there's a lot of places where you have overlap where it's clear Luke's not getting
from Matthew, but there are bigger problems. One very big problem is that Matthew and Luke
often have the same sequence of their stories. This happened, then this happened, then this
happened, then this happened. Matthew and Luke have that same sequence. That's always in stories
found in Mark. Almost always, not completely, almost always those are the stories you got in
Mark. That would make sense. They're both copying Mark and they have different places for their,
you know, they're following his outline. Okay. So that makes sense. The problem is when you
have these same materials that are not in Mark, the sequences are different. So the Lord's prayer
comes at a different place in Matthew than in Luke. The Beatitudes come in different
places from Luke. This parable here occurs here in Matthew, but they're in Luke. And like, so
to imagine that happening, it doesn't always happen, but that's the regular pattern,
except in places where you can explain it. You know, the sayings of Jesus and Matthew and Luke
about the, in the temptation, you know, Man shall not live by bread alone. Those are in the same
places in Matthew and Luke, even though that same's not in Mark, but they're in the same place
because Mark has the temptation narrative. He has a shorter version of it, and they're including
the sayings in the temptation version. That's the same story as temptation. So yeah, so you can
explain like a lot of these similarities. But if they're, if Luke copied Matthew, why did he take
just the things that are not in Mark to rearrange their sequence? Why did he do that?
And how did he do it? So I think what we often imagine is that somebody has a big desk in front
of them, and he's got three books in front of him. And these are like books, like, you know,
with written on both sides of the page, you open up like our books. And what math Luke, what Luke's
doing is he's copying Mark from his book, he cuts it, and then he's copying Matthew. So yeah,
so if he's doing it, if he's doing it that way, then he's cutting, he's reading Mark,
and he's reading Matthew at the same time. And oh, they both had that story. Okay, I'm going to put
that in the same place. Okay, same story. I'll put that one in the same. Then he comes across
something Matthew. Oh, that's not Mark. Oh, I'm going to put that somewhere else.
Why? I mean, why does the servant of the mount all of a sudden become like all over the place in
Luke? I mean, why? But not only why, but how? Ancient scribes appeared not to have desks.
They wrote on their knees. How do you do that when you're copying two books at once?
I really don't know. Is it fair to say that the whole problem is way messier than any of these
hypotheses or trying to maybe propose? My mentor in graduate school was Bruce Metzger,
very famous textual critic. And he always talked about the least problematic solution.
Which solution causes the fewest problems? And that's what that's what happens in this case.
Does Q cause fewer problems than Luke copying Matthew? And I think the answer is a strong yes.
It causes fewer problems. Mark Goodacre thinks the opposite. So I'll say that Mark Goodacre's views
are starting to spread because he's had graduate students and he's convinced them. And so that's
how kind of works. But the majority of scholars still hold to Q. Most of them think it doesn't
solve all the problems. But I mean, I'll tell you one issue that Mark Goodacre knows everything
about this. He spent like half of his life studying this issue. So he knows everything.
But there are complications that many people would not think about. And I'll just name one for you,
which is this. When we say that Matthew and Luke copied Mark,
they didn't copy the same copy of Mark. They would have had different copies.
And if they had different copies, the copies would have had different wording in places.
Okay. So not only that, they didn't have our copy of Mark.
When we do these comparisons of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we're doing it out of a Greek New Testament
that Greek scholars have composed based on a number of manuscripts of Matthew,
a number of manuscripts of Mark, and they said, well, this is probably what Mark originally wrote.
This is probably what Matthew originally wrote. This is what Luke probably originally wrote.
And then you compare them to see where they're similar and different,
which is not a problem. But Matthew and Luke did not have our printed great New Testament
version of Mark. They had different versions of Mark that are different from each other and
different from ours. So how can you even make that comparison? And so one of Mark Goodacre's
arguments, common arguments is Matthew and Luke have this small agreement. They're called minor
agreements. Mark has something else and Matthew and Luke have, they agree again, that shows that
Luke used Matthew. It might show that. It might show that they both had a copy of Mark that's
different from our Mark. Yeah. There are like, there are so many problems like that,
that's why you go with the least problematic one. Who do you think is the most formidable
opponent against Mark Goodacre's position defending Q? I was thinking of Clappenborg,
but I'm curious because I'd love to maybe make a debate happen. Would you be interested? I don't
know. I'm just throwing things out there. You know, okay, there are some things in New Testament
studies that I really enjoy teaching at a very basic level that I really do not enjoy going into
the weeds on. Chronology of Paul's life. You know, it's like, there are people who just like,
this is like, they spend their lives. Oh, God, where was he in August of the year 53? You know,
that kind of thing. Oh my God, no. And, and there are, and the Sinophic province, one of them,
is like, or the suit, the source of the suit of Clementine. Like, it's like, I've got these things
like, I just did not want to get into it. It would debate Mark. So, okay, so who's the most
formidable opponent? I don't know. I think most people just don't, don't agree with him and don't
even bother refuting him because they just think it's problematic. But Clappenborg knows a lot
about Q. I don't agree with a lot of this. Clappenborg has a theory I don't agree with on Q.
Clappenborg is one of these people who thinks that you can show the various versions of Q.
So you've got Q one, Q two, Q three, where you have these various, like,
this was the first edition of Q. This is the second edition. This is the third edition,
which was very helpful for the Jesus seminar, because his first edition of Q doesn't have any
apocalyptic material in it. So that's convenient, because that means that the earliest source about
Jesus is not apocalyptic. Yeah, well, right, if you can divide out three levels of editing of a
non-existent source, that's kind of problematic for a lot of us. But Clappenborg, yeah, he would
be a very good one if he's willing to do it. I just don't know, I don't know people who even
bother to argue for Q because most people just subscribe to it.
Bart, I enjoyed every minute of this. You are always such a great teacher and we at MythVision
honor everything and we really appreciate your time. I hope people will go get the Paul and Jesus
course because you put a lot of time and energy into this. You've actually got a long list of
courses that you've done on your website. They can go down in the description. I've got all of those
links there. You just click the link. You're helping us here at MythVision. You're also helping Bart
to continue doing courses, educating the world. Is there anything you'd like to end on and letting
people know about that course? Well, I'll just say that I think it's, you know, of course,
everybody who writes a book thinks that it's the most important topic anybody's ever thought of.
Everybody who does a course thinks it's the most important course that everybody's
ever done in the universe and all that. So I get that. But I've got to say,
if you're interested in early Christianity, the relationship of Paul and Jesus, I mean,
if you don't work that one out, you know, forget being interested in early Christianity because
you're not. Because this is like one of the really big things. It's huge. I think it's huge
historically and religiously. For people who are Christian, it's important to figure out
how these two might relate to each other without, you know, covering over the differences.
And for people who aren't Christian, it's just like historically, wow, how did Christianity
become this thing? And so I think it's a really important topic. And I love, I love doing this
course and writing this course. And I think people would benefit from it. Thank you so much, Bart.
Everybody, check it out.
