He talks about how the Christians are practically mythologists as well.
Look at all the insanity, a guy's having sex with his mother-in-law or step-mom or whatever.
Right, he's 400 years before this.
So you're like, wait a minute.
How is the Psalm of David talking about an event that happened?
Is it supposed to be a prophecy?
I mean, this is the stepping stones toward critical scholarship.
Welcome back to the Gnostic Informant and you are about to attain true gnosis.
And today I wanted to talk about some upcoming stuff that I'm working on.
I'm working on a video that has to do with the country, our country.
Is this a Christian nation or not?
And the reason why I'm even getting into this subject is because you see a lot of people,
even in our government, even in the Senate, even in the House.
And we have people like Marjorie Green-Taylor and Lauren Boebert.
We have other people like creators that are very influential on YouTube.
And really pushing the narrative that this is supposed to be a Christian nation and that we've
somehow lost our way.
And they're used that to weaponize and attack people who aren't like them.
So my point, I'm making a video and I'm working on this subject of what is this nation really
founded on Christian, Judeo-Christian, Old Testament, New Testament stuff?
Or is it something different?
And so part of this process of me doing the research and pulling up stuff from what these
people in the 18th, it's out late 18th, late 17th, late 18th century.
Yeah, at early 19th century, what were their thoughts on how should we run this country
and should we do it the same way that Europe is doing with church and state?
And to me, the answer was sounding no.
But I was reading through, actually listening to the audio book, Thomas Paines, Age of Reason.
And oh my God, did I get so many good ideas and so many good quotes for this?
So I just wanted to go live and touch on that stuff with you and get your thoughts on this,
too, Derek.
What's your thoughts on all this?
You can tell he's a reasoned guy and he's calling the spade a spade.
He is talking about the mythologist.
And I've only listened to 20 minutes of it before we went live.
I was like, let me play this.
He talks about how the Christians are practically mythologists as well.
They just go right into the vein of the rest of the mythologists and how they're kind of
adapting and co-opting and whatnot.
And some of the details you might listen to go, well, we've learned since then,
maybe that's not technically the case about certain things.
And those are the things that apologists will look at and go, you can hand wave,
forget this guy.
He got that part wrong or he got that detail mistaken.
This happens all the time.
You find something that the person may get wrong or mistaken about certain details.
Imagine, I mean, when was this guy around like two, three hundred years ago?
18th century.
Yeah, the 1700s.
This guy's around.
And how much have we learned since then?
And he has no internet.
He's got probably a local library and he's operating with letters and writing letters
to people and that's his way of doing it.
Can you imagine how hard it would be to do research in this time period?
So you have to deal with whatever.
I mean, they had the printing process was still available.
So there was mass printing, but it's not the same as today.
It's not like there's Amazon that's going to drop it off at your house.
So like you got to realize he had he was limited, but he was also very brilliant.
And you could tell he's way he's well researched.
He's he's all over it.
He's he's all over the place.
He's talking about Zoroastrian.
He's talking about the Greek and Roman stuff.
He's talking about all this different stuff.
And he's he's obviously very well Egyptian stuff as well.
I don't know how the methodology was back then because, for example, like just to skip ahead.
I'll save this for later.
But like one of his one of his arguments is that Christianity is a parody of the
worship of the sun.
Once they put a man called Christ in the place of the sun and pay him adoration,
originally paid to the sun.
Like he's mythic.
He was mythic straight up.
He thought that Jesus was basically like this archetypal, you know, character based on all
each other, whatever.
He's also he's also like really and weirdly he thought Moses existed.
He's talking about Moses is like, why would you believe this guy who came out of the came
from a mountain with some tablets and you're just going to believe him?
Like what kind of evidence is that?
Like and like he doesn't question Moses's historicity at all.
I didn't go that far.
I mean, I got that far, but I didn't go any further whether or not he questioned the
historicity of Moses or not.
But for the sake of argument, who cares, right?
So there was a guy who gets these tablets and he's like and this guy says he got them
from God up on this mountain.
Like he's like, why didn't any of the Israelites say no?
I didn't see it.
I didn't experience it.
I didn't like how do I know you got these from God?
They just accepted that he got these tablets from God.
And I guess what it is is you can see a rationalist mind at work here trying to make sense of the
world.
What I find kind of interesting even in 20 minutes, and this is an 11 hour
webinar.
Let me share just to tease people.
I might as well like share the...
Yeah, while you're pulling that up, this is the one that I started off with where he says,
I do not believe in the Creed profess by the Jewish church, by the Roman church, by the
Greek church, by the Turkish church, by the Protestant church, nor by any church that I
know of my own mind is my church.
All national institutions of churches, whether Jewish, Christian, Turkish appear to
me no other than human inventions set up to terrify and enslave mankind and monopolize power and profit
That is hardcore be heavy. This is heavy man
But uh, yeah, what do you got? Here's the youtube link. I'll paste it in the chat
So anybody who might want to go listen that's as far as I made it 23 minutes in
um before we did the stream and
He what I do think is interesting about what he's doing whether he's inaccurate about this or that type detail
um
We can come back up you and me can come back up. Are we doing full screen? Yeah, um is
The way he's weighing the evidence
He's not treating this one better or above the rest and that's important
I think and that's that's something that I've noticed in modern-day discussions
That you know when you're talking to christian apologists that they value the new testament literature
Above the rest of all the literature that's out there and that this is somehow the most accurate whatnot
Any of the academics I've had on like show you contradiction. I mean serious issues between gospels
um
Issues with paul. I mean look at like the basic fundamental things, right? I've got a course. I'm working on right now
Editing for robin faith walsh
robin talks about the new ma she spends more than any other subject on paul
More time on this issue of what the new ma is
What the philosophy behind it was in understanding that in middle Platonism
in stoicism understanding what the new ma was and then
She asks a question in the course that I think was like i'm sitting here recording going. Oh my god
This is gold and she's like look at the letter. He has to write to the Corinthians
Look at how much he's correcting them
Look at all the insanity a guy's having sex with his mother-in-law or stepmom or whatever right and these people
supposedly
Have the new ma of god the new ma of christ
like
She goes look at how human
this
Accurate word of god is and the spirit of god working and he's meant it doesn't look like it's working too well
Do you think it is and like dude? It was a question where I was like
We always argue about this and that compared to mythology, but it's like
this new ma
Looking at the letters of paul that is supposedly filled this church. They're over here. So how about us?
And he's like hey, hey, hey do it in an orderly fashion. You guys are acting like crazies over here cut it out
I speak in tongues more than all of you paul says, but he's looking at the church that just
isn't
Being successful. It's not doing what god spirits supposed to help it do
So the question you have to ask yourself is
Does it really have this new ma this real power that's actually changing them?
And it's like it's a fundamental issue like today. You're like look if god's church is so good
What I mean like if god is really behind causing his church and truth and sustaining it all
Look at the church. Look at the affairs of the church. Look at the actions of the people who supposedly
Have god's spirit. Can you honestly say?
That this is acting like something you would imagine if god's spirit actually filled that it would do
Dude, we get off into some rabbit trail things, but it's just that's what i'm hearing him kind of do is look and go
Come on
Really, where's the common sense in this and I you could tell he's post enlightenment in the way that he's thinking so yeah
He like he uh, and he even says things that you're like, why didn't I think of that?
Like for example, he got he's talking about
The the Psalms and in one of the Psalms actually I want to pull it up
There's a song about being in Babylon
From crying over Babylon. Uh, let's see
some
18 there it is found it. I knew that'd be a good good way to search it. Let's see. Let's pull this baby up
So this is Psalm 18. It's lament over Babylon. I'm gonna pull it up right now
uh, okay, so
It's like, you know fallen is Babylon the great
Okay, this is now. This isn't the one never mind. Okay. Anyway, there's a
You might no it's not about Babylon. Okay. There's a different Psalm where
Um, they're crying over they're in Babylon crying about a river
And uh, it's called the psalm of david
Someone might know what I'm talking about but um crying in Babylon. Let's see
By the rivers of Babylon. Okay. Now if I saw 137 here it is
Here it is. Perfect. So
You guys see my screen. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So perfect. All right. So here's what it says
By the rivers of Babylon we sat and wept when we remembered Zion
Okay. Now for some reason it doesn't have it here. But like if you if it's in the text in the Hebrew Bible
Right above here. It's it says a psalm of david. Yeah
Now tomas pain points that out. He goes wait a minute
They're in Babylon
Weeping over Zion
That event happened in the at what 6 97 when when nebuchadnezzar raided them and like they're in there for like a couple whatever
And uh, I don't know what the year was 5 97. I think it was something like that. It's a sixth century bce, right? Right?
It's like king david's supposed to be 1000 bce
He's 400 years before this
So you're like, wait a minute. How is the psalm of david?
Talking about an event that happened. Is it supposed to be a prophecy?
So he's like, I'm like, why did I think of that? It's a cloud like it's such a clear one
And then he gets into the whole prophecy thing
And he was like the the prophecy thing this is all
These are all texts that are written way later
And they're pretending to be from the time from before
But when you actually observe the text and look at the idioms like he's getting into like the text stuff and saying like
Some of this stuff is clearly written later and he says he says I think it's all drama
He's like, I think a prophet is more like a playwright
And they're they're enacting what happened in the past and then pretending to be prophesizing the future
So he talks about this is the stepping stones toward critical scholarship. That's
Whether he's completely right about all the details or whatever
Is irrelevant to you can see
The direction in which it's heading
I'm blurry people are saying should I try turning off my camera and back on or see if that works?
Oh, I think it's getting a little better. It was for a second. I think it's better now
Is it okay? Yeah, it got blurry now. It looks good
A little bit salvation with the super chat. Thank you for the super chat
By the way, super chats. I appreciate them that helped me make this channel
Was pain an atheist he actually start he actually opens up the book saying I believe in god
I believe in one god, he says
Yeah, he did and that's why I was like he's not an atheist. He must be a deist
I was I was gonna say you could probably call him a deist
Yeah, um, I know it says pain's deism the belief in god
But the eschewing of organized religion is often erroneously confused with atheism
Right. So the the the spinoza type of deism that was popular at the time
Was that there was a creator?
They call them divine providence sometimes
divine providence is
It's it's divine providence has put it in my cards for me to be wealthy or divine providence
Decided that we're gonna win this war and it's basically like saying like it was in the cards
It was written in the beginning when the universe was set in course set and set set
In motion everything was basically pre-planned
That's like this deist but like god starts everything off and then goes away
It has no interference in any human matters at all. It doesn't even care actually
So that's the deist argument
And that you do at free will but there's also some things that are just planned
Then that just it's gonna happen no matter what so there's like there's like different ways of looking at that
But it's not the same as like the christian theism or or the is like it's not theism
And actually you can you can it's almost no different than atheism in the sense that
There's nothing there is no god. That's like here right now like we're all just here
So deism atheism. I don't know how you
um
You know, I don't know how you split those two up
But I guess yeah, he does clearly say and you've you've you've read that part you've right off the bed
He says I believe in one god, right, right
No, yeah, yeah, yeah, and there's a lot of people I think especially those who are founders of
america in terms of our constitution that were deist
um
And and so you you kind of mentioned the whole point of values and like what is our nation built off of you?
You could say deist played a significant role in that which means they cherry-picked
their ethics and values from both ancient rome
ancient greece christianity like
You know, there's no it's a weird thing because there's so much back and forth that happens between
christian apologist and skeptic liberal secular humanist etc
That it's almost like the christians want to go you took our values if it weren't for us you borrow from us
You owe us you owe us and this is the kind of rhetoric, right?
but in reality
if the secular
Person that might be debating or arguing with the person would stop for one second
Because they want to say no we didn't no we didn't there may be some things that we obviously may have learned and picked up
process I consider
This whole thing an evolutionary process including the religions that we've believed in
So I have no shame in saying some of our ethics and morals come from a development of society within particular religious things
However, right to pretend the christians didn't do that to the earlier greek
roman pagan
persian
Babylonian assyrian egyptian and on and on and on mesopotamian
To pretend that that they didn't borrow or use so so that argument is silly
Don't even get worked up grant it. No sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, who gives a crap your whole religion
Comes out of the fabric of jewish and pagan as the christians like to use the term, but jewish and greco roman
Mediterranean
fabric
Your shirt your christian shirt was built from things that weren't christian
So don't act like you've got it made, you know, it's not we all are borrowing from each other cut the crap
There's my thoughts
Yeah, I agree and that's another thing is when I came when I'm going into this into this research and i'm
thinking that
I'm about to slam dunk all over these americas a christian nation thing
It's it's not it's the complete opposite. These are deists. These are epicureans. They're they're all they're all critical of the bible
but
Honestly, I think after looking into the matter. It's a little more nuanced than that and there are
You you have to admit especially on the state level
On the federal level i'm going to say it's it's straight up anti christian anti government or anti church and state all down the
All throughout the federal level, but on the state government levels early on there's a lot of there's a lot of anti uh, anti um
Uh, what's what's it called when you an anti blasphemy laws?
So it did it started off kind of very christian in some state level senses very low on local levels
You had anti blasphemy laws or out of that in america
So and i'm and i'm i'm not gonna ignore that to make so that I can make my point better
I'm bringing that into the video like look there are some shit that christians can point to not that I agree with it
but like
It's it's true. There were there were anti blasphemy laws. We don't have many more though
So I don't know what that has to do with today. It's like bro imagine imagine people came over from china
Okay, breaking away from some dictator ruler that wanted to enforce their religious and taxation etc
Onto the people they come over they break away from some chinese philosophy and religion
But you find their constitution has hints of things that they cherry pick from it
And then they get rid of a lot of it that was from it
This is the problem that I think we're seeing is you have these europeans who come over and establish kind of a civilization here
They are obviously coming from christian nations, right? They're post enlightenment rationalist thinkers
Who are cherry picking what they find more moral things from christianity, but also saying
Scratch that ugly religious organizational stuff. We're done with that. Nobody's taxing us. Nobody's controlling us with based on religion
So that's what I think we're seeing and what what I think the big pushback oftentimes is ones
Who are fundamentalists or something like that in america specifically?
Or or those who are christian nationalists who are like we need our nation to become a christian again
As if it ever really was a christian nation no
But they could find these little
Why did they say that that's a christian saying and it's like dude
Did you know that in god we trust is from the 19th century? It's not from
Then that's not a that's not an early thing. That's a later thing, right, right? It wouldn't shock me. I'm just making the point like
So you're right. So what they can do if they want to argue that this is a christian nation
They their best way of doing it would to go with the local and state level and say look right
We had that we had anti blasphemy laws
We had this we had that and then try to argue that those were good things or something which is stupid
Well, I mean I could but you couldn't think your wife at the public square down
Yeah, they can bring all that up all they want and I could say sure that was all there if those things sucked
That's why we got rid of them
However, what they can't say is they can't say at the federal level
The constitution and declaration of independence in those documents are somehow christian documents because they're not right
And then so that's going to be the point of my video is to lay that out and like go through
Actual quotes by the founding fathers. I have a whole bunch of them
Um, I actually have some here that I've showed on the screen before on this channel
But uh, tom is paying is really why I like what I want to react to if we can
Yeah, and obviously anyone who wants to throw in some super chats. I really hit would you know, I'm obviously would appreciate
Yeah, or comments or just you know, I'm looking at the comments as much as I can
I can't read them all because that would just be I would just be looking at the screen all day
Some people are seeing yaway in my blurred beard. They said so it's
It happens. That's that's another thing. It happens. It's not a phantom. It's it's really yaway
So thomas pain said the christian system of religion is an outrage and common sense
And some
A lot of people will say like thomas pain. He's not one of the real founding fathers
But like that's going to be a problem when I bring up in my video
How much the founding fathers love thomas pain how much they wrote about him how much they
Like how much they were influenced by him
Like they were thomas pain was like you could almost argue and there might be more this is obviously not going to be
This is obviously a nuance but like you can almost argue that thomas pain
Is his
His ideal state
Is manifested through america like what he wants in a nation finally comes true
That makes sense like his idea of like
Dividing like separating church and state and having a country that's based on like freedom of speech and all that stuff
That's what like this is what thomas pain was writing about and then it happened
Like that you can imagine being him in that time period and seeing everything unfold and being like holy shit
It's actually going to happen. It's the first time in human history that we've ever had a nation that was so
Didn't have some sort of priesthood behind it. Right. That's never happened. I do like I mean I never do that
I love the title that you made this my mind is my church
And that's true for me
You know, I had a guy who wrote me an email today and I'm eating breakfast and I get emails all the time
You know, I mean a lot and and this guy made a youtube video for me like a 21 minute one
He wanted to know
A little more about my background and what do I believe right because i'm always picking a part bad religion picking
apart bad beliefs or things that fall apart or inconsistencies and this and that
And that's an interesting question to ask because I think what I believe
Um consistently changes with what I'm learning
But at the end of the day
The fact that my mind is my church. I've said this before when like I love that
People think you you have no meaning and it's like I found more meaning more value by leaving these
religions we call religion and
Um, they imagine well if you don't believe in god
Like even thomas pain probably wouldn't be able to wrap his head around
Where we're at on our conclusion, right or where i'm at specifically. I can't speak for you. Um
But like finding the value and meaning in
This life in the people around us and my experiences
in the here now
That's that's where I would find my meaning and in getting into ethics like cherry pick things
There are things jesus said that I could stand behind
You know, I can at least get the gist
For the poor for example, uh, the idea of the poor and giving them hope or trying to help stand up for them
However, I don't necessarily want to say oh, it's in the afterlife
You know, they had this idea like once this is over or when the kingdom of god comes in the christian message eventually becomes like once
You die. Don't worry. You'll get rewarded. Um, but at first it sounds like the kingdom's coming sometime any day now here
Don't worry. You'll the meek will inherit this earth like not this afterlife heaven. It's gonna be earth here
So those who are here that are poor you're gonna be rewarded and stuff
There's some good about
Helping the people who are less fortunate stuff like that. So I cherry pick my ethics on those things. Um
But it's my mind and no one else controls it. That's why I fight against fundamentalism the guy in the video said hey
I'm spiritual. I I think there's something going on and
I okay, I mean you that whoop-de-doo. I don't have a problem with that at all. Um
It's win that
imposes itself on everyone else
Like yeah, I think thomas pain was wanting that true freedom and he belief and he was stressing
He stresses in the book that like if you can't see it with your own eyes
Why should you believe like what why would a why would a rational god want you to believe in something that you can't see
through your own eyes
Go against your own
logical like sit like to go against all logic and just
Throw yourself over a cliff of logic just to accept something that doesn't he's like he says that he says it in his book
Something along the lines of this
If I have every right to doubt if I if I don't see my own eyes every right to doubt
And he's right
He's read a lot though
You can tell because when he starts to talk about these other myths and the people who adhered to them he called them
Mythologist he kept calling them mythologist and then he says and these christians
They are also mythologists who follow suit with the rest of the mythologist
He uses that term out at the beginning at least 23 minutes in
and
The fact that he probably came across several claims and realized
Wow, there's all sorts of gods doing all sorts of stuff
I don't believe those and maybe he was raised a christian
and then realized after reading
Wising up about how many claims are out there
and then went
Unless I see it unless I'm experiencing it unless that is me who knows and saw don't tell me your experience
Your vision your revelation is true to me. That's not okay
I'm not trusting another human's experience or another human's revelation or word
On what happened on something that's counterintuitive
To what I experience and know and this is what I tell christians all the time and they go
What would it take derrick?
What would it take for you to believe?
And you know the answer matt de la huntis says, you know
And he's right god would know what it would take but if I actually try to give a reasonable answer
My honest reasonable answer would be you remember the story about doubting thomas like
Jesus was willing to pop up for him right and have him feel the wounds on his side and all
The problem is there's there's so many things that's too general and too easy to just throw out there, but
Yeah, like a real actual
visual experience of something or
Or and that could still be down to hallucination right so oh you're just tripping
um
Or like resurrecting my grandmother or grandfather who's been dead
For at least a few years now
Yeah, and like there's ways that you could do this, but derrick why are you expecting a sign?
In fact, bro. Let me mention one more thing
Sure reading the commentary the hermene commentary on acts recently. I've been engaging
In this I like to call a historical fictional narrative story of the early church
It's a mythological origin story of how the church began
Apologists make it as much as they can historical they need it
It needs to be true and what really happened because without it
We don't have
The actual story of how the church
began we have the the gospel narrative of jesus's death
But how the church began and survived we don't have if you don't trust this book
And i'm reading this book and i'm thinking to myself. Oh my gosh. There are so many
counterintuitive
miraculous things from people being healed
uh with hinker chiefs and aprons to
Shipwrecks to paul get bit by a poisonous snake and the islanders calling him a god
And they don't correct it in acts that he they just said they believed he was a god and then they move on
They don't ever say hey, man. He's not a god. It's kind of weird but
Um over and over all these like unbelievable things that thomas pain would probably go. Yep. Yep check check check
and
I'm looking at that and i'm going then i was reading on a website christian website that was listing these miracles
And the next paragraph after they get through all these miracles
They give a disclaimer
And guess what the christian disclaimer was
I want you to guess
Uh, I have no idea try just just try you can be wrong. You don't believe it then you're you're you're
damned or something
No, it was it now
I understand that all these miracles happened in this story in the book of acts and it happened for them
Don't expect god to be a genie and and do these things for you
Okay, okay immediately. They're already putting fire control over the absurdity. Right. It is loaded in this book of like
The christian believes this is true. This really happened
Then they already are putting out the fire with a fire extinguisher of their own work by saying hey, don't get your hopes up
This god does miracles when god wants to right
You can't read christian literature without seeing
Over and over and then what's interesting. I think pat lowinger's in the chat. Yeah, like uh pat
I'll tell you go look at the saint's cult right which he was impressed by your recent video the death cold of the saints
But central and other christianity
Their miracle claims were so over the top that even when protestants came on the scene
They were like no, no, that's bs. Even the protestants called bs apocryphal. It's different, right?
They they they attacked their own church and then eventually
Rationalism took a blade to the new testament and then christian claims were put under fire by christians themselves
So anyway, there's so many fun things to get into. Yeah, no, that's definitely true
