Welcome to MythVision. I'm the host, Derek Lambert, and I'm a
de-converted ex-Christian, if you will, someone who left Christianity.
Today, we're going to be talking to a Bible scholar who has a juicy story.
And I hope that anybody who's watching, wherever you land in your faith,
can try to understand, empathize, and relate in some way, shape, or form
with Dr. Munger's testimony. With that being said, today,
I'm not going to waste any time with introductions and, like, I mean,
intros with cartoons, the whole nine. I really want to get into this
because this is a story I've been curious about for some time
in my private conversations, my correspondence with Dr. Matthew Munger.
And with that being said, without further ado, Dr. Matthew Munger, welcome.
Thanks, man. Thanks for having me.
Thank you. There's some people who don't know who you are.
So I will mention Dr. Matthew Munger is Associate Professor of
Near Eastern Languages and Literatures at MF Norwegian School of Theology.
Is that abbreviated? Okay, MF.
Yeah, so it's not abbreviated for what you think it's abbreviated for.
It's a Norwegian thing, so it's not the, you know, the MF that the
us English speakers think of, so.
Of course not.
It's the mother.
Got it, got it.
But it's an old Norwegian thing that they don't use anymore, but it's, yeah.
Excellent.
So obviously, Associate Professor of Near Eastern Languages
at MF Norwegian School of Theology in Oslo.
His main research interests are the languages and text of ancient Near Eastern,
including Acadian, Hebrew, Syriac, Aramaic, Ethiopic, and Arabic.
The intersections of text in these languages.
He's currently working on a book that investigates the names
given to the wives of the pre-Abrahamic patriarchs in antiquity
and traces their reception history throughout a wide range of text
and manuscripts in antiquity and the Middle Ages.
He is also part of a lying pen of scribes.
Also part of the lying pen of scribes project at the University of Agner.
Yep.
Agner working on describing the material properties of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Dr. Munger, welcome.
I want to give a little plug here.
We're going to be going to your YouTube channel at the end of this recording
when we're done going live.
People, I pinned this in the comment section.
It is in the description for those who are missing this live.
Subscribe to Dr. Munger's channel.
The Bible was written backwards.
And if you're looking for it, it's at Bible Munger.
You're not a war monger.
You're a Bible monger.
And I hope that people will subscribe to you.
Yeah.
I hope so too.
That's the best thing they can do.
Hit that subscribe button.
What are you planning on doing with your channel?
Yeah.
So my channel is going to be me basically talking about the things that I've been studying
for the past, what, 10, 15, 20 years.
And that is the way the Bible isn't the beginning or the end of anything.
It is just kind of a right smack in the middle of this long train of ideas
and stories and myths that some of them are earlier
and they get absorbed and received and renewed in the Bible.
The Bible rewrites all this earlier stuff.
But at the same time, the Bible rewrites itself
and there's new rewritings within the Bible.
The New Testament is rewiting the Old Testament.
But then after the Bible, things are getting rewritten again
and reinterpreted, reprocessed into new cultures, new contexts.
So we're going to be looking at all those kind of things
and just like picking up texts in the Bible
and looking at what inspired that text in the Bible
and then looking at how that text then goes on
and becomes something new in new contexts.
And just letting everybody know the 118 of you watching right now,
if you go subscribe, we're going to refresh this.
I hope that by the time we're done with this live, there's 215, maybe 300.
Shock me, please shock me.
Show why myth visionaries are the greatest.
Go subscribe and at the end of this video, we are going to jump over.
He is going to be launching his first real video to the channel
and that will be on here.
We'll do the same thing we do like we do with Dr. Kip.
So he also has a website here, BibleMonger.com.
He just launched it, so I'm sure a lot of stuff is going to show up here.
It's in the description if you're watching after this live.
He also has a book that is in Norwegian.
So if you are Norwegian or you know how to speak it or read it,
or if you just want a fancy book on your library, this is here.
You said it's out of...
Looks like it's sold out at the publisher right now, but you never know.
Yeah, never know.
Help support us on Patreon.
MythVision's there.
We've got a lot of stuff we're doing and we're going to keep doing.
We have courses, Dr. Kip Davis, Dr. Kil.
His is coming up, Ancient Israelite, the real Ancient Israelite religion.
Get ready.
So enough about these fancy smansies.
Dr. Munger, you have a story that you have never said,
you have never told anyone publicly.
In fact, I don't want to take anything away from why you didn't.
Maybe you can share with that as well along the way.
Whatever you feel comfortable with saying because it's your story
and no one needs to take that away from you.
So tell us what happened.
Who are you?
Where do you come from?
What did you go through?
And we're all here.
Yeah, thanks.
Well, I mean, first of all, I just got to say thanks to you, Derek.
Like I've, you know, like you said, I've never really told my story
about where I am today in the terms of faith and all that kind of stuff publicly
because it's a bit daunting when you're a Bible scholar
to start talking about the fact that you no longer believe in Jesus.
I mean, that's kind of, that's the whole thing.
I started off as a Christian and I'm not anymore.
And that's kind of, so that's the long story short version.
But we'll go through a bit more, but I really felt over the past year
after getting to know you that I've actually come into the community,
the atheist community or the, you know, whatever we want to call it
and found that support and the way the community takes care of each other
and supports each other has really given me the confidence to be able to own it.
And that's kind of why I want to do this is because I'm not,
I'm not really afraid anymore of what it means socially or academically
or whatever to own where I am.
And so yeah, it's, so I appreciate what you do
and I appreciate being able to come out.
Is it okay that I ask, you can answer or not?
Anytime I ask something, feel free not to answer and like totally respect it.
Just so you know, it's not awkward because
you are in an employment situation.
And so you mentioned a little bit of fear
and we haven't even gotten into your story yet.
So is it okay that I ask like, were you afraid that this opening up about this
could potentially damage your career?
Oh yeah, I've thought a lot about it.
And honestly, I still don't know that.
So I guess we'll find out tomorrow.
But I don't think it'll be a problem.
I mean, there's, you know, my institution does have a policy
that you have to be supportive of their foundational documents or whatever.
And it's an institution that was founded on conservative Christianity.
So it's changed a lot over the past 20 years.
And so anybody that's Norwegian or in the Norwegian context
20 years ago would be shocked that somebody from MF
would be able to talk about their lack of faith or whatever.
But things have changed a lot.
Now we have a really just studies program.
We have a social sciences program.
And there's, you know, a lot more freedom to do what you want to do.
And there's a lot of academic freedom as well.
So I think the conclusions I come to because of my academic convictions,
that's up to me.
So I'm, but, but I've been really worried about it.
And also just the social thing.
Like what will my colleagues think of me?
So I don't know.
And I don't know where that'll end either.
So I'm, I, that's a lingering thing that hangs over my head and many others.
The taboo of saying, I don't buy it anymore.
Yeah, there's a taboo and not buying something anymore.
So just, I'm throwing that at the audience and the viewer.
Yeah.
And that kind of just, that's a good segue back into the beginning,
because I think that taboo really goes back to my childhood.
Like I, so I grew up in a Christian, a Christian home, a Christian environment.
I was, I'm the youngest of two children and my mom was, was a stay at home mom,
but she went to this Bible study thing.
It was called Bible study fellowship was like this big,
it's community of Bible studies.
And it was like, it's like a national thing.
I think I don't know if it still exists,
but she was big into it and, and like lots of women would meet during the day.
And that was kind of like one of the things that, that she did regularly was,
was go to this Bible study and she became like a group leader and was like,
you know, kind of doing it hardcore.
And, and so it was like, there was a lot of Bible focus in the childhood.
And, and so I would do her lessons with her.
Like when I was a kid, like it was part of,
I was like learning the Bible that the adults were learning.
And I was doing the same lessons with her when I was like six or seven years old,
you know, so like I was already kind of into that flow, right?
Right.
But I, I, and, and I don't think I can't ever remember like my parents ever
being like strict saying you have to be Christian after this or that,
but I just like, I did everything to be right anyway.
So I just had that need to not mess things up.
So I just kind of assumed that, you know, that's the right way to go.
And then we went to a Methodist church actually when I was really young.
But then we, we went started going to a Mennonite church,
which is kind of where like some of my family came from.
And so, and the Mennonite church is, is this kind of weird, socially somewhat liberal,
but biblically very conservative church.
So like their pacifists and like much more, I would say like they have,
they're not, they're not full on evangelicals anyway.
But biblically the church I went to was, was pretty evangelical.
It was pretty, pretty, pretty solid into the Bible is right.
And it's the true word of God and that kind of thing.
And, and I remember as a kid, like knowing that,
that like the worst thing you could be was an atheist.
Like that's the, like for me, that was like, like we knew at church,
like there's a lot of things you can mess up in life and still be forgiven.
Like that narrative of like there's prison, there's prison ministries and there's,
you know, there's, there's ministries for any, basically anybody,
but like the atheists, they have rejected God, they're going straight to hell.
Like that, that was the narrative that was in my, in my mind.
Me too.
Yeah. And, and so, and that's like, so when you ask like, what, what is it?
What does it feel like, you know, to, to have that change when you're,
when you're growing up, like it's still that little kid that believes that the atheist is,
is going to burn in hell is still in there screaming for so long.
Right.
So, yeah.
So I mean, as a kid, I, I grew up in the same way everybody, I went to youth groups and went to church and,
you know, I hated church really, but I went to it and tried to sit still,
but I was, I had too much energy, you know, I'm not a sit still for long periods of time kind of guy.
And, and it was, it was tough, you know, I would get in trouble and like,
like I remember one, one time pretty early on, it was like, we're in Sunday school and,
and the Sunday school teacher was talking about the burning bush story, right.
And, and like, I'm there fidgeting and making trouble and, and she like looks at me and says,
Matthew, what did God say?
And I was like, I am who I am.
And I was like, you know, I can listen and goof off at the same time.
But, but like, it was just, it was just hard for me to be that kid that did everything right in church,
but I really pushed to be, to be a good person.
And so like, I went to a Christian high school, a Mennonite high school.
And, and there it was like, you had chapel services every day, you had Bible classes as, as, you know,
part of your education and, and it was, yeah, it was the focus was on that.
And, and so through, through that time, I got more and more focused on that you have to have God in your life.
You have to do something for God with your life. That's kind of, that's, that's just the way it is.
That's the way people are.
Do you have a defining moment in your life like me?
I would say I remember in sixth grade having this kind of defining, I really committed and submitted my life,
even though I had learned about the Bible like you, I grew up in church.
Yeah.
Is there a moment in which you thought I'm serious about this now?
Yeah.
And so for me, it was, it was, I mean, I had, I of course had like a lot of commitment.
I think when I was younger, but, but the real like the real conversion moment for me was, was when I was 17.
And I, so like, I mean, I was, I was a pretty good kid.
I didn't get in a lot of trouble, you know, I had a, you know, when we went on a school trip to Costa Rica,
I had a couple drinks and, you know, it would goofed off a little bit.
So, you know, stuck some, some whiskey or moonshine for my dad or whatever.
But like, you know, I didn't, I didn't get into a lot of trouble.
And, but when I was 17, I did something pretty stupid that was really, really hurtful to somebody else who was,
who was a friend of mine, but I ruined that relationship pretty well.
And, and I did this also, I did it at school, which is something that also is never smart.
So I, yeah, I got, I got in a lot of trouble and like got suspended from school for a while.
And, and, and of course I felt horrible, but I remember going into the principal's office afterward,
it was kind of like this, are we going to let you back in kind of feeling.
And, and he, he says to me, what is wrong with your relationship with God that you could do something like this.
And, and I, I was so hurt, I was so convicted by that I guess would be the Christian way of saying it like,
I was like, oh crap, I got to get my life together.
And the only thing that I could really improve was, was to be totally 100% committed.
I was never again do anything wrong the rest of my life, whatever, I will always live for God 100%, whatever.
And so, you know, I was, I was pretty lucky as a kid because my, I had an older brother who, who's in the chat right now,
who, who, who got more trouble than me.
So like my parents, I didn't, they didn't, they didn't, I don't think they had a hard time, like forgiving me for the few things I messed up on,
because they had, they had to deal with my brother already.
But like at that point, then I was like, nope, nothing, nothing more will happen.
Like I'm going to be good.
And so after high school, I decided to go to youth with a mission.
YWAM, which is a very, very conservative Christian youth mission agency.
And, and so the reason I went, I guess was pretty selfish.
I know that now, because we went, it was in Hawaii, like they have bases all over the world, but I had always dreamed of going to Hawaii.
And so I was like, okay, I can go to Hawaii and I can do it for God.
And the church will pay for it.
It was like, everything was perfect.
So I went to, I went to this youth with a mission thing.
And, and it was super conservative.
It was like more conservative than I could have ever imagined.
And, you know, they brought in people like doing, you know, like doing prophecies over you and speaking in tongues and trying to get you to speak in tongues.
And like, this is one of the things was, it was amazing.
Like things I look back on, like they did a get your tongues go in night.
So everybody was going and everybody was, you know, praying and praying.
And so I went up and of course, because I was like, okay, God, give me, give me the tongues.
Give me the tongues.
You know, we're standing there and like, we're standing there and we're standing there and we're standing there.
And it was like, I think probably for an hour and finally I was like, started just like screaming because I had to get out of there.
Like, and I felt so guilty about that for so long because like I lied about speaking in tongues, but everybody thought it was real.
And like, so that was like one of those moments where I was like carrying this guilt, trying to fit in, but it didn't work.
Wow.
And so youth with a mission works that you go, you go a place for three months and you get some training and stuff like that.
And then then you, and so I should backtrack a little because I went, yeah, whatever, it doesn't matter.
So we go to Nicaragua as part of this outreach thing.
Like some people went to Uganda, some people went to Nepal.
I ended up in Nicaragua.
And that was just really, really weird because like some of the training they did and some of the stuff they talked about was like, hey, okay, we've got to go.
This is a country full of Catholics.
And like, I don't know if anybody had told them before that Catholics are Christians, but for them they weren't.
Like it was, that's how, that's kind of the level of fundamentalism we're in is that it just wasn't, it wasn't possible.
And so one of the things that I had to, you know, I feel that was that my grandma was Catholic, right?
And so we're going out there and then the leaders are saying like, yeah, we got to be, we got to convert these Catholics and all this kind of stuff.
I'm like, oh man, this is weird.
And so it just so happened that there was this Norwegian Lutheran girl there.
And the leaders felt basically the same about Lutherans as they did Catholics.
Like if you're not evangelical or fundamentalist or whatever then you're, I don't know, you're not fully saved or whatever.
Are you still part of the group that thinks speaking in tongues is the case?
Are you back in a Mennonite club?
No, so this is, this is, I mean, I don't know where I was.
I was all these things, right?
I was a Mennonite.
I was still belonged to the Mennonite church, but I'm out there in this, you know, what do we, I don't know what we want to call it.
Like this mixed evangelical-ish kind of charismatic thing.
Okay.
And they're speaking in tongues and doing all this.
And it was just, yeah, I mean, it was just a mix of all these things.
But most of the people there were super conservative when we were in Nicaragua, right?
And so I get to know this girl, Maria, who is this Norwegian girl.
And she's also having a hard time with this because she's like feels condemned by it too.
What are we doing?
Like, why are we trying to convert Catholics?
Like standing on street corners, telling people that because of their sins are going to hell and acting out dramas and trying to get people to go to a church that we're never going to be there to ever see again.
You know, it was just kind of like, we were there for us, not for them is the feeling I have now.
But we, you know, we were doing it for God and it was the whole, you do everything for God.
So we're still super committed.
And then so after, after that time, like we came back to, we came back to Hawaii and so this girl turned out to be, you know, more than a friend after a while.
It was a relationship that was built on a weird situation like being in Nicaragua and being kind of the outsiders in a group.
And so she invited me back to Norway to visit and, you know, basically I never left.
So I ended up marrying her. So we stuck it out.
But the process of moving to Norway was kind of strange.
You have to, in Norway, they go an extra year to high school compared to us.
And so you have to do a year of university in the States if you want to be able to go to school in Norway or to get a student visa or whatever.
And so I went to Eastern Mennonite University, a Mennonite school in Virginia for a year.
And there I studied, you know, I studied some mission, but I studied the Bible a lot.
I had a class with Dr. Nancy Heisey who taught about, it was an intro to the Bible kind of thing where she let me do actually my project on the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So I was using translation. I hadn't learned Hebrew or anything, but I was comparing passages from the translation of the Great Isaiah Scroll with Isaiah from like the NIV or whatever, and showing differences.
And I wrote this paper. At the end of the paper I said, like, man, I hope one day I can learn Hebrew so that I could do this for reals.
So I think that was pretty prophetic.
But so anyway, I moved to Norway and basically what I had to do was, of course, follow God and start studying theology.
So I ended up in this school and it's the place where I work, right?
So this is, I've been here off and on for the past 20 years.
Wow.
And so I studied, started studying theology.
I went through the first three years of theology and by that then I'd finished Hebrew and Greek.
And while I was studying Hebrew and Greek, I realized that I kept asking questions like, why?
And the teachers would say, it is just that way. There is no explanation.
And I was like, there has to be an explanation. There's an explanation for everything.
And when I couldn't get answers, I decided I needed to study linguistics because that would give me the tools to answer the questions.
And so when my first son was born, I took a break from school.
I bought the books for the first semester of linguistics courses at the University of Oslo and I read them all.
And I was like, I felt like I found my home.
I was like, this is amazing. Can you imagine reading stuff that you actually care about?
I was like, after three years of theology, that's how I felt.
Wow.
And so I signed up to do the university.
Just to get in your head, you think learning this stuff.
First of all, you already know in your head that this is true.
You already know that God is real. This is true. The Bible is correct in your head, of course.
I'm trying to get the psychology here for our audience to track along.
Yep.
You're reading this stuff thinking like, I'm only going to like really be able to prove my religion and have an answer for things that nobody's had answers for.
I can actually solve some problems for many people who are serious about the word of God.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's why theology was boring.
I mean, so this kind of theology that I was exposed to was just kind of like, here's the dogmas and here's the reasons why.
And it's just like, but of course, it's true. So why do you even need to argue for it?
Like, it's just silly.
So theology didn't get me going at all.
Like, it was, so it was later. So, and then this is kind of ties in because I started studying linguistics and I, and I being someone who doesn't think, I don't know, doesn't think things through all the way.
I just signed up to do that parallel while I kept going through the theology thing.
So I was doing my BA in linguistics at the same time as I was working on finishing my bachelor's in theology and then my master's in theology and just do it going to two different universities at the same time.
It's about, you know, like half a mile apart. So it's not hard to get back and forth.
But, but so I'm studying linguistics and I'm learning like in linguistics, there's this amazing thing that, that truths are just probabilities.
So like when we say like there's, there's universals, like languages like this, it means that 90% or more of languages are like this, you know, like there's always going to be exceptions to everything.
If you say there's no exception, then somebody's just going to make an exception and get people to start saying it so that they can prove that that's, that that exception is there.
Like it's, so basically there's very, very few, you know, truths and linguistics. So you start learning things like that, it does something to you.
At the time I took a course in the Hebrew Bible, where we were going into like the anthropology and, and the worldview of the Hebrew Bible and I had to write a term paper on the question of is there an immortal soul, evidenced in the Hebrew Bible.
And like my conclusion was there's no evidence for an eternal soul in the Hebrew Bible, like that, that's something that shows up later.
And that was also a shock for me, because then like realize like, crap, what do you do if there's no immortal soul. Why do we have it in Christianity if you didn't have it in Judaism.
You know, and that was like, okay, this is this is a bit painful but whatever it's academic so we deal with it and move on.
I'm learning linguistics and I get into a, get into a program in Semitic languages with Lutz Edzard, who is a submitist who was here in Oslo for a while.
And, and he, he took really good care of me. I gave me awesome classes. There were like three or four of us all together, ever in the program.
It wasn't a big thing, but he took care of us and really inspired me and he taught my first class in Akkadian. And, and so I remember getting John Hewnegaard's grammar of Akkadian.
I've still got it behind me here. He, when I got that in the mail and I opened this book and like this brand new grammar of Akkadian.
See, you see the cuneiform things there and I, it was also, it was just like my head was exploding. It was like, this is amazing.
I can actually learn this stuff. And so we started learning. You learn Akkadian and you learn that Akkadian is a couple thousand years older than Hebrew, right?
So it, and then you start reading texts and we read Gilgamesh, we read the Enuma Elish, we read, you know, all these kind of the Babylonian theodicy.
We read the Hammurabi's Law. We read all these things that are earlier than the Bible and set yourself up for failure myself up, right?
And, and, and, but I'm like, I'm super into the academic side of it. And so every step of the way I'm saying, Oh, that's really neat.
I believe that I agree. I agree with the, with the scholarly version. I'm critical. I'm reading. I'm learning.
But you know what I'm learning makes sense. So that's fine. So I'm just like putting that here in my head. And still I'm going to church and I'm doing the churchy things.
Well, towards the end of my studies, I'm taking a course in, in a West African language that one of our professors happens to teach called for full day.
And it's like, because you have to take these random languages just to get your linguistics degree, right? And, and so I'm taking it and the, I get a call from the Norwegian Mission Society, who wants to know if me and my family could consider moving to Mali West Africa,
so that I could be a Bible translator translating the Old Testament into full full day because they, they have an opening. They need someone. And because I literally am a linguist with a degree in theology and the Old Testament, you know, I will be the perfect fit.
And I'm like, Holy crap, I'm a perfect fit.
So real quick, you, your serious conversion is 17 years of age. You're married now. You are like dead set on linguistics. Am I breaking up? Or am I good?
You're good.
Dead set on linguistics. You know your stuff. And you're still like, I have a calling from God. Now you're literally doing what any Christian would say is like the most real thing a Christian can do missionary work going into the third world, literally trying to take the word of God and give it to these tribes.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. And we were, I mean, and it was, it was hardcore. We sold our house. We sold our car. We sold everything used all our savings to do this.
How old were you?
We were, let's see, it was, I would have been 25, 26, 27, something like that when we, when we moved. So just finishing my studies and we, yeah. And so we, we moved to, we moved first to France and, and spent a school year learning French, because French is spoken in West Africa.
And so they gave us kind of a, a soft transition. So we lived outside Paris, went to a French school, the weekends, I would be in the Louvre in the basement of the museum and looking at all the old stuff, Hammurabi's law, the, the Meshah, Steely, the, like all these Kenea form things.
I mean, I was, I, I loved it. You know, I got to learn French.
How many languages do you speak or know or can read?
I don't know. I, it's, it's a hard question, but I work, I, like, I don't know. I, I, I can work with maybe, you know, maybe 10 or 15 languages that I, that I use kind of regularly, a few more that I can navigate.
I've forgotten a lot. So I have to look up stuff, but I, you know, I, I get around.
Yeah, no, it's, no worries.
So you're, you're 25 ish. Do you have your three children at this time?
Yeah. So my, so I do know this, that we, we left for Mali when, when my daughter, my, so my youngest, so I have, I have three kids and my youngest was born at the end of 2009, and then August 2010, we went out.
So I would have been 28 when we left for, for Mali three kids. My daughter was just a few months old.
And make sure to give people.
Yeah. Yeah. And so this is, yeah, there we go. This is, this is after we've been there almost a year.
And yeah, that's, I mean, that's this, this is kind of a, this was on Easter the year after we, we got there.
And yeah, we, so we, we lived in a, in a city right on the edge of the, of the bush.
Oh, nice. Somebody from Balmaco in the chat. Nice.
We, we lived there and, and I started working as a, as a Bible translator, but what that means is you have to learn the language, you learn the culture, you, you have to get kind of immersed in everything.
And then it was, yeah, it, it, it was just, it was supposed to be perfect, right?
But like within two weeks of we got there, my, my one son got malaria, super sick.
It was really freaky. Like, I mean, the, the doctors came and they gave him an IV and kept him at our house, like with an IV.
And, and within the first fall we had like malaria, malaria, malaria was just like, and to us we're thinking, Oh gosh, like what's going on.
But, you know, it's part of the fight, whatever.
And, but, but even worse, like a few weeks after we got there, the ambassador from, from Norway, or the, I guess it was like the assistant, because the ambassador was gone or whatever.
But somebody came from the embassy to tell us that they were going to close off the area we were living in, in the north of, of Mali, because it was too dangerous to be there.
And so we're sitting there and we kind of have this, this thing with the missionaries and he's like, yeah, so we, we're going to follow.
Denmark and Sweden and the US and all these other people and say that you all shouldn't be here.
And one, like some of the colleagues, our colleagues, the missionary colleagues are like, no, but let them take us, let them kill us, like rather be martyrs than be, than be forced to leave.
And, and at that point, you know, my head's going like, yeah, no, don't, don't take us like sent, send us home.
That's fine.
Like, you know, and, and so they then what they did that kind of calm us down as they did a kidnapping course, not a how to kidnap, but what to do if you're kidnapped, you know, and like all these kind of things about both like how you should act and how you can keep your faith and all that kind of stuff.
And like, so, and I have to admit, like, I'm never, I don't think I've admitted this to anyone ever, but like, I went, I was memorizing the, the Muslim confession of faith, like,
radicals.
Yeah.
So, and this was because Al Qaeda in the, in Western Africa was, was just above the river, like just north of where we were.
So like, this was the scary thing is that like, there was a real danger that, that you could be kidnapped.
And, and so everybody else is like, how to keep your faith that I'm there, like, they can like, I'm just going to convert.
I will convert from day one.
They will not kill me if I say I'm a Muslim, just like, and I had so much guilt about that too.
It was like, I would save myself, you know, right.
But anyway, still Christian still fighting the good fight.
We're still there.
And, and things got progressively worse.
And so like, one of the things that we had was, we would go, we would go to this pool.
There was, it was like this one place restaurant a few minutes outside of town, little restaurant with a pool at a hotel.
It was like, kind of felt like our safe place.
And, but also the French foreign legion who was stationed in our town, would the officers would come swim there as well.
And, and like the officers definitely didn't believe the story that I was a Bible translator.
Like, like when I'm like, yeah, I'm a Bible translator, like, oh, a translator.
I'm like, mm, Bible translator.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
Like, and they, so they would tell me stuff.
Right.
And they'd be like, so we saw, you know, six, six cars of al-Qaeda people up across the river today.
What do your people know?
And I'm like, don't have people.
But yeah, that sounds bad.
And, and so like they, but they were definitely there.
Like you had the French foreign legion there as kind of this last line of defense.
So it was pretty intense.
And it really came to a head, like right before the summer, the first year we were there when I was at work and sitting there doing some translation stuff.
And what, like, I got a call from our Norwegian leader who said, get outside right now.
Something's going on.
So I come, come outside and she's like, there's something going on at the kids school.
We have to go get them.
My kids went to this little French school where it was like, it was like a preschool school combined.
And we, so we go out to get in the car and our director, the African director comes running and he's like, no, do not go out there.
There is a, there's a, it was a demonstration, but it's turned into a riot.
And there are people going to attack the school, like they're, they're on their way to attack the school and they're between us in the school.
You can't go there.
It'll just make it worse.
And so me, you know, I, I was just like, what are we doing?
Like, no, just, you just got to wait.
And I'm like, okay.
So I'll go back up to the office and kept working.
Like what kind of psycho can do that?
But anyway, I did, you know, kept on with plugging on with my work.
And later in the day, they, I got updates kind of, and they said, oh, well, they, they called the army because some of the army kids went there.
And so the army came and surrounded the building.
They're going to be fine.
Don't worry about it.
And you can go pick them up at lunchtime.
So, okay.
So then we went up at lunchtime.
A couple of the guys from the office came with me to, you know, make sure things were safe, but go and pick up the kids.
And there are like, literally, there's like a tank and, and like armored vehicles and, and, you know, 50 soldiers surrounding this building, this school.
And so I get the kids out and we go home and tell, start telling my wife about this.
And yeah, it was like, it was pretty, it was pretty bad.
Like the kids said, you know, they got, they got the warning.
So they, they shut all the windows and all the, like they have like metal gutters and, or I don't know what the word is in English.
Sorry.
The metal things you put in front of the windows and everything.
And like they, they shut it all down and they had to hide under the desks.
And then there was like a lot of banging and, and then like my, my one son said, then then we heard like the, the great heaven stone falling on us.
And like, we don't know what that was.
If it was a grenade, if there was shooting and what it was, but something massive, like something really loud and scary.
And, and this was like, we put our kids in that situation, you know, and so we pulled them out of school for a little bit.
And after a while, we, a few weeks went back to Norway for the summer and said, said to the mission kind of like, this is, this is too much.
It's, it's really hard.
Like we don't know what to do.
And they were like, Oh, it sounds like, it sounds like you're having doubts.
It sounds like you're having a really hard time.
You should see a psychologist that can help get you straightened out.
So they sent us to somebody that basically told us like, yeah, so we're going to help you get in the mindset where you can go back.
And yeah, dude.
And so we did that in the summer and had a really, really hard, hard time figuring out what to do.
And we ended up just to say like during your sessions, did you, you did sessions, right?
Were they, was this person manipulative in a way of trying to really get you to go?
Or was there not like, that's how I feel now.
I don't, I don't really know.
I don't really remember it well because I think I was so traumatized in the, in the emotions and everything of what was going on.
But my, my feeling now is that we were manipulated to think that like, we were just told like, yeah, there's nothing wrong with you.
Your fear is real, but you have to trust that the, you know, you'll be taken care of and all that.
And it was just kind of like, yeah, it, it worked.
I mean, so we went back, right?
And so we, we, we went back.
Everybody told us everything's fine.
There's no danger.
There's nothing to fear, you know, and all that and went back.
And, and like the moment we got back, I could tell that that was like my, my wife was changed.
Like it was, it was just, it was not okay that we went back.
And, and she, she got like fairly sick throughout the, that fall and ended up getting sent home.
So we got like a few, a few months into the fall and she got sent home by the doctor because like she had some, like her blood values were weird.
And he was like, no, I would, I would send you to the emergency room in Norway.
So we got to send you home, you know, and sent her home.
And, and the mission told me that they, their policy was to not send families home with people that are evacuated for illness.
So they wanted me to stay or they told me to stay in, in Mali with my three kids without my wife as she got sent home for medical reasons.
And we, we stayed there with this a year and a half fold, a three year old and a five year old without their mom.
What in the world?
Yeah.
And so definitely, yeah, definitely like, like things that and, and we let it happen, you know, and that's like, that's for me, the hardest thing looking back has always been like, why didn't I just go get on a plane?
Right.
Like, my, my, my parents offered to pay, like my friends offered to pay my friends parents offered to pay.
Like they, anybody would have helped us out, you know, but we, we just, yeah, didn't see it.
But then after, after a bit, or after a few weeks, then it was obvious my wife wasn't coming back.
And so we started planning this, that we would go home.
So we went, we went home.
We, like we packed up everything because I kind of, I kind of knew at that point we weren't going to be coming back packed everything up, drove down to the, to the Capitol.
And I remember like this.
We, we stayed with this older Norwegian couple in the Capitol.
They gave us four equal.
It's a, it's a Norwegian dish of lamb and cabbage.
The night we left and we got on a plane.
And when, when I, and I had been talking with my parents all this time, we got to Brussels.
We flew like from Bamako to Brussels and we got out and we came up the stairs and they were my parents, like they met me there.
And, and they, sorry, they helped us.
So they helped us get back to Bergen, to Norway where, where Maria's family is and, and get settled.
And like, it was, it was just horrible because there was so much pain and so much fear.
And yet, like from the moment we got there, I'm thinking, how can I get back?
Like I have to, I have to do my job.
I have to be, I have to, you know, and it was just like, I was so ingrained in the, you have to do these things for God.
So, yeah, so, I mean, so long story short, we, we're staying in the basement at my in-laws house and it's not the best situation.
I was not in a good place and I, I regret the way I was at that point, but we, we, we realized that we couldn't go back.
And so my wife pretty quickly found a job pastoring in a church on the other side of Norway, where we're in the town where we live now.
So we, we packed up and moved and, and so it was kind of like this shock, like, what am I going to do?
You know, I don't, I don't, I didn't know, I didn't know what I was going to do with my life.
I felt like I'd kind of missed that calling that I didn't work out, like I'd failed with that or whatever.
And, and, and we had to find something to do. And, and I remember that there was this guy, this American missionary who had called me after we kind of decided we weren't going back.
And he said to me, so I wonder if you've gotten to the point where you know that all of this was God's plan.
And, and like, I think, I think that like when I look back, that is something that that made me turn and look in a different direction.
Because that was the most horrible thing anyone ever said to me.
It was the most horrible experience I had been through all the danger, all the fear, all the pain.
And, and then this guy is going to tell me that that was God's plan, because he was going to use me for something better.
That was, it was shocking. It was so painful.
Oh, gosh, this, your experience.
And then him saying, by the way, that was God.
You know, it's, it almost makes you wonder the people who wrote the story about Joseph.
And he says, don't worry, what you guys meant for evil God meant it for good.
Exactly. Exactly. And that's the, and that was the feeling and it wasn't alone.
You know, we heard it a lot like, like the, you know, like the mission would say, oh, we're, you know, we got you out in time because like literally two days after I left the village where I was supposed to go to talk to.
Some guys was attacked by al-Qaeda and, and like a couple of French guys were kidnapped.
And then the week after then, then like Northern Mali was attacked by, and there was a war and it's, it's basically still going on this war in Northern Mali.
So like it's, it all went to hell, like so fast.
So like there was no, like there was no doubt that the plan was that the God's plan was, was not the thing we were focused on.
Like it was, it was a really bad place. It was a really bad situation. And like, so yeah, hearing that was just crazy.
But like still I was, I was, I mean, my wife was a pastor. I'm, I'm, I'm this missionary guy.
And so like, I was like, what am I going to do? Like, so what do you do when you're not a work missionary?
Well, I mean, first I worked for the Sunday school in Norway for a while for a year, doing like making program materials for the Sunday school.
And then, and then I was like, yeah, of course, what do you do? You, you try to get your PhD, right? Of course.
So I, I applied for PhD and I got a scholarship to do my PhD in, in on a project on the book of Jubilees, because I, you know, with like the Semitic languages, when you love Semitic languages, you do weird things.
And so I'd learned old Ethiopic and, and Jubilees is one of those texts.
And I had an advisor tell me, hey, you should do something that Jubilees and Jubilees is also in the Hebrew Dead Sea Scrolls.
So, you know, it's a, it was a fun thing. So I got started on that.
And, and like, I remember the first meeting as conference I went to, like pretty soon after I started in like 2013 or something like that.
And like this, so there's all these scholars around there asking, so why are you doing your PhD?
I'm like, oh, because I, I couldn't be a missionary anymore.
And like, and like, I remember I, oh, I'm so embarrassed about that.
Like, thinking back on that, the, and like this guy, this really nice American guy that was a came up to me.
He's like, yeah, don't, don't say that.
It's, it doesn't play well.
Like it's, yeah, you don't say you're not a work missionary and you just had to do a PhD.
Like it's, yeah, it doesn't, it's not a, not a great thing.
But anyway, so as I'm, you know, kind of going through my, my PhD stuff, I'm, I'm, I'm working harder and harder to,
yeah, to make sense of this growing body of knowledge I have about the Bible, about ancient literature, about the instability of texts and traditions and the way things are moving around the way the Bible is rewritten and reinterpreted all the time.
And at the same time, you know, my wife was working as a pastor, you know, we're in the church, we're doing this kind of thing.
And so we, we kind of, you know, in my mind, I'm taking steps where I've, I've, I've kind of rejected a lot of the basic dogmas already.
I got to the point where I was pretty moving very much towards the liberal side of things of Christianity.
Like, yeah, I know that I don't really believe in hell anymore.
And yeah, I don't like, you know, don't, don't really need any, like, I don't have anything against anybody.
I don't have any, it was just kind of like, yeah, just let people live their lives and you can go to church and say the prayers and whatever.
It doesn't really matter.
And, and this is when I met Kip Davis.
Kip is, Kip is, is a really good friend of mine.
And he, we met through, yeah, because, because of the project he was working in in Norway on the Dead Sea Scrolls and my supervisor, Liv Leed,
put us in touch and made us, made us get to know each other.
And so Kip, yeah, we, we, yeah, we got to, we got to be good friends and he came along to, to an Easter vacation with, with me and my family out at my, my in-laws island.
They have a little island off the coast of Bergen, Norway in the, in the fjords, like where there's no, there's no boat.
I mean, there's no bridge.
You have to take a little boat to get out there.
And so he came out for Easter and we like trudged around and we, yeah, I don't know if I should say all the things we did,
but we drank, we drank beer from, from, from reindeer horns and, and vomited.
It was horrible.
That's awesome.
And we went fishing and crabbing.
We had, we had a great time and, and burned, burned a lot of stuff.
We had, we had a good, we had a good time.
But we, one of the things that we did when we were talking, we talked about, obviously about our background and Christianity and stuff like that.
And I remember we're out on a, yeah, lots of whiskey.
We're out, out on a fishing boat.
We were out fishing and Kip says to me, so, but do you still believe in the resurrection?
Like knowing everything that you know about everything else.
Do you, do you still believe in it?
I was like, yeah, I think that's all I have.
Like, I can't let go of that.
And he didn't, he didn't, he didn't blame me.
He didn't try and convince me of anything, but I keep, he asked me that question.
Like, what, what, what, what defense do you have left for that when you, when you kind of have given up everything else?
And it was more of a conversation, I think, than a, like, I didn't feel like it was any accusation or anything.
But, and then we, I had this weird experience where one of my, one of my friends was studying at my university, getting her kind of advanced learning degree,
because teachers come back here to get like certified in religion and stuff.
And so she was doing a degree and, and she had to take a class in Christian dogmatics.
So she came over because she wanted help with studying, right?
So she comes over and she asks and she's like, so the teacher says that Christians believe this.
I'm like, oh God, no, nobody believes that.
I don't believe that.
She's like, so God, do you believe this?
Like, no, I don't believe that.
And she's like, do you believe this?
I know.
And we went through the whole thing and, and I didn't believe anything that, that she had learned in class that Christians believe.
And of course that says something about the class too, but it was, it was like, I was, I was realizing, oh my gosh, like, academically, I don't, I don't actually believe any of this stuff, but I'm still committed.
I'm still committed.
It doesn't matter.
The only thing you can't give up on is God.
But then in 2017, like my, my wife, let's put it this way, the, the trauma caught up with my wife.
She had been working as a pastor and just pushing through and, and then like she, she had a couple of really, really rough experiences that, that really pushed her to rethink things.
And then a psychologist said, you know, you probably have, have PTSD.
And she started reading and thinking about, but what happened really, what was it like?
She read her journals and went through all this stuff.
And, and then it was like, yeah, she was retraumatized really by that was just like, went full on PTSD.
And it was, it was diagnosed and, and she, she couldn't work as a, as a, as a minister anymore.
And we started like really quickly talking about, but what do we, what do we do?
And, and, you know, we realized very quickly, or she realized very quickly that she couldn't believe in that God and that Jesus, that religion in that way anymore.
And, and when she said that to me, it was such a relief.
Wow.
And I was like, dude, I don't believe either.
And, and then I didn't have to support or be the Christian husband of the pastor or whatever it like, it was like, oh God, like I can let go.
And, and so, like the past four years have really been trying to figure out how to reorient myself.
Because like, I have a PhD and the Dead Sea Scrolls of the Book of Jubilees, like, I've gone as far as you can go in the Bible and, and stuff.
And yeah, and, and it's, and like, and then I'm an atheist.
And like, what do I do?
And so like, first I was like, I'll go back to school.
I'll learn genetics.
I had a friend who was a biologist that works with fish.
And I was like, dude, he's probably making things better, or I can go learn cancer, I can cure cancer.
I can, I can learn physics and do something big.
I do something important.
But then I realized like, that's, yeah, I don't have the energy for that.
I'm not going to go back to school now.
I have all this knowledge.
But I, but it's been a battle like within myself to, to figure out how I want to live.
Host Christianity.
Yeah.
Deep breath.
Right.
I mean, there's a lot there to unravel to dive into.
And you are the one who knows you're listening to yourself now.
You're not listening to this guy tell you you need to go and be a missionary.
You're not listening to this person tell you this.
And you're listening to your, your family's voice now.
And this is something interesting.
I didn't listen to my wife over a decade.
She tried to tell me men wrote it.
Now look, my wife does not have any of the educational stuff.
She's just a real down to earth person.
And she said, men wrote it.
I don't trust it.
She just had an intuition about not trusting men.
She's had bad experiences growing up.
And I'm like, no, no, no, but Bible says here in second Timothy three that this is inspired.
I think it's second time.
You know, it's like, inspired by God, the Holy spirit and these men wrote.
Yeah.
And like, she's like, I don't care what the book that men wrote say about their books.
You know, like men wrote it.
And I just tried to debate her for over a decade.
Yeah.
Traumatizing her forcing her going, you can't be, I don't see how you're a Christian.
I don't get it.
Well, finally one day it was like Eureka.
I went like, oh my gosh, men wrote this book.
And then I told her that she wanted, we were on our way to the beach.
She almost slapped me.
She's like, are you serious?
You owe me that, you know, and I'm like, you were right, but I can prove it.
Yeah.
But, but like that's the, I mean, that's the, the weird thing.
So like I learned a lot about myself or I've learned a lot about myself reflect downs.
I mean, obviously I've gone to a, gone to therapy for the past few years and I'm like,
I'm doing what I can to, to find, um, yeah, find ways of, of, yeah, regaining confidence
and all that kind of stuff.
But, but one of the things I've really learned about myself is that like just that connection
between like the, my head and my emotions or whatever is not naturally that strong.
And, and so like, I was really good at, at just keeping that segment.
Like I knew that, that the Bible was written based on cop, interpreting older things like
that.
I mean, the whole point of my, of my, of my YouTube thing is literally talking about these
things that I've, that I thought were super interesting.
I love it.
But I, um, I, I did not let that affect my faith.
And like, and that was a goal for me was just, I will not let it affect my faith.
And, and it was only when like the relationship with my wife was then like, that was the prior
day.
Like that, there was that thing like, what, what do you do?
And then it's just like straight, like you said, straight through the bullshit.
And it's like when she, cause she's much more honest than me.
She's like, I mean, she's, she's, she's just, she tells it how it is.
And she's always like, she, she was also much quicker to tell people and about that her,
she had kind of moved on and, and I'm like, what people are you going to think?
And I don't know when work or people are going to not like me.
And, and, and she's just, yeah, she's just kind of cut straight through it.
And, and so what I, but what I've learned is that like, I was, I was, I was already there
academically.
So like when my wife says, but you know, what do we do about the whole health thing?
I'm like, Oh, well, I know why there's no hell because like this came up and this was originally
and there's no immortal soul in the Old Testament and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And like, it's just like, it was no problem to give the arguments and to know that I believe
them.
It was that last bit of saying, and I'm not a Christian.
So, so let's pick a little bit in here for a minute and the details you mentioned.
I do want to let everybody know who's watching right now.
I just showed your YouTube channel at the end of this, we're going to refresh and see
how many subscribers Dr. Munger has gotten from this live stream.
So you can play a part of that.
He's also going to launch his first video at the end of this live stream.
So I hope that everybody stays tuned and we'll go check it out.
Hit the bell too.
Once you subscribe.
So the last thing was pretty much what Dr. Kip said with you guys.
Someone was like, but do you believe the resurrection is true?
I mean, Jonah's mythology, Adam and Eve's mythology, Moses probably didn't exist.
The Exodus is highly fictionalized.
I mean, like if there is a memory, who knows?
I mean, like, you know, like there's all sorts of things you no longer see is true.
You see how Bible interpreters, your whole thing is the Bible is written backwards.
They're looking back and they're regurgitating in their own way.
They're making, they're being liberal, right?
With this, with this Bible.
So you could find yourself becoming liberal in your biblical and your spiritual life.
What was it that made you, if you can remember, finally say this, the last thing I'm
hanging on to is the resurrection.
Did you dive into resurrection criticisms?
Was there something about it that made you start going?
Actually, I don't think this really happened.
So, um, yeah.
So I think like, I think really the moment that I, that I really felt it was when I,
I had been in Jerusalem.
So I went to Jerusalem.
I was looking at Dead Sea Scrolls.
Right.
So I was, I was there.
Um, we were, I went to the, to the vault, to the scrollery and we, we got to pull out
the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We got the, like we were looking at my manuscripts and we, what we did was we were actually,
I mean, there was one of them where I saw something weird and we said to the conservators,
like, can we, can we see the other side?
And so they actually took off the glass and flipped it over.
And like, I mean, it was just like, this was magical, right?
Um, but I was staying at the Ecole Bibliique, which is this a monastery, um, a French, uh,
monastery that's there in Jerusalem and right next to it is, um, one of these places where
they say is the, is the tomb.
It's like the garden tomb place in Jerusalem.
You were probably there.
Um, did you go to the garden tomb?
Uh, yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's the, right by the garden.
And by the way there, when you go there, the way they treated us, they did not want any
polemical.
They want you to be on your goody two shoes.
They do not allow you to be critical of what they are believers at the door.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
And it was very much, very pressure to feel the thing.
And, and so I went there and, and I did my, like, I don't know, stood in front of the
tomb and tried, you know, whatever, tried to make myself a holy and, and, uh, and then
my, um, yeah, my, uh, yeah, I mean, long story short, I, I was, uh, had a lot of people
that were kind of giving me, uh, a lot of feedback on that trip.
Like to feel the religion, feel close to God, you know, whatever.
Like maybe that's finding my way back or something like that.
And, uh, I came home and I started reading, of course, about, about that, about the garden
tomb and about the Holy Sepulchre and the, about the different ideas of where it was.
And, and so I'm thinking, you know, historically and critically and looking at it.
And I'm just like, what the hell was I thinking?
Like I'm standing there like feeling emotions because they're making me.
Right.
Like, like it was, it was so set up to, to be this really emotional thing.
Um, that was going to get me.
Right.
And, um, and so I, I was just like, so I went, I went out that, I remember I went out
that weekend for a run and, uh, and I was running and I, I was come up this pretty
hilly place and I came up over the top and I came up and I, the sun just kind of boom,
it just hit me over the fog and the sun was shining.
And all I could think with Shamash is shining on me.
Shamash is the, is the, like the name of the Cady and Sun God.
Right.
And, and I was like, oh shit, what did I do?
What did I do?
What did I think?
And I'm like, you can have a religious experience running.
You can have a, you know, and, and then all of these things are like, wait, dude,
I don't believe in the resurrection.
Like it's, it's just not there.
Like, and, and, and then I, and then of course then you go back and think about it after
you have that experience and you're like, oh, but all I was really doing was hanging on
to an emotion.
Hmm.
Because if anybody would have asked me, I would have said, well, you know, there is
no historical evidence and there could never be historical evidence.
That was, that's what makes it different.
Um, because there couldn't be any evidence because he shot up the heaven and he took
all the evidence with him.
Right.
And it's like, so you've got this, like, this is the thing that has no evidence and can't
have evidence.
And, and I bought that, but I got to the point where it was like, hmm, that's enough of that.
There's two things I want to highlight.
First of all, about that garden tomb.
Yeah.
When we went there, Dr. Tabor had to kind of whisper to us that this isn't really the
tomb.
This is a fourth century, third, fourth century, like creation by the church.
Um, and then number two, which he talked about when you finally saw the sun shine on you
and you had a, a deep experience there for a moment.
I you, you, you, you, you roll, run, run is high or whatever you want to call, I mean,
but I'm going to tell you, I have these experiences as someone who doesn't believe in Christianity
or any God.
I have these experiences with the sun and the song will come on or my family or something
deep.
go, now that's something I can believe in.
Yeah, it's something I believe in something,
but it's not that thing that we've been told
to believe for so long.
So I love what you said, Matt.
Your whole story, there's so many things to get into.
And you have been brave to come out here and speak,
especially in light of the fact that your career,
you know, you've been had the fear of the idea
of what could become of this.
But I think anyone who listens to what you said here
should at least understand that they could disagree
with your conclusions, but like,
should at least understand that you've been on a long path.
You didn't come here for nothing, you know?
And you're respectful of people and their conclusions.
But I feel like your PhD isn't in vain, right?
So I think that you could teach people who, like me,
wanna see that thumbprint of man.
Look, imagine if there was like a religious cult
around fossils.
Yeah.
Okay, and then you come on and go,
actually, I don't believe what they're teaching you
about the fossils, but I do wanna tell you
how interesting this story is behind the people
who are writing this material,
the traditions about writing this material.
I don't believe for a second that this literally happened.
The narratives and jubilies are real or anything like that.
But I do want you to see how man has,
how they're thinking in their cultural context,
whatever, I'm following that.
And I like learning this stuff.
Yeah, and that's what I've come to.
And this is where, yeah, like people like you,
like Neil, Gnostic Informant,
had a lot of discussions with him as well,
and Josh Bowen and Kip Davis.
And we have a little group, Dan McClellan as well,
that we send each other crap all the time.
But it's people like that, like you guys,
that are out there really,
taking what you can do and just doing it.
And that's something that I've needed the confidence to do.
Like, I mean, I think it's worth talking about.
And I think that there's like,
I don't wanna throw away everything I've done
and all the languages.
Like, I love it.
Like, you know, when I was making this first video,
I was getting out all my Acadian stuff.
And I'm like, man, like I remember my first love
or second love, sorry, honey.
I love you first, Acadian's my second love.
But, well, that makes me feel good.
And that means I feel like my calling of bridging that gap,
giving a place for people like you
to be able to say, hey, hold on.
Like I didn't do this all in vain
because it's that question before we get to super chats,
which is what we're gonna do next.
It's that question of like, if not this,
then there's no meaning, there's no purpose,
there's no nothing, that same existential crisis
we faced when we were believers saying,
you either have this metaphysical morality,
this metaphysical purpose that God has,
or there's no meaning at all.
And it's like, actually, actually,
Shamash is giving me meaning today.
My wife is giving me meaning today.
My family, this great meal, this wonderful song,
the colleague who needs my help, whatever it is, right?
Like you're chuckling at me.
Or you're laughing at somebody.
Yeah, no, sorry, my daughter's in the chat,
saying that she could hear my wife laughing when I...
You're in trouble now, man.
Oh, you know what?
But like, see, and the thing is too,
like I wanna throw it before we jump to super chats,
like I feel like I'm super lucky because I have a job.
Like I have a permanent position here at MF,
and MF has been a super place.
Like the administration, like the president,
Vida Juanes, is really taking care of me.
And I've been honest with him about my journey
and stuff like that.
And he's really been able to help me make good decisions,
help me out through this.
And they've given me a lot of room
to be able to develop in the way that I wanted to
and kind of adjust like where my priorities are,
where my research is going, what I wanna do.
And I think like that's also one of the things
I wanna bring to the table in my YouTube,
in my contributions to the public scholarship,
is that I am an insider in the ivory tower.
Like I have a job, I spend my weeks doing
the academic circus.
And so I play all those games.
I have 50% teaching responsibilities,
I have administration responsibilities,
I have committees, I read dissertations and theses,
and I do all this stuff and I write papers
and go to conferences and I'm writing books
and I'm in research projects.
And I think I wanna do what you keep saying,
you wanna let people in and see what it's like.
I wanna be a representative for that too
and open the doors a little bit and say,
this is what we're doing.
And like, I mean, yeah, I think that's a fun way
to open up for the ivory tower,
give people a little peekhole anyway into the ivory tower.
Two things that Davis says,
Matt could probably walk naked through the halls of MF
and not lose his job, Norway is great.
Number one.
It depends on who sees me, but yeah.
Right?
And number two, this is on air, I did not plan this.
Dr. Munger, I've mentioned this to you,
but I'm doing it publicly.
We need to do a course or two.
And I will promote you, I believe in what you,
like I believe in what you're trying to do.
I am sold on this story and because I relate
in so many ways and I'm glad that you opened up.
I know there's a ton of bricks lifted,
at least psychologically.
Yeah, I mean, definitely there's no bricks,
but there's psychological bricks.
Yeah, I'm just saying there's something
about telling an untold story.
And that story, man, that's your testimony.
That's a hell of a testimony.
Yeah.
I seriously appreciate you.
Yeah, thanks, man.
Absolutely.
So now we get to have fun and talk to the audience, right?
Yeah, let's do it.
This is what Super Chats are all for.
They help support what we're doing here,
creating our own little ivory tower,
but it's got ladders on every side.
Everyone, it's got elevators.
It's not something you have to go through all the hoops
to get to anyone and everyone can get to it.
So.
Well, and you should know,
Norway is definitely a lower,
lower on the hierarchy of making things beautiful.
Like, so it's a brick tower I'm in,
and it's only four floors.
So it's not a, it's definitely not ivory here.
Yeah, you know, I'm talking about.
It's no Oxford, it's no Oxford, but.
But the education is still stuff
that most people don't know.
It's hidden in books that are behind the languages
that nobody's reading and you're doing the work.
So Constellation Pegasus, thank you for the Super Chat.
Did your Hebrew Bible class admit they believed
in a flat earth and dome cosmology?
Yeah, so I hear, so I mean, there's different,
let's look back.
Like I don't remember being discussed
at the Mennonite College.
I can't remember that.
But here at MF, it was mentioned definitely
that there are, so that there are different views.
Like, so let's put it this way.
So in class, a lot of the professors
would say things like that.
Like that there would be a flat earth
or that there would be, this is what's being described,
but then they would have a theological explanation for it.
Like would say, you know, and that's why
we shouldn't read it like that.
We read it as theology.
And so then you have a theological
or allegorical reading or whatever.
And that's fine.
Like, I mean, that's what they were doing.
But like the, in my Hebrew Bible class that I teach here,
I literally, the first thing we do
is I make them draw that scene.
I make them draw the waters over the waters
and the flat and everything.
And we do, so they draw Genesis one.
Like that's our first thing of learning exegesis.
Like how do you, how do you start?
And the first thing you have to do is
like they all do a drawing and then I tear them apart.
I mean, I don't physically tear them apart,
but I say like, so why did you make the earth round?
And they're like, because it, what?
The text doesn't say it.
And like, so we go through
and look at all the things that we assume.
And so now people here learn that.
I don't know if, yeah, but we, I mean, it's kind of here.
It's this place, if we kind of float in between
the really conservative and the more liberal stuff.
Wow. Thank you. Constellation against this.
Matt sounds like a little, I think he means like, like him.
Like he was on small, I think, right?
I spent thousands of dollars kicking and screaming
to prove Watchtower was correct.
Watchtower went down in flames.
Yeah. Yeah.
Thanks Constellation.
I see, I see your name floating around a lot.
So. Yep. Again.
Concerning your guests yesterday,
I'm disappointed with his apologetics.
He could have given a yes or no or text
does not specify for an answer.
His silence was truly bizarre.
So it's irrelevant to our show,
but I had, I had Dr. Bill Martin on
and we were discussing whether or not
the Bible condemns homosexuality and stuff like that.
And so it got into interpretation,
which got really off subject for today's show.
So, but yeah, if you want to watch it,
go check it out and let me know what you think.
Mnag, I came from a Spanish Mennonite church
that turned evangelical dance worship tongues
the whole nine yards Derek ever considered having this,
this content translated in Spanish.
I have actually.
And, and I don't know what YouTube's going to be doing,
but I would love to,
I have done subtitles on some of my videos,
but it'd be awesome to have people actually translate
because I know that that would get more viewership
from that audience.
The problem is nobody enjoys the Netflix shows
that have like the lips going,
and then it's like, and he went to the store
and it doesn't match at all.
And you're like, ah, really good movies don't like.
Yeah, no, but I mean, that's a cool thing,
but there's, you know, AI is getting better and better.
So hopefully that kind of thing will be easy soon.
I think it will.
Constellation do feel bad, Matt.
I don't think he means, I think he means don't, not sure.
Jehovah's Witnesses shun family.
When you're a believer,
you'll do what they say is right,
even if it raises red flags.
Yeah.
Have you had any since,
or you haven't really been vocal about it?
So you have-
Let me tell you, I have been honest with my parents
and they have been amazing.
Like I have not had any pushback.
I mean, I don't know if they're watching,
but I sent the link around.
I wasn't afraid to tell my family, my parents,
what was going on.
My brother, like he was in the chat there.
Like we have a great relationship now.
So I don't worry about this at all.
Like it's something that I've been very lucky with,
with my closest family.
So there, I do feel like I dodged a bullet on that.
Yeah.
Wow.
Well, good for you.
I'm glad you didn't have to go through all the hell
others have.
Cheddar Bay Baby, thank you for the super chat.
Did you ever feel frustrated that you'd foregone
a normal career path to do mission work?
Where do you think you'd have ended up outside Christianity?
Yeah, that's a, I mean, they have thought about that a lot.
Like, so I, so where I'm sitting right now,
I feel, I feel fine.
Like I feel like I'm able to do things.
I feel good about my choices.
Like, and in the sense that I can do something meaningful,
I can enjoy it.
But, but yeah, I've often felt frustrated that I,
that I didn't like actually objectively stop and say,
what do I love?
Like, why didn't I pursue a career as a professional linguist
or, you know, do something else, go into physics or whatever,
you know, like fish DNA or something.
Like, I mean, there's like, and, and, and I've also had that
regret of probably, you know, giving away a half a million
dollars as a, as ties over the course of my life.
Like it's, that's also like been like, like we,
when we came back from Mali, I was 30.
We went and lived in a parsonage.
We had no savings, no money, nothing.
Like, and, and, and like all of our friends had houses
that they'd already paid off, you know,
half the mortgage or whatever.
Like they, they, and, and we were starting from scratch,
you know, so I felt that also for a while,
like that kind of resentment towards the religion
that took on my money with, and, and then,
I don't know, it made me feel horrible,
but I'm, I'm kind of done with that as well.
It's just like, I've made the choices I've made
and I probably would have wasted the money on,
on whiskey anyway, if I'd, I mean, maybe,
maybe not 10, 10% of my income every month,
but Kip knows me pretty well.
I guess you never know.
Thank you.
Farsight says Rosa Rule, tips on how to study it,
to learn a new language.
Yes. So learning a new language is like making diamonds.
It's, it's applying pressure over time.
So if you want to learn a new language,
it doesn't, you don't have to put in six hours a day
for, for, you know, whatever, like the,
the most important thing is to, to get into doing
something with it every day.
If you're going to learn from a distance,
like you're not moving somewhere,
if you're going to learn an ancient language
or learn something like on whatever,
you just have to commit to doing it.
You can use all the methods you can find.
You can read stuff.
You, you do apps, you do memorise it.
You do what I like, but just keep going.
Do, do all the stuff, but you'd have to do it daily
for weeks and weeks and months and, and then like,
but also finding someone to practice with is the thing.
Like, so it's like languages are, are made to be social.
Like that's the whole, literally the whole point.
They're communicating between people.
So if you can find somebody to do it with,
to communicate with or learn with or whatever,
it, it changes it too.
So activating more than just your, your eyes.
I mean, this is something we know linguistic,
like, like psycholinguistics is, is, is really clear
on this point that by using your voice,
by reading and then also hearing.
So comprehension and, and, and speaking,
you're activating more of your brain to learn,
to learn a language, to, to, to solidify it.
And so like just sitting there and trying to read,
like even if you're just trying to learn on your own,
say the words out loud,
get something where you're hearing the words spoken.
It's always gonna, always gonna help you learn it better.
Wow. Thank you for that.
That's advice for me as well.
Great question.
I'm trying to get Greek under my belt.
Cool, Rob too.
Thank you for the super sticker.
Seriously appreciate the support.
That's a big super sticker means a lot.
A very cool Rob.
Yeah, very cool.
Joe Trap, thank you so much for the super chat.
I really, really appreciate it.
Joe, did you have a comment?
Of course I could hear mom laughing to the walls.
I'm scrolling down.
Helen Pinkham, thank you for that super chat.
I really appreciate it.
Did you have a comment?
And I think people are just throwing you some love here.
Cheddar Bay Baby, thanks for sharing.
We hear a lot of stories of conservatives,
but not enough about what it's like to slowly let go
as a liberal, it's very different.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's like, that's one of those things
that I've definitely experienced is that I don't have
like a de-conversion experience like that.
Oh my God, nothing works and fall apart.
And like, I was just kind of like,
it was, so it was like flipping a switch,
but it was like, it was this long process
of just knowing, oh yeah, but I don't,
you know, I don't accept that, whatever.
And then you get kind of the end of the road
and they're like, oh, well, yeah.
Okay, let's apply the same logic to that one last thing
and then we'll just move on.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much for that.
Let me get here.
Yeah, I was going to ask you about that,
but that seems to be, I think we all
in some ways took that journey.
Helen Pinkham says, I was also a failed missionary.
Keep going.
Keep going.
Keep going.
Thank you.
Rama, hurry up.
If you had a causation pie,
how would you divide the pie for the cultures
that influenced the Old Testament
besides the Jewish culture?
Babylonian, Persian, Greek, et cetera.
Thank you, Matt and Derek.
Thank you.
Okay, nice.
Yeah, I mean, so,
it's, I mean, it's definitely,
there's a lot more Babylonian.
So, I mean, the pie is,
the big piece of the pie is going to be
the Acadian, Babylonian, Syrian side of things.
You'd have to have a slice for Egypt
and then Persia, you get this late.
You get, I would say like,
Persia and Greece then like,
you get a slice for Persia
and then Greece is going to be like the sprinkles
on top or something.
I think like, there's some Greek stuff
and there's some stuff that I do wonder
if it ultimately has a Greek influence or not.
But like, when we get back that far,
we're more talking like Indo-European.
That's not necessarily Greek
because we just don't have Greek data that far back, right?
So we're, it's kind of hard to say,
but there's definitely some Indo-European connections.
My friend, Ulla Vikander is a submitist in Sweden.
He's an amazing guy and he works with this kind of stuff,
the Indo-European stuff and proto-Semitic
or West Semitic and works a lot.
So it's, but I think definitely the pie,
the biggest piece of the pie goes to the Babylonian,
Acadian, Syrian kind of stuff.
Thank you for that.
Kip Davis in the chat.
Hey, Derek, big fan.
Can you ask your guest if he felt extra guilty
denying the resurrection at the Garden Tomb
on a trip to Jerusalem with Torleif?
Is it Torleif?
Torleif, yeah.
So Torleif Al-Ghavine is the Norwegian Dead Sea Scrolls God.
Like he's the head of the Pantheon
of the Dead Sea Scrolls people in Norway.
And he was my supervisor,
one of my supervisors on my PhD
and he's the one that took me to Jerusalem.
And it was that for a couple of weeks to do,
to work on the Dead Sea Scrolls
and we worked a lot in the library.
And yeah, so we, but he also like took me
to a messianic Jewish church service.
And he calls himself a charismatic Lutheran.
So he's a very committed Christian.
And so he, yeah, he's super serious about his Christianity.
And for him, he felt like he was discipling me
by taking me there as well.
And so it's like, like Kip says,
it was, that was one of the hardest,
but I told Torleif years ago
that I wasn't a Christian anymore.
I think he's still holding out hope
that I will realize that it's just like
the dark night of the soul.
But it's, yeah, we have really good discussions
and he had a hard time at first,
but he's, I think he feels like we have good conversations.
We interact well and it's fine.
I think I've taken his throne though.
Like Kip says that there's a, you know,
it's a small Pantheon in the Norwegian Dead Sea Scrolls.
I think I've taken his position, me and Orstein,
I guess, or Orstein Yousnes and I are having a battle,
an epic battle for who's going to be the king of the gods.
Who will it be?
Munger or Tiamat?
I'm just kidding.
We're actually better yet not Tiamat.
Well, I know it's Marduk and Tiamat, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, that's a good teaser
for what my video is going to be about.
Really? Oh, so all right, 503 people watching right now.
We're going to continue on super chats here in just a minute.
I have to show, subscribe.
It's pinned at the top of the chat right now.
It's in the description.
If you're missing this later,
like you're not seeing this live, go subscribe.
We're going to refresh this number here in a minute.
And by the way, this morning,
I think you had like 50 or 60
before I showed this out, Dr. Munger.
Oh yeah, this morning it was like,
I think I had eight or something.
So we're already, we've already picked up a hundred today.
I know Josh shared it out, Dr. Josh.
I know Kip, I'm sure, shared it out.
And then I also shared the tweet,
but then I shared it to my community tab.
We're about to see this number.
I want to see 300.
I want to see, we need to blow this number up.
This has been an amazing testimony, honestly.
I'm really fascinated with what you've said.
The American Cuban,
how did the tradition change from second Samuel 24-1
and first Chronicles 21-1?
Does second Samuel 24-1 make God the author of evil?
Well, that's very specific.
That was like, that's a change in focus.
Second Samuel 24 is the,
so second Samuel 24 is what he's talking about, right?
Yes.
And second Samuel 24 is the text where David is,
David is, so enrolling people, he's taking a census.
And the basic of the story in second Samuel says that
God is super mad at David for taking a census.
Like, he wasn't supposed to do it.
And then God punishes because of it.
David did this awful thing.
But it seems like God also tells him to.
So it's just really weird.
Yes, that's what it reads.
Like it reads that God is the author of evil.
That's what it reads.
It's God.
So God tells David to do it.
And then in the end,
it means that the angel goes around killing a bunch of people.
So they get punished for it.
I guess what the text says.
And this is also one of those things where like,
when you're on our side of that line, then it's, yeah.
That's what the text says.
It says that God tells him to do it.
And then God gets mad and sends an angel
and kills a lot of people.
And God's the author of the evil.
Yeah.
And the Chronicles passage just so people know,
it tries to say Satan, of course.
So it's just a reinterpretation,
which is rewriting the Bible.
You know what I wondered?
I don't know.
This is totally, I don't know.
I'm so just throwing this out there to see.
Maybe you've heard something,
but I wonder in the narrative we find in Job,
right, right, who's to blame?
You could, you get back to God,
but they're trying to middleman the suffering
onto this Hasatan.
And so like, it sounds like a later,
almost like with the Chronicles thing,
like a later thing,
like originally you would have just said God did all this,
but yeah.
But so this happens elsewhere in antiquity.
So in the Jubilees version of the Akheda,
the offering of Isaac,
where Abraham tries to sacrifice Isaac, right?
The way it's written in Jubilees is that the devil,
so it's mastima in Jubilees.
It's not Satan, but it's basically, it's the same thing.
So the evil demon goes to God and says,
hey, Abraham, he only worships you
because you're nice to him.
And so you should see if you should test him.
And then God says, no, no, it won't be a big deal.
He'll follow me.
And he says, so Abraham go and sacrifice your son.
And so it's exactly like Job, right?
It's exactly the same thing.
And so it's a trope that's out there.
It's like when you get to these things where,
why would somebody do something horrible on behalf of God?
And it's like, oh, wait,
it was because Satan tricked God into making it happen
or something.
Okay, Constellation Pegasus, imagine this, Matt.
Jehovah's Witnesses shun higher education.
If you were a missionary for them with hardly any income
and you woke up broke and no job skills, bad place to be,
consider yourself lucky in this regard.
So I wasn't a Jehovah's Witness.
That's, I don't know if that's what that's implying.
No, he's saying imagine if you were.
I don't know, like I'm, yeah,
there's some things you're lucky that you aren't, I guess.
Yes, because you wouldn't be,
they probably wouldn't even allow you
to have the higher education.
That's the problem.
Yeah, I would say.
It would be, oh, I can't imagine.
And the thing is, I'm lucky.
I found a girl from Norway and we ended up in Norway
where things are pretty safe.
Like it's, I feel like we landed in,
I mean, yeah, people are gonna say whatever they want
about social democracies and that kind of stuff.
But, you know, Norway takes care of you.
It's a good place.
Thank you so much for that.
Erato Stanis.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Neste gang, Jay, I can't even read this.
Neste gang, I love it for recall.
It's gotta take a break.
Stop it.
Talk, Tuesday talk.
So what are they saying?
I said, next time they make for recall,
the food that I talked about getting on the last night
in Africa.
So they're gonna think about me.
Wow.
So that's, thank you, mystery Norwegian person, Tuesday.
Yeah, thank you.
William Arends, Dr. Munger's path is similar
to many Europeans who were told Nazi crimes
and Soviet tyranny were both a part
of the salvation plan of God.
Yeah.
I mean, well, that's, I mean, that's a comparison
I have never tried to make, but the rhetoric
is very similar.
Like, yeah, it's horrible.
Wow.
Thank you, William.
I appreciate that love and support.
Dr. Cheryl, thank you for being here.
Welcome to the community, Dr. Mott.
We already are impressed with you
and what you'll bring on your channel.
I resonate with your story.
Another great show, Derek.
Thanks.
Thank you, Dr. Cheryl.
I appreciate that.
Aaron in the house, thanks for sharing your story, Matt.
We all have so much in common despite the differences.
Thanks for never butchering my name.
You're welcome.
Right?
Okay, we hit the bottom of the barrel here
and unless something trickles in in the meantime,
I'm giving you, I gotta give you another,
sometimes repetition, like languages, pressure on diamonds.
We have to pressure you and we are coercively trying
to make you subscribe here, okay?
So subscribe to At Bible Munger.
If you go to YouTube, you can type at Bible Munger
and a clever name there for that YouTube channel.
Yeah, that's all Derek right there.
I am eternally grateful.
Derek and I were talking and I had a long handle
and he's like, you know, you should have something
like Bible Munger.
I was like, I was in, within two minutes,
I'd snapped the handle, snapped the webpage,
snapped the Instagram.
So I've got them all now.
I was like, dude, his last one was at,
Bible was written backwards, 770 or 770.
I was like, hold on, what is this?
No.
And anyway, he went right away.
This was last night.
This was yesterday and he already has a website.
He's already got the YouTube.
Everybody go check that out.
You've got a book, of course.
Yeah, and I can tell you on the webpage,
my plan on the webpage is to post resources connected
to the videos that I do.
So I'll be doing that with each video that I drop.
I will put whatever resources I can get
either if they're available online
or show you the books that I suggest for that kind of thing.
And then any discussions that come up, I will add to that.
I'll also put it in the section
for like current research projects, things I'm doing.
And then we'll see as it grows,
like what might be interesting to throw out there.
Okay, all right, so here's the deal.
Here's the deal.
I'm giving like, I'm seriously trying to save
as many souls as I can right now, right?
Second Peter, three this Joker, right?
A minute is like 10 minutes unto myth vision, okay?
So I am going to do, I don't know if you noticed,
I did a poll on YouTube and I asked a simple question.
We're gonna go ahead and close this poll in just a second.
And the question is, do you relate to his story?
Simple as that.
Yes, no, somewhat.
We're gonna end this poll.
I'm giving 10 seconds, then we're ending the poll,
then we're gonna go to the YouTube and refresh it.
This is my way of like, we're gambling here, right?
Together, let's see what happens.
Ending poll, three, two, one.
All right, ended poll.
Now, do you see that?
Do you relate to his story?
47% of people said yes.
Okay.
27% of people said somewhat.
And then 25% of people said no.
We had 447 votes.
Wow, pretty good amount of people voting.
I mean, I think if you define relate broadly,
I bet I can understand a lot of people relate.
I really, I wouldn't wish those kind of things on anyone,
like that kind of hard stuff,
but I understand the conversion and going through like,
everybody has those things that make you go,
wait a minute, what's going on here?
Yeah, I did not mean when I said this question,
I guess maybe some people interpreted the question
differently, like, have you been over there
in Africa and gone through al-Qaeda?
No, however, I do relate,
I thought about my Afghanistan experience
when mortars were dropping into the barracks.
I mean, like I had all sorts of like,
definite waking up, thinking bombs went off
and they did several times.
So there was a lot of like, whoa, I could relate,
but not everybody, it relates on that.
They could relate any way, shape, or form.
If you've ever been to like a recovery meeting, right?
You're supposed to try and listen
for anything that you relate to.
All right, now we're going to refresh the...
You got in a couple of super chats,
so grab this real quick.
Okay, okay.
Constellation Pegasus, thank you again, out of curiosity,
what's the opinion in Norway about the Ukraine war?
Yeah, I mean, it's very close to home here.
So there's definitely, I mean,
the official position is obviously
that everybody condemns, I mean,
the government condemns the war.
And it's the Russian aggression or whatever.
And I think the public opinion
is that there's a lot of fear
because Norway has oil platforms out in the sea
and one of the biggest Russian submarine bases
is up in the North Sea on that side.
And so there's a lot of fear about it.
So yeah, the opinion is that it sucks.
Thank you for answering that.
Harmonic Atheist Tim and the House, go subscribe.
Thank you for sharing your story, powerful stuff.
Thanks a lot.
A nice 666.
I was just about to say that.
Okay, and look, Kip says, I'm a no,
Matt's story is jarring.
So the way he interpreted that was like,
I can't compare my story to your story,
so there's a lot there.
And then Shane Torres, thank you for that super chat.
Shane, Dr. Matthew, your story is an inspiration to me.
I thought after leaving fundamental Christianity,
there was no point in continuing my biblical studies,
but now I see there is so much more to appreciate.
Yep, definitely.
I mean, that's the thing,
like you can definitely study the Bible.
And I would say it's much more enriching
to study the Bible when you're not bound
by a confessional view.
Yeah, that's true.
And there's so much to discover and discuss,
especially when there's not these like,
I guess another way to put it is you have these walls.
There's these walls between,
here's our Bible text and what it says.
And then let's talk about Akkadian, Assyrian, Babylonian,
like let's talk about Egyptian, whatever, Greek, Persian.
You aren't going over here
and then your mind is turning off this special button
and like how I'm gonna view and appreciate
and understand this versus the king's verdicts over here
or whatever, like you're going to whatever literature
and you're gonna fairly assess that and not have this.
All right, we're back at my special book
that is gonna tell us the truth.
Yep.
Yep, well, there's a, so you've got,
they're just keep on rolling.
They were just throwing money at you today, man.
Holy smokes, man.
What's going on?
Is it Vekoda?
Thank you for the super chat.
Just subscribe to at Bible Munger.
Love the content here.
Thank you.
You're gonna love the content there as well
because he's gonna be dropping scholarly stuff.
Be on the lookout.
And Constellation says one last one
was Kip wearing Iron Maiden shirts back then.
I think Kip was wearing the same Iron Maiden shirts back then.
Kip's like my dad.
He has the same shirt from 25 years ago
that he still rocks.
Yeah.
Yeah, Kip's style hasn't changed that much over the years.
Okay, I'm gonna ask, while I'm sharing this,
can we do two things here, Matt?
Yeah.
I want everyone who's subscribed to Matt,
if you're on a computer, if you're on a phone,
if you're able to type one, press one,
if you have subscribed to Dr. Munger's YouTube channel
right now in the chat, please.
Here is his YouTube channel.
It's pinned at the top of the chat.
In fact, let me go ahead and post it again in the chat.
Press one if you have subscribed
and we're about to refresh this Joker in 10 seconds.
Would it be embarrassing if I did a 10, 9, 8 count back?
You can do anything you want, man.
Yeah, I'm not, I mean, you saw the picture
you had on the cover of this thing.
Like I'm not easily embarrassed at this point.
I don't know, man.
Your family, you look embarrassing,
but your family doesn't look embarrassing.
Come on, we got to admit, I want to say,
I love my family.
You guys are rocking the outfits for real.
I got to give it to you.
10, 9, 8, 7,
6, 5, 4, 3, 2.
Here we go.
Refreshing, now.
Holy smokes, 337,
and it's only gonna climb from here, Dr. Munger.
There's people clicking it right now, I bet.
And the live stream.
So we got to get you over 1,000 subs in no time.
Get this Joker monetized.
I know it's not, you're not really concerned about it,
but it gives YouTube reason to give attention to it.
Yep.
And how do you want to roll out
this latest greatest video?
I'll tell you what, man.
I'm just gonna hit public right there.
And it should, if you refresh again, it should drop.
Okay, I get notified too.
So let me see if it pops up here.
Okay, I did hit the bell.
Let me refresh.
Videos.
There it is, oh snap.
All right, I'm sharing it in the chat right now.
I'm gonna ask that all 475 of you right now,
here's the YouTube video.
Shout out to Judy Trotter for the Super Chat.
Judy, you rock.
Thank you for the last minute,
getting into the kingdom of God, right?
Those on the outside can still enter.
The gates are always open.
But look, here's the link.
I seriously appreciate everybody.
Thank you for showing love and support to Dr. Munger.
And Dr. Munger, thank you for giving us
what an epic story and your story, your journey
while you think you're at the end of it.
I seriously think this is the beginning
of something beautiful.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, thanks.
Yeah, man, I really appreciate that this has been great.
And we'll be in touch.
So I really appreciate you let me come on
and have a way to talk through this kind of stuff.
That's it. Absolutely.
I'm gonna go over there in the chat
and check out the video that you just launched.
And I hope everybody will go with us as well.
Thank you, everybody.
Have a wonderful, wonderful day.
Subscribe to Dr. Kip, Dr. Munger,
the scholars that we have on MythVision's platform.
Consider checking out our courses.
I have one coming out with Dr. Kip.
18 lectures, almost an hour each lecture.
There's like 18 hours
on the real ancient Israelite religion,
human sacrifice, polytheism, all sorts of stuff.
I mean, literally apocalypticism, it gets crazy.
So you're gonna wanna stay tuned for all of that.
Thank you. Any final words from you?
No, just thanks.
I just really appreciate having a place
to be able to do this.
Thank you.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Let's go.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh,
ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
