Welcome back to myth vision. Dr. Joshua Bowen. Certainly happy to be back. I want to get your story
So it's subjective. It'll be from where you come from. You are a PhD
Expert on a seriologist work. What was your specialty? Just so we know? Yeah, so I I
specialized in ancient Mesopotamian cultures, so
languages like Sumerian and Acadian reading all the Kenea form documents all those I
Specialized in literary and liturgical texts, but then I also minored in Hebrew Bible and I took a ton of
Archaeological courses, so I just wanted to wave that up front as you know something about the Bible
You know something about the ancient Near East and where the Bible gets its material
And I want to dive into your childhood life and tell us who Joshua Bowen is
Hmm. I was born into a a very conservative
Fundamentalist evangelical family, so you know like my my grandparents on my mother's side were very fundamentalist
Very very conservative. My grandfather was a licensed minister in the Southern Baptist
Convention, I think but you know paper skirts at the door and all you know that that's that sort of thing and
So really from as early as I can remember the Bible was
the focus of my life, so
My mother always tells the story about like by the time I was like 15 months old or something
I had memorized John 316 like and apparently it sounded she does it into Picasso Dewey old
Bad son, but you know it's it's funny to hear her do it, but probably y'all didn't want to hear that but you know
the Bible and
God and Jesus and like all of these things were the core
of our everyday life
How serious would you say
Your mom and dad were in terms of
Up bringing you religiously like where they devout, you know
We have people who are on fire for Jesus or Jesus freak or they're they're serious not just we go to church on sunday
But they like live
Yeah, they wrestle with their own lives, but they really live a Christian life for your family like that
Yes, I mean, I think they like distinguished habits, you know like extrinsic and entering intrinsic religiosity
I think but like yes, I mean this was the intrinsic like this was just who they were to the core
Now like my my mother and father divorced when I was very young
And they were obviously good conservative Christians, but they were not
As dedicated, I wouldn't say and my grandparents
That's who I spent a lot of my time with and really most of my religious education
Came from like spending time with my grandparents
So like my grandfather told me from a very
Early age and I had multiple sclerosis and my memory is getting worse and worse
So like I can't remember fewer and fewer things. I guess it's good that we're doing something
I want to document it before you lose your memory before I lose my mind come an old coot
but
You know, I was presented the gospel again from very very early on and help
You know how fire and all and so one of the memories that I had is quite vivid actually
Is I remember sitting on
I had a bunk bed that I slept slept on the bottom bunk
and I remember
Sitting on a bunk bed crying and I was like five or six
Like somewhere somewhere in there and my mother came in and said like, you know, what's what's wrong?
And I said, well, I've prayed to ask Jesus into my heart, you know
And for him to like forgive my sin
But I'm not sure that I did it right and I don't want to go to hell
So I've asked him into my heart like 12 times just to make sure and I remember having this conversation with my mother
And then later with my grandfather about you know, like if you truly meant it, you know
You're saved and you know, Jesus is coming to your holy spirits come in and Jesus has saved you and your sins have been forgiven
But I mean like so like I at that age I understood
These concepts right to to that degree, but you know ended up going to
I mean, I moved around a lot my parents divorced and so I ended up moving from place to place going to different schools
But you know, when when we could I was you know, put it into private schools into christian schools
Um, but we were church every week and on wednesday and uh, of course
I would have been the first to tell you that that doesn't make you a christian, obviously
But uh, it wasn't we weren't going to church to like somehow earn
Salvation it was because that's where our family was, you know, those like-minded believers and
Uh others that are trusted in christ
So our lives were very much focused on you know, living out the salvation that we've been freely given
All right, so you're a devout fundamentalist christian your parents are
fundamentalist christians, but they may not be as devout as your grandparents
your teenager
What would you say like you go through middle school? You go through high school? Are you
Like so serious about your faith like if you on a scale from one to ten, where were you on how serious you were about jesus 13
You were extreme. Yeah
Like we my sister and I who's 15 months older than I am in high school
I think I was probably in ninth grade we were walking the neighborhood
Looking for people to present the gospel to but that's what like we thought these people are going to hell
We we have to get the gospel to them and like I you know
went on a mission trip to mexico when I was like 13
I think or 14, you know, we it all throughout high school. We were in church
Doing like the in the youth group active in the youth group. I ran the sound board for the
We called it wednesday night live. I was always active in like skits that we would do or carmen. You and me would talk
That's right the carman skit
Champion yep champion. He has won
Yeah
But you know like listen to dc talk all the time and was so dismayed at whatever point it was that I found out that
There was a rumor that they may have done marijuana
You know and it's oh my gosh. How could how the devil's latest
But you know in high school. I was called jesus boy
I was beat up a lot because of it for my for my faith's suffered persecution
As we expected that we would you know, but but in reality like
I was you know the day of prayer you go out front and you take that stand and you
Pray at the flagpole meet me at the flagpole. That's what it was and like I remember dating people and
Like witnessing to them and then breaking up
You know, I can't imagine why but it really was
The core of who I was
I want to emphasize the core of who you were
Because I'll probably relate to you along the way
This is about you, but I might
Highlight things
Is part of who you were
Would you is it's fair to say you were the kind of christian who had their bible in one hand
Wearing an american flag t-shirt. Yeah, were you extremely pro military very patriotic?
extremely
Conservative in your politics the whole nine. I mean not that I was invested in politics enough
I was just wanting to hang out with my friends at church, you know, but ethically speaking. Yes, absolutely like
I was very very conservative and
I mean, I hate to admit things like this, but it's the truth like I didn't realize about I was incredibly racist
I was incredibly bigoted. I was the nicest horrible person
Right like I cared for people, but at the same time I was just absolutely a bigot
I mean, there's just no I don't I don't know that there's two ways about that and it's not that it was overt
It's not like I would like hate people or something overtly
But I mean the way that I viewed people
through that conservative fundamentalist lens that I grew up with right and um
I was just I was just a bigoted person and of course I had heavy influences like we all do from
from family and
You know, it was just I was I was a really sweet gentle kind bigot
Yeah, you were you're upbringing and your environment and the people so we're breaking free of that
So you're a teenager
You're you're die hard. Jesus freak
Almost like you have a better relationship with him than anybody has ever had right because it's easy to get lost into your own mind
Were you planning on becoming someone like in the ministry?
Did you have hopes of being a real deal or did you become a pastor?
What happened with your life with jesus?
So my mother tells me that like at some point like around five or six or seven or something I
somebody asked me
I was in some sort of public
Uh arena and I was at a microphone and they said like what do you want to be when you grow up?
And I said, I want to be a missionary. So and that
That stayed with me, right? So I um
I didn't do terribly well in high school primarily because I spent most of my time at church
and didn't really
Care an awful lot about education, which is something that I think is unfortunately
Education is somewhat de-emphasized in in many fundamentalist communities because like evolution is false
and so like sciences of the devil and like
Like this is this is something that there's a there's an anti intellectual side of many fundamentalist communities
And so I didn't really put a lot of you know emphasis there
And I just studied my bible like I have I still have my old king james bible. It's got it's well well worn binding
Mots right up there somewhere. Yeah, I had notes everywhere
You know, I had memorized where things were on the pages. It was yeah, of course
You know, I my goal was always to become a pastor or a missionary, right?
And of course through high school, you're in youth group. And so
Naturally, you want to be a youth pastor, right? So ever but at least I started like
Leading every once in a while I'd get to lead the youth ministry
Message or whatever or because they're in training, right?
I mean you preach a sermon maybe, you know once a year or something to the actual congregation
Like these were because it's always like prepping you to try to get you comfortable
And so when I joined uh, I joined the air force when I was 17 because I didn't do terribly well in school
and
I hadn't I hadn't really thought at all about how I was going to make a living outside of just being a
pastor and of course I hadn't done enough from a practical standpoint to be able to do that
And uh, so I I just decided I was going to join the air force
I tried to join as a chaplain, of course
I didn't realize you needed to become an officer to become a chaplain
I was not an officer. I didn't have a degree. So then I just joined under like I became a
communication
Navigation radar person out on the flight line working on c-fives in Dover, Delaware
But the moment that um, I got to my first duty station in Delaware. I started my bible study
Right and I had become an x2 or an x9 dispensationalist by this point and like we can talk about that
But it was a very narrow fundamentalist evangelical
Just we might as well for the sake of the audience because sometimes what's interesting about our testimonies is
I'll mention full preterism. Yeah
Most people have no clue what that is and the ones that do are weirdos like me
And they know way too much about strange things that most christians don't know about so what is I'll bite the bullet
What is an x9 dispensationalist?
right
um, so, you know dispensationalism is sort of a way of of viewing the bible to understand things like
Why is it that certain laws are given but they don't apply today? Right? How does that work?
um
And that's one of the things that it that it can do and so basically it's this idea that god dispensed
different rules
different regulations
For different groups of people and he didn't need to dispense those rules for all time
It could vary depending on the group and so general like normal
dispensationalism
would say that
God was dealing with the nation of israel even up through the gospels
Certainly in the old testament put up through the gospels, but there were hints
You know that jesus was was going to bring in something new and uh in x chapter two
With the coming of the holy spirit that that's when the church the body of christ began
Well, we were way smarter than that
Right, we knew that x2 dispensationalism those people are they're just lazy, right? They don't really understand the truth and the truth
Uh, was that the dispensation of grace this period of time that we're in right now that didn't begin with
Uh, the apostles in x chapter two. No, no, it started with the apostle paul
And so uh, the apostle paul is the one
That following the stoning of steven in x chapter seven, right?
Saul is there holding the codes of the people that are stoning
Steven and steven if you remember
Looks up into heaven
He sees a son of man standing at the right hand of the father and you know, this is like the holy spirit
This is the sorry the son of man like rising to judge
Right, he's standing to judge the world for the gross sin of rejecting the holy spirit
But in his grace and in his mercy come on somebody
Jesus reaches down and saves the leader of the rebellion the apostle paul
Or saw and changes him on the road to Damascus. They're into the apostle paul and through
Setting is real aside temporarily ushers in the dispensation of the grace of god
Which paul says in like places like Ephesians three that's been given to me this dispensation of this mystery and
His message is salvation is by grace through faith alone. No work's involved, right? There is no keeping of the law
There's it's just god in his mercy has chosen to save everybody including the Gentiles
And the reason that that was so important to us in our in our way of thinking was that it's multifaceted
But from a prophetic standpoint
You know, you think of passages like Matthew 24 or you think about the prophets when they're talking about the time of
Jacob's trouble and the coming tribulation period, you know, this is something that should have happened
Following christ's earthly ministry, right that that should have happened
And of course, the preterists have a different way of understanding this but for us it was the prophetic timeline
Stop ticking and was sort of like set on the shelf for a period of time
And and this was done in god's mercy and in his grace
And so now all of the things that we're seeing they're not part of this old testament prophetic timeline
They're in this dispensation of the grace of god. So like I used to draw it out a little circle for the earth
Talking about creation and then this timeline and I go through I had this whole 16 episode bible study
I've still got it on cassette somewhere
but it ends with the crucifixion of christ and then a short period after that for
the ascension and
You know up to the stoning of steven and then the calling of the apostle paul starts this little capacitor looking thing
It's this two vertical lines that have a gap in between and I used to write do g dispensation of grace right and
That's where we are today. Who knows how long it's going to be
We don't know but what is it going to end with it's going to end with the rapture of the church
So the whole tim le hay thing right left behind series when the rapture happens as we've seen first Thessalonians 4
I promise I will wrap this up soon. Sorry. You're like shut up. Josh
I would never
But once the rapture happens that's going to take all of the members of the body of christ out of here
And it's going to start the prophetic clock ticking again
Then very quickly the seven-year tribulation is going to start time of jacob's troubles
Only to end with the coming of christ and the millennial kingdom being ushered in
And and then of course the eternity of eternities after that now you're saved
I'll let you know that
Right, but that's
And I'll I'll give this very very quick wrap up
There what the bridge that like the type of mid axe dispensationalist I was
As you can probably tell we valued
being different
We valued having smaller numbers because it was like this really this sort of gnostic idea. We have we're elect
Yeah, we have this yeah
Um, and we used to tell this joke once I kind of got out of that really narrow. There's a there's a
I don't want to say it because they'd hate me for but like a more liberal
version of mid axe dispensationalism and they would tell this joke or they'd say, uh, you know a guy
Standing on a bridge at night looking up at the stars and another guy walks up behind him and stands at the rail with him and says
Man, isn't it isn't it beautiful what our creator has made and the guy looks over and says are you a christian?
He says, yeah, I am and he goes me too. And so they shake hands
And he says, well, let me let me ask you a question. Are you uh, like are you a Protestant or or a Catholic?
And he said, well, I'm a Protestant. They asked me too. And so they hug and uh, I think I said, sorry, let me ask you
Are you uh, are you like a covenant theologian or are you a dispensationalist the guy goes as well?
I'm a dispensationalist. I give so am I and so they exchange numbers and he says, well, okay here
Let me ask you this. Are you a are you an x2 dispensationalist or an x9 dispensationalist as well?
I'm an x9 just I can't pull this so am I and so they exchange
Or they set up a time for their kids to play together and as they're walking along a little free says
Well, let me ask you this. Do you think the 12 apostles are in the body of christ or out of the body of christ?
And the guy says, well, I I think they're in the body of christ. He says you hair tick and he pushes him off the bridge
And that's how it was, right? It's like the huddle
We'd all huddle up
And then we'd look around and say now, where do we
Disagree
And then we get rid of that guy now. We're smaller now. Where do we disagree?
That's how it was
I love going down these little rabbit trails because they they tell you how crazy we were
Okay
I mean
It's really good to know that because it tells me what you thought where your worldview was at how
How your brain operated. I know that experience. I was dispensationalist myself
Not ax nine dispensationalist, but I don't know what kind I know. I wasn't a real christian even I know I know
But we're we're journeying, right? So
You've given a few sermons. I've I've seen video footage of you actually preaching
You're like the legit
Dill of trying to go down the path and do the right thing following Jesus and whatnot
Where in this journey?
Do you recall any doubts?
I mean, there's people you're going to bump into in your life that plant little seeds to make you
Think about them later on in life. You reflect about them. But I guess as we're leading up to
What eventually happens because you're no longer in christianity
I want to kind of get like you're giving sermons. You're really in the church. You go to college
What happens to you education? So now you're learning more you have to expose yourself to more. What's happening?
Yeah, so I mean, I guess that the place to start is you know, when I started teaching those bible studies in the air force
What I mean by that was I went and bought a three by five marker board and an easel and I would
Uh print out flyers like, you know, wednesday in such and such building nine day room or whatever come to a bible study
and I'd pass them around the squadron and I'd talk to my friends and then I'd go in there and I'd
I'd set up my easel and I
would wait and
Nobody would come but I'd sit there for the 45 minutes wait just in case somebody came and then I'd pack up my easel
And I'd walk back to my room and I'd be really, you know, sad and just disheartened
I call my grandfather
And I'd say nobody came again this week and he'd say hey
God honors your faithfulness, right? Stay above board. That was the thing he always said to me. Stay above board, right?
God has called you to do this. Just just keep at it
He'll you know, he's gonna do what he wants to do with this if nobody comes there's a reason and that's okay
You just you do what god has called you to do and so I did and eventually like we started
Getting people on it or eventually worked up to something like 13 people were coming weekly to this bible study
I think I think it's important for me to say this because I know as you do there are going to be people watching this
That are christians that are saying you never were a christian, right?
So so I'm never going to convince that person
That I was because they're going to look at this and say well first john tells me that you walked away from the faith
So of course, you know, I know that you weren't you went out from among us because you were never of us
So there you go end of story, but I'm going to make it harder for them
um
Because I'm going to quickly if you don't mind explain what I understood the salvation the message of salvation to be what the gospel was
So if somebody were to ask me hey, what do I have to do to be saved?
I would say you have to realize that you were a sinner that you are a sinner that
You're a sinner not because of necessarily the sin that you've done but because you're uh in the line of adam
And adam when he sinned in the garden of eden brought sin in this world Romans 5 12, right?
So uh for by one man sin under the world and death by sin there for death has passed all men for all of sin
So, you know, uh, this isn't something that you sin because you're a sinner not the other way around
You have a sin nature and there's no way
That under this circumstance that a holy perfect god can have sin in his presence
He just can't right and so under that circumstance
We're all under judgment right and there's nothing that we can't we can't do anything to get rid of our sin nature
Right, we can't atone for our own sin. We can't do it
So we were we were just in a bad place under judgment into that scenario
Jesus christ god
came down in the flesh Philippians 2 6 and 7 and
Hummeled himself taking on the form of a servant god incarnate the the god man the hypostatic union of christ right the theanthropic person
And being fully god yet fully man still, you know, very much obviously a part of the triune god
um
A distinct person but with the same essence he limited his power
Uh through the canosis right in philippines 2 and took on this form of a servant and died
paying on the cross paying the penalty for our sin and all sins that were passed all sins in the future
he took all of it upon himself on uh calvary and
When it was buried
But rose again the third day showing his power over sin
Um and doing so so that we as the as he was the first fruits
We could also be resurrected in the fullness of life. How do we get that justification imputed to our account?
It's nothing that we do. There are no good works. Our works are filthy rags
Instead what we had to do what this person in front of me had to do was to say i'm a sinner
There's nothing that i can do but jesus christ and his death brown resurrection paid the full penalty for my sin
and rose showing his power uh
Oversin so that i might be justified and if i simply trust in his finished work on the cross then god
Forgives me of my sin imputes the very righteousness of christ to my account
So that when god sees me he doesn't see me anymore. He sees the righteousness of christ
That gives me a position in christ where i am justified
Now from the holy spirit comes to live within me
I'm sealed under the day of redemption by the holy spirit from that point on in my life
I have this position in christ. I am in christ. I'm perfect as far as god is concerned
But that's my justified state uh or position
Where I am in life is i'm sanctified but my sanctification
My job is to not for salvation not for anything salvific
But i'm to try to bring my sanctified state to meet where my justified position is
But again, that's that's that's not me doing that for salvation
It's because uh of what christ had done that i should desire to do these things and that's what salvation was
So that's what i believe right so you and you accepted that
You confessed that you believed that
110 percent and you lived that yeah
So if I were flipping it around on you and we're getting to your conclusion later here
But this is a point would you say that like obviously you would say you were saved?
Yeah, oh, of course
But if someone came along and actually let's just say an angel from god came down and said hey
Um, you know, you're not really saved. Um, you said all the right things but you're not really saved
Like the spirit really isn't in you. You thought it was you thought you were really like
Assessing that how would you react to that?
Would you say this has got to be satan?
Like there's like how would you explain that to yourself when you are fully convinced you were saved?
Yeah, I mean in the hypothetical if I know that that this actually is a messenger of god
And that I guess in this circumstance like maybe i'm not
Maybe I should be a Calvinist or something, right?
Uh, like I would fall to my knees and say what must I do then to be saved because here's what I've understood
But you're coming from god like yeah, so I saw so yes
But if I didn't know that and this was just a spirit and I could think
I mean, I would test the spirit then and be like well
I mean gosh like I'm looking at god's word. I'm looking at what the bible says
like
I'm trying to get to the heart of that what you're describing right here because my question just
Hypothetically for the Christian that you simply are trying to address that might think you weren't yeah, what was that?
Was that satan? Was that a demonic force? Oh, he
Oh, he tried but he was a seed that fell in the cracks. It's not like josh wasn't trying
Everything you had you really gave everything all your knowledge all your energy your whole life
You're really giving all that we have to give in terms of how can one know that they are saved, right?
It's only christ works you put that trust that faith that hope in him
And so but I would have said none of that matters
I would have said none of my trying none of my efforts right right? I in fact, here's the example that I used to give
Um, so I guess I'm skipping skipping ahead a little bit here
I became a pastor of a church out in virginia
And I started to do jail ministry and one of the examples that I used to give when I talked to people in jail
Is I would say look let's let's imagine that you've got a life sentence, right?
Or you've got a death sentence and your own death row and you're sitting here in two more months
And you're gonna be you're gonna be executed, but I get word
I'm your you know, I'm the chaplain, but I get word that something has happened like the governor has pardoned you
Right and so much so that you are now free
You're free to leave this prison, right? But this is a maximum security prison
And there are there are people stationed at you know at the exits with you know
Machine guns or whatever and like they're gonna they're gonna kill anybody that tries to escape, right?
So, you know, there's uh, they're they're guards stationed at the exits
They've got machine guns
They're gonna kill anybody that tries to escape and of course you know that as the maximum security prisoner
And I come in and I don't have any evidence
Right. I don't have any paper
I just like I you just you have to trust me and I say to you hey listen
I just got off the phone with the governor
You're free. You can walk out of this prick. Come on
Like we can go out together like you can leave
But you don't believe me. Are you free? Well, I mean like yeah has your have you been pardoned?
Is the like is the debt paid? Yeah, but is it being applied to your life? No
Because you're sitting here in prison. Well, what if I add?
Because you're afraid I why I don't trust you right? I don't believe you those guards are gonna kill me if I go out there, right?
You're free
Like it's been taken care of but you stay in jail. Well, let's add a level to this. What if I say listen
They're gonna demolish this prison. I know you're sitting here in the hole. You're in maximum security
So you don't know this but they're getting ready part of the this this pardon is just like
Everybody else is gone. I know you don't see him, but they're all gone
They're going to destroy this building tomorrow. You have to come with me. No
I'm sorry, man. I just I don't see the evidence. I just I just don't believe it and I said, you know me
We grew up together. I would not lie to you
Come on, man. We got to get out of here. You're free
You've been pardoned
And you're gonna die. You don't believe me. And so that free gift doesn't get imputed
To your account, right? It's not a perfect analogy, but I think it was pretty good
For for what I was doing and like that's how I would have described
Salvation and so like I guess I guess the the the point here that I'm trying to make
Is that this was I knew that I was saved because I trusted him what the bible said
Right, I believed it for anybody watching
That identifies with what I've said thus far
Think about this if in five years time or in two years time
You become an agnostic
You become an atheist think back to how you believe right now
Because people that are in your shoes your colleagues right now will say you never really believed
And how would that feel?
It's it's weirder than that now that i'm not
A believer and I want to get to that point or where your story tells
But it's weirder than that since you wanted to break the fourth wall
And discuss directly with the audience and and go beyond
Because I was wanting to kind of get that same audience that might go out
He was never really they throw that theological thing out there to then try to explain then what was that?
Yeah, what is this? Yes, so the question is so what you theologically can't say you're a christian because you're no longer one now
And because you never really were one
What was that did satan trick you did god actually allow you to think that you were really a christian
You spent all that time sincerely promoting him his word the truth of his message, etc
Etc. I'm putting in quotation marks. What was that the devil the whole time?
How could god sit back and watch you sincerely?
Try
That hard that's sincere and i'm speaking to myself here and sit here and go
Yeah, you never really were what kind of god is that if your god is the true god
Yeah, you know
It's so that's i'm wanting to throw the ball back and just go
You're gonna tell me. Oh, it's just that simple hand wave. Mr. Christian. Mrs. Christian just hand wave josh's entire testimony
You are never one of us
It's so funny because one day some of those like you're saying will be agnostic atheist or theist
That are not christian. Yeah, exactly and look at this and go
How stupid I didn't even think to think like this. Yeah, so anyway, we broke the fourth wall
I really wanted to do that continuing in your story though
I want to get to a point where doubts come in
But maybe you first have to go I started to educate because a lot of times people start to learn
As devout christians and then their world expands and it's so big that they realize this bubble
I was living in like remember the movie bubble boy. Hmm. Did you ever watch that movie? No
If you haven't just a nutshell
It's a guy in a bubble his mom teaches him from infancy
That if he gets outside of that bubble because he has these certain illnesses or whatever
Uh, she convinces him he has his phobias and these illnesses and anything that bubble keeps him alive
If that bubble ever pops and he ends up outside of it, he will die
And he cannot survive this world without this bubble
So he's rolling around as a grown-ass man
With this bubble this plastic bubble and it's fun. The movie's great at some point later in the movie it pops
and he thinks
I'm dead, but he doesn't he doesn't die
And you realize. Oh my gosh. It's almost like the uh,
Adam Sandler water boy movie. He's like foosballs the devil
And then he finds out foosballs not the devil mom
And I love her and you know, and I tried I tried to read an act and
You get the point
So alligators is on great because they got all empty and no toothbrush Abdullah. I'm on god
So I yeah joined the service and I was 17 I served on active duty for six years as an aircraft mechanic and
Then I I still wanted to become a chaplain. So during that time I uh went distance learning in my off time
to Liberty University because it's good fundamentalist evangelical school
and I got my bachelors in science and religion and
That that bachelor's science allowed me to apply for the chaplain program
and so I got commissioned as a second lieutenant in 2003
and
Transitioned over into the reserves and started going to seminary full-time
and I went to capital bible seminary, which is another fundamentalist evangelical school
And my focus was on the languages like I just did the languages greek and hebrew of course with an aramaic and
Like studied syriac and some ugeritic
Uh took different types of uh aramaic took an akkadian class like that. I was really really into this, right?
Why did you do that? I don't want to get lost but was it I want to know what the lord I want to speak and know what
Jesus spoke and knew well, it's more that my of course our view of aneransy was that
The bible is the inspired in their word of god down to the the very letters
Right grammatical forms, of course in the autographs, whatever that means now by the way. Um
but uh, so
You know understanding really aspects of like the wider ancient Near Eastern culture and those that wasn't really on my radar
Too terribly much because I had the bible right and so I had the original the hebrew the greek the aramaic
and uh, so that's what I needed and so I just spent all six years of my master's degree
Full-time 126 semester hour master's degree
Just doing tons and tons and tons of language
Work I taught the last two years that I was there
I taught the the graduate hebrew cycle
So taught grammar one and two and then I taught hebrew readings and the next genical principles
Like it was it was my thing during that time. I got a position as an associate pastor at a church out in virginia
So I was going to school full-time and pastoring
and like I I remember
Toward the end
Uh, a professor came up to me. Dr. Mook was his name and he said josh
I don't say this to many people, but there aren't many people that
Have and I don't remember the word that he used but it was sort of like the tenacity I guess to get a phd
But you you need to get a phd. You need to go for that
And so I remember talking to my now ex-wife and saying hey terra like what what do you think and like she said will you
because I I applied to Baltimore Hebrew University and
um
Talked to I took an old pond there a modern Hebrew language course and
Because I spoke modern Hebrew at the time reasonably well
and I remember
Barry Gittlin was the president there at the time
and they were getting ready to merge with talson state and
He said look I'd love to to bring you in like you have a I had a
Like a four point to gpa or something they had a four point three system at capitol
So I was doing was doing really well and he said I'd love to have you come but
We just I can't take new students right now. We're going through this transition
So so distraught like what am I going to do and
My ex said well, why don't you apply to johns hopkins?
And I was like, yeah, why don't I apply to nasa while we're at it?
You know like I have just as good a chance of getting into nasa as I have getting into johns hopkins
but for whatever reason
Like I got a spot at at johns hopkins in the seriology program
I remember that I was
Teach I'd resigned at that point from the the past role position because like there's no way
I was going to be able to be a pastor and go to a phd full-time. I remember talking to the dean
As I was leaving teaching my final Hebrew course and
You know I was carrying all my books out that I used to to help me teach
And I had my my biblia hebraica stuttgart stuttgart gencia in my hand my biblical
Hebrew bible big thick thing
And he said so
Got into johns hopkins. It's a pretty liberal school like you ready
And you're gonna face some challenges up there and I said, you know, I always tell this story, but it's vivid, right? I said
You know, I I know I'm going into the lion's den
I held on my Hebrew bible. I said, but I'm gonna win souls for christ
So that was my attitude
Leaving seminary and going into johns hopkins
I you asked the question. Did I ever have doubts?
Like I knew my savior, right and like the idea that when problems came up and not that they really did because I
I really didn't entertain them
But like problems with you know god being immoral or something that wasn't even really a thing for me because like
God's ways are higher than our ways read Isaiah 55. Let's move on, you know, or something like evolution
You know, my my response was look
I am not very good at science because they don't really pay attention in high school
but
You know, even if the earth looks like it's billions of years old, right like adam and eve when they were created
They were created with a parent age. They didn't look 12 seconds old. They look like 30 years old, right?
So the earth would have looked like it had a parent age
so
Like all of those things I could just you know, it just wasn't an issue for me
It was at johns hopkins that I I had my
Like first real confrontation
So we need to get into that because that's usually when rubber hits the road and these are
What happened?
And no matter what you say
breaking the fourth wall
Some people will go
And not accept some of the doubts that came up for you along the way
Can you remember any distinct? It's usually not one argument. It's usually not one thing
That breaks us. It's usually a build-up cumulative
thing that occurs that makes us start to
ask ourselves questions
and
Look inside
What happened to you? What was said? What was the arguments that started to chip away your armor?
so
I you know like I took a couple of classes when I was in seminary that could be categorized like apologetics classes
Like how do we explain jona being in the belly of the big fish?
You know or all that stuff
But like really those things were not of interest to me because I knew the bible was the inspired and errant word of god
And I trusted it like that so like these things like a q gospel
It just it wasn't relevant to me because I I had the truth that stuff was just not going to shake me
That's why I focused on the language is so much because that's that's what I cared about
Because the other things didn't really bother me. So when I got to hopkins
I was still interviewing and like meeting some of the grad students and a friend of mine andrew
A good friend of mine now, you know, I I was talking to him and he was kind of getting to know me and he said
Oh, okay. So it's you're an evangelical and I said, yeah, and he goes. Well, this will be interesting
What do you mean? He said, well, we'll just see how long it lasts and I was like
Yeah, well get ready to get disappointed, you know inside. I'm thinking well, you know, you're gonna be the first person
I'm gonna try to lead to christ, right?
And he like he identified as a christian, right? Like went to a protestant church, you know, but he just wasn't
A real christian, right? Of course. Um, he wasn't a ninth axe nine. Uh, right. Yeah
Heretic pushmouth bridge. Yeah, but he said, well, this this will be interesting. And so, uh, I started taking classes
and
You know when I gave my testimony my deconversion story
In a video several years ago
And I said, you know, somebody asked me how long
It took like how long was my deconversion process and I answered about 45 minutes
And it's it's good like that's true, but it's true from a certain perspective. So I
I'll try to develop it here. So I started taking courses and I was taking
Um, of course, Hebrew courses, Hebrew readings. We were going through the book of Kohelet Ecclesiastes
We were also going through, uh, epigraphy old, old Hebrew inscriptions and uh, and I was taking
This history cycle the history of syrupa Palestine
So going through all the history of the region starting back in like the third millennium and, uh, on top of that
I was like reading these Sumerian and Akkadian literate texts
So these ancient flood stories, you know, I was taking five courses at a time and
like studying
70 hours a week 60 65 70 hours a week. It was crazy the the amount of time I was spending studying
At every turn it was like wait
Like this doesn't seem to match up with like what I know very well about the history that's presented in the bible
But at each, you know at each turn I was like, yeah, but I mean come on
Something's wrong here. The the information they're giving me can't be right
So I remember when we were learning about the Habiru and I was like wait
There's this like that sounds a lot like, you know, and then of course
They brought up that people have argued for a connection with the word ivory and Hebrew
And so I was like, well, couldn't this mean just like ancient israelites like isn't that possible?
So I'm even here. I'm trying to like rationalize it in my head like come on like there's got to be a good answer here
But it just it at every turn it was like man
This this does not fit with you know
And so this took maybe like half the semester half of the first semester, but it was intense
I mean intense every day all the subjects that I was studying fit into this category of having to face
You know a lot of my fundamentalist beliefs about history
It's throwing out a few more just to get the audience on the same page
I'm wondering and let me know the earlier flood myths you mentioned in passing but this
You realize you know, they're older like the textual data for the bible
You would have to make this assumption that somehow orally it's been kept and finally gets written down
Wait, wait, wait thousands of years after the flood happens thousands
I mean three four thousand years after Noah, you know, you get this written down in this book
What's more plausible what's more likely you're dealing with the material data that's older than the bible and I'm looking at this
I'm reading Atrahasis. I'm reading the epic of Gilgamesh in its original languages
Yeah, like and I'm reading through the Sumerian of course at this point
I'm still learning Sumerian and Acadian, but like I'm reading as I'm translating through and I'm reading it in English
And I'm like like what this is
But I again like you you you can you can rationalize those things for a while right
So are you not you don't see them as you're trying to make your cognitive dissonance in a way, but you're like it's clear
This is the same as this right these two are connected. Yeah
and
But I remember one class in
The history of Syria Palestine
We had just taken time and studied through the Amarna period which is devastating to the exodus traditional exodus view
Like my rationalizations were starting to run out and I remember we got to the late bronze age collapse
Like the fall the end of the late bronze age and we started studying the sea peoples
And I learned about the Peleset and the Peleset were the Philistines and that
45 minute class was like the straw that broke the camels back for me
And what it did is it put a chink in the armor and the moment that happened
Because of my fundamentalist evangelical view if one thing is wrong
Inerrancy goes out the window if there's no way that I can figure out how this can be right
It all goes out
And what it did is it it just it made me take a step back
Because all of that stuff leading up through the semester
Like if that was wrong, well, maybe all of these things are wrong too
And if that's the case, let me just take a step back here and not that I went in those terms
But that's what happened is I just took a step back and I said
I mean the thing that best explains this is and if this is just another ancient Near Eastern set of text
Like is it that of necessity? Right? Like did I say well, this proves Christianity wrong or something?
Well, I proved my version of Christianity wrong as far as I was concerned because it's historically
This historical grammatical hermeneutic this inerrancy inspiration view that I had was like nothing can be wrong historically
But that doesn't like I remember my friend Mark Zimmerman who went through a seminary with me
Like he was coming up every week. I had a lot of anxiety being in the city Baltimore
And he would come up and he would take me out every Thursday evening to dinner at UNO's pizzeria
They go out and we'd have a pizza
He was such a great friend and we'd walk around this parking lot or walk around Ellicott City and we'd get a coffee
And we just talk about all the things I was struggling with and each week it was like he was
Trying to pull me back from the edge and he would say, okay
All right, let's assume for a second that the fundamentalist view of the text that that we have to
Change our view of inerrancy, right? Isn't that possible?
Maybe there are updates or maybe there are things that got wrong and we just have to change how we're viewing
View inerrancy and my response would always be yeah, but I mean like it seems like a better explanation
Then is that these are just ancient texts that men wrote
So it wasn't the case that I was saying, aha this
Like deductively proves Christianity wrong. I still don't hold to that position
I don't think that my wife is a Christian. So I don't think that it disproves Christianity
I think what it does is it necessitates that Christianity have to take a different model
It can't hold to this inerrancy view
Certainly not the one that I held to that's what did it I want to probe this for a moment psychologically because
You have a lot of Christian apologists
We love to address and like tackle bad arguments and debunk
Ridiculous claims and also highlight things Christian apologists want to avoid
But another one that I hear a lot of Christian apologists love to latch on to and it's not just the apologist
But Christians in general often times
Mostly apologists will say stuff like well notice you were an evangelical fundamentalist
You just traded one extreme for the other and became an atheist
Right. I'm not here to defend atheism or your conclusion that there may not be a god or you don't think there is
But I do want to get into the mindset as to why we went from that instead of just
Landing on liberal Christianity for 12 more years before we finally go. Did I even need this? Yeah, some people do that
But for us we went evangelical your description of the gospel
It's going to sound derogatory, but I don't mean it
We were nuts for jesus
Obsessed Jesus freaks, right 100 percent
So you go from that and now you realize you were told
Not truths. Yeah, you were told and it uplifted everything about your worldview
I want to like I want to probe that a little with you josh to kind of get
Why we can go from that to that and for me
I'm going to go to baffer guys like this for a second here and say to my liberal christian friends who go
You just went, you know, you should have tried orthodoxy. You should have tried, you know
Roman Catholicism I've heard the we're a way more sophisticated and we accepted genesis one through 11 as in
As a mythic, you know, and and good for you guys
But once we found out that that wasn't true is extreme as we were about jesus
We were ready to go as extreme and really dissecting the truth. Yeah, you told us a false good
Well, guess what I want to know. Did jesus even really rise from the dead?
What about the other?
Surrounding cultural or mythic godmen that claim to be alive after death have ascension narratives. The list goes on
I'm making a point. Yeah, they're not venturing into that. They're totally comfortable. They're in this like cozy middle ground
Where it's luke warmish in my opinion. They weren't hot for it
So I didn't know one way or the other and when I did that, that's what led me
Do you feel that I'm speaking
For you in a way when I say that or what is your personal?
I don't know if you've ever dated someone
You know, you notice
something seems off right or if you if you watch a tv show and
You know, like the the the guy
Does something that leads his girlfriend to say like I don't I don't think you're like being faithful to me
Right, you you're coming in kind of late here. He goes. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no
Totally see why it seems that way. But let me explain why right? So actually I've had to work late here
You know, we've got this other thing going on. Oh, okay. That makes sense, right?
The next week you you smell like perfume, right? Yeah, I know I totally get it
Yeah, it makes sense. Why you would think that I'm cheating on you. No, I promise. I'm not right
There's this woman that sits right next to me in the cubicle. My goodness. She sprays on a lot of perfume, right?
That's why I smell like perfume. Oh, okay. I mean that makes sense, right?
You know next week there's like lipstick on his collar. Yeah. Yeah, I know I know
Really looks like it. I you know, my mother came uh to uh to see me at work
And uh, like I think she she slipped and she must have gotten some lipstick. She wears a lot of lipstick, you know
individual
Things that seem out of place
Come up over a period of time
Spread out. It's easy to form an apologetic argument that explains it away
So following this I can I can that guy could keep coming in late after he's made that first explanation about why he's late coming home
He's already explained and she's already considered reasonable. Yeah, he's working late
So that's why he's not coming home on time
Then the perfume right like that after he explains that the next week he could have perfume on us fine because I can't see that lady in the cubicle
Oh my gosh, I can't stand it now imagine that he comes home late
He smells like perfume and he's got lipstick on his collar all at once
It's a lot harder to get somebody to believe. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Well, I had to stay late with this woman who
Smells a lot like perfume and she tripped and you know, my mother came and like in other words when it's all at once
It's a lot harder to think. Yeah, that's possible because you have to have three or four or ten
Yeah, it's possible that
Explanations whereas when you get them one at a time particularly in a controlled environment
It's easier to say. Yeah. So then when it comes up again, you go. Yeah, but I've already dealt with that
I've already dealt. I'll only have to deal with this one. Right. That's what I think
Happens with people that say things to me and to you like well, you should have tried liberal christianity
Or you should have tried like, you know, like we hear this all the time. Like, yeah, I don't believe in like a literal
Creation story or like a literal worldwide flood. I think that this is like it's describing
A much smaller event or a localized event or it's actually these are, you know, the
600,000 fighting men. Actually, this is only like a small unit of men
And so when you go to a school that focuses on apologetic arguments
Particularly a school that is really good at dealing with the ancient eras during context and literature
In this controlled environment with professors that you trust
They can massage it through. They can bring this one. Okay, let's deal with why
The genesis narrative looks like entrejasus. Okay, let's let's just deal with that. And if you can do that
It allows you over time. Well, we've already dealt with that. Well, we've already dealt with that
Well, we've already dealt with that, right? So then you see this all the time when somebody, you know, you go in clubhouse or something
Or you listen to a debate and somebody says, well, look here. Um, nebuchadnezzar is not
Uh, belch is our father immediately. You can see it in their eyes if they've worked on the book of daniel at all
They're like, yeah, but you don't understand Semitic words. Well, because father can also mean grandfather
Right, they have settled that in their mind. Well, like that's just a
small possibility
But if you take it one at a time, it's it's a substantial amount of possibility because really all you need is a possibility
To answer the question and then once it's answered, it's behind you. I've already answered that
I've already dealt with that and so that leads that can lead to things like yeah, but but he wasn't his grandfather either
Right, so sure it's possible that it means grandfather here
But nebuchadnezzar wasn't his grandfather either. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, but like nara glisser married, you know
One of the daughters of nebuchadnezzar and so it's possible that nabanite is also married
Like now you're going is it possible that it's possible that it's possible
Right, you're like three possibilities in
Whereas if I were to give you in a controlled environment
With professors that you trust all of this data at once and you I have to like I have to look at my professors and go
I mean, I think you know about the amarna period
Right. I think you know about the archaeology of the late bronze age
Like I think you know about iron one and they do
right
That all of these things
Coming at once makes it very very difficult to say coming home late smelling of perfume and having lipstick on your collar
I can't explain all those away right now. Like that's real. That's and it makes me
take a step back
And say is it necessarily true that he's cheating on me? No
It's possible that he's coming home with reasonable explanations
What's the simplest easiest?
This is exactly what happened to bart airman. Yeah, and just he mentioned he was working overtime
Exhausting into this thing in the gospel of matthew. I think it was a mark and then like jesus quoted
Something and it was about somebody in the old testament and it wasn't accurate
Like and he's trying to make it work
So that the lipstick and the perfume and the this and then finally he goes to his professor
I think it's bruce metzger at the time
It might have been someone else and he just was like look at this. I mean did that do isn't this brilliant
Yeah, and he's like couldn't the gospel of mark had just made a mistake and it
exploded his brain
like
Why have I been doing this and really what is the motive we're trying to defend?
Like I would a parent a brother a sibling like something that's so important a spouse a child
You're going to defend them even if they're wrong and this is the key, right? This is the key
I think that even my evangelical friends today because at like at hopkins
I had a very good evangelical friend. We're still very good friends now
But we were connected at the hip all seven years that we were together at hopkins
We would have these we'd be translating somerian together in the library four in the morning or whatever five in the morning
And I like I'd take a break and I'd look up at him and I'd say like how do you how do you
How do you know Jesus is real man? Like how do you like how do you know that you're really saved?
How do you know that Jesus was god and that god has saved you and like I had a personal experience with Jesus christ, man
I would say well, how do you how do you know it wasn't enki? How do you know it wasn't you know
Enlil that that was that he said well, I just know right and I think that this is sort of the point
is that when when apologists come to
Problems in the text
They're not coming at it from a neutral standpoint. They're not right
They're coming at it in the same way that when you watch the show monk, you know
Monk is this detective that just like every other detective show like there are always these crazy
impossible murders
That take place and for all the world it looks like the person that monk identifies in the beginning of the episode as the murder
There's no way he could have committed that crime
He was in outer space for goodness sake at the time right and monk says
He did it because you've watched the show
You know that he's right and so all you need in the show is the mere
Possibility that it could have happened
so so like you'll accept
He had a a radio signal that he sent
uh
A perfect example is monk finds they find this woman
Who's uh the wife of a radio disc jockey her radio talk show host or something is
Dead in her bedroom having died from propane. I guess it was propane
but some sort of gas from the fireplace and
She'd accidentally turned the the knob on and forgot to light the pilot
And so all the gas just came in and she laid down and she died at the time
Of the murder or of her death the guy is live on the air
Doing a radio show like an hour on either side or something
Impossible there's no way he could have done it monk says he did so you know
He did you trust the show right?
And so it turns out that he trained the dog every day to respond to a voice command over the radio
Knowing that the radio would be on next door
And it was the next door neighbor's dog and he trained him to go and turn the the gas on
Right and so he said this command over the air during that radio show
And the dog heard it ran up turned it on killed her the mere
Possibility was all you needed as the as the viewer and that's what christian apologetics is because you're not coming to this saying
You know the best explanation for this is that av means grandfather here in daniel and actually nara glisser because nara glisser
That means nab and i just must have that's the most reasonable explanation right no you're saying
I believe that this is the inspired and air word of god and I trust god therefore
Can I find a possible explanation? That's good enough for me. So you're looking at genesis and you see it
It's it's it's a later myth that is reworking earlier myths you expert
You have an expertise in this and you know this
I love the all of these examples that you've given and I want to focus just saying jesus right the new testament talks about
heroes
It says things that look really strange and fishy by the author saying jesus said he's going to rise all of this stuff
And you have these critical scholars who come in and go you know something looks fishy about these gospels
They don't even agree with each other on several points. They do contradict on issues. You start seeing it
You don't work around it. You don't go well monk said you go
Something doesn't look right. I don't have that I trust monk conclusion
That's what the authors really want you to do
I mean they they write so that they convince you some of the gospels literally say
I'm writing this so that you know you will be convinced and I wrote an article
On academia dot com my only article that I wrote on minimal dow's argument
I reversed the minimal facts argument and showed in the new testament
My whole thing was we should doubt and the reason is
Even the earliest I witnessed supposed people who saw the risen jesus in some way the first Corinthians 15 list
According to the gospels the disciples themselves doubted and I'm not talking about before jesus died and rose
I'm saying matthew 28 has them on the mountain galley
jesus has risen
He supposedly appears to them in some way visionary wise and it says they all worshiped but some doubted
They're right there with jesus and they doubted you're reading a text that is thousands of years removed
Not original autographs scribal transmissions with errors and
Go to any textual critic and you'll see my point is is you're gonna tell me you shouldn't doubt
This is why I said in the fourth gospel
That jesus breaks the fourth wall. It's like he's saying thomas
You see and you touch and that's why you believe
But
Blessed are you right jesus winks?
Because you see or because blessed are you who don't see because you're not going to and don't touch
Because you're not going to but still believe with his flowing golden locks of hair
But like I love everything you said there and there's that trust
So when we hear though, they want to reverse the role
Yeah, and go oh no you act like you're not biased
We all have them of course my god
But the we're not approaching it as we need to trust monk and trust me
I see atheists out there that do the reversal like sure anything monk says i'm just not gonna believe in it's like dude
Stop i'm approaching this going
What seems to be the easiest answer the guy's cheating on you the lipstick. Oh and guess what you weren't noticing this
I went through his phone and found there's six numbers by females that he's met with at different locations
I checked his credit card guess what's also
Apologists aren't even noticing all of that stuff. They've ignored the the the the telephone numbers on the phone
The credit card sheets and and a good example of this or comparison of this would be that you
Well, you know, let's say that you're another woman and you're telling this girlfriend
Well, he's over there cheating on you and i've got all this evidence and she says to you now
You just want to date you just want him for yourself, right? I'm not even gonna look at your evidence
I don't believe you fabricated because you have a bias right you want to date him yourself
I can't trust you. I hear this all the time
Like a standard trope
When I go to clubhouse for example is to hear well, I mean liberal scholars
It doesn't matter what data I present it like they don't care
Because if it's not coming from a conservative evangelical scholar
They just conclude that i'm the spawn of satan and I have this axe to grind where I have to prove atheism
Let me just clue you in. I don't give a fuck if there turns out to be a god tomorrow
Hey, that's awesome. Like I don't care
That's not the point. We need to be able to try try hard to set our biases aside
and say
Let's come to the data as as neutrally as we can my wife is a christian
Like she's a theist people and I love my wife and I think she's brilliant
Then I don't think she's irrational at all for her belief
It's just she looks at the data and says this is likely and I look at it and go
No, I'm not really I don't think it is likely right, but I like I just I have no dog in this fight
So yeah, I think um one note on that and then I want to wrap the bow on your story
And I'm making it this very brief is that liberal scholarship. I was conservative like you
It was in my myth vision journey and interviewing christopher d stanley and others who are experts on paul
And showing how the new testament is using the old testament, but isn't using it the way it was
They were liberal in their interpretation and how they wanted to
Mean what they wanted to use it to mean
So they were very liberal in how they were quoting
The bible to make their their points that was a shocker to me
Even as a non-believer for at least a year and a half by then when I first heard this
I was like the new testament authors were liberal and we're over here trying to go well that fact says and it means what it says
And it's like actually no, but your bubble's popped
You're asking and colleagues and so now you've written can you show everybody these books here because you've taken
There's more to these books than what means the eye. I mean
Obviously you can see you've got atheist handbook one and two. You're working on three
You've got several books on slavery because these are pertinent topics. Yeah, I see a lot of
Where you were and you're answering
joshua bowen the old joshua bowen
In these books. Yeah
And I see that I do the same thing when I'm out here addressing there are people
I know that think this way, but I'm really talking about me
In where I was so wrap up the bow of your journey and where you're at now
So the bible you realize looks man-made looks like other myths
You start to become more like I need evidence to believe there is a god
I need evidence to believe this is the god kind of position now, right?
I think what I would say
Characterizes where I am today and how that journey is during the rest of my time
at hopkins
For the most part. It wasn't a concern. It wasn't a concern of any of the faculty. It wasn't really a concern of
My own my own study, you know, whether
The god of the bible was true and it was just it wasn't really we didn't have time to think about those sorts of things
It came up in discussions with my friend Caleb, but like generally speaking
It was just it didn't it didn't really come up where I am today
I'm not like out here being an anti-theist or something
I know that my book is called the atheist handbook to the old testament primarily because it's it's geared toward
atheists and skeptics who are arguing with fundamentalist evangelical christians. That's who
I'm interested in in engaging with and the reason that I'm interested in engaging with fundamentalist evangelicals
Is because they're one of the groups that believes that they have the
correct interpretation of the text and because of that they will work very hard
To make sure that everybody they can is held to their beliefs, right?
I just today frank turrick tweeted something about
Should like why should like what are the reasons the good reasons assuming that like he assumes that they should why should
Christians try to legislate their morality and that's scary to me
Right, because this fundamentalist evangelical view of the text has to defend slavery
Right, they either have to figure out a way to get the text to say that it doesn't talk about slavery that it doesn't talk about genocide
That it doesn't talk about rape. It doesn't talk about sexual slavery
But like it has to go into all these things because they're taking this view of the text that says
This is the inspired and errant word of god in its originals
And we have reliable copies here and this is god's word
And what he says is true and therefore we should like love the sinner and hate the sin
But homosexuality is awful and we need to outlaw it and we need to outlaw
We need to keep make sure that trans people don't have rights and we need to make sure that
This is the approach that I think needs to change because
interpretations
There's nothing wrong with people having different interpretations of ancient texts
There's nothing wrong with people having interpretations of anything the problem is
When someone says my interpretation is right and i'm going to make sure
That you are held to it. That's what i'm out here against because if people could say well
I'm not a fundamentalist. I'm not gonna
I'm not going to be dogmatic and say that my interpretation the right one
You you have your interpretive model and that works for you. I have mine that works for us
We're going to focus on
Humanitarian we're going to focus on being good humanists. We're going to focus on working for the betterment of society based on what benefits
People like and have those ethical discussions from that perspective not saying this
2023 year old 2023 100 year old book says x therefore that's what we have to do
That's what i'm out here trying to do is bring people into that more liberal christianity
If people could say i'm not a fundamentalist anymore
I would consider my job well done because liberal christians don't try to restrict the rights of others in my experience
Get his books sign up for his course on mvp courses mvp dash courses and uh, thank you dr. Josh. Thank you
