We are
MythVision, home of MythVision podcast and MythVision radio group. My co-host is Kevin Maximum Effect Maxwell.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams. We're on Facebook, so give us a like, please, and don't forget to like, subscribe, share,
comment, discuss, do all those things on our YouTube.
Don't you let that PayPal and Patreon account get by you. Grab them and show us some green, warm and fuzzy, okay?
Coming up on March 21st, we've got author, filmmaker and esoteric educator, Cullen Smith on the show.
Well, a famous viewer contacted me as soon as he heard that on this show, we'd be talking about Moses, Israel's lawgiver.
You may not know his name, but you know his face and his cool leather threads.
In fact, this guy put the tang in orangutan. Please welcome from the Planet of the Apes franchise, the Lawgiver.
Lawgiver, thanks for coming down the mountain to talk with us.
Long ago before your Moses figure, we apes ruled planet earth. I am a descendant of a long line of lawgivers.
We had a covenant with man and man deceived us. They began to multiply and took over the world.
Apes ruled the bulls in your so-called age of Taurus before your reckless species destroyed our order.
Hmm. Really, the whole Moses myth was invented by you apes.
Okay, sounds like there was some bull involved there somewhere for sure.
Why don't you hear what our special guest has to say about it, will you?
Before his retirement in 2010, Bill Darlison was the senior minister of the Dublin Unitarian Church.
He served as president of the General Assembly of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches in Britain and Ireland.
Bill has written for a host of publications, The Inquirer, The Unitarian, The Astrological Journal,
The Furrow, The Irish Times, and The Gnostic. He is the author of The Gospel and the Zodiac,
The Secret Truth About Jesus, published in 2007 and translated into the German and Czech languages.
He has also written two collections of spiritual stories, The Shortest Distance and Concentration
and Compassion, and the more recent works, The Celestial Journey of the Soul and Struggling with God.
All these are available from Amazon or Lulu.
The Celestial Journey of the Soul in particular covers the same ground as the Gospel and the Zodiac,
but in a more accessible form. He blogs occasionally giving forth
uplifting words at billdarlison.blogspot.com, and he's also listed on the MythVision podcast group site.
Bill can be contacted via email at billdarlison, that's D-A-R-L-I-S-O-N at hotmail.com.
He enjoys retirement in Ireland with his lovely wife, Morag, and his latest book is entitled
Moses the Matador, and it focuses on astrothiology in the book of Exodus, and we're excited because we
at MythVision get the first crack at him. That's right, you're joining us for the very first interview
in the United States about the new book. Bill, wonderful to have you with us. How are you doing?
I'm very well. Thank you, Luther. Hello. Hello, Kevin.
Yeah, nice to see you and talk finally.
Yeah. Great. You know, Bill, you lay forth a lot of truth in this book that hasn't been laid bare
before, and you cite all the astrothiological scholars of the past who have traveled your road.
People like William Drummond and Robert Taylor, and I'm thinking about something that the German
philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer said. He said that when you release truth, there are essentially
three reactions to it. First, it is ridiculed. Secondly, it's violently opposed, and then finally,
it's accepted as given. So what has been the reaction to this work of yours in the field of
astrothiology? Well, it's a good question, really, Luther, and you mentioned two names there from
200 years ago, and their work has been virtually ignored by mainstream conventional orthodox
scholarship. And I first really came across these ideas in 2011, although I have been working on the
New Testament, particularly on the Gospel of Mark, and the notion that it has got a zodiacal structure.
So I had some familiarity with these ideas, but in 2011, quite by chance, as often these things
happen, I happened to be in a secondhand bookshop in Devonport in Auckland, New Zealand, and again,
how these things occur, a book seemed to jump off the shelf at me, and it was this one. Can you see it?
Can you lift it a little higher?
Edipus judaicis, and it's allegory in the Old Testament, and I picked it up, and my wife and I
were supposed to be going to a party organised for us by the congregation in Auckland, but I
really didn't want to go to the party. I wanted to go back to our apartment and read this book,
but we did go, and when I got back home, I started to read it, and the next day,
I read it completely and was really quite bold over by it, you know? But why I mentioned that is
because Drummond wrote this book in 1811, and I picked up a reprint of it 200 years later,
but it has been virtually for 200 years, ignored, and then my researchers put me on to
this other chap, Robert Taylor. Can you see this book here? Oh, yeah. This is called The Devil's
Pulpit. Now, Taylor was an Anglican clergyman. He'd begun his working life as a physician,
but he was persuaded to go to university and study for the Anglican clergy, and he became
a clergyman, an evangelical clergyman, but gradually his ideas changed, and he realised
that what looked like history in the book of Genesis and, well, throughout the so-called Old
Testament was really about astronomy, and so he left the Anglican church, although he still dressed
in clerical garb when he appeared giving lectures, and he lectured in Dublin particularly, but also
in England, and was called The Devil's Chaplain because what people felt that he was preaching
The Devil's Message, and he was put in jail twice because blasphemy at that time in Britain was
a punishable offence. Now, he wasn't so much what he was saying, but the manner in which he said it
would seem to be making fun of traditional Christian theology, and so I started to work
with his ideas and with Drummond, and came to the same conclusions that they did, that in fact,
so much of what we read as history in the Jewish scriptures, and of course in the Christian scriptures,
is in fact very thinly veiled astronomy and astrology, so that's what got me started. Now,
why I mention this is because since these two men, and very intelligent and persuasive men, they were,
since they have been ignored for 200 years, I can't really expect not to be ignored, so I am
quite, I am quite happy at this time of my life to put these ideas out in a new form and to see
them disappear into the ether, so that's all one can do really. I think orthodoxy is not now capable
of putting us in prison, but it's certainly capable of ignoring us, and that's about as
has the same effect really, just in fact, jail would be good because you'd get some publicity
for that. Oh yeah, no kidding. So, you know, my ideas on the Gospel of Mark
I think are irrefutable. I think that if you really seriously and objectively look at the evidence that
I propose for the Gospel of Mark having a Zoniakal structure, it cannot be refuted. Now,
nobody has attempted to refuse it. A number of people have said it's nontons because it's astrology,
but that is the, that's really the extent of their reasoning. But what I would like to see someone
try to do is to take a similar document, a document of the same kind of length, and try to impose upon
it a Zoniakal structure. And now nobody's been able to do that, or else to take my work and to
show how the things that I say refer to the Zoniak don't refer to the Zoniak. Now, neither of those
groups have been followed, and so the book has simply disappeared as one would expect really,
and as I've come to experience over the last 12 years or so that it's been out.
Because people are wedded, absolutely, and you don't realize how wedded people are to history,
you know, to the idea that it's history, even though it's absurd, you know, to read it as history
is, and you think this is nonsense. And I have a principle of scriptural scholarship,
which is simply this. If it sounds absurd, if it reads as absurd, this is deliberate on the part
of the writers saying to don't take this as history, and I'm putting in a few absurdities
so they won't take it as history, and try to make it into history.
You don't think we should have 40,000 denominations?
Yes, yes. I think it's effect by some yearbook or other. All of them arguing over, you know, I mean,
you know, this is a copy of my book on Moses here, and it has Orion up here in the, ah,
yes, that's better. See, you guys are showing off. Mine is an e-book. I've only got the Kindle
edition. I can't flaunt mine, okay. In the book, the first chapter, in fact, is about
the fact that if a creator god was trying to communicate with the human race,
the last thing he would choose, or she would choose, would be a book. Because every text you ever read,
it can be interpreted in numerous ways. And that the whole history of Christendom
demonstrates the absolute truth of that statement. That, you know, the famous joke by Emo, you know,
Emo Phillips, the comedian. Have you come across him? When I lived in America in the early 90s,
he was quite a popular comedian. He appeared on the Johnny Carson show, and the David Letterman
show, and so on. He had a very unique kind of style. But he, he told a joke which has been called
the most, the best religious joke of all time. And I've got a copy of it here, and I'll read it to
you if you don't mind. Because it kind of sums this up. It says, once I saw this guy on a bridge
about to jump, and I said, don't do it. He said, nobody loves me. I said, God loves you. Do you
believe in God? Yes. I said, are you a Christian or a Jew? A Christian. Me too. Protestant or Catholic.
Protestant. Me too. What franchise? Baptist. Me too. Northern Baptist or Southern Baptist.
Northern Baptist. Me too. Northern conservative Baptist or Northern liberal Baptist.
Northern conservative Baptist. I said, me too. Northern conservative Baptist Great Lakes Region
or Northern conservative Baptist? Northern conservative Baptist Great Lakes Region.
I said, me too. Northern conservativelooking Lakes Region Council of 1879 or Northern
I said, I had a tic, and I pushed him over.
So the idea that God would reveal him or herself in a written text is, I think, quite
preposterous. And the Protestantism, particularly, because at least the Catholics
have got the idea that, in fact, the text cannot interpret itself. And there has to be a body
which stands beyond the text, which will provide principles of interpretation. That at least is
a sensible approach. But the notion that one can simply pick up a text and read it and have it say
the same thing to you that it says to me is quite ridiculous. William Blake, famous lion in Proverbs
of Heaven and Hell, both read the Bible day and night, but thou reads black where I read white.
And that's the way it goes. Right, we saw that. Yeah, go ahead, Kevin.
I have this picture in my mind of the Bible. It's like a table full of puzzle pieces. And
everybody's finding pieces that sort of fit together, and they all paint their own picture.
So it's like, how does this thing actually go together? Because if somebody in history was
intelligent like us today and sophisticated, and they were trying to put these books together,
you would think they would know that it's not to be taken literally or something, whatever.
So, yeah. I think one of the things about it is the number of things in the Bible,
the number of statements in the Bible, which are contradictory and cannot be reconciled
one with another. And it was origin in the beginning of the third Christian century,
who actually said that this was a deliberate ploy on the part of the editors, really,
of the Bible, the people who brought it all together. And he said that if you take the very
first bit of the Bible where the first thing God creates is light, but we don't get any sun until
day four, or is it day four or something like that. So he says, this is deliberate because
then one has to look at what is meant by light, that the actual anomaly there in the text forces
you to look more closely at what the text is trying to say, instead of simply adopting a
a literal view of it, which of course makes it nonsensical.
Well, yeah. And Jesus even says, like, is there not 12 hours in a day, right? So he who walks in
the day does not stumble. So like, you take that parable and it's so it's an obvious parable,
but it's talking about like the sun and it's astronomical metaphor. So it's like, you're
saying whoever in the light shines on all people, so all men do not stumble in that sense, right?
So and like as soon as you apply that to that universal metaphor, like Jesus is always teaching
from the universe and things that apply to everybody, he's not just teaching about one
denomination like these are the list of doctrines. No, he's using examples actually from nature that
everybody experiences. Yeah, that's why I think that's cool. But yeah, I have one question,
more question actually here. You were talking about the Hexad. They said it's like a graceful
herald, the snowflake, it brings perfection, structure and order, the marriage by multiplication
of two and three, even an odd six is also the number of creation with a cosmos made in six
days, a common theme in scripture. So here you're actually talking about more of a positive sense
because you see it, we see it in nature. And but but I've heard this idea from Santos Bonacci or
others that when they cast a spell on you, it's you're putting a hex on you and it's you're being
cursed. So that so it's like almost like the Jews, they you have the hexagon inside this
star of David. It's like, well, there's these guys like Jordan Maxwell, who will say,
well, they're just showing everybody that they're hexed, which is a little bit of conspiratorial
thinking. But I don't know, I was just wondering what you where you got your ideas on the hexad.
Yeah, I was, I think that particular quotation is comes right at the end of the book. And it was,
it was, I think it was it after six days, it's a kind of statement in the text, which looks like
a simple stage direction or something, but after six days. But I don't think the numbers are ever
throwaways, you know, he couldn't have said after seven days, it's after six and six has got
a particular kind of meaning. But hence the six days of creation. So six has got this sense of
being complete. And then, but also, in a sense, perfect, hence the connection with the snowflake,
which you know, perfect, but also every snowflake is completely different. So that you know,
this sense also of multiplicity, and diversity within perfection. All of these things are conjured up
in the esoteric mind, at least by the number six. And it could be that therefore,
it has a sense of power in it. And it might well be then that those people who were who are interested
in casting spells and so on might use it because it is it has a power within it built into it.
But, you know, I think the last thing we should ever do with the Bible in any of its parts is to
treat the numbers as casual references. I was looking today at the Gospel of John, which I,
when I finished the book of Moses, I said to myself, that's it now, I've had enough of this Bible
I've got to study Shakespeare in the way I promised myself in many, many ways.
I used to teach Shakespeare, and I really wanted to get back to it. But then, you know, these things
won't leave you alone. And I think it was in fact you, Kevin, you posted something on one of the
Facebook pages that I thought, Oh, Kevin's into this too, I had better pursue it. And so I started
and I was translating the Gospel from the Greek, because it is easy Greek, the Gospel of John,
it's not not too difficult. And with a with a lexicon, you know, you can you can handle it.
And I said to myself, I've got a bit of it here that that's
all the places that are named in the first chapter, they don't exist. No, they're not,
nobody knows where they are. Now, surely scholars should have thought to themselves,
um, why don't we know where John the Baptist was doing his baptizing? He says Bethany, but
there is also another Bethany, which is not across the Jordan. And where is this Bethany
across the Jordan? But then you look at the text and some of them say, not Bethany at all, but
what's it called? Beth Abara. Now, Beth Abara means the place or the house of the crossing,
of the crossing over. Now, you think, what's going on here?
What is the crossing about? You know what I mean? And so you start then to look and gallealing,
gallealing. It comes from a root, a Hebrew root, gal, galal, which means circle.
Circle, it's a circle, right. And so
locating them as places, but not really being able to find them, you know, just conjecturing that
they might be here or whatever. We're losing the point of the whole story. And then, you know,
in chapter two of John, we have
the wedding at Cana. Nobody knows where Cana is. They know it's in Galilee,
but they don't know what we're about to do. But this is from a Hebrew root,
means read or measuring wrong. You know, the reads that are mentioned throughout the Old Testament.
And now, so here, you know, Moses is rod and Aaron's rod. These are all connected with,
if you like, what they call the Axis Mundi, the relationship between earth and sky. So Cana
is the place of the read, the place of the measure. And what are, you know, these
the six water jars that are standing there at the marriage feast in Cana. Now,
I just looked at this this morning. Now, it says in Phaeus Greek Lixicon,
but Mertreta is the measure. It says it's the name of a utensil known as an amphora,
which is a species of measure used for liquids and containing 72 Zestoi. Now, 72.
Where have we met 72 before? You know what I mean? 72. The magic number really in the Bible.
Why is this mentioned? Now, I could be, this could be pure coincidence. It could be. But
there are none, you know, thinking that John was a careless writer,
or any of them were careless writers, and that they, you know, that these details are irrelevant,
is I think one of the mistakes we make, that 72 is a reference to the procession of the equinox.
And we have, you know, the whole of my Moses stuff is really based around the number 72.
And you find it again throughout the Bible. You find it in the New Testament. Jesus sends out
72 disciples to Christ. Right. I think I think it's Luke chapter 10.
It is. Yeah. Why 72? Why on earth does he send out 72? Why do 72 people come down from Canaan
into Egypt with Jacob? Well, there's Jacob and Joseph and 70 other people making 72.
And one thing I discovered, which again was remarkable when I did discover it, was that
the three verses in Exodus, which describe the actual crossing over the so-called Red Sea,
the three verses which describe that each of these verses have got 72 Hebrew characters.
Now, again, is this purely fortuitous? Or is 72 have a real important significance? Now,
generally speaking, scholars completely ignore it, but 72 is the distance that the equinox travels
in one year. You know, in the great circle of the zodiac, the equinox moves. The spring equinox,
when measured against the zodiac, moves gradually. And it moves one degree every 72 years. And so
here's a matter of some significance, really, because the whole of the Moses story
is about the movement of the equinox from Taurus into Aries. And so 72 has relevance
in that particular connection. So what looks like a historical incident, namely the crossing of the
so-called Red Sea by the Israelites, is thinly veiled astronomy. And the story which precedes it,
the story of Joseph, similarly, is the movement of the equinox 2000 years earlier
from Gemini into Taurus. So here we have the patriarchs, so-called, of Judaism.
We have Jacob and Esau, twins. Twins. Now, where are we going here with this? Twins.
The equinox was in Gemini 2000 years before. It was in Taurus. So Jacob hands on
the equinox to his favorite son, who is Joseph. And Joseph represents Taurus because he has this
fancy coat, this beautiful coat. Now, the most beautiful and spectacular constellation in the
Zodiac is Taurus. So to say that Joseph has this wonderful coat of many colors, that's the way
that it's described, isn't it? But it just means a coat that stands out from the rest,
as Taurus stands out from the rest. And then Joseph has a dream. The translators always say that the
eleven stars bow down to him. Now, what the eleven stars? In Hebrew, the word for star and for
constellation is the same. Kokavim means constellations. So it is the eleven constellations
that are bowing down now to Taurus. As Taurus becomes the leading constellation, because now
the equinox is taking place in that. So the eleven constellations bow down and, of course, they're
jealous of Joseph and the way that he's arrayed.
What struck me was that Venus is the ruler of Taurus. And that's representing the beauty.
So it's the beautiful coat, right? And the word adornment is a feminine word in the New Testament.
Yes. So it's like it all fits together. It does. And you see, I mean, Jesus is the son of Joseph,
too. You know, I mean, so here we have a connection between the Joseph, who is in Genesis,
and Jesus as well. Because in one sense, they are representatives of the moving equinox. The
equinox into Taurus is Joseph. The equinox into Aries is Moses. The equinox into Pisces is Jesus.
The fish, you know, the very first, the very first representation of Jesus was not the cross.
It was the fish, ichthus in Greek. And they made this into an acrostic, didn't they? Jesus Christ
of God, the Son, Savior. But these initial letters are the Greek word for fish. So Jesus
was the fish. And as Moses was, the ram, I mean, goodness me, can we not read these stories? We
find them wrong. Hey, Bill, Bill, you pointed out the importance of the morphology of the Hebrew
language. I have not seen authors before take a word that has maybe multiple vowel pointings.
And what vowel you interpolate into that word would determine the meaning or make the meaning
more precise. And you showed us in the book that often, I think it's soar, is the word,
but it's in such a way it's posed that it can mean bull or it can mean something else,
perhaps wall, depending upon what the vowel is. And I thought that was a brilliant observation
because you went back, you translated it, you put bull in many places where it occurs in the text,
and it made perfect sense in an astrothiological context. Indeed, it does, Luther. I think
again, this is another feature of Hebrew, really, that there are no vowels in Hebrew. If you go to
Israel today and get a newspaper, there are no vowels in the written Hebrew. And the whole of
the Bible, when it was first written, the whole of the Jewish Hebrew scriptures had no vowels in.
And so around about maybe between 400 and 1000 AD CE, a group of scholars in
Jerusalem called the Mazarets, they put vowels in. And in order to keep the document the same length,
they didn't add letters here and there. They put little dots and dashes around the existing letters.
And these were considered to be the vowels as they still are now. So when you read
Hebrew, when you read the text in modern compilation, these vowel points are there,
but they're not there in the original. They were added 1000 years after the original was written.
So the Mazarets choice of certain vowels really determines the meaning of words. So there is a
Hebrew word comprising three consonants, because they're all consonants. And if you take, if you
pronounce it sure, S-H-U-R, then it means a wall. If you pronounce it sure, S-H-O-R, then it means an
ox or a bull. Now the Mazarets on most occasions actually opted for sure, meaning a wall. But if
you change it, and it's perfectly legitimate to change it, whoever was inspired to write the
Bible, it certainly wasn't these scholars a thousand years later putting dots and dashes around the
letters. And so it's perfectly legitimate to use a different vowel. And so instead then of,
of in certain places translating it sure, we translate it sure, and we have bulls. Now you see
what the scholars have done is they've taken sure when it appears, and it appears quite frequently,
to be a place, a place called sure. Nobody knows where it is. And that, but if we, if we use it,
if we say sure, instead of sure, instead of sure, then we can make translations that are,
that are slightly different, but significant. Now this is not only this word, but countless other
words which can be dealt with in this kind of way. And this is the beauty of Hebrew.
The beauty of Hebrew is that by all poetry, it resonates, and certain ideas lead on to other
ideas, just as in English poetry or poetry in any language. Poetry is meant to operate in this way.
And the writers of the Hebrew Bible, who are incredibly clever, Richard Dawkins and his ilk
talk about primitive goat herders writing the Bible. I mean, this is a shameful slur.
The people who wrote the Bible were very, very clever, and they were poets. And so when you have
an ambiguity, the ambiguity is not to be resisted, it's to be explored. And I don't think, you know,
when we say the Bible translated is the word of God, we've never translated it. We've never
translated it adequately. You see what I mean? We've never given the words, the resonance that
they have in the original. We've tried to, you know, we've tried to get it down to
a regular meaning. And the translators have followed this subsequently.
Now, I have a question again. You mentioned about Moses' birth, and you have the text there.
You know, it was something I noticed, but you didn't actually talk about it, was how Moses,
when he's born, he's hidden for three months. So I saw that, and I was like, well, that sounds
like the sun at the winter solstice, which is the days are shorter for three months before
it comes to the spring equinox. So anyway, I don't know what you think about that, or if you notice
My own view on that, Kevin, is that, you know, again, it's just delightful
that Moses, in my view, is represented by the constellation Orion. And so Orion appearing
here on the cover of the book. There's an app called Stellarium, which you can
download freely onto your computer. And if you set it for late September, and just click on
day by day or week by week, you will notice what happened because for three months of the year,
Orion can't be seen in the sky. Because when the sun, when the sun is in the summer months,
all the, all that area around Taurus and so on disappears, you can't see it. So you have
Pharaoh's daughter says, we drew him from the waters. Now that's exactly what happens as Orion
rises in the sky until in November. And it's perfectly clearly there, you see.
And so that second chapter of Exodus is a chapter almost dedicated to Taurus.
Manilius, the Roman astrological writer, he said that Taurus was rich in maidens.
He was using that in all kinds of ways, mythological and also psychological, I suppose.
But the author of Exodus is using the same idea. And so the chapter, second chapter of Exodus,
you find that it has Pharaoh's daughter, Moses sister, Moses mother, you know, these are the
maidens that constitute that chapter. And these are the maidens. If you watch the sky, there you've
got Taurus, the Hyades and the Pleiades, the great, beautiful maidens in Taurus. And as summer ends,
they seem to draw Orion out of the water. And it's absolutely beautiful. But you know, to think
that this little child has been floating around on around in the bulrushes for three months.
But the astronomy makes much more sense.
Hey, Bill. Hey, Bill, that makes so much sense. I am enraptured by this discussion,
I have to tell you. And I think perhaps Kevin is too. On page 52 of your book,
you describe the God that took his people out of Egypt as, and this is a quote,
it's, it's, it's rough as a corn cob now, but here's a quote as an appalling, capricious,
bloodthirsty, partisan tyrant end quote. Don't mince words, Bill. Tell us how you really feel
about it. Are you being a little hard on Yahweh? And listen, before, but listen, before you answer
that, what I see is a beautiful sublimated regression going on in the text where human
experience is exalted and carried upward. It's wonderful. But then at the same time,
there's a regression toward the mean where, where the divine personage is made more human. So you
kind of have a cross direction thing going on there. Talk a little bit about how Yahweh is
portrayed in that Exodus story. That's a, that's a really good question,
Luther. I think you see, we say Yahweh, but of course, we've no idea. We've no idea what the
Jews never say that Jews never say the name of God. And in fact, most Jews won't even say the
word God. And if you look at Jewish websites, it'll be G, uh, uh, hyphen D, you know, that kind of
stuff. But, you know, the Jews call God in a euphemistic way Hashem, Hashem, meaning the name,
you know, the name. So it's the name, but they don't tell you what the name is.
But now that I'm, I'm assured that there is no etymological connection between Hashem
and the word in Hebrew for the sun, which is, do you know what it is? Shemesh.
It's shemesh. Yes. Now, okay. Now this connection, but I think it's the connection is obvious to
anyone with the ears onto everyone with eyes who can see the two words written down side by side,
that when the Jewish people say Hashem, they are at least in some kind of way referring to the sun.
And so if my thesis is correct and that what we find in the Bible is a progressive movement
of the sun from the constellation, well, first of all, Gemini, because
he saw Jacob are the twins and a great deal of their stories reflect Gemini, then the movement
into Taurus, which is the Joseph section of Genesis, and then the movement of the sun
into Aries, which is reflected in Exodus. Now, in Exodus chapter six, God tells Moses that he used
to be called El Shaddai. Now, again, if you look at translations, they don't translate El Shaddai,
they say El Shaddai. I used to be called El Shaddai, or they will call it, they say God Almighty.
But in Hebrew, Shaddai means breasts, the breasts. So El Shaddai is the God of the breast, and that
is the God of nurture and care and concern and consolation and support. Now, that is not the
God of the burning bush, who tells Moses to get up off his backside and to get on with things and
do stuff. And he appears to him in fire. And he appears on the top of the mountain. And he,
you know, he acts and he kills the Egyptians. And, you know, all that kind of stuff. It's
hardly a person, it's hardly the God of the breast. Do you see what I mean? This is a different kind
of approach to deity. And this lasts 2000 years until, if you like the time of Christ, when we
have a different look at the deity in Jesus and in the stories about Jesus. And so, now one of the
things that I discovered in my studies, which blew my mind, was one of the principal architect of
the tabernacle was called Beth Salel. Beth Salel. Now, again, the translators say that the first letter
Beth in Hebrew is the preposition in. So, right.
At cell is shadow. So, Beth Salel is in the shadow of El, in the shadow of God. But
that first letter doesn't have to be the preposition in. It can be the first letter of the
word Beth Salel, which means, in Hebrew, today and then, onion. The onion of God. Now, I think this
is one of the most powerful in the type that God presented to us as an onion, with the different
layers being stripped away. You know, when the time is appropriate. And so, we have the God of
the breast, El Shaddai. And that layer is removed. And what lies underneath it is the God of fire.
And the God of action. And the God of warfare and battle. And that layer is removed. And then,
what we have is Jesus. But remember, I nearly call this book Joseph's bones. Because Joseph makes
when you get to the promised land, take my bones with you. Now, again, where are they kept? Nobody
knows. They say that it's check and put. Who knows? There's no, there's no tomb, which they might be.
I mean, there might be people making money out of it. You know, but take my bones with you when
you go into the promised land. Again, look at it poetically. It means take what is good about
Taurus with you when you go into Ares. And when you go into Pisces, take what is good about Taurus
and what is good about Ares with you. And when you go into Aquarius, take what is good about Pisces
and Ares and Taurus along with you. This is the bed Salel. This is the onion of God. These people
who wrote these things were genius. And we have been literalist pedants for too long. We need to move
in our thinking. So I really feel that the Moser story, the Moser story is incredible,
really. No wonder it's inspired everybody throughout the centuries. And far more so
than any kind of tract ever would. I mean, it's a myth. It's a story, but stories have got power and
energy. I do a comparison in the book between Thucydides and the writers of the Bible. You know,
Thucydides writing about the Peloponnesian war and giving you all the details about it. And this is
history. And it drives you crazy. You know, unless you're the scholar, you know what I mean? It's
not the sort of thing that really inspires you to do anything. Somebody said about...
Who was it now? He said something like, oh, yes, Gibbons, Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
I have it in seven beautiful volumes from the Folio Society. But reading it is not that easy.
And somebody said that reading the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is one of those books
that you eagerly pick up. And then you put it down, but you never pick it up again. You know.
Much of precise history has that quality. But poetic drama inspires you. And that's what we
have here in the pages of Exodus. One other thing, I know I'm going on a bit here, but
just looking at the words, and this again is what we've not done. Take the word pharaoh.
You know, everybody thinks that every ruler of Egypt was called pharaoh.
But, you know, he wasn't. The ruler, if you read Herodotus, and Herodotus went to Egypt in the
middle of the first millennium before Christ and spoke to the Egyptian priests and the people.
And he mentions the ruler of Egypt countless times, but never once calls him pharaoh. Never
once. He calls him the monarch of Egypt, the king of Egypt. He talked about these kings,
these monarchs, these rulers. Never once does he use the word pharaoh. No. Surely then we have to
look at that word and see what it means, what its component parts are. And if you take the first
consonants of pharaoh, it's the word for bull. Hence Moses the matador, Moses is fighting the bull
represented by pharaoh, so-called pharaoh, represented by the king of Egypt. And, but,
you know, again, our scholars have simply transposed, transcribed the word, transliterated it
into English without really looking. And there are so many, you know, the first person Joseph
encounters really when he goes down into Egypt is potifar. Now, the very final consonants of
potifar are the word for bull, pa. And then he comes across, well, his wife, Asenath,
is her father, is called potifera, which is the same as potifar, really. Again, those words,
the word for bull appearing there. And Joseph's son is called Ephraim. And Ephraim has these very
consonants as well. And one of the midwives, and this is in Exodus now, is called sheparah. Now,
they always say, they always translate it, shepra, in modern translations. But again, that's assuming
that the first vowel is an I. But you can easily say sheparah, which means of a cow, or as a cow.
And so all these, we have all these bovine, all these bovine expressions, which are not dealt
with in English translation, they are simply transliterated into English. So we miss, if you
like, the bull nature. Right. We don't hit the bull's eye. You know, you were talking about,
you know, I can't, I can't help but think about something you just said about these consonants,
the pay in Hebrew and the race, those in particular. And one of the connotations of those
consonants when they come together is the idea of fruit. You may be familiar with the Hebrew
prefix, pre meaning fruit. And so I think about, I'm just kind of rambling here because
everything you said, just my mind wanders. But things like the fruitfulness in Taurus,
here the spring has just begun. And finally, the frost is gone, and you're into March and then
into April. And it's, and it's one of the most fruitful times of the year, or certainly a time
when fruitfulness is celebrated. And so again, you have the bull tie tying into the idea of
fruitfulness in that time of year, which ties into many, many words in the Hebrew, including
Euphrates, the Euphrates River, symbolizing the fruitfulness of, I guess, of the water or of
the region. So I just thought about that. It's a good point, actually, Luther, that the very
beginning of Exodus, when it talks about the people being fruitful and multiplying, it uses
the word with that root again, you know, so it's all over the place. And it is, and the word Joseph
means it comes from a root meaning to increase and to grow. And so the whole, it all ties in
together with that Torian, you know, all the signs have got their disadvantages, haven't they?
And they've got their bad points. The thing is, it's stubbornness. And the whole door
legs and Pharaoh
is about stubbornness, isn't it? And in Hebrew, he talks about, you know, look at the Zodiacal
man and Taurus represents the neck. And, you know, stiff neckness is how Pharaoh is described.
You know, could we have any more Torian elements?
And the one beautiful thing that I think I discovered, and again, this was in a sense
quite by accident. And if you've got the text there, in the book, I'll show this here,
this is on page 183. Can you see that diagram there at the top of the page? Do you see it?
It is the evidence of the Hebrew letter Aleph. Okay. Now, the Jews have got a
relationship with the alphabet that we don't have with our alphabet, you know, that is,
yes, Kevin, you've got it. Now, the early Hebrew depiction of the letter Aleph was of a bull's head,
an ox's head. And so it developed into what we have now as the letter Aleph. So when he talks about,
and Aleph is the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, and therefore, the first letter
that God gave to the people, the firstborn of the Hebrew alphabet. So the death of the firstborn,
ah, to the poet, not to the literalist, historian, the death of the bull. I mean, this is quite
remarkable. And the word in, not that I know Arabic, but Aleph, ALIF, we would, means ox in
in Arabic. And so once again, the death of the firstborn means the death of the whole Torian
system, and something else is going to take its place. Namely, of course, the new understanding
of God that comes via Aries. But that is partial. This is not definitive. This is not going to stay
forever, because the equinox will move. And this is the metaphor of the whole business.
The equinox will move out of Aries, ultimately, and into pricing, into the fish. You're going to
into Jesus. So the whole thing, as you were saying earlier, Kevin, the whole thing fits
together. You know, the people who wrote the Christian scripture knew very well the content
of the Hebrew scripture. And we're, there's that bit in John, in John's gospel, where John talks to
Nicodemus, and it says that he comes to him by night. No, this is chapter three. It's the
chapter that has, for God so loved the world. Yes. And he comes to him by night. Now, again,
commentators will say that this is a symbolic, this is a symbolic reference to the darkness of
his particular brand of Judaism. But I think, and he's just a thought that struck me
quite recently, he comes to him by night so that he can show him the sky. Look here, this is,
you call yourself a teacher in Israel. And you don't know what's got me. Look at the sky. Do you
see what I mean? No, I mean, that's conjecture, purely conjectural. Wait a minute, wait a minute,
Bill. Let's go with that. In the course of that discussion, he talks about the Son of Man,
like the serpent in the wilderness. That's in the sky. Moses, serpent is in the sky. So those
elements would seem to be in the dialogue between Nicodemus and Jesus. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, yeah. And you know, I mean, these are, these show the cleverness of these all. And,
you know, I find, when I said a few weeks ago, I wanted to give up on this Bible stuff
and get on with something else because my mind was cluttered. But now I can't stop.
I have a question for you. I'm wondering if you've heard what Jordan Maxwell says
about the wedding in Cana when he turns water into wine, how he explains that.
He basically said that it comes from this Canaanite mythology,
where basically the Father God in the sky sends the rain down onto the Mother Earth,
and then the water in the rain goes into the ground and it produces grapes.
So then you have water being turned into wine.
And so this would be sort of where the story, what it came from. So this is,
I thought that was very interesting. Yeah. You see, I think one of the great things about this,
Kevin, is once you lose the idea that we're dealing with literal events and use your imagination
and allow it to wander, then you can, you know, all these things are valid.
It is not that one is valid and something else is invalid. But the nature of poetry is to send
your mind into connections. And those connections are valid. Now, I was thinking when I was looking
at this particular part of John, that since Cana represents the measuring read, which we had
with Moses and so on, that it's something to do with the transition, the transition from Aries
to Pisces. Now, you know, this is what the Jesus story represents. And because in chapter one of
John, you have John the Baptist, who I think represents, in this case, represents Aries.
He represents, if you like, the old covenant. Because Jesus says of him,
because he's not coming into the new age, John the Baptist is not coming into the kingdom of God,
which the new age is called in the Bible. He's staying outside in exactly the same way that
Moses stays outside. Moses doesn't go into the Promised Land. Who takes them into the Promised
Land? Joshua takes them into the Promised Land. Moses dies outside. And so Joshua,
you know, I mean, again, did you see the Mel Gibson film, The Passion of the Christ? It was
in Aramaic. What do they call Jesus in that? Joshua. Joshua is just a kind of transliteration.
But the actual way in which this name would be pronounced would be
Joshua, not Jesus. Jesus is a Greekification of it. And the name of the, the name of this person is
Joshua. And he relates to the one who took the people into the Promised Land in the Book of Joshua.
So there is a relationship between Jesus and the Joshua of the Old Testament. In the same way,
there's a relationship between John the Baptist and Moses in the Old Testament.
And so what we have in this first encounter of Jesus with John the Baptist is John saying,
I am unworthy to untie the latch of this sand wall. Now, this is a Pisces reference, you see.
Pisces represents the feet in astrology. And again, if you look at the Zodiacal man,
the fish, the Pisces down at the feet. So here, John the Baptist is making a reference to him.
I'm not fit to be associated with this man. And the image he uses is of tying the latch of his shoe
of his sand wall. And of course, what does he, what does he say when Jesus walks by?
Behold the Lamb of God. Right. So this is the end. This is the end of one era, the beginning of
another one, the Pisces era. And then in chapter two, we have got the marriage feast at Cana.
And I've just really started working on these things here. But it's on the third day. Now,
again, why does he say that? Why does he say, and on the third day, why does he,
why does he not even be just kind of general and say a few days later? Or, you know what I mean,
why the third day? Well, the third day of creation is the day of vegetation and plants and seeds.
It's the day of the seeding of the earth. And I think that, again, has its own kind of
resonance. So looking through all these things, you see the cleverness of the writer and what
the wine and the, since there is a contrast being made between the old and the new, between the age
of areas and the age of Pisces, the age of areas is always going to look to be slightly lacking
in something, you know. And these stone water jars, the text tells us, were there for the
purification, the Jewish writer purification, the people would wash their hands. But they weren't
being nurtured by it. They weren't being nourished by it, you know, they were washing their hands,
doing their duty. They were doing what they, what tradition had told them they had to do.
But to make that into wine, it is something that people drink and become, you know, what it says
in the book of Psalms, wine that gladdens the heart of man. But here is this beautiful transformation
from water, serviceable water, yes, Judaism, 613 commandments, which we have to duty fully
go through and be dressed in black and be miserable or look miserable as we do our duty,
transferred to the great wine of joy, which Jesus presents at this. And it's a wedding,
again, because, you know, it's two things coming together. We have Judaism and the new kind of
understanding which Jesus is bringing, which Pisces is bringing, and the two things bring joy
and gladness and rejoicing. So, but again, I'm not saying Jordan Maxwell is wrong on that, Kevin.
I think that, you know, all these things, since they were poets, the rises are valid.
Hey, Bill, I am struck by the sense of celebration. Not only is your book, the secret, your first book,
the Gospel in the Zodiac, the Secret Truth about Jesus, celebratory in tone, in both the story it
tells and the elements it brings together, but also it brings out to me, for me, the celebratory
nature of the New Testament. And there is something special about this transition. I understand the
transitions we've been talking about from the Age of Taurus to the Age of Aries, and again,
before that, from the Age of Gemini into the Age of Taurus. But there's something about this
transition from Aries to Pisces, which to me, and I see Kevin nodding, perhaps in a sense,
that smacks of a special celebration, because it's not just the transition from Age to Age,
but this is the major transition of the Platonic year. The end of the Age of Aries,
which is as high as you can go in that iteration of Adam, and now you're starting all over again
in Pisces. Do you get the sense, Bill, that what we're talking about is an extra special
celebration moving from Aries to Pisces? A very good point, that Luther, I think you're right.
You know, I think that is how they understood it, that this is not just any transition.
This is a major transition indeed, and therefore needs to be celebrated and understood as such.
But, and I, you know, really, it has to be understood as itself, a trend partial. It is not
the definitive understanding, and because just, you know, the Onion of God will continue to be,
you know, all the different layers of it will continue to be.
Well, the detail I noticed early on with these Exodus things, well, it was actually
in the Preterist community, they're already teaching this second Exodus in the New Testament,
they call it the second Exodus motif, and I'm like, what's that? I got to know what that is,
it's in the New Testament. So, but there's this one verse in Joshua, I think it's chapter 5,
verse 9, or so, it says that when they entered into Canaan, it says that that's when the reproach
of Egypt had finally left them. And then you see it in the Hebrews 8, 13, where it's like the new
covenant would finally pass away. And you see John say to Jesus, you will increase and I will
decrease. Well, two people wouldn't say that to each other. So why is there all these transitions
when in today's society, it's like, no, you signed the contract, done. It's like, no,
it's like, so there's this sort of this engagement sort of marriage theme, people think it's about,
well, it's about marriage. So the God is love. I was like, well, no, this theme is consistent,
and there's always this number 40 involved, and there's this, and it's always the same
sort of things happening. So I saw this, like you see it in all the stories, like with Ishmael and
Isaac, well, Ishmael has to stick around until Isaac actually receives the promise. And with
King David and Saul, you see the same thing where Saul has to reign as king, even when King David
is anointed. So you see this covenant transition period, and I was like, wait, this is everywhere,
and it's trying to teach us something about the old and the new. So there's this time element
involved. So I had already started putting all the pieces together, and then I found Astro Theology,
and I'm like, wow, this is like the this is the glue that holds it all together almost.
But it's a very good point, Kevin. Yeah, very good. I accept that. I think it is about,
it is about transition, and it doesn't have to be and cannot be a complete break. There has to be,
you know, the bones of Joseph have to be taken into the new age, and what Jesus represents
has got to form a very significant part of what we're moving into now, and who can doubt that
we're moving into the age of Aquarius, you know, I mean, everywhere around us that I when I first
started studying these things, maybe 50 years ago, when I'd, I'd read about the age of Aquarius, and I
had read the classic book on it called Towards Aquarius by Vera Reed. I have a very old battered
copy, which she actually signed not to me. I got it secondhand. I've got it around here somewhere.
But she was talking about what the age of Aquarius would be like, and I never really realized that
all the things that she was saying would be fulfilled in my lifetime. You know, I mean,
the idea of the world as a global village, and the, you know, that Facebook went down last night,
and somebody was saying on the news here in Britain that the last time it went down, it was 2008,
and Facebook then had something like a billion users. But now, three and a half billion people
are the world's population. You know, this is incredible, the way that, and the way that,
if I want a book, like, if you want Edifer's Judaicus, and you may, although it's not an easy
read, you just Google it, and somebody will give it to you, you know, you can download it.
You can download the Gospel in the Zodiac. I don't know how they got permission from the
publicists to do that, but they do it. It doesn't seem to matter. You get the whole text, and,
and no book, no book that you can think of is, in a sense, unavailable to me. Now, this is all
aquarium stuff. LP, GT, UI, you know, who would ever do this. I can remember when illegitimacy
was considered to be the state. It's almost a badge, isn't it? You know, of honor. And, and,
and I remember this beginning, it started with the pop stars, having children out of wedlock,
as they said, and then suddenly we're thinking to ourselves, what were we thinking about 50 years
ago? You know, why on earth did these things matter? There's been a real change, but the
interesting thing to me is the chosen people. You know, who are the chosen people? Now, again,
the Hebrew word, the word Hebrew and the word Abraham, they come from the Hebrew root, which
means to cross over. Right. Those people, other ones who make the transition, who cross over,
who are prepared to cross over. Yeah. And so, you know, we, but Pharaoh's alive and well,
isn't he? You know, you read, you read what happens in these, in these church synod meeting,
and you see Pharaoh there. You know, the Methodists in America, just the other day,
they were refusing to accept, or was it in Britain, I don't know, but they're refusing
to accept gay marriage. Yeah, it was the Methodist in the general conference. We have that once every
four years, Bill. And so you find, you know, I think that the whole global warming thing is
a remarkable reprise of Pharaoh and his attitude. You know, people will say, yeah,
we really need to do something about it. You know, we're really going to act on global warming.
And then there'll be a terrible calamity, some kind of weather calamity, or the sea will rise
and we'll say, right, we will act upon it, but they don't act upon it. We don't act upon it. You
know, we don't. And exactly the same way that Pharaoh would say, oh, okay, Moses, right. All right.
Yeah, I learned my lesson. Yeah, you can go. No, you can't. Yeah, yeah, that's it.
What's the story written three and a half thousand years ago, we have the same story,
that is occurring now before our eyes. My God. Wow. Wow. Hey, Bill, do you think we can ever rescue
the meaning of myth from the trash heap of etymology to help bring about the transformation
of our society that we so desperately need? We, you know, we still think a myth is something
that's false or frivolous, and it's neither of those things. Will we ever be able to appreciate
the true value of a myth?
I think with our current education system, probably the answer is no. I don't, I think that we are,
I remember, I think I've told you this story before, but I went to the cinema when I was
a child with, we had a school trip to the cinema to see Richard the third, the Lawrence Olivier
production, which had been made sometime in the 1940s. The whole school went out to
watch this, and I enjoyed it, although I was only about 12 or 13 or something. I
couldn't really understand it terribly well, but as I was walking out, I was behind two of the
school's history teachers, and they were discussing it, and one of them said, it was all right, but
it didn't happen like that. And even as a kid, I knew that that was a new relevance. You know,
that comment was a new relevant. Here's Shakespeare. As if Shakespeare, for one minute,
was concerned with getting the facts right.
He didn't say to me, well, I really must make sure that I have this happening in this particular
way. He had a completely different agenda, you know. But you see, we are wedded to the importance
of, and of course it is important, but to the primacy of history, that something can be,
something can have a poetic element to it. But principally, it's historical. And this is the
way that people look at the Bible. Well, yes, it can have all these poetical, fanciful, different
ways of being, but the primary meaning is a historical meaning. It did occur in some way,
in some form or other. And since that almost dominates our education system, certainly here,
you know, we, there have been all kinds of cuts made in the education.
So things like music and drama are being cut from the curriculum or severely reduced in the
curriculum. The books that teachers teach in literature are again almost given by the government
to, these are the things you have to do, the curriculum is set out in this way. And until
we free ourselves from this absolute commitment to the factual, we are, we're never going to
get to that point. I mean, every day you hear somebody comment, this is a myth. It is a myth
that, you know, it's a myth that the British people want to come out of Europe. It is a myth.
Now, they use the word in a way which is really wrong, but at the highest level of
the intellectual discourse, we hear it used in that way. And so myth has, myth has been
denigrated. And it's not easy to recover that. It's not, you know, people will say, well,
say what you like about Jesus. You can say that all these things about the water and the wine
have got resonances of this or that or whatever, but he existed. We have to believe he existed.
That is, I'm on a number of websites, Christian Gnosticism, this or Jesus myth or
reality. And I think we're going around in circles, you know, the least, the most, the least
interesting question you can ask about Jesus is who exists. It's not an issue. You know, the greatest
work of literature in English is King Lear by Shakespeare. But nobody says, was there a man
called King Lear? You know, did Raskolnikov exist in Dostoyevsky's crime and punishment? Was there
somebody called Raskolnikov? You know, I mean, the book deals with more important issues than that.
And to keep on saying, Jesus, did he exist? And when did he exist? And was he a rebel? And was
he a socialist? And was, you know, all of that stuff. Or did he drink coffee? And what? I mean,
sorry. Yeah, right. Oh, yeah, or did he drink coffee? Because should we drink coffee?
Yes. Did he drink water? I mean, when he was celebrating the
asshole? Well, we follow him, right? So we have to know if he drank coffee or not.
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Hey, guys, the hour is far spent. So Kevin, do you have a final question for
Bill? I think we've been enthralled by this interview. I had a whole bevy of questions
that I never got to ask. And the interview was enormously rich, even without any of that. So
do you have something you want to wrap up with, Kevin? Well, it's more of a comment. I was just
appreciated. You had your appendixes. And you actually go through what each of the signs of
zodiac mean. And like, if I'm just jumping into astral theology from Praterism or some
Christianity thing, then I haven't necessarily studied astrology. So I appreciate having that at
the end of the book. And I just, and I liked how you're trying to explain the 12 tribes and you
tackled that in one of your appendixes. And I have a friend who wants to talk about that more,
and he has a few ideas about it, but I totally managed to read a few books on it. So I'll probably
be looking at that some more as well. But yeah. Good. Well, I'll follow your stuff with great
interest, Kevin. Yeah. I think we need to cooperate really. Yeah. You were you were posting about
John. And I think, you know, that we are few in number. Right. Yeah. We have to stick together.
And I think this is a great thing that you're doing, Luther, you know, that really is giving
people an opportunity to voice these kind of ideas in a supportive environment. And really,
that's what's so significant. And, you know, so I, I really appreciate this opportunity.
And if I can just say that, that the book is available in Britain and in America, I don't
think a single version is all that well done. But the book is fine, except for one major
error that Luther discovered. Remember the one about, it's just a misprint, really. But
Yes, sir, I do. It was the question of 40 weeks instead of 40 months. I think maybe it said 40
months. And what you meant was a gestation, a human gestation term, 40 weeks, that that was it.
Yeah, it was an obviously an error, though, so people will notice it.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. But but but again, a masterpiece, very user friendly. Love the way
that you refer to various websites with the book. Love how selfless you were with the information
in directing people to where they could find out more, even in the course of the writing.
So Bill, again, best wishes to you. Very, very fine book. We will continue to celebrate it.
Thank you from the bottom of our hearts for coming by today.
Thank you very much. Can I just say one word, which I mean,
of course, the most important websites that one could ever get on to is the abarim website,
which looks at virtually every name in the Bible, and not just giving you a sentence about it,
but sometimes 2000 words, giving you every nuance of the name. And anybody who undertakes any serious
study of the Bible needs to get onto that website. Abarim. Fantastic. And you do mention it more
than once in the book. Who runs that website, Bill? Do you do you know offhand? I don't. I don't.
I know that they're Christians, but they're Christians of a kind of mystical flavor.
So our kind of people. Right, right. Excellent. Excellent. Well, wonderful visit
with Bill Darlison. Bill, come back and see us sometime. You don't have to write another book
to do it. We love to have you. Thank you. Yeah, I really appreciate that. And thanks to Derek
as well. And I hope his move goes well. Yeah, yeah. I know it's a big move for him and his family.
So yeah, once again, for Kevin Maxwell, this is Dr. Luther G Williams, our guest, Bill Darlison.
Be sure and check us out in a short time. The interview is going to appear on YouTube and
let us know what you think. All right, you know how to contact Bill, Bill Darlison at Hotmail.com
for MythVision. We'll see you next time. Good night, everybody. We'll see you.
