I lost them in the airport about 15 or 20 minutes and thank God I found them again.
But maybe that's the story for another day.
He's got a very fine collection of Buddhist manuscripts from Afghanistan.
I was the only person on the planet who had access to all the photographs.
He began to have suspicions about these fragments
that's going ahead of his collection. He has a total of 30 sheets.
Sign up today for the real ancient Israelite religions with Dr. Kip Davis.
Dr. Kip Davis, you are a Dead Sea Scrolls Scholar and you have investigated the actual scrolls.
You've been in the vaults. You've actually taken pictures of the original manuscripts
discovered in Qumran. But there have been quite a number of, I guess you'd say,
manuscripts, forgeries that have come up. You've actually been the one in many cases to say
this one is a tip of the spear on that one. So I'm going to hand it over to you.
But like, what's the deal with these fake Dead Sea Scrolls? Give us some background.
I've even had some people who didn't know this information who thought
all of the scrolls ever. So there's a misinformation out there, but please.
So right at the outset, I think it's important to make sure people are clear here.
The vast majority of the Dead Sea Scrolls are authentic. The scrolls that are at the Israel
Antiquities Authority in Jerusalem, the scrolls that are at the shrine of the book at the Hebrew
Museum, the scrolls that are in Jordan. There's some scrolls that are still at the University
of Manchester, and I think the University of Paris, I think. So these, oh yes, and Princeton.
There's some that are still at Princeton. These are real. It's very important to note that these
ones that were discovered in the 1940s and the 50s, these are authentic. There is no question
about it. So, and I guess maybe I'll just tell the story about this. In and around the mid-90s,
even a little before that, we'd already started hearing within the scrolls community in the 80s
of, excuse me, other small fragments of scrolls that were in private collections
that people had purchased when they went to Bethlehem first and then when he moved to
shop to Jerusalem, the Antiquities dealer, Kendall, and he's the guy who had brokered
all the sales between the Bedouin discoverers and the archaeologists already back in the 40s,
50s, and 60s. He was apparently selling also small fragments that he had held back and also
some fragments that he couldn't sell to the team of scholars studying them because they
ran out of money. This happened in the 60s. So, he sold them to tourists. And in the 80s and
the 90s, every now and then, there would be an article published in one of the journals about
this new fragment that was in this private collection. Most of the private collections
were anonymous conveniently. It was impossible to track their movements from Israel into Switzerland
or Germany or Lebanon in some places. So, we had already known about some of these fragments out
there. And then in the mid-90s, it really started to break open. And a gentleman by the name of
Martin Skoyan. He's a Norwegian businessman. He was a very wealthy man. He's an eclectic
collector of the true sort where he collects just about anything from antiquity. He's got
stuff from Iraq. He's got biblical manuscripts from the Vatican. He's got
Dead Sea Scrolls fragments. He's also got a very fine collection of Buddhist manuscripts from
Afghanistan. He's even got original letters and artwork from Beatrix Potter, the creator of
Peter Rabbit. I think it was Peter Rabbit. I don't know. And so, I mean, he's a collector.
Right? And so, he started amassing this collection of Dead Sea Scrolls fragments. So,
I went to Norway in 2012 to work on getting his private collection of Dead Sea Scrolls fragments
and some of the other artifacts that he has published. So, I was a post-doctor there.
I was working in a project for, you know, there were other scholars who were heading this up
and were sort of leading the way. And while I was there between about 2012 and 2014,
while we're working on this stuff, I and a couple of my colleagues began to have suspicions about
these fragments that's going and had in his collection. He has a total of 32 fragments. Most
of them contain text of Bible on them, which was kind of peculiar at the outset, given that,
you know, Bible only forms about 30% of, you know, the whole collection of Dead Sea Scrolls. And,
importantly, Kando can't read Hebrew. So, you know, he didn't know or he shouldn't have
known what they were, right? So, we started to have questions. These fragments look different
from the other Dead Sea Scrolls fragments when they're very, very small. They're very poorly
preserved. The writing on them looks quite bad. The way I would describe it now is,
they look like the way the letters are formed, the way the scribe is writing. It looks like he's
writing on an already damaged fragment. And then letters were not in the right place. The lines
would kind of creep along the edges as if not deteriorated from an actual sheet that contained
text on them, more like somebody's straining to actually get as much text as he can on this
tiny little piece. So, we started to have real suspicions about this. And my good friend,
Orstein Usness at the University of Akhtar, wrote a 22-page memo. And we all looked it over and we
all discussed it and, you know, agreed on how it should read and then sent it to Mr. Skoyan,
expressing our concern about, at the time, I think it was 19 or 20 of the fragments in his
collection, our concerns that, you know, these look like they could be forgeries. So, he responded
by telling us that he wanted several of them tested by a physicist that we were working with
in Berlin. In a fun little side story, he sent me to courier these fragments from Oslo to Berlin
and I lost them in the airport for about 15 or 20 minutes. And thank God I found them again,
because I was quite certain that my life would have ended had I not. So, maybe that's the story
for another day. So, the physicist in Berlin ran tests on these fragments that he had sent for
her to look at. And she came to the conclusion, now it's important for people to understand,
you can't emphatically prove one way or the other that something is a forgery or authentic. The only
way to do that is to actually find it at an archaeological site and properly document it. So,
she provided a report to us in which she said, these fragments look like they most likely could be
modern forgeries. The balance of probability is in that direction. So, with this volume coming out,
he didn't want, Mr. Schoen didn't want any forgeries in the volume. So, he made a deal
with us. He said, we'll take anything that's not real, anything that we have suspicions about
out. And we settled on nine of his 32 fragments that we thought bore telltale features which indicated
with a high degree of probability that they were fakes. So, we took those out of the publication
of the volume, but he said you can write up a scientific article about them and publish it
after the volume comes out. So, the volume came out. I actually went home to Canada because
my contract in Norway had ended and then I led a team of eight scholars in writing this article
and it was published the following year in Dead Sea Discoveries and then my phone started to ring
off the hook. Along with that article that I published in Dead Sea Discoveries with my team
about Schoen's fragments, I published an article that I wrote myself called Caves of Dispute
and Patterns of Suspicion. What is it? Patterns of Suspicion in the post 2002 Dead Sea Scrolls
fragments I think is the subtitle. But in it, and I should say in the meantime, before I had
come back to Canada and now while I was back living in Canada, I had also accepted another job
helping Professor Emanuel Tove and the Museum of the Bible on the publication of their
at the time it was 13 Dead Sea Scrolls fragments. It grew to 16 that they had purchased on the
private antiquities market. So, the way the Museum of the Bible used to work back then is anybody
who did any work for them had to sign a nondisclosure agreement. So, I was not allowed to talk about
my work with anyone. I was not allowed to share photographs of what I was doing with anyone.
So, I really had no one to talk to about this but I was in this very unique position where I was the
only person on the planet prior to the publication of Schoen's volume who had access to all the
photographs of Schoen's fragments and all the photographs of the Museum of the Bible fragments
and I was paying close attention and what I was seeing was the same thing going on in these two
collections and it ultimately when the Museum of the Bible volume of Dead Sea Scrolls fragments
came out I had published the chapter that I wrote for that book. I raised this question again. I said
you know a number of these fragments have these suspicious features which indicate to me and also
now based on everything that we saw in Schoen's collection and by the way I've got this you know
there's this article but it looked to me like they were also forgeries. So, when we published that
article I said that I published one that I wrote myself too and in that article I made comparisons
between not just the forged fragments the ones that we had decided were forged in Schoen's
collections but the rest of them that we had published in in the book of in the Schoen collection book
and I made comparisons between those and the fragments that I saw in the Museum of the Bible
and I developed a set of eight criteria which I thought was very useful for determining after
the fact the probability that something might be authentic or a forgery and the results were
rather shocking and most of the fragments were coming up on the sign of forgery and then
when so when when the articles came out my phone started to ring off the hook and you know before
you know it I was interviewing with with the Guardian and with Haaretz and with CNN and with
they they did a write-up about my work in science and and it was out and and it was you know this
this was big news certainly within within biblical studies back in back in 2017 and
eventually they they NOVA PBS NOVA made made a documentary about this which was which was pretty
cool but the situation now is that the so the fragments in Schoen's collection the fragments
at the Museum of the Bible most have come to the conclusion that yes these do indeed look like they
are forgeries it seems that someone in Israel has been maybe behind making these and passing them off
as as authentic Dead Sea Scrolls and on the basis of the close connection to
the the heirs of Candle this old antiquities dealer who used to who handled all the original
material they've sort of built this this mythology or this narrative about well you know he had this
box of of fragments that that he couldn't sell to to the archaeologists and the scholars back in
the 60s well here you know this is what happened to them here we have you know all these fragments
and to give you an idea in 2000 sorry in 2014 just prior to when my work was being published
they had counted about 170 fragments in various private collections Schoen's the Museum of the
Bible Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary Azusa Pacific College and Seminary and a few
other of these small institutions and in private collections so after after our work came out
suddenly all these other all these other institutions Southwestern Baptist for example
within a year or two years after these publications released a statement that basically said that
they were not putting any more money into the research of their fragments that they believed
that they likely could also be forgeries and that they wouldn't they wouldn't publish them and they
wouldn't promote them for for scholarly research so it's a it's it's a wild story but I think it has
I think the results of it ultimately have been good it it caused it caused a real serious review
at the SBL in 2017-2018 in particular a review of the the procedures and the the the guidelines that
all scholars should operate by when handling non-provenants artifacts artifacts that are
you know found in private collections or from the antiquities market and I don't know if this is
if this is a good thing or not I'm still trying to decide this is certainly had a hand in in
causing a lot of difficulty for antiquities dealers in particular in Israel but and it's
you know the market itself I don't think there's anything that that can be done to to you know
end it or stop it completely but it's certainly I don't know it's it's a lot more quiet than it
used to be and this is a good thing because ultimately what the private antiquities markets
do is they promote looting they promote trafficking they they promote even the the marginalization
and the the oppression of people who you know don't have the means to to look after themselves
sometimes they get they get caught up in these in these in these gangs or in organized crime
where where the trafficking and the movement of stolen or illicitly acquired antiquities
thrives so I'd like to think that in the end you know I and my colleagues have had a hand in making
things better on that end
