Well played Steve!
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
You know the Mormonism series.
This is going to be a great show, ladies and gentlemen.
You do not want to miss it.
First thing, let me plug my guest here.
I'm really thankful to you guys for coming on and talking about something
I don't know about and just learning from you firsthand.
Because can't imagine trying to regurgitate something like this.
Bryce Blankenegel.
He is the host of Naked Mormonism podcast.
He's an encyclopedia literally on Mormonism stuff.
I mean, it's just amazing watching him go in depth and talk about this stuff.
Knowing the sister's cousin's aunt's dog and what the dog ate and when it took
a crap on old boy's shoes and how he would just awesome stuff.
I really, really enjoy it like the detail though.
You really go so deep.
Make sure you join his podcast.
If you're interested in Mormonism at all, any of this stuff, you want to not just
Mormonism because you can go to Apologist for that.
If you want the raw Mormonism, you want what really probably happened.
That's the guy you want to go to.
So go join his stuff down in the description.
We also have David Fitzgerald.
He is well known for his mythicist arguments and stuff like that.
Of course, he always clings heads with Dr.
Carrier on other people.
He's, you know, an activist.
He speaks loudly about human rights, all sorts of wonderful things.
But he wrote a book.
What is the title of this damn book again?
It is, everybody.
That's right.
It is the complete heritage guide to Western religion, the Mormons.
Why is that a block in my brain that I cannot just absorb and memorize?
It's like I like doing too long title series and it's a problem.
It's got to be, man.
I don't know what it is.
All I know is Bryce was influenced early on by David's work.
And David does an excellent job.
Like if you're looking for like the standout, let's jab this thing.
You want to see how ridiculous this thing is?
Go to that book.
You're going to find everything you want and more.
It's like the Jerry Springer of Mormonism.
You get to see the crazy.
I mean, literally like the South Park episode of real history on the Mormons.
And that's what your book is.
Thank you.
Absolutely. Excellent book.
Excellent book.
I mean, viewers, pick up a copy of it.
It's good.
Yes. And then the audio book is it's great as well.
It's really fun.
Yes, do it.
Well, sure.
And we're past.
See, Joseph Smith's been dead, everybody.
Let me let me see this here on Amazon.
Guys, it's only six, six, six on Amazon.
So you can get the book for a simple lousy satanic price.
And I'm going to tell you what, you definitely need to do it.
So, guys, we're in Salt Lake City, or at least we've gone west.
What is going on?
And with that, I'm just going to shut up.
You last left our heroes.
They've been kicked out of every place on the planet, except.
And they made their way there painfully with lots of death
and dysentery to follow them there.
Yes, dysentery.
Very organ trail ask.
Yes. It sucked, right?
And I will readily admit my own lack of knowledge of this, right?
My specialty focuses on Joseph Smith's timeline,
and that's kind of known as early Mormon history.
I know very little comparatively of the Utah era.
So we're going to be speaking at much more of higher levels,
but there are a few incidents within Utah
that we have to discuss.
Got to talk about these things.
Mind-blowingly, wild stuff.
Absolutely.
And let's just begin with polygamy, right?
So polygamy was the big divisive issue.
It was something that Joseph Smith had practiced in his church
and had revealed the secrets of the celestial marriage
to just a small little cabal of his best friends,
who were then also many of them were able to select
and take multiple wives in Nauvoo.
But everything was done secretively.
Everything was secretively.
And polygamy was resoundingly denied in all public print.
And missionaries were, you know, when they would be met
with the charge that, oh, your people practice polygamy,
and they just quickly and out now deny it,
it was very much under wraps.
Well, by 1852, they were, yeah.
And even when it's been long out of the box, you know,
you still hear them denying it.
It's, it blows my mind.
Yeah, you go to the lion house in Salt Lake City
and say, hey, how come Brigham Young's house
has 57 extra bedrooms in it, you know?
No good outfit for that.
Yeah, for sure.
This is interesting, because, you know,
I like to relate stuff back to like biblical stuff,
because, I mean, look, it's kind of based off the biblical stuff.
It reminds me of how people think all the prophets
are saying the same thing, and they don't realize
that like Ezra and Isaiah, or they're not,
they're not on the same page.
And the, but the conflict wasn't, you know, polygamy.
It was Gentiles.
It was like, how do you view these others that aren't us?
Genetics, like biological descendants, like us.
And it's like xenophobia.
They had a different stance.
So we could do a whole series.
We could do a whole series just on the Bible against itself.
Yeah, exactly.
For sure.
Or Mormonism against itself.
That too.
Yeah, and well, let's also be clear.
The Book of Mormon resoundingly condemns polygamy.
There are numerous places within the Doctrine and Covenants,
where it talks about one man and one woman marriage.
But then Joseph Smith reveals Doctrine and Covenants Section
132 in July of 1843, you know, less than a year
before he's assassinated.
And Brigham Young decides, finally, in 1852,
he's sick of covering everything up.
And that's when he tells Parley P. Pratt
to announce in general conference,
hey, we're doing this polygamy thing.
Notice, he doesn't announce it.
Joseph doesn't announce it.
They get somebody else to announce it.
I love that.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And this caused a lot of controversy, obviously.
Because Utah had been a territory for a year and a half
at this point.
Brigham Young was territorial governor.
He was also the prophet of the church.
He was also the director of the Office of Indian Affairs.
He was the trifecta of all government and religious
authority in the Utah Territory.
So he would try and take a bit of a back seat sometimes
when implementing new things like polygamy
and instead have one of his advisors, one of his closest
trusted advisors, like Parley Pratt,
to stand up in front of the people
and tell them what they're doing.
And this is all replete throughout the Journal of Discourses.
So this obviously caused a lot of tension in the Mormon
communities because there were still people who
were denying that it was going on.
There were still people who believed
that Joseph Smith was denying it and that that was true.
So it caused a period of fluctuation in membership of Utah.
And the answers to this was a bit of retrenchment
by the leadership of the church.
Because this is the frontier of Utah, the frontier America.
When the Mormons got to Utah, they
don't have any other options, really.
It was a deeply and disturbingly oppressive theocracy.
And Brigham Young was the king of that theocracy,
the prophet, priest, and king.
He was anointed as king over all of Israel.
He was a monster.
And he ruled with an iron fist.
People don't like to be ruled by iron fists,
but that doesn't matter because an iron fist doesn't give in.
And for these reasons, Utah became a very dangerous place
to be, especially beginning in 1852
through the rest of the 1850s decade.
It was dangerous to live there.
It was dangerous to pass through.
It was very, very dangerous to be somebody
who believed in the church and then didn't believe anymore
in Utah.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is the time when the concept of blood atonement
was brought into vogue in the church.
And blood atonement essentially states
that there are some sins that you can do.
And I think we discussed this a little bit briefly last time.
But there are certain sins that you could commit,
which the blood of the Savior is not strong enough
to cover those sins.
One of those is apostasy, in which case your own blood needs
to be shed for such a sin.
Usually, the booing knife across your throat
was the preferred method.
And it just so happens that Joseph Smith had created
the perfect group of shadow enforcers in Nauvoo
to carry out these tactics.
And the Danites were brought over from Nauvoo.
And they were alive and well and lived in Utah.
And they became Brigham Young's Enforcement Squad
in these things.
And our old friend Porter Rockwell
was one of the chief ones of that,
you know, responsible for any number of these blood
atonements, yeah.
Yep, so there are a few pretty terrifying guys in all of us.
Jedediah Grant is one of them, who
is we're going to be discussing quite a bit today.
He's known as Brigham's Sledgehammer,
if that says anything about this guy.
Yeah.
We have Jose Estout and Porter Rockwell.
And Porter Rockwell, he held much more loyalty
to Joseph's vision than he did to Brigham Young.
But if Porter Rockwell was healthily compensated
in distilleries and fast wagons and nice race horses,
then Brigham could buy Porter Rockwell's loyalty.
And he did.
Porter Rockwell was loyal to the cause.
He wasn't loyal to Brigham Young.
So as this is all going on, the federal government
is beginning to push back on Utah territory,
because polygamy, polygamy, they don't like that stuff,
as well as slavery.
Slavery is a controversial issue,
and slavery was going on in Utah.
Native American slave trade was very alive and flourishing
in Utah.
And it made it very easy for President Buchanan
to go after slavery, pro-slavery Utah,
and not antagonize the South, because he
could go after this slave state that everyone hated North
and South of the border without ruffling too many feathers,
because he was trying to keep both halves of the country
from fraying at the seams.
And not doing a very good job of it, by the way.
Yeah, James Buchanan isn't known as one of our best
presidents, certainly.
But I also don't envy the place in history
in which he led the country, right?
I mean, this is the presidency right before the Civil War.
It was not a good time to be president, right?
So yeah, President Buchanan, he was
able to be persuaded that polygamy was wrong,
and that certain legislators in the federal government
took to the charge of trying to stamp out polygamy.
And they called it anti-bigamy laws,
or anti-cohabitation laws.
So as the 50s progressed later and later,
two of these anti-bigamy laws were passed.
And it tried to give the federal government the power
to prosecute anybody who could be convicted
of having multiple wives.
And that included the husbands and the wives
who would be convicted.
Most frequently, it was the men who went to jail,
but some of the women actually did go to jail in this period.
Let me ask you this real quick on that polygamy question.
Do you know why they were so concerned with people
practicing polygamy?
I mean, was it that America is a religious,
kind of a religious-ish country that's saying,
no, the Bible says?
Or do you think, yeah, like, what's the reason to sign it,
you know?
I mean, America in the 1800s went through waves
of where it was more religious and less religious than we
are today.
But yeah, definitely, everybody back then
was on board with the fact that, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
That's crazy.
Because around the time, there's a quote from somebody
in the 1850s saying once they announced that,
there wasn't a 14-year-old girl that
we found in Utah who wasn't either married or planning
to be married off.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Well, they were jealous.
No, I'm just kidding.
Well, actually, there were some serious shady things
going on with child trafficking in Utah.
Oh, my gosh.
Yeah.
Now, that makes sense.
It's this is there's kind of a lot of layers to that,
to the opposition to polygamy.
Primarily, it came from this, the tapping
into the, like, frontier sensibilities of men
having to protect their wives and daughters.
Because the Mormons are going to come into town and steal them.
Steal your wives.
Yeah.
And also, the Mormons had become synonymous with polygamy
by the early to mid-1850s, even before they announced
that they were openly going to practice polygamy.
And that caused the Mormons to become a pejorative term
for anybody who is sexually capricious or sexually
deviant from the monogamous Cishadero lifestyle that
was expected in America at the time.
And so if we're trying to view the early Mormon movement
and their polygamous practices, we
have to understand the context of the puritanical family
and gender dynamics that were of the time, which
are far more, I don't know, extreme versions
of what we see conservative family ideals today.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it was religious component.
It was family component.
It was men who are scared that the Mormons are going
to come and steal their wives and daughters.
There are kind of a lot of components
that went into the opposition to it.
But a lot of it does come from, well,
this is a sin against God.
This is just adultery.
Yeah.
Real quick, before we leave the whole marriage thing,
since we mentioned in the last episode,
they were annihilating the Indians, like left and right.
What were they doing with their women?
Because it seems like women are just seriously,
I mean, even when you go to the Old Testament,
horrible stories of go kill every man, woman, and child,
and then sometimes they can kill everyone except the virgins.
Except the virgins, yeah.
Yeah.
So what's up with the Indians?
Did they copy that Old Testament theme and say,
well, we'll take a little Bombadjou feather head with us
or whatever, you know?
What happened?
Bombadjou feather head.
Yeah.
That literally was just out of nowhere off my head.
Did they take these girls?
And?
Yeah.
It was, yeah, for lack of better terms,
a lot of what went on in Utah is what we just
call sex trafficking today.
And that did come amount from when
they would exterminate certain native tribes.
And extermination oftentimes involved massacres.
Other times it just involved like, hey, you can't live here.
You can go live over there.
But you certainly can't live here.
They would steal all of the possessions of these tribes,
of these communities.
And oftentimes, if a massacre was involved,
which it was more often than not,
then they would, yeah, then they'd take the kids.
Wow.
And wives.
So yeah.
And unfortunately, there isn't a whole lot
of documentation around this stuff.
A lot of it is just inferential,
knowing the population numbers of the various native groups
and what they dwindled down to.
And the state of recovery that they're still in today.
It's a lot of it a supposition that a lot of these,
a lot of bad things happened.
It was ugly.
Yeah.
Though it would be really interesting to do a DNA
sampling of native Utahans now and see how much
Paiute or Ute blood is in them.
That would be an interesting thing.
It would be.
And another thing about this too,
and this contributes to the lack of documentation
for a lot of it, people oftentimes
didn't talk about what was going on
because this is horrible.
This is horrible stuff.
And it is very, and people know that it's immoral.
But sometimes people did write about it in their journals.
Sometimes people did talk about it.
But it was generally unspoken that what we did with the natives,
we don't talk about these things.
And it's largely a reflection of the entire mood
of the United States population of European settlement.
But there are many examples in early Utah history
of these journals being taken.
And the next generation finding these journals in attics,
not knowing that these things happened,
reading at their grandma's journal
and seeing aspects of the slave trade that was going on
and of the sex trafficking that was going on.
And these people just ripping the pages out
because it's so horrifying.
It's so horrible.
So some of the documentation for it is, most of it
is suppressed, never to emerge from the mountainside vaults
of the church.
Some of it was deliberately destroyed.
It took the suppressed documentation.
Some of it was destroyed because people's sensibilities
were too out of whack and they couldn't handle
that their grandfather had a Native American sex slave.
And just a little bits that we do have are terrifying.
Horrible.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was just going to bookmark that,
that what we already know about this period,
without any problems, lack of documentation,
is horrifying, just really horrific stuff.
Yeah.
This is a very low point for the Mormon church, yeah.
And the people themselves were at a low point as well.
Now, granted, the Western expansion
was bringing a lot of goods into the Mormon community
because wagon trains were headed out to California.
And they were passing through Utah to get to California
and purchasing and selling things
to all of the Mormon settlements through all of Utah,
down into Nevada, right, like Las Vegas, San Diego.
These are all Mormon settlements, right?
So the Mormons set up basically a supply route
for people to be funneled into California.
And there's no understating how important Mormon settlement
was to Western expansion.
The Mormons provided the supply trains
for a lot of the West to be settled.
Once we hit 1850, California, Oregon, Nevada,
pretty soon, New Mexico, and Arizona territories,
and Idaho, and all of that was part of Oregon.
But as we hit the 1850s, there's just this explosion
of settlements.
And that's because the Mormons got out there,
put down a flag and said, this is a Mormon town.
You can buy and sell here, but keep moving.
Keep moving once you're done.
Yeah.
So their expansion obviously goes all the way
to the West Coast pretty much to the coast.
They're getting bigger.
They're no longer little guys.
Are they still playing the martyrdom role?
But I don't see how, but.
Well, they're very much their own group.
They went into what was Mexico then
to create their own kingdom.
That's what Brigham Young wanted.
But the United States, the Treaty of Hidalgo in 1848,
took that away and just took that whole chunk
of what was New Spain and became United States.
So they reluctantly got dragged into the fold
of the United States.
But yeah, he was not happy about it at all.
During Civil War, he was watching from the sides
and hoping both sides would destroy each other.
Absolutely.
Wow.
And this is Brigham Young's vision,
building this theocracy.
And he was damn good at it.
That's what Brigham Young was.
He was the businessman who followed the charismatic
visionary that was able to ensure
that the church would perpetuate.
And there's something also worth noting here
is the European Immigration Fund, sorry,
Perpetual Immigration Fund Fund
that was established in Europe that Brigham Young set up
that you could charter a boat or he chartered a special boat
that you could hop on and get to America
for the price of four pounds, four British pounds.
And that would get you to America.
And then all you had to do is get to the Mormon settlement
there in winter quarters and you would be funneled
across the plains in wagon trains.
You would join up with a bunch of other Mormons
and head out west.
And what this did was basically funnel in tens
of thousands of white Europeans into the Utah Territory,
just funneled them in constantly
and they're constantly bringing provisions.
And as we discussed last episode,
everybody had their hand carts,
every family had a hand cart.
Half of what was in that hand cart was stuff for your family.
The other half was stuff that was for the community.
So he had it set up very deliberately,
very economically to bring the people in
massive numbers to the point that he was basically
brute forcing that critical mass necessary
for a population to survive.
And he did it.
If not for that immigration fund
and those tens of thousands of Europeans funneling in
over the span of 15 years, 20 years,
Utah wouldn't have survived.
It would look very different, but he was smart.
Yeah.
And they went through some really heavy blows too.
This is the time when they had like two years
of drought, locust attacking.
There's the story that they love telling in Utah
about miraculous rescue of the seagulls
who came in and ate all the locusts.
Fun fact about that story, it never happened, ever, ever.
Well, it sort of happened,
but what the miraculous part of it
is that they ate the crickets and then vomited them up
and then they go eat more crickets or locusts
and vomit them up.
And that's like the miraculous part
is that God sent all of these seagulls.
And it's like, no, that's just like, that's just nature, man.
That's just like what happens in nature.
And I used to be so with you on that
until I found out that the whole story of that
came from a speech like 20 years after the fact
from one of the Mormon leaders in that,
which now I had the details at my hands right now.
But it's like, it came from a speech,
they made this thing up and then people said it,
but it never actually happened in real life.
Never happened.
But to be fair, the drought did happen,
the locusts did happen, like the pestilence did happen
and seagulls did eat locusts.
Whether or not it was to the extent that it was miraculous,
it's something that grew up to become a legend.
Are you trying to tell me 650,000 Israelites
didn't leave Egypt 1500 BC, you get out of here with that.
Are you kidding me?
It's funny how much that analogy works
for the Western expansion,
especially for the religious folks.
Absolutely, yeah.
Absolutely.
It's basically going into the desert, you know.
They're not going into a land flowing with milk and honey.
Nope, they're going straight into the wilderness.
I will also point out here, there's a movie,
there's a movie where Charlton Heston, right?
So Ten Commandments Moses plays Brigham Young
portraying the early Utah settlements.
And for Rockwell is there as a protagonist
and while Bill Hickman is there,
and it's a great movie, a really terrible movie,
but it's a great movie.
How did I not know that until this very moment?
That was a...
I can't, let me find the movie real quick,
because I did it on God-awful movies.
It's clear that they purchased Charlton Heston
for like some total of 20 minutes,
and he did his three scenes, and then it was over.
The movie is titled The Avenging Angel from 1995.
And you know, if you go to...
Oh, who does play Porter Rockwell?
I can't remember.
All right, it's a campy, it's a hilarious movie.
Needless to say, if you want to listen to me lampoon it
and make jokes about it, go to God-awful movies
and find The Avenging Angel from 2020.
Let's post that link.
Let's post that link.
Absolutely.
Yeah, anyway, so we digress.
It does portray how terrifying Utah was though at the time,
and the people's...
Oh, how much they feared the Mormon militia.
Yeah, I was gonna say, and the worst things got the tighter
Brigham Young turned the thumb screws on everybody.
And...
It's exactly right, because what do you do, right?
Like as Brigham Young, what do you do?
Do you relax the tension?
Do you relax the grip and just allow people to come
and go from the religion as they please?
No, he's a tyrant, right?
And no tyrant is gonna do that.
Utah is a sinkhole of people.
You can get in, but you can't get out, you know?
Once you're in the...
That's right.
And just to be clear, there are a lot of stories
of people leaving Utah and immediately writing exposés
and publishing them.
It was hard to leave Utah,
mostly because it's so geographically isolated.
It's got mountains and deserts all around.
There aren't any non-mormon settlements
that are nearby.
The nearest non-mormon settlement
when you're in Salt Lake City in the 1850s
would have been, I don't know, Sacramento or something.
I have no idea.
Somewhere above the mountain.
Yeah, I would think so.
Maybe Denver, I don't know.
Yeah, so there's nowhere close.
You can't go anywhere.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's not a hopscotch to jump through that anywhere,
either.
You are in the middle of nothing.
I can't wait to find out about Adam and Clark.
Is it Adam and Clark or something?
Lewis and Clark, Lewis and Clark, going out west.
You said they encounter these guys, right?
Is this something we could touch on at some point?
That was some generations before.
That was like 1820, 1820.
18, no, that was like 1805, 1810, I think,
that Lewis and Clark did their expeditions.
Oh, that was Denver person.
So that was, yeah, that was quite a ways back.
So he made a comment though.
Are they made a comment about the Mormons?
No, so where General Clark came in was,
he was the director of Indian Affairs in Missouri.
And when the Mormons in 1830 initially went out
proselytizing there, he was like,
hey, you need a permit for that.
Don't do it.
And he threw them out of us in the native settlements there.
Okay, all right, I just didn't know.
I was thinking, I don't know, I was thinking.
You've been jugging on a lot of people in this series.
That's right.
Yeah, there's so much.
And dude, can you imagine being isolated like that?
Like you better keep your doctors alive.
Like you're screwed.
If you don't, you're screwed.
And anyone who gets the symptoms,
oh, you're so screwed, it's not even funny.
Yeah.
And you know what?
When I look at how hard your average rank and file Mormon,
I mean, they show up to Utah and the very first day,
they plant a whole potato crop and irrigate a creek,
divert a creek to irrigate it.
Before the sun goes down that first day,
it's like, and those were the slaves.
Those were just your average Joe Mormon.
You know, I can't not imagine what they would think
of our lazy asses.
You know, not getting up at four a.m. to start work.
And you know, yeah.
Well, survival is different.
I think it's just, you know, they say,
and this is side trail on a whole evolution topic,
but you'll know what I'm saying.
The whole process is about how can we use less energy
to keep maintaining being sentient beings.
And so just being human,
our goals to try and be more efficient
and not having to use as much energy to maintain living.
And I think in those days,
that's why we kept going toward like,
how can we make a mower?
How can we make a device that does this,
to the human labor?
But yeah.
And it's very much all hands on deck at this time too, right?
Nobody was exempt from the work, right?
And like, this is even bring them young
is out till in his yard, right?
Like everybody was working.
Everybody was constantly working.
And right.
So it's very common in Mormon families today
to have one, oftentimes one grandparent
who is the family historian, the family genealogist,
the person who does all of the history for their family.
And my grandma actually did a lot of the research
for our family's settlement, right?
And that involved getting a portrait up
of my great, great, great grandma in the doctor's room
in the daughter of Utah Pioneers Museum.
So it's really cool.
I can go into that museum and see a picture
of my great, great grandma who was a doctor and midwife.
And as well as documenting all of the settlements,
the locations of the settlements.
And this is all in San Juan County down south in Utah.
And all of the numbers of people there,
where the plots of land were,
like the Mormons were also incessant document takers
and all of this.
So all of these settlement efforts are really important
to the European civilization of America.
And needless to say, bring them young
didn't want anything to go on.
That was not under his control.
So 1856 rolls around and Brigham Young is afraid
that the Mormons are getting a little too flabby,
a little too lax in their faith.
And this is the year that the locusts came.
And there's, you know, like you said, David,
two years of drought, this is an ugly time.
1856 was a very ugly time for the Mormons.
But what really terrified Brigham Young
that was on the horizon was the end of his governorship.
He didn't want to be unseated as governor
of the Utah territory.
And he was hell bent on making sure
that he remained as governor of Utah.
So 1856 rolls around.
There are people speaking out,
there's a lot of dissent going on.
There are people who are very frustrated
with the way that the church is being run,
the way that the government is being run.
And Brigham Young decides that at this time,
he needs to lead what's known as a retrenchment period.
That increases orthodoxy and strict adherence
to the laws and the rules of the church.
And how this begins is Brigham Young sends his sledgehammer
Jedediah Grant up to Caysville, Utah,
to the settlements there.
And Jedediah Grant preaches for like three days straight
about how much the Mormons need to recommit themselves
to the building up of Zion.
And this is teeing up for the very next year,
because this is going on in late 1856,
fall and winter of 1856.
He, Jedediah Grant begins this campaign
that became known as the Mormon Reformation Period.
And the Reformation Period in and of itself
quickly summarized was a period where basically
all of the Mormons had to be rebaptized
to recommit themselves to the church.
And the rebaptism was very, very much firebrand.
And it was mandatory.
If you decided to not get rebaptized,
then you are an apostate.
And we have people like Porter Rockwell and Jedediah Grant
who are gonna deal with you
if you don't agree to get rebaptized.
And this is a time when there are a ton of people
that go missing, disappear, are murdered out in the open,
like the Aiken brothers or the Aiken party.
I mean, this is a period that Brigham Young
was teeing up for Utah to go to war
with the federal government.
Yeah.
Wow.
I think David Fitzgerald has a doppelganger or something.
He just...
No, this news was so huge,
it destroyed my internet connection.
It was just that.
Just that.
Yeah.
His internet needed to be reformed.
Yeah, we had to bring it all back, yeah.
It needed to be baptized is what it needed to do.
Right, that's right.
So that's the age of the double down.
It's like, oh yeah, it's victim blaming.
They just took it to an art.
So yeah, I constantly compare this period of Mormon history
to the Chinese cultural revolution
because you've got the society
that out of the blue from external pressures,
they just turn inward and attack themselves from within.
And you get some bizarre occurrences that happen this time.
One of the worst that I can think of is a guy
whose only crime that he was apostate,
a guy whose only crime was that he was engaged to a girl
that some Mormon elder wanted as one of his plural lives.
So let me get the facts straight on this one.
The bishop accused him of sexual misconduct.
So a gang castrated him in a brutal manner,
tearing the cords right out,
a witness reported,
then took the portion severed from his victim
and hung it up in the schoolhouse on a nail
so it could be seen by all who injured the house there.
This is the kind of we're talking about.
Whole families trying to escape Utah,
getting caught, getting their throats slit, you know.
Yeah, horrible, horrible.
That's, yeah, that's Mr. Rebellion shit.
That's terrifying.
Wow.
Hung it down a little bit more.
Yeah, it is nasty.
Yeah, and when the feds finally start making inroads back
and starting to, you know, bring Utah back into the fold,
one of the first things they start doing
is investigating all these crimes against apostates
who are just trying to flee, you know,
Eastern Germany of 1850s, trying to make it alive.
And that's another thing we should bring to you.
Yeah.
Oh, I was just gonna say one other thing.
We have to remember, is they also double down
on the idea of consecrating your belongings to the church,
which means, you know, forcibly taking it all over it.
But, you know, we're not telling you to do this.
You just have to do this because God told you to do this.
Give us all your stuff, it's, you know.
Yeah, and if you leave the church,
the stuff remains in the possession of the church.
Because you've consecrated it, you know.
Yeah, yep, yep, yep, yep, it's, yeah.
So, add into that, right?
So, there's also this time because of the drought, right?
The resources were so scarce.
They had resoundingly murdered or displaced
or exterminated the majority of Native American groups,
whom they had raided and pillaged before for supplies.
And those, there were no more groups
for them to raid and pillage.
This is also at a time when Chief Wakara
was leading a loose federation of Paiute Natives
to oppose the growth of the Mormon settlement.
And let's also point this out.
When the Natives first encountered the Mormons
that were settling there, they didn't think,
by and large, they didn't think
that the Mormons were there permanently.
This is just a temporary place.
These are nomadic Europeans who are gonna then move
on to California or, you know, they weren't gonna stay.
So, initially, the relations between the Mormons
and Natives were fairly amicable.
When that wasn't enough for the Mormons,
when they continued expanding into more and more land
and claiming more and more territory
that was where Natives were living,
that's when it turned to fighting and massacres
and into what came to be a series of very small wars
in Utah.
And then Chief Wakara rose to prominence
to be the leader of some of these Native groups
to try and provide a front, a real militia force
against Brigham Young.
But Brigham Young was, he just had more people.
And they had more guns, they had more horses,
they had cannons, they had all sorts of things
that the Native groups did not.
And Wakara was murderous.
This is just a microcosm of what was going on in America
all over the place during this century.
So.
Yeah.
And at this time, too, they're using
desert bank notes as well.
But because resources have become so scarce,
even Heber C. Kimball, I call him Heber the Creeper,
he's a horrible guy, he wrote a letter to his sons
saying, dollars and cents do not count now in these times,
for they are the tightest that I have ever seen
in the territory of Utah.
Because the drought, the famine, the lack of supplies,
and then the church, everything being consecrated
to the church, all of the community's wealth
was being concentrated into the leadership
of the church as well.
So it's within this culture, within this milieu
that the Reformation period is beginning in 1856.
And Brigham Young wants to make sure
that he has the government of Utah under his control.
So in December 30th, 1856, Brigham Young commands
the entire state legislature to be rebaptized,
which was a signal that you are loyal to me,
not to the government, not to the federal government.
And that was really the beginning of the dividing line.
I attribute kind of that moment
as the beginning of the Utah war,
where President Buchanan decided
that the Mormons are not gonna elect anybody
other than a Mormon governor, a Mormon king.
So he needs to go to Utah and put in place
his own non-Mormon governor,
as well as some non-Mormon elected officials
to just get some non-Mormons
into the government of Utah territory.
And Brigham Young didn't like that idea.
He did not like that at all.
And it's very telling that we talk about the Utah war
that erupted when, well, erupted.
The Utah war that was caused by him going
to a minor territory in the United States wilderness
to install a few local non-Mormon officials.
That's how, yeah.
And the Utah war, I mean, we all read about it
in the history books, how terrifying the Utah war was
in the great blood.
Yeah, there was no Utah war.
It was a cold war.
It was a cold war.
It was dead before it stopped.
And they signed the papers before a shot was ever fired.
But yeah, that's how badly theocratic leanings were going.
And it was easy for Buchanan to do it.
It's like, because everybody hated the Mormons.
Everybody was afraid of this octopus
that was sending out their polygamous tentacles
into everywhere else.
So yeah, it cost him no political capital at all
to dip on them and extract people from the North-South divide.
That's right.
Yeah.
And to be fair, like Brigham Young was very much
didn't want to be in open aggression
against the federal government.
Brigham Young was smart enough to know just like everybody
knew that the nation was teetering on the Civil War.
And he was very much of the opinion.
If he and his people could just survive the Civil War
and if they weren't brought into it,
then they would just pick up the pieces.
And it would be the nation of Deseret, right?
It would be Zion.
It would be the holy kingdom of Deseret.
Yeah, for sure.
That's right.
So Brigham Young did not want to be an aggressor in this.
So what he told the Danites, the Navu Legion,
the people who were fighting in the Cold War
was do everything possible to make sure
that Buchanan's men don't get here.
And it involved guerrilla terrorism
and raiding their supply trains,
burning the fields ahead of them,
setting things on fire, blowing up their carts,
just doing all sorts of things to just hinder
poisoning wells, salting the ground ahead of them,
just really, really nasty stuff
to make sure that Buchanan's couldn't do it.
Are you listening, HBO, there's your next TV.
There's your next Game of Thrones right here.
That's right.
And that movie that I talked about, Destroying Angel,
the opening scene is Porter Rockwell and Bill Hickman
and the fictional protagonist of the show
shooting at these troops and up on a ledge
and they shoot a container of gas because it's a movie
and it blows up and nobody's ever killed,
but it just means that their supply carts are destroyed.
And these were the tactics the Mormons were using
and it eventually came to the point
that Brigham Young established in Parley's Canyon
an entire platoon or divisions of the novel legion
ready to fire on Buchanan's men
when they entered the territory of Utah.
And they're bringing the new governor with them,
the new governor of Utah, and this is in 1857.
And Brigham Young didn't want to step foot in the territory.
And it was bad news.
This was a Cold War, but it was very close
to turning into a hot war.
But eventually Brigham Young came to his senses
and he eventually said, okay, we'll step down.
I'll invite in the new governor
and the new governor came in to Salt Lake City
and they shook hands and all was well for a while.
For a time.
Yeah, that's good.
They need American money.
They need American help.
They need American food.
They are not doing great.
I bet you anything he was already thinking,
because he thinks different than Joseph Smith.
Joseph Smith, hot-headed, hell no,
and that would look bad, but he's business,
but not only that, he's realizing once this guy's here,
we have so many ways to manipulate that I will use this,
I will be able to break this guy
or at least use him to our advantage.
He was an age-old advantage, for sure.
Well, we got like 10 minutes left,
but if you wanna get us up to a cliffhanger,
you know what I'm saying?
Because I know the next episode's gonna be pretty brutal.
Yeah, let's just say this.
I mean, we're at this time when they're super paranoid,
where they're at odds with the American government,
where they're starved for resources,
starved for money, starved for food,
and they're killing each other.
And then some juicy wagon train from Arkansas
makes, picks the wrong day to go into Utah.
That's absolutely right.
Now, that's gonna be the focus of our next episode, I believe.
And to really put some color on this, right?
The Mormons were suspicious of spies.
They were looking in their neighbors, they were tattling.
I mean, for all intents and purposes,
this was McCarthyism for Mormonism.
There were trials, there were rebaptisms,
there were courts of discipline,
there were people tattling on their neighbors,
there were all sorts of social mechanisms put into control
and to police the Mormon people, including home teaching.
Let me bring up just one of those,
because I was fascinated by what Jedia Smith said,
or sorry, Jared.
Jared Grant.
Jedi Grant.
He sent out the Sledgehammer.
Jedi.
What he did, oh, I'm sorry to be
hesitating, we hope we can tip to that,
but I wanna read this so bad,
because one of the things he did,
oh, here we go, here we go.
Damn it.
This morning, I said, oh, I've gotta talk about this.
This is so good.
Yeah, while I keep finding it,
I'll also say that he implemented missionaries
going out to these Mormon settlements,
and missionaries are for going to non-Mormon settlements
and converting people,
but these were very special missionaries
who carried with them a pamphlet
that was known as the Mormon catechism.
And it had 27 questions in it
that were geared to testing the person's loyalty.
And if anyone was deemed non-loyal enough,
then they were called to repentance,
which had all sorts of possible ways of repenting.
And this is a time when the Mormons turned very much inward,
as you were saying earlier, David,
they turned to inwards and retrenched
and looked at each other and began policing each other.
They're funneling information up to the leadership
about what was going on with their neighbors.
And one of Brigham Young's quotes from this time was,
I want their cursed heads cut off
so they may get toned for their sins.
Here it is.
So Jedediah Grant, his right-hand man in all this,
this period of rejuvenated spiritual activity,
kicked it off by advising sinners
to appoint a committee to attend to their case,
and then let a place be selected
and let that committee shed their blood.
He's telling people, this is what you need to do
to go to heaven.
You need to pick your own executioners, basically.
Yeah.
And let's also be clear,
this is part of the Mormon endowment ceremony
it's taken from the Masonic oaths
where you're miming, slitting of your throat
and you're disemboweling.
You are agreeing that if you ever reveal the secrets
of the church or if you ever oppose the church,
that you agree to have your throat slit
and to be disemboweled.
And at least Jedediah Grant was nice enough
to let people select their own executioners.
Can you imagine?
Yeah.
He's telling us in your face,
yeah, pick a committee and this is what they need to do.
Yeah.
Yeah, boom.
And you made like-
Look, Bob pretty quick with a blade,
just so you know you might want to say.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, he's a blacksmith by day
and executioner with a white hood at night.
You know there are calculations made along these pages.
Well, hmm, yeah, yeah.
How F'd up is that to think about that?
Yeah.
And you might look at these things and be like,
well, this has most been illegal for the church
and the government to murder people.
It's like, it's a kingdom.
It's a banana republic.
It is whatever they want to do,
the Mormon leadership is gonna do.
These people are their subjects.
These people are their serfs.
These are just the ones that we found out about.
Knows what else shenanigans went down
that behind the scenes that never got.
Yeah.
Found out.
David was trying to say-
Gary's period time, period time.
Yeah, that's right.
Your internet hates us by the way, David,
just so you know.
Damn these tech.
I think next time you should really consider
your phone again.
Yeah.
There's no doubt that.
You can't even argue with me.
When you can't even argue with me.
The phone for sure.
Because if you can't even argue with me, bro,
you just need to surrender and pick your own execution.
Clearly.
That's right.
All right.
Yeah, David.
Clearly.
Clearly.
They're trying something.
Bryce, Cliff hang us here.
Cliff hang us here.
Give us something to look forward to.
Because David, I would love to hear you more,
but you're glitching so bad, bro.
It's like every 18th word, you know?
So.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, I'll just bring in what David
tried to cliff hang us with earlier.
At this very time, it so happens that a wagon train,
a very wealthy wagon train actually,
was making its way to California at a very unfortunate time
when the Mormons are wrapped up into this heightness,
this excitement, this retrenchment era,
this time when they're spying on each other
and reporting everything up to the leadership.
It's very much a case of wrong place at the wrong time.
And anybody coming into Utah could be branded
an enemy of the church or a spy for the federal government
and bring them young ones quick
to throw those words around.
Wow.
And David heard of the pros where they stuck for the day,
a place called Mountain Meadows.
That's right.
We'll leave that for next time.
And something's coming up in that meadow or in those meadows.
You guys.
Sunshine, sunshine and rainbows.
Sure, that's what you wanna call it,
picking your own executioners, nice.
Look, ladies and gentlemen, get David's book.
David's book is called
The Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion,
book one, The Mormons,
and make sure you guys go down in the description,
join the Patreon, check out Bryce Blankenagle.
He's the host of a program called
Naked Mormonism Podcast.
He is hosting them completely nude
and you just can't see it.
You have to be like only fans
in order to get to that point.
Eyes of faith.
Yeah, eyes of faith
and you can see what you can imagine and yeah.
But seriously, go check out his podcast on Patreon.
It's free, he's got tons and tons of videos.
Make sure you guys help these guys out.
They've brought 26 episodes so far to you
and we're still going, we're still going.
Thank you guys, seriously.
And David, I mean, no disrespect to your internet,
but your internet, okay, just saying.
Next time we'll do the phone.
Next time we'll try the phone.
We tried, we tried, ladies and gentlemen,
we gave his internet a chance.
So many videos, it just didn't like us
and then we gave it a break
and then he tried something new today
and as you can see, it still doesn't like us.
So we'll have to go to the phone.
But the dog didn't knock it over in mid-broadcast.
So that's something, that's not nothing.
You're telling in the real secret.
See, we thought you were in awe of whatever it was
Bryce said and dropped the phone.
Drop the phone.
Drop the phone.
Drop the phone.
That's going to, oh, you're going to have to.
That's right, that's right.
It's a tone this phone dropping.
It was seriously, man.
Thank you guys for doing this
and ladies and gentlemen, next time,
you're going to hear about some massacre.
It's going to get real ugly, real nasty
and I look forward to hearing from these two gentlemen.
So thanks guys and never forget,
we are MythVision.
