Mark Smith, author of Broken Promises, takes a deep dive into the New Testament pertaining to the second coming of Jesus Christ.
Ladies and gentlemen, you definitely want to check out this video, get his books down in the description.
He goes over various views from premilled dispensational and those who think they're still something they're waiting for in the future,
and also deals with preterism, partial, full in his book, and we discuss it on the show.
I came out of full preterism, so I couldn't help but jab in my thoughts, but Jesus said he was gonna come back.
Did he?
Let me know what you guys think.
Hit that like button, subscribe to the channel, hit the bell, and make sure you guys become a patron.
I have hundreds of videos, no exaggeration, early access, you won't see on YouTube that you gain access to early on the patron.
See you guys there.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, ladies and gentlemen.
Prophecy, the second coming of Jesus, our Lord and Savior.
Now, I used to be a Christian, and the last stand I had within Christianity was a group called Full Preterism,
which we're gonna hear about in just a bit, just to give you guys who are paying attention who might be full preterist.
You gotta ask yourself, why is Derek not a full preterist anymore?
And so, right now, I want to go ahead and introduce the author of an awesome book.
You need to go down in the description.
I just finished completing the entire book last night.
This book, Broken Promises, is like not only a great book to read, but it's like a handbook, a study guide.
And I know that for a lot of you full preterists, for example, and others who are into eschatology,
this book is more exhausted than any of the material I've seen on the topic, even from full preterist who loved a bash futurist.
Let me say what this is, because if I don't find it, a full preterist is someone who says,
all prophecy, everything that is predicted or told to be predicted, happened back in 70 AD.
A futurist are people, and they vary on who they are, amil, premil, you name it.
People who believe the second coming of Jesus, the final judgment, the resurrection, or something like that is yet future.
Gary DeMar, Kenneth Gentry are partial preterists, so they try to sit in the middle, but they're still considered futurists by full preterists.
Mark Smith, I'm sorry for that long elaborated intro.
Welcome to MythVision Podcast, and thank you for the book.
Thank you, my pleasure.
This book was awesome.
It was easy to read.
You say things in the vernacular, and I love that.
Someone's a Green Beret Special Forces son, so, you know, I was born in the military household, so every third word is in the vernacular.
But you call it like you see it.
And, you know, this is really, really well done.
I recommend even Christians could read this material.
They may not like your conclusions, but this will, I mean, open the eyes of anyone who's really trying to take the scriptures in the New Testament seriously.
So, they would definitely get good information out of it, because I read a long time ago, before I started this study that led to the book, that the majority of scripture in the New Testament deals with eschatology.
And at the time that struck me as a bologna, but when I did this study, it was like everything was popping out second coming-ish.
It was amazing. There's a lot of material in the New Testament targeted towards that.
You're absolutely right.
And I wonder why Christians put that as the last, you know, eschatology, the study of last things, or end of time, or end of days.
It's the study of the last things.
So, you know what?
We'll make it the last thing we study.
That's how Christians look at it.
And really, it's so vital, and it runs through the entire vein of the New Testament, that it should be the priority.
And not many people think about that.
Just like not many people realize Jesus spoke about hell more than he did about heaven.
You know, so they're like, what?
What do you mean?
Yeah, look into the New Testament.
More of it's about judgment and hell than it is about heaven.
Not saying you didn't have nice things to say about heaven, but it's mostly about that.
I think one reason a lot of Christians and churches don't want to talk about the Second Coming is because they're uncomfortable with the topic.
Yeah.
This book actually resulted from when I was maybe in my early teens, I was in a Church of Christ Sunday School.
And we had been going through the Book of Matthew chapter by chapter, one chapter every Sunday morning.
And we got up into the 24th chapter of Matthew.
And I raised my hand innocently, a little innocent Church of Christ Christian, true Christian, by the way, and said to the teacher,
this seems to be indicating that Jesus' Second Coming was going to happen in the first century before those people died off.
I mean, explain this to me.
And he did the universal cop up.
That's a good question.
I'll look into it and get back to you.
Never did.
And it is uncomfortable because a lot of them, I think, have a gut feeling.
These are such obvious things that are being said.
They're not hidden or under a bushel, as Jesus would say.
And they really have no good explanation for them.
No.
And that's why I commend the Preterist to try.
I mean, they're being as honest as I think they know how to without condemning their Lord.
You see what I mean?
Because you can't do that when you're a Christian.
That's your faith.
And I get it.
And I'm not trying to bash.
But when you've come to question these things and realize, I'm not in the story, I'm not part of this.
When you escape that and it's not about me, it was about them.
I think at that time, it's time for those who use that same exegetical hermeneutic to reevaluate,
especially if you're a full Preterist, we're going to get there.
And I just keep saying that because let me tell you, arguing with a futurist mark is easy.
To me, it's so, your book is all about it.
It's like, I mean, this entire book destroys future yet coming, yet second coming, future judgment, future this, future resurrection.
It destroys all of that.
If anything, it was supposed to happen back then.
And you do something that I think is so important for anyone who gets into these studies, definitions.
And the reason you have to do that, just like, and I mentioned this the other day on a live feed,
the Greeks, when they were studying Homer, they love, I mean, that was their Bible, if you will,
the Iliad, the Odyssey, the Aeneid, the different various epics.
What happened over time is it went from, yeah, Zeus was sleeping with all these women
and these gods were performing these devious acts, being not very moral and their divine deities, so to speak.
Oh, well, no, no, no.
That was an allegory.
No, no, no, he didn't do that.
That wasn't literal.
That meant this and they allegorized something that looked bad for them.
Yes.
And it's the same practice.
And you mentioned that at the end of your book when you talk about predators coming on the scene,
like, yeah, there's this group, another splinter sect, another sect.
Oh, you know, I really enjoyed that.
So futures are easy to attack and easy to show that, look, you guys just have to read your new testament
and go through these definitions.
So would you like to comment on some of that before we get into anything in depth?
Well, there are several Greek words that are crucial to the study of the second coming.
The most prominent and important Greek word is milo, M-E-L-L-O.
It basically means if you can picture a car that is teetering on the cliff ready to fall off,
that is how close milo indicates something's going to happen.
And there are dozens and dozens of places with a new New Testament that use the Greek word milo
to mean soon, near, basically any minute now, a lot of the English translations deliberately,
I believe, mistranslated into something else to deaden its impact.
But there was no way around it if you can look at the original meanings of these words.
They expected Jesus literally any minute now, definitely within their lifetimes.
It wasn't this, the Christians have distorted that now to sort of mean,
well, we Christians should always expect Jesus at any minute, even 20,000 years from now.
That wasn't the attitude.
It was any minute now, 100% within our lifetime.
Yes.
And you know what you did when you do that?
I've been studying this for a long time.
But here's the thing.
I say that to say I learned a lot from your book, even though I've studied this for a long time.
Like, I knew full preterism.
I knew that those were supposed to be talking about back then.
But the way you built it up, even into the Pauline literature showing,
we always ask what sanctification is, what justification, sanctification,
and then, of course, glorification.
Well, those three concepts, they're always tied together.
And depending on what Christian denomination you're part of, they try to explain this.
What you say, and it clearly implies even in Philippians,
you got to read the book, ladies and gentlemen, so you can understand where I'm coming from,
is that justification happened in this life by faith in Christ,
and that you will be glorified before you die.
You're going to end up in that glorified state.
He will come back in Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians.
And those of us who remain when he comes, he's coming in our lifetime, baby,
and get ready, and you do a good job showing that that's going to happen
with mellow and other terms like soon at hand.
You go through almost every New Testament book and show it's there.
Yeah, establishing the word definitions up front, I think, is crucial.
And I also, throughout the book, remind people of these definitions,
because it's easy, you read the first 10 pages, you forget it and move on.
It's going to be reminded of those things in context where they're actually happening.
And one of the things you mentioned, which I think really locks it into the first century,
is they were being taught that this was going to be within their lifetime,
not just at any moment, but at any moment within your lifetime before you die.
And that many of these peoples, their bodies would not die and decay
before the Second Coming, i.e. they would still be alive.
I mean, it's time and time again, it's put within their physical lifetime.
A quick one, Revelations 1-7, is predicted to happen
within the lifetime of the Roman soldiers that pierced Jesus' side on the cross.
I mean, that's just one.
And it's obvious.
Okay, I want to say this because there are Preterists right now who are so not liking this.
And I'll tell you why.
They want to interpret Revelation 1-7 to say,
All kinship of the earth, all tribes of the earth, twelve tribes,
those who pierced him, who are they Israel?
So they blame the Jews for the piercing and not the Romans.
And they do this all the time.
It's not just this passage.
So if we give them this passage, you go, okay, we'll give you this passage.
There are other places and you do it in this book where you show,
sorry, your Preterism isn't going to work.
And I recommend any Preterist to take it and challenge you,
to challenge what you put in here.
Yeah, there are lots of places where Paul clearly leads these people
to expect that it will happen before they all die off.
Paul himself expected it within his lifetime.
Why would he expect that within his lifetime?
How did he get that information?
Well, Mr. Jesus, within that generation.
I mean, to me, it's a no-brainer at this point.
But at the time when I started this study,
I was sort of still up in the air.
So definitely, you know, the book would come in handy to anybody curious about this topic.
You actually bring up quite a few quotations from various scholars,
from various worldviews.
Some are actually from futurist.
For those who don't know what I mean when I say that every time,
they're expecting a future yet coming.
And he shows how these people are being either dishonest or honest,
like C.S. Lewis and others saying this could have been a mistake.
Our Lord could have made a mistake.
And it's like, whoa, you believe he's God in the flesh and he made a mistake.
Anyway, you also quote other scholars and this gets off track a little,
but it points out something that's important for people.
The Essenes, other Jewish sects, not just your New Testament,
were expecting things to happen.
It was like this.
It's just like in the air.
All the Jews had a different, different sects of Jews had different ideas,
but they were all like, it's happening, baby.
It's coming soon.
So when I'm warning everybody who's watching this,
when a preterist, a full preterist,
someone who thinks that they've got it and everyone else is wrong
and they've got scripture on their side,
when they come at you and they go, well, the Bible says in the Bible,
in the Bible, in the Bible, OK, historically speaking,
this isn't the only place, historically speaking,
where people anticipated an end.
And so what the expectation of those definitions in terms for the kingdom of God,
the establishment of a new heaven and new earth and things like that,
isn't just New Testament context.
There's bigger context here.
So those Bible interpreting the Bible full preterist
should really do a historical research on what Jews thought
outside of the New Testament during the same era.
Yeah, that whole country of Israel was swimming in a sea of expectation.
They were fully expecting to be rescued by God
and to be set up to rule the world.
And it wasn't just the Christians.
I am convinced that the war in 70 AD
was provoked by Christians to hasten the Second Coming,
to bring on the Second Coming.
I don't have any specific text to point to,
but all the studies and readings that I have done,
that seems the most logical conclusion to explain the obstinance
of the Jews that were in Jerusalem,
a completely hopeless situation surrounded by the entire Roman Empire's army.
There was no way they had a chance of winning,
and yet they kept pissing off the Romans, you know, provoking them.
I really believe it was the Jerusalem Church
that led to the destruction of Jerusalem.
I can't see any of the group that had that kind of motivation.
Interesting. And if it wasn't, let's clarify for anybody who might already be going,
whoa, that's a bold claim.
If it wasn't the Jerusalem Church themselves,
it was a sect very messianic in ages like it.
So for those who want to get hung up on that,
I don't want you to take any flak for that, Mark,
but I understand where you're coming from.
They were extreme.
These people honestly believed if they took a sword to a Roman,
that the angels of God would manifest to help defeat the uncircumcised pagan Romans,
who were the enemy of God's people.
And this is something you see in the Dead Sea Scroll,
Qumran texts, and this, I mean, prior to the first century.
So if you date it prior, if you go with Eisenman's hypothesis,
you're stuck in the first century, either way, it's still there.
So I say that as a study option for people who want to say,
okay, will the Bible interprets the Bible?
Sure, but even Preterist run to Josephus to try and say,
well, look, Josephus saw armies in the clouds.
So therefore that's the second coming of Jesus.
That's what they try to do.
And there's a lot of things here that you discuss in this book
that I think is important.
Is there anything prior to getting off the first century anticipation?
Because I could put images on the screen of your book.
And I mean, there are hundreds of clear indications this was supposed to happen
in the first century during their life.
Could you be able to put up Matthew 24, 34, the various translations of that verse?
Yeah, yeah.
One of the things that amazed me were the number of Christian translations.
These were not atheist writing Bibles.
These were, for the most part, Christians doing an honest attempt
to translate the New Testament.
And Matthew 24, 34, this generation should not pass away until all these things be fulfilled.
When you read that in various nuances from Miss Elena's translations,
it really rams at home that this was due within one generation of Jesus speaking this.
So 33 AD, one generation at the outermost is considered to be 40 years.
And that's at the extreme.
Still within the first century.
And Jesus didn't mention any words about it.
And he even went out of his way.
Truly, truly, not just one truly, but two trulys.
Truly, truly, I say unto you.
And then the verse right after it.
Heaven and earth shall pass, but my words, blah, blah, blah.
It's like a used car salesman going out of his way,
crossing his fingers and swearing upon his mother's grave that this is really going to happen.
And people bought into it.
And I believe the first century church, at least up till the last apostle died off,
they were really wrapped up in this.
That became their entire life.
It's sort of like the people in the last day cults of our era.
I mean, you really begin to think that nothing matters anymore.
Your job doesn't matter.
Your family doesn't matter.
Schools don't matter.
Jesus is coming back.
You know, who cares?
I remember as a teenage Christian thinking, why am I wasting my time doing homework?
This is stupid.
Jesus isn't going to quiz me on algebra in heaven.
It's just not going to happen.
Good point.
And I think this was the attitude of a lot of the Christians.
In fact, Paul, in 1 Corinthians, I believe it's chapter seven,
brings out emphatically, don't bother getting married because Jesus is coming back so soon.
Don't bother setting up the marriage and a family and kids in the house and all this other stuff.
And what's funny is you got Paul right in the New Testament saying,
don't get married, you know, because Jesus is coming.
And nowadays you got churches.
One of their primary sources of income is conducting weddings.
The exact opposite.
Paul, you don't have any churches nowadays quoting Paul.
Don't get married because Jesus is coming so soon.
Why?
It's in the Bible.
Right.
Exactly.
Great point.
And if I may, on this Paul thing, Paul's ministry is far from the temple, far from Jerusalem.
And so for those Preterists who are temple-centric, the temple is the judgment,
the temple is the resurrection, the temple is the final second coming,
the temple is this.
When you're 800 to 1,000 miles away from the temple,
what are you telling these Gentiles out here who have zero to do with the temple?
Get ready.
It's coming.
Don't get married.
It's about to happen.
What's about to happen?
So they want to, and I'm jumping ahead of myself when I say they allegorize,
they want to spiritualize Jesus.
Oh, he came, but it was invisible.
It was a spiritual age-changing event that no one really knew and no one actually wrote about
and no one actually knows about except for you,
2000 years later reading this book, assuming that this is what's going on.
Every church father missed it.
Every single person that don't get me wrong, I expect the church fathers to be wacky
because they're all over the place on doctrine.
But, you know, it's like no one knew, but they did expect a real life-changing,
world-changing event to take place.
And I think Preterists want to minimize and localize that event,
just like many people want to do that with a flood.
Oh, Noah's flood is a local flood in a small region.
And invisible.
That's why archaeology and geology can't discover it.
Or they want to put it on something else.
So they'll go, well, there was the Levant.
The Levant was flooded at one point.
It was the Levant.
That's what we're pointing to.
Or, well, what happened around that time?
Sure, it was 70 AD.
It was the temple's destruction.
And so they do that.
They run to those places.
And you know what's crazy?
I, coming from that, feel like it's important to jab at some of those people
because I was like, come on, open your eyes.
You've come so far.
It's time to try and consider some of the evidence.
You're all about bashing the futurist and bashing people who are,
you know, believing that Jesus is still coming.
Yet you're not actually considering what the implications of your view are.
You're just trying to biasly justify and find a way to make sense
so that your view is still a view that can be held
without you having to let go of the whole Bible,
without you saying it's fell.
Let me explain for the listeners.
Most of the people watching this probably are not preterists.
Might have not even heard of preterists.
Jesus and his apostles clearly expected and prophesied falsely
that the second coming, the resurrection, the destruction of the world,
stars falling from the sky,
all that would happen before the end of the first century.
That is beyond dispute.
And anybody that reads the Bible should be able to see that.
It stands out.
It shouts at you.
But most Christians, for whatever reason,
you know, they turn a blind eye to it.
Just like Paul's saying, don't get married.
They turn a blind eye to it.
Well, yeah, Paul said, don't burn with lust though.
So in that case, get married.
Well, yeah, but what about just don't get married peace too.
But so I think most Christians handle it just by ignoring it.
However, there's a percentage of Christians who are, we call them preterists.
And there's different factions within that.
But they have seen the obviousness that this was expected in the first century.
There's no way around it.
It's impossible.
Jesus made a mistake.
Even C.S. Lewis admitted Jesus screwed up here.
There are a dozen theologians in my book that come out and say,
I'll translate their nice phrase, Jesus screwed up.
Jesus made a mistake.
These are Christian theologians.
But the preterists have seen that this was expected within the first century.
And it leads them to a quandary.
Do they label Jesus a false prophet and thus lose a Christianity like I did?
Or do they talk themselves into this preterist view that claims that, yeah,
all this stuff was fulfilled, but it was invisible.
In my book, it's just like I had Jimmy Hoffa over to dinner last night,
but nobody saw him because he was invisible.
Or the unicorn that's hiding behind you ready to attack.
Yeah.
And try to disprove that.
You can't.
The preterists, bless their heart, are trying because that really is the last,
that's the lifeboat.
That's the last ditched attempt to save the Savior from being a false prophet.
And they get 90% of the way in the study of eschatology.
And then they fall off the cliff of preterism into the land of endless figurative
speaking and assumptions and everything else.
But their intention is good, I believe.
You're 100% right.
You say in the, you know, because that's my excitement.
My excitement is obviously dealing with this.
But, you know, that's selfish of me.
I should have held off, Mark, and I'll tell you why.
There's 99% of the church thinks things are still going to come because they
haven't come.
So 99%, I think is more important than 1% in terms of dealing with this.
But, and that's also going to get obviously more people intrigued.
Sorry for that.
Intrigued with the conversation because they're all their grandmother.
My mom thinks Jesus is coming back soon.
I can't talk her out of it.
She's not willing to really listen.
And it's hard for me to be able to communicate it.
I'm not going to be able to force people to think differently.
So, yeah, maybe most of this video should be focused on that.
However, this is a deep, a deep conversation because we're not just handling the
it's so easy to disprove the future perspective like this entire New Testament
alone, you wouldn't even have to write a book.
You could open the New Testament and prove easily that it was supposed to
happen then.
But you wrote a book so well, it's written in a way that anyone like a
handbook can do it.
You guys could do a Bible study if you want to get together and actually
read this book.
That's so important.
I feel like jabbing at the guys who have the lifeboat.
That's just how I feel because it was me, man.
I was on that lifeboat.
And when I became a skeptic, I put full preterism to the side, not
realizing I wanted to use the preterist methodology in my critical
thinking on the Bible.
So I said, okay, what if it's a fictional book written as if it was
fulfilled, but it didn't, you know, it's just fictional.
I tried that.
And there's other people who try to do that.
That doesn't work.
You know, why is Paul doing what he's doing?
Why is Paul telling people to prepare for something?
Let's mentally go through the New Testament here and touch on the
highlights.
With the Gospels, Matthew 10, we have Jesus sending out his
apostles to proselytize, preach to all the cities of Israel.
And he predicts that before they have finished doing that, his
second coming will have occurred.
The kingdom of God will have been established.
That's right.
I did some real estate calculations and even walking slowly, they
should have been able to complete that task of reaching every single
city in Israel within, say, a dozen years.
I don't remember what the exact number is, but it was easily within
the lifetime.
And it never happened.
That's the first clue.
Second big clue, Matthew 16, where Jesus predicts all these end
time things happening within the lifetime of those people standing
there on the mountain, listening to him.
Again, never happened.
Matthew 24.
I used to get picked on from Matthew 24.
I would tell people, let's have a conversation.
We won't even mention Matthew 24.
There is a ton of evidence outside of that.
But Matthew 24, you have Jesus.
This is a short time before his crucifixion.
He's sitting across the valley on a mountain looking back at the
temple.
And his disciples come up to him and say, you know, tell us when
will these things be?
What are the signs of your coming?
What's going to happen?
And Jesus, the entire chapter, you can see he goes through point by
point by point what to look for, you know, famines and wars and
persecutions and stars falling from the heaven, blah, blah, blah.
All that is going to lead up to, you get to the 24th, 34th verse,
the second coming.
And okay, so all those horrible things are going to be, are going
to culminate in the second coming.
When's the second coming within that generation?
So it's the rapture has not happened.
It hasn't.
It just visibly or invisibly has not happened.
Moving on from that, Jesus talking to Caiaphas.
I believe it's Matthew 26.
Jesus predicts to Caiaphas and those around him that you all are
going to be alive to witness my second coming.
And in the book, I provide a photograph from the cover of biblical
archaeology, 1990, showing the tomb of Caiaphas, the stone,
human tomb.
Caiaphas died.
Jesus still hasn't returned.
And that wraps up most of the gospels.
There's variations on, you know, the gospels repeat each other.
But then you get into the book of Acts chapter 24.
Paul is preaching to the Roman governor of Felix about judgment
to come and the end times and accountability for sin and all
that.
And Felix gets so scared, so worried about this future judgment
that he calls off the hearing and says, you know, I'll listen to
you another time, Paul.
And the only reason that Felix would have gotten worried over
this judgment is if it was due shortly, if it was coming
immediately, which Paul indicates over and over using the words
Milo and stuff like that.
There's no reason for Felix to get scared if Paul's indicating
this might be 10,000 years from now.
So he even spoke to the Roman governor.
Then you get into the Corinthian letters.
Paul telling the Corinthians in no uncertain terms that the end is
due so quickly, not just quickly, but within your lifetime.
Don't get married.
Don't set up a life.
Don't bother putting roots down.
There's no point in it.
Everything you know is going to be turned topsy-turvy and upside
down.
So don't even waste your time.
And then you can move on through the Thessalonian letters, you
know, the man of sin sitting in the temple, blah, blah, blah.
Temple ceased to exist in 70 AD.
So if the second coming had to occur concurrent with the
existence of the temple, again, it's locked into the first
century.
No temple, no man of sin, no second coming.
It's obvious.
And you go through the New Testament time and time again.
Paul is saying that this will happen within your lifetime.
It's not going to be something that will be a thousand years
from now.
And he tells them to, you know, like one of the things I
remember, there's two or three places in the New Testament where
the Christians are having legal disputes with each other, you
know, whatever.
You took my parking space.
I'm going to sue you in court, whatever it was.
And Paul tells them, hey, the big judge is coming soon.
Don't bother wasting your time in civil court.
Don't even go there because if you have a dispute with your
fellow Christian, let the big judge handle it.
And so this is obviously expected within their lifetime.
You don't tell somebody, hey, you got to worry about the sun going
supernova.
When?
When is it going to happen?
Ten billion years from now.
That's ludicrous.
You wouldn't bother people with that, with something that's going
to happen billions of years beyond their lifetime.
Likewise, Paul, Paul is telling them the judge is coming.
There's no need for you to go to court over these things.
He'll settle everything.
A book of James.
James tells the rich people that basically Jesus is going to come
and kick their butt physically.
Not 10,000 years from now, you're going to be resurrected and then Jesus
is going to figuratively kick your butt.
No.
While you people are still alive, obviously, because you can't get
your butt kicked if you don't any longer have a butt, if it's turned
to dust.
While you guys are still alive, Jesus is going to come and do his
thing with you.
And then you can get into revelation time and time again.
Come quickly.
The Revelation 1.7, the Roman soldiers, it happens within their
lifetime.
Over and over, Jesus says there will be just, there's not going to be a
battle that's going to happen real soon.
But there's so, it's the warp and wolf of the New Testament.
It's the underlying current.
It's what motivated the Christians.
And I think that once it became obvious that he wasn't going to
return, as that last member of the generation died off, it probably
caused a lot of depression among the existing Christians at that
time.
Just like you see with cult members today, when they're predicted
and the world doesn't happen, that a lot of them just get bummed
out and they lose the excitement.
You know, some do.
And what I find most fascinating about this failed apocalypse scenario
is normal people would go, well, then why would they believe?
Why would they still be part of it?
He'd be shocked at how often a fellow, look at the Jehovah's Witness.
I just did an episode two days ago with a guy named Lloyd Evans.
He's a leading ex-Jehovah's Witness guy.
He went through the 1915, I believe it was, 1925.
1914.
1914.
1970.
There was a 1985.
There's just like so many of these.
And he said, look, church didn't fall apart.
People still believed in it.
And in fact, they're still doing the same date setting stuff.
So he thinks at some point something's going to have to give where, you
know, well, we got to morph our theology.
We can't allow for the date setting stuff to be a thing anymore.
We're losing too many members and we're starting to look silly.
And I think Christians also began, you know, in some sense, you start to see
that.
For example, there's already Makars and Scaffords and you point out
in the second Peter, it is unanimously like across the board, anyone
who's serious and worth their weight that sees that that's a forgery and
that that's late in the game, potentially middle second century,
possibly even late second century.
Why would they write that?
Well, I'll tell you why.
It didn't happen.
But the fact that there were Makars and Scaffords, I can see the Christians
terrorizing their pagan neighbors.
Jesus is going to come and kick your butt and burn you alive and you better
straighten up.
Jesus is coming.
I mean, they used that line for so long when it became obvious it wasn't
going to happen.
Yep.
They're pagan neighbors, you know, paybacks a bitch.
Yeah.
That's a good point.
And you know how often we hear Christians today who talk about don't
worry, it's coming, buddy.
You know, you're going to get yours.
Like they anticipate the Sky Daddy to come in and save them in some sense
when the judgment comes in.
It's almost like even the idea of hell, for example, they're like,
don't worry, you're going to be burned.
It's like, what?
You know, that's your way of justice.
Yeah.
Don't worry, God's going to come because they were waiting for justice.
They wanted this to actually happen.
And the power of explaining that has so little strength in preterism.
Like they can't, they can't justify the whole picture.
So they have to, they pick a local judgment in 70 at the temple.
It doesn't, like it'll never before and never after.
Well, we, you talk about the Jews being killed in World War II and stuff like
that.
Like we know that's far worse than what happened in the first century, though
it was horrible.
Nobody's trying to downplay death.
But that you go into these examples and what still kept coming to my mind is
why is Paul a thousand years, a thousand miles away, telling people who don't
go to the temple, who aren't close to the temple, get ready.
It's coming.
Well, if preterists are right and it's 70 AD, judgment for what?
You guys have nothing to worry about.
Just make sure you don't go near that temple.
Even though the gospels do indicate, look, when you see armies surrounding the
cities in Jerusalem, you know, flee to the mountains.
He lets them know flee to the mountains.
I tell Christians all the time, dude, where are you going to flee to?
The Appalachian?
You're going to flee to the, to the Rocky Mountains?
This is Jerusalem.
We're talking first century.
We're probably talking about the Qumran locations, dead seed locations saying run to
the, to the mountains.
I don't know.
So my question to you would be poking deep here.
The gospels are written after the war, but there's a tradition that stretches
prior.
And this tradition is that the end is near and soon.
Barn Airmen, I believe, has suggested that there were definitely apocalyptic preachers
who thought the temple was going to come down.
I mean, it's not unpredictable.
I mean, we have an example of a kid prior to 9 11 happening, predicting the twin towers
burning and even drew an artistry picture of them burning and not just burning from
a plane crashing into them prior to 70 or prior to 2001.
So, you know, you got to go, was he profit?
I mean, you got two giant buildings here and there are planes that fly in the sky.
Well, it's not too hard to possibly come up with the imagination that's going to happen.
Well, when you see Rome's not, not treating your people right, or you feel like they're
not, and there's people who are rebel rousers who aren't wanting to pay taxes.
There's a lot of crap going on.
The odds that something's going to go down is very likely.
And when it's fell before Babylon, according to history, what are the odds that it might
fall again by another even more superior army?
Very likely.
So there was a guy, there was a guy running around named Jesus supposedly here, preaching
the end is near, and they write these Gospels after.
So what predators want to say is Matthew 24, just like you say, was supposed to happen
back then.
They say it did.
When you say stars are going to fall out of heaven, they go, have you never heard of apocalyptic
language?
That means it's all spiritual stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or it's just allegorical language trying to describe the destruction of a temple, and
they'll go to the Old Testament to try and prove that.
They'll say, look, God said he's going to split the earth and crack the moon and melt the
mountains and all the stuff.
But really what happened was a war against Assyria or a war against the Persians or a
war against Babylon, the destruction of Babylon.
Yeah.
And so it sounds very apocalyptic, but it's only about Babylon or whatever.
I know we didn't, you didn't go into all of this and a great, great links in the book,
but there's another scholar who suggested that what happened was these Jews who wrote
this actually thought that that was going to be the end.
Even back then, they thought this was going to be the end.
I don't know if you've ever heard of that.
I can't recall it offhand.
I do recall there were other apocalyptic preachers at that time.
In fact, one of Bart Ehrman's books is Jesus' Apocalyptic Preacher or something like that.
It was a common theme, apparently, not just limited to the Christians.
The Essenes, I do remember, were expecting the end of the world.
They were expecting, that's one reason they hit everything in the caves because they needed
to survive the massive destruction that was going to take place.
They were not, well, they, some of them became Christians, but for the most part, the Essenes
continued on as a separate group.
But again, the Preterus are sort of like a separate cast in this, you might want to say.
One of the things, you went through Preterism and I went through Preterism.
When I was doing my study originally on this topic way back when, when I heard of the Preterus view,
my hopes went up.
I thought, oh, a lifeboat, you know, there's a possible logical explanation for all this.
And it really did make me feel better inside until I started actually reading the writings
and analyzing the books.
And I ran into a lot of technique that the cults use.
Gary DeMar's book, Last Day's Madness, classic.
Time and time again, he'll just make a flat-out assumption.
This is obviously that.
And then two pages later, that happened 100%.
No, he started off as a bold-faced assumption, a couple of pages back.
And when you're building upon that assumption like it was Historic Fact,
you never established it in the first place.
And it's just dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens of word sophistry like that.
And to call BS at every single point would make your tongue tired after a while.
And I still run into this with the J-dubs and the Mormons and all these other cult groups.
I did a lot of cult ministry back in my day.
It's just one lie based upon another lie based upon a third lie.
And eventually it gets stacked so high, you forget what the original lie was.
Back to failed second coming episodes, the Millerites, 1840s, predicted that the end of the world was going to come.
Jesus is coming.
They actually sold their homes or gave them away, pulled their kids out of school, divested all of their savings.
I mean, they totally broke themselves in anticipation.
Thousands and thousands of American Christians, the Millerites.
Well, the time came and went, nothing happened.
They lost a few people.
The head of the group readjusted the calculations.
Oh, I missed it by a year.
So they went through the whole thing a year later.
Again, nothing happened.
This group became so disheartened and discouraged by the obvious objective falsification of their beliefs that they completely disbanded and you never heard of them again.
No, they became the seventh day of Venice, which is still a major denomination.
You would think they quit.
Yeah.
And like you mentioned, the J-Dubb's the same thing.
I mean, all these dates.
I remember, I think it was about 1974, 73.
I was talking to a Jehovah Witness.
I had him and his buddy over at my house and we were talking about the 1975 prophecy that Jesus was going to come.
And I asked him, well, what happens if 1975 comes and goes and nothing happens?
Are you then going to lead the Jehovah Witnesses?
And he told me probably not because even in spite of that, where else would I go?
Who else?
Where else can I get the truth fed to me?
What alternatives do I have?
The Methodist, the Presbyterians.
And that's sad that they feel like they don't have options.
And all you're left with is this felt cult that you've built your life around and they have so much vested interest into it, they can't leave.
It's like building your entire life around something that, well, I know it's a failure, but it did give me some sense of purpose.
I'll go with that more than the fact that I know it's a lie.
Yeah.
And that's silly.
And I've had Mormons tell me flat out.
The reason I'm in this church is because it's good for my family.
It lets me structure family life and it keeps my kids in line and, you know, not because it's true and all that, but because I get good stuff out of it.
You know, the assumption going back to the cult thing that is, I mean, yeah, cults do it.
Don't get me wrong.
It's not just cults.
People in general do this kind of stuff.
They make assumptions and they follow up with it and they already build this tower on an assumption.
And I think full preterism is this assumption.
All they're doing is taking exactly what your wonderful book does.
And it really is a wonderful book.
I mean, it goes through everything just about every stone is unturned.
Like you see everything.
The whole book tells you the whole New Testament and it says first century.
They say first century.
What they do though is say, for example, Revelation says, and all these things that are written shall soon come to pass or must shortly take place.
Okay.
Well, if they must shortly or soon take place, they must have taken place because we're 2000 years into the future.
And the Bible can't lie.
Exactly.
So the assumption is because they said it would, it did.
And I asked them, show me where the resurrection, the final resurrection happened.
Tell me where.
Well, it was definitely assumed to happen, but give me the text that says the resurrection happened.
The best you can do is run to the Gospel of Thomas, which is not canonical.
Probably a little later, possibly second century, mid second century, where he says they say, where's the repose of the dead?
You know, when would the resurrection of the dead take place?
And he says, look around.
It already has.
You just can't see it.
So it's a Gnostic thing.
And so I think Gnostics were trying to solve a problem as well and have a spiritual Christianity, a dorsetic Christ, things like that.
Whereas you've got these other guys who were saying, damn it, it didn't happen.
And I wanted to talk about a few of those bad spots.
One of the spots that I used to use as a preterist and had an assumption about.
But they actually kind of point to the failure rather than the success of this thing.
John chapter 21.
They're all fishing.
They're all having a hoop.
Jesus comes along the shore and they see it's him and he tells them, throw the net on the other side.
And sure enough, they catch all these fish or whatever.
They come to shore and there he is.
Feed my sheep.
Feed my this female sheep.
Then they have the conversation.
Peter gets told in what manner he was going to die.
Okay, you're going to you're going to die.
You're going to go to a place you don't want to your arms.
Time up.
Speaking of second Peter, which is dated somewhere between 100 and 200 AD by the best scholars.
Peter died in the 50s.
According to the best scholars.
It's amazing that he was able to write that book after his death.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm amazed at how people can do that.
I hope that you and me can do that one day, you know, a dead person writing a book.
Which we'll get to second Peter in just a second because I'd like to have your thoughts on it.
But John, I was going to have you comment about him not dying before the Lord comes.
Clearly the tradition has it.
Matthew 16 as you point out verse 27 to 28.
Some of you standing here will not taste death.
Do you see the Son of Man coming in glory with his angels to repay each man according to their deeds, the judgment, the resurrection, the glory, the whole nine.
The trumpets will sound, the angels of God, you know, the Shabbam.
And John here, after Peter's told how he's going to die, he goes, well, what about him?
And he says, what if it be my will that he remain until I come or something like that.
I could pull up the reference if we need to.
But there was a tradition, John says.
And you know what?
I think it's worth reading.
All right.
Because someone's going to go, you misquoted it.
While you're looking that up, I want to point out, I have been told the Mormons, at least some Mormons believe that John is still alive.
Go figure.
At least they're trying to, you know, realize that, well, we're going to be consistent and not contradict the Lord here.
You know, the Lord said therefore.
And that's a good point.
He says.
And John 21.
Oh, I think it was John 20.
Hmm.
Nope.
John 21.
Do you love me?
I'll tell you a solemn truth.
Now, Jesus said to indicate clearly by what kind of death Peter was going to glorify God.
Verse 19, after he said this, Jesus told Peter, follow me.
Peter turned around and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved, following them.
This was the disciple who had leaned back against Jesus' chest at the mill and asked, Lord, who is the one who is going to betray you?
So when Peter saw him, he asked Jesus, Lord, what about him?
I'm talking about a manner of death.
Jesus replied, if I want him to live until I come back, what concern is that of yours?
You follow me.
So the saying circulated among the brothers and sisters that this disciple was not going to die.
Now, notice, he wasn't going to die.
Why?
Matthew 16.
The Gospel of John avoids the apocalypse like the plague that he's writing after this already waited, baited, delayed return of the second coming.
He's not, he's not concerned about it.
Like Luke, like Matthew, like Mark, the synaptics are concerned about it.
And you point that out in your book.
John is the least concerned about any apocalypse or immediate return.
And so the circulating narrative is that some of you standing here will not die.
Someone's of the disciples that were there are going to remain and Jesus is going to come back.
Let me point out something that you just inspired in me.
Thank you.
Okay.
John 21 actually proves Matthew 24 and all the other references where it was predicted within one generation.
John 21 makes no sense whatsoever unless the, unless the interpretation that they gave Jesus was this was to happen within that generation.
Exactly.
100%
It actually confirms it.
This confirms it.
But here's where I think it gets tricky and not tricky for us.
But I mean, for anyone who's trying to justify, there's a change because he says, well, so the saying circulated among the brothers and sisters that this disciple was not going to die.
Right.
Because that's what Jesus said.
That's the saying that he's not going to die.
But Jesus did not say to him that he was not going to die.
But rather, if I want him, if I want him to live until I come back, what is that concern of yours?
This disciple who tests about these things, he's written these things.
We know that his testimony is true, et cetera, et cetera.
So my question then, it sounds to me a cop out.
It's a cop out for, well, this disciple did die and the return didn't happen.
But, but Jesus said, if that's what he wanted, then that's what he'll do.
Almost like the Old Testament, when you read about prophecies, you find that didn't happen.
Supposedly like Jeremiah might predict something's going to come.
Then the angel of the Lord comes and goes, ah, you know what, it's not 70 years.
It's 70 times seven years.
They keep changing things because it doesn't work and it fails.
And I think that's what's happening in John here, the tradition, the latest gospel.
Anyone with any critical, you know, anyone who's studied scholarship on this,
knows John's the latest gospel in the New Testament.
And being the latest, I believe, written in the second century,
the beginning of the second century sometime, the apocalypse didn't happen, Mark.
So then what do we do?
Well, we got to, we got to say, Jesus said, what if, what if I want him to remain?
He didn't say he was going to remain.
So it's already copying out on that other scenario where some of you standing here will not die.
Do you remember the movie Dumb and Dumber?
Yes.
When Jim Carrey is talking to the girl of his dreams and she tells him there's not,
there's a one million chance.
And Jim Carrey is, so there is a chance.
Yes.
That's what this verse is.
Yeah, you're telling me there is a chance.
Yeah.
You know, that's hilarious that you bring that up.
I think that tradition clearly flops on its head right here.
And what you're suggesting makes sense that it's a failure.
Or else, why say this?
And I used to use this as a preterist to say, see guys, why do you even say that?
He said that because John did remain and he came.
That's what I used to say as a preterist.
Why would that even be there?
Duh, because he was trying to say the last disciple that he said was going to remain alive.
Some of us standing there would have to be alive.
John was it and he did and he came back.
That's what I did.
Now that's an assumption.
That's an assumption.
Here it sounds more like what you're saying makes sense.
Well, what a million chance.
What about Second Peter?
Second Peter?
Well, first off, Second Peter is a complete and utter forgery.
That is the consensus of almost all biblical scholars and even most of the early church fathers.
It wasn't even allowed in the New Testament until way, way, way towards the end of, I think,
towards the middle of the 300s or whatever.
Anyway, it was recognized, commonly recognized as a forgery and there are many internal evidences
that pointed out as a forgery, one of which the most obvious to me is the writer who supposedly
is the apostle Peter talking about how all the apostles have died off.
The forefathers have passed away and are asleep.
But wait a minute.
If you're a Peter, you're one of the fathers of the church.
So how can they be asleep?
So there's forgeries in the Bible and Second Peter is definitely one of them.
So number one, you can take Second Peter and flush it down the toilet.
But even if you grant that it's true, to allow that one day is as a thousand years cop out,
it bespeaks of a unintelligent, stupid God.
Because if you and I were to travel to, let's say, Pluto,
and we were to tell the people that one year on Pluto, thus and such, is going to happen.
Well, Pluto takes about 290 earth years to circle the earth.
So when you tell the people on Pluto such and such is going to happen within one year,
wouldn't you specify which system of years you're using?
Are you using plutonium years or earth years or Venus years or whatever?
You would have the intelligence to translate it to the common system of measurement being used.
I remember one time my speedometer on my motorcycle got stuck in kilometers.
I loved it.
I was doing like over 100 all over the place.
It was great.
But obviously it wasn't miles per hours.
Yeah.
But it looked impressive.
So if there were a God and if he were to come and talk to earthlings,
he would have the intelligence, just like you and I would, to use earth time references.
So this whole thing, well, one day is 1,000 years.
No.
Any normal intelligent person knows to translate those things, to speak in the common language.
If Einstein were to come in and speak to a fourth grade class, he's going to scale it down and speak in their terms.
Why would we expect any less from an almighty, all intelligent deity?
And to interpret what you're saying for, or to translate what you're saying into even simpler terms.
Mark proves in his book, countless times, the language or the method in which God speaks is imminent time.
You don't have to try and stretch stuff.
It's going to happen.
And then all of a sudden, Second Peter comes on and it goes, you know, about that day, no one really knows.
In fact, a day could be 1,000 years and 1,000 years could be a day unto the Lord.
But guys, don't worry because this is a good thing.
God's long suffering.
He's just going to save more people.
So, you know, don't worry about it.
Look, you just keep living like it's about to happen, but we don't know any time soon.
We're not sure.
And I think the reason this is important for me, it's not what you're aiming at as Christians.
And I love that because you're dealing with people that like I had gone past that in terms of evolving into preterism and then going beyond.
I'm jabbing at the preterist, which is the last stronghold in Christianity, I think, or a form of Christianity.
They're really heretics.
You're aiming at the Christian.
So you're like, look, it's a forgery.
So you're already challenging them on that book.
I find it interesting that every preterist, full preterist that I know of never really sees the implications of that being a forgery and understanding why that book is there.
It is my opinion.
Correct me if I'm wrong.
And I want your thoughts on this.
Honest thoughts.
I'm wrong.
Tell me.
I think 2nd Peter's stance on that is purposely late in the game.
They forged to be Peter because they're trying to justify the failed apocalypse.
So they're saying, look, it didn't happen.
So we need something there to say, look, there's so many scoffers and muckers that are saying it ain't ever going to happen.
Let's stop.
Let's stop with the date setting, guys.
Let's stop pretending like it's about to happen because if I die in 10 years and it doesn't happen, we don't want to make our Lord look stupid.
So they're trying to save the Savior already in 2nd Peter.
Yes.
And then basically Peter is saying there are a whole bunch of folks saying the 2nd coming hasn't happened.
If 2nd Peter was written after 70 AD, how come they didn't notice the Preterus 2nd coming?
Thank you.
There will be no need, no need for 2nd Peter if Jesus actually had returned in 70 AD.
And then being Christians, I think they would have noticed it.
The dead Apostle Peter apparently failed to notice the 2nd coming.
Yeah.
Of course, the dead Apostle Peter writing at that time.
This is such a good book.
Thank you.
I really do believe it will come in handy for a lot of people.
I deliberately did an unusual format in the book.
It's mostly tabular.
Everything is fully and completely documented.
You can double triple check any quotes I have in there.
Do your own research.
Thinking is worth the time.
I don't expect anybody to read this book and then, well, I'll throw it now.
Let it percolate, let it sink in.
This is a major decision.
When you were a Preterus and you started to have doubts about that.
It wasn't just a, oh, okay, I'll just throw away my Christianity.
No, it is a huge decision that you should spend time with.
Because if Jesus actually was a false prophet, which is the point of my book,
using his own words to convict him.
If you're a Christian, that means an entire worldview change.
It could mean a divorce.
It could mean if you're a minister and losing your job, your healthcare.
It could mean your relatives ostracizing you.
There's a lot going on.
There's a lot writing on this.
But in my opinion, you shall know the truth and that truth shall set you free.
It's so amazing how that works.
Because that's exactly the book in which we have left.
But that saying stands firm in a sense, finding out the truth about the truth.
Yeah.
And the truth is, this is an apocalyptic cult that flopped.
And just like JWs flopped, just like Mormons flopped.
Well, Mormons aren't as bad in terms of it, but there's still predictions that they have had.
They're just not as much like date setters like the JWs.
JWs are huge date setters.
Even the, you know, what was that cult?
They committed suicide in the past decade.
Oh, Heaven's Gate.
Heaven's Gate?
I mean, all these cults.
The problem is in your book, you actually defend the JWs for a moment.
And I appreciated that even though I'm not one.
And I think it's a cult that's harmful.
I appreciated it because you were like, look, look at the quotes from the Christians mocking the JWs for their date setting,
not realizing their foundation as a mockery itself.
In fact, I pointed out there's a man named Ed Decker that had an anti-Mormon website.
Apparently he scrubbed a lot of this language off the website since I did my research originally.
But originally he was pointing out where Joseph Smith had been quoting Jesus, almost verbatim,
about, you know, Jesus is going to come soon within a generation.
This and that's going to happen using almost the exact same words of Jesus.
And Ed Decker was mocking Joseph Smith.
Ha, ha, ha.
I spent 150 years and this never happened.
Ha, ha, ha.
And it was hilarious because his own Jesus said the exact same thing.
Wow.
Joseph was quoting Jesus.
It's so awesome how you did that.
Yeah, he's taking it off his website now.
But yeah, they recognize the false prophecies if it's put in the mouths of other people other than Jesus.
Right.
But somehow when Jesus says the exact same thing, it's like, we don't say any false prophecies.
Exactly.
I mean, that's their foundation.
So they can't, they can't put it out loud.
In fact, you quote William Lane Craig in here, if I may.
Yes.
This is a fascinating quote because William Lane Craig is such a sophisticated sounding
philosopher, you know, Christian who says, apologetics, you know, we have a right.
We have the truth.
We stand on the truth all this.
And he wants to argue a lot of times he's not a presupp, so he's not a presuppositionalist.
He believes in empirical evidence.
He believes in these things he says should justify reasons for faith and why you believe
and whatnot.
Here's his statement.
It's the Holy Spirit who gives us the ultimate assurance of Christianity's truth.
Therefore, the only role left for argument and evidence to play is a subsidiary role.
Should a conflict arise between the witness of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, to the
fundamental truth of the Christian faith and beliefs based on arguments and evidence.
Notice something.
Faith or evidence.
Okay.
Believe on the evidence.
He makes the distinction.
Yes.
Then it is the former, the Holy Ghost, faith, which must take presidents over the latter
evidence and arguments and not vice versa.
As long as reason is a minister, i.e. servant of the Christian faith, Christians should
employ it.
The Holy Spirit teaches us directly which teaching is really from God.
He literally says he still agrees with this.
I still agree with what I wrote on page 36 and 37.
William Lane Craig, did you contact him about that or did he write that?
I spoke to him in person.
I attended a lecture of him at Calvary Chapel, Costa Mesa, one of the lectures they put on
in one of their side office buildings, whatever.
I spent about 20 minutes talking to him.
I had some friends with me at the time they can attest to it.
I could not believe he had actually put that in print.
I was assuming this has to be a mistype or something.
I asked him, well, if you still believe this, would you sign your name here on the same page
of your book, Reasonable Faith, attesting that you still believe it?
And he did.
He signed it.
And I was reading a book by Hector Apollos, excellent theology writer, atheist, et cetera.
And he asked William Lane Craig.
He confirmed that Craig still believes this in the last several years.
So this isn't something that Craig is trying to sweep under the rug or hide.
And I've heard other people who have asked him this same question based on what I asked.
So technically, he is a presuppositionalist, technically.
If you get technical, I'm not going to say he doesn't try to argue from evidence.
But if evidence doesn't count, if evidence proves contrary, go with the presupp of your experience.
Go with that presupp of faith in Jesus, the Holy Ghost, as he calls it, and screw the evidence.
Damn the evidence.
Yeah.
And to me, once you establish that's the way he operates, it is completely, utterly useless to debate the man
or try to disprove what he says with evidence or change his mind.
He's flat out told you, I am going to go with what I imagine in my brain.
I don't care how much evidence you present.
And one of the things I did present to him was a thought experiment that him and I went back in a time machine
outside the tomb of Jesus.
And we stayed there for one month, two months, whatever.
There was no resurrection.
Would you, at that point, give up your Christianity?
And he flat out said no.
He would assume he was deceived somehow.
So evidence, you presenting evidence to William Lane Craig is a complete and utter waste of time.
He's already admitted up front.
He doesn't care.
So why are you wasting your time?
You know, clean the dust off your shoes and move on.
That's a fascinating point.
Dr. Richard or Dr. Robert Price mentioned in his debate that that's how this guy rolls.
And I must say that makes me really question the motives of what his research is really doing.
I think he isn't considering faults in his research.
He's looking for an answer to fit his presuppositional position of faith in Jesus to try and find...
It's like, dude, honestly, it's like if my wife, if someone came to me and said,
listen, I know you love her.
You guys have been together for 15 years.
You have three children.
Your wife is cheating on you and has a relationship with a guy down the street.
If I'm so biased and so cognitive dissonance and love her so much,
I might seek out ways to defend her in light of the evidence of someone trying to suggest that.
And they had every right to say, listen, he didn't rise from the dead.
I mean, your wife cheated on you.
You get what I'm trying to say.
And so if I ran around trying to justify her to defend her and she's guilty,
that's kind of like you're not considering the evidence that, look, this might not be true.
Or, hey, she's probably cheating on you.
And how are you going to deal with that once you find out?
Can you swallow that pill?
Can you consider where that might take you?
Some people aren't willing to.
And they are saying that right here.
William Lynn Craig.
So I didn't want to take too much time.
You know what I did?
I put Q-tips as my little...
I didn't have bookmarks, so I ran.
That works.
Hopefully they're not used.
No, definitely not.
You did a second Thessalonians in your comment section on page 116.
Okay.
Paul wrote this letter around 51 CE.
At that time, the Jewish temple in Jerusalem was still very much a reality.
When Paul prophesied that this Antichrist would take a seat in the temple before the second coming could happen.
You mentioned this earlier, but I just figured I'd bring this up.
It was a possibility.
However, this temple ceased to exist about 20 years after Paul penned this letter.
When Roman soldiers had it flattened, wisely none of the second coming prophecies in the New Testament that were penned after the destruction of the temple mentioned this tidbit of taking his seat in the temple.
And I mean, I can go on and read the whole thing, but there are preters who want to try and pinpoint who was this man of sin that seated in the temple?
Was there a guy and they want to try and come up with people?
I've heard people try to say Caligula was the guy because he was, you know, he hated the Jews.
You're neglecting one point of Preterist tactic.
It could have been an invisible Caligula.
Or somebody else.
I've heard him say that in the war, before the temple was annihilated, some of these rebel leaders fit the bill.
But it's that doesn't, to me, that makes no sense why they would claim to be like God seated on the throne type thing.
Like I just don't know how these rebel figures would be claiming to be the divine themselves.
Per what Paul wrote, Jesus must return within the lifetime of this man of sin in order to be able to slay him.
It's hard to slay a person that's already a thousand years dead.
Exactly.
So if Jesus were to return today, how is he going to slay somebody that's been dead for two thousand years?
Obviously not.
That's why they think there's going to be another temple and that's how far they go into trying to justify their story.
Really.
So much stuff, man.
We did John chapter 21.
I'm excited about this.
I really hope people will get this book and check it out.
But one of the things that I did an exhaustive section of the book on Matthew 24 34, especially the Greek word, guinea, from which we get generation.
One of the cop outs I ran into was that some Christians were claiming guinea doesn't mean generation.
It can mean race.
It could mean that people alive at that time.
It could mean a dozen other things.
I mean, it gets really fanciful in the imagination.
And they're trying to save their savior from being a false prophet.
I understand the motivation, but I went out on my way to shoot those excuses down.
And if the book's worth just that one section of nothing else, just so if you ever hear these excuses, well, that just meant the race, you know, the Jews would still be around when Jesus arrives.
No, that's a completely bogus cop out on that word guinea.
Yeah.
But the research I've done on guinea is worth the price of the book alone.
You know, definitely need to check that out.
The JWs from the 1914 prophecy, they claimed that it was going to be a generation when it didn't happen.
They said, well, there were two generations that overlapped.
So they're stretching it out.
It's just the same thing keeps happening guys.
And just as an addition to that, Chuck Smith, founder of Calvary chapter seven, California, he wrote a book, I think in the 1970s, saying it was one generation from 1948, which is when Israel came into existence.
And therefore, the second coming will happen by 1988.
John Hage.
Did anybody see that happening?
No, of course, I was born in 1988.
So the end has happened, actually, Mark.
No, just kidding.
I know I'm a young guy, I guess.
Ed Stevens, you quote him on page 139.
Full Preterist, pay attention.
Check out Ed Stevens is quoted here.
You know, I could see this being a great jump off for somebody who really wants to take a deep dive attacking preterism.
Most of this book literally confirms that everything that was supposed to happen happened back then.
And whatever turn you want to take, you're stuck.
You're stuck no matter what.
So that's why they have to change the meaning of words and redefine things to try and make it work because they couldn't let go of their Lord.
It's just the way it is.
And I think one of the reasons mainline Christianity tends to not attack and destroy preterism.
They're keeping it as an ace up their sleeve.
It's a last ditch effort.
I mean, yeah, the preters might be goofy and weird and have some wacky ideas, but maybe they're true.
I mean, if they're true, then Jesus wasn't a false prophet.
So they sort of keep them around as a just in case like a lifeboat.
That if somebody does manage to point out that Jesus's second coming was doing the first century, well, then we got the preterist.
I've not progressed myself, but you know, maybe they got a point.
Yeah, that's a good point.
That's a good point.
And I commend them obviously for having the guts to stand up against the Orthodox Church because they have been just rehashing this stuff.
But I get why I don't think the New Testament teaches futurism.
But when you look at these passages that do try to they rest all their weight on days as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day.
And that's that that's their that's the thing.
The cop out.
Yeah, the cop out and a lot of these apocalyptic cults are there.
They're actually skipping that that little cop out and focusing on the immediate stuff, not realizing it had nothing to do with them.
So.
And by the way, if one day equals a thousand years, Jesus is still in the tomb.
That's true.
Well, they'll probably try to say, well, you send it on high, but doesn't act say in like manner the way he took off as a way visibly.
Exactly.
Yes.
Yes.
So it's like, how do you get around him?
This Ed Stevens, a guy you quote, who's a full preterist actually believed he literally did come back.
But it was in like this pocket of he pretty much came back to only a specific group.
So every eye shall see him.
Eh, not every, you know, there's always something, man.
There's always something.
Mark, would you like to say anything else to our audience before we go other than the fact that I ask everyone to go down in the description and get the book?
Well, quick way to find the book.
Go to Amazon.com type in broken promises Jesus and that should pop up my book within view broken promises Jesus.
There's a Kindle version, eight bucks or something.
The hardcover is what 1314 somewhere in there.
I think it would be an excellent reference book to have if nothing else.
It has just about everything you ever wanted to know about the second coming.
Yeah.
And I think it's worthwhile.
It's definitely something that you need to have because you look at the books put out by the Christians, there are thousands of them just in the last decade of Jesus is coming soon.
They're trying to scare people again.
And you need to find something to explain away what they're doing so you're not scared and your relatives aren't panicking and selling their house and pulling their kids out of school.
Good point, Mark.
Thank you so much.
Mark Smith, ladies and gentlemen, author of broken promises.
Once again, get the book.
I have the Amazon affiliate link down below.
His book will be on the list of myth vision recommended books.
I ask you guys to go and get it.
Help him out.
Of course, that would be awesome, but it's not just helping him out.
It really is a great book.
He's got illustrations.
You're pretty funny.
Like a second Peter three passage where she's like, I'm not going to delay and you got turtles all over the page.
Like, guys, what's a turtle slow?
So I really appreciate this book.
I appreciate you coming on and sharing your insight.
Let's have you come on again and we can do specific conversation on because we really went all over.
If we want to deal with Matthew 24 and go improve evidence that the entire passage was about then back then, we can do that and you do.
You do that in the book.
I'm just saying for those who don't have the book, we can give them a little bit of a lesson on these things.
All right.
Thank you very much.
I've enjoyed this.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen, never forget we are meth vision.
You
