Hey, hey, hey. Welcome back to MythVision. I have Dr. Joseph A.P. Wilson joining me today.
How are you, my friend?
I am doing well. It's been a hectic week, a crazy winter term I was teaching and dealing
with all kinds of hectic stuff. So it's good to be here, good to be with you. And today
is turning out to be a little better than I hope.
Hey, I'm just glad you made it. I know that you have snow. We have snow. And we have Buddha
to talk about. So I guess the ancient Buddha somehow, just in a statue form, walked all
the way from the east and just plumped himself in Egypt. What's going on? Take us into what's
happening. What's the recent discovery? And yeah, well, okay.
So it turned out I had two windows open and I was hearing the audio twice overlapping.
So I think I just muted one of them. Can you still hear me?
Yes, I can.
Okay, where's the live one that's...
Hit that like button, everybody.
Yeah, all right.
All right. Did you find me?
It's okay. The problem is I'm not done live before.
Okay, okay.
And because I've never done live, I've got it out of sync.
Got it.
Can you help me with that?
Yeah, so I imagine... Are you in the stream yard?
It might be... Oh, I was. And then I tabbed over to YouTube. So if I close the YouTube
page, it should work, right?
Close the YouTube. You don't need YouTube up. You want to come over to the stream yard.
Yeah. And what happened to my stream yard? Like, I have too many tabs open. That's my
problem.
Just open the email and then...
Click back on that.
Yep.
I am sorry for being... Oh, is this it? It's it. Okay. Sorry. Okay. Yeah. It was because
YouTube was in the background and it was... The sound was coming through twice and I was
losing my mind.
Okay. Go back and... I apologize to your audience for being a Luddite and a person without any
clue here.
So to just talk about the significance of this finding. So this is... Bernanke, Egypt
is a... It's a port city in Southwest Egypt that would have been a place where the Indian
Ocean trade from our people... Boats coming around the Arabian Peninsula and up the Persian
Gulf would then land at this little peninsula, right, on the coast. And so it was a place
where you had people from the broader, you know, trade world were congregating in one
little Egyptian place.
But this is a massive find because it shows a second or third century Buddha statue that
is most likely, according to the reports I've read, I need to get in touch with these people
and find out some more details about like the nitty gritty of the excavation, etc. But...
And this is new to me. This was found in 2022, but it's only just kind of getting out there
in general knowledge right now. So I discovered this like last week or the week before. This
object is locally made according to that. That's a huge big deal. And it's part of a
continuum of Indian presence in Egypt, because there are Sanskrit inscriptions that come from
a later period in this site, right, that show that... So there is like an Indian diaspora
community there. And at that time, that's the Morian Empire. That's the time when Buddhism
is rapidly expanding in India. We think of India as a Hindu country now, but during the
ancient and medieval period, there was a long period of about a thousand years when Buddhism
was close to the majority religion. There was a time when India was almost like a Buddhist
theocracy. So this would have been earlier in that period. This would have been before
Buddhism was like that big there. But Buddhism was a major Indian religion. And so there are
Indian people in Egypt practicing Buddhism in the second and third century. That is a big
deal. We have some evidence that people in Egypt knew about Buddhism, because there are
early Christian authors that mention it. They mentioned the Buddha, they mentioned the practices
associated with his religion. And initially, they do it positively. Early Christian authors,
like I'm thinking mainly Clement of Alexandria, when he talks about Buddhism, he talks about
it as something that's happening in India that's similar to what Christianity is doing in the
West. He sees an affinity between the two religions and the fact that the Buddhists are
especially pious and holy people in his view. He doesn't talk about them like they're heathen
idolaters the way that later authors do. So in that early phase, you have this sort of like
a brief moment in time when you had this sort of common cause that was seen between these two
different religions. And so this would have come from that same period. This Buddha statue in
Egypt would have happened, would have appeared around the time that the earliest Christian
sources citing the existence of Buddhism in India are recorded. This is a huge big deal because
it's also around the time the era, the general 150, 200 year window we're talking about, is the
period when in Persia, in Babylonia, you have this competing world religion called Manichaeism
that gets founded. And it's a sister sect of early Christianity with a lot in common with early
Christianity. It eventually went extinct by the late medieval period. Right? But it was a massive
major world religion in both the West and the East for a very long time. And it synthesized
Buddhism and Christianity. And it happened right after Clement's period. So Clement of
Alexandria is an older contemporary of money of Babylonia, the founder of Manichaeism, who
thought of saw himself as both a Christian and a Buddhist simultaneously. So my interest in this,
and this comes, I haven't published this yet, but I have presented a paper at the American
Academy of Religion three years ago, one of the pandemic conferences. And so the manuscript
there is awaiting some revisions. And I'm going to have to incorporate this new find, because
it's really, it's crucial. It's a crucial kind of missing link here, showing physical evidence.
But the fact that it's made locally, it's probably made out of imported Western Turkish rock,
because this period in late Roman Egypt, you don't have, you don't have lots of local quarries,
there's still, you know, local quarries in Egypt got tapped out a long, long time ago. So people
who carve religious objects, right, they're going to be importing the raw materials for those
workshops. So I think that the piece that I read, which was admittedly not a peer review
publication, but a kind of a popular, you know, report, it suggested that the raw material may
have been imported from Asia Minor, but then carved locally.
Wow.
All right. And so at some point, we're going to put up some pictures of this stuff.
Let me go ahead and get this PowerPoint going. And forgive me if we do get any super chats. I
promise you, I'm not ignoring you. I can't see. I'm only able to see the PowerPoint on my screen.
And then we will, once we get finished, I'll let you blast through it, Dr. Wilson, and then, you
know, give the highlights what you want. And then we'll come back at the end and try to tackle
anything if we have the time.
That's wonderful. And if you want, and if we're not rushed, and you want to pause and exit the
PowerPoint periodically so that we can do other things, that's fine. I don't have to follow
your lead. I think that sounds good that I that I think we do that because you're the guy who
knows what he's talking about with this stuff. So just tell me when and we'll go.
So you're going to hit next and get past the the the cursory little title slide.
So what people need to realize is that Buddhism, when it became a world religion, so when so
Buddha, the historical Buddha lived like 500 BC, he's probably born near Nepal. Some people
debate about where exactly he was. His historicity is he's generally regarded as a real
historical person. Although, you know, like, like any ancient person that from that period, you
can't be 100% sure that he's not a myth. But he's definitely got most people believe he's a real
guy that lived in India 500 BC. And then for a few centuries, the monastic movement that he
founded was pretty much oral based. But then around, well, you know, a generation or two,
after he's gone, they start writing down his, his story, his biography, and everything else
become and it forms the sort of scriptural canon, massive Buddhist scriptural canon. So we have
like, in the West, in Western religions, you have like small canons, like a few books that we
call the Christian Bible, they're bound together. The Buddhist scripture, the Tripitaka, the three
baskets is enormous. You could fill like entire libraries with the sacred texts of Buddhism,
they never closed the canon, and it expanded and grew in all different ways. So Buddhism is
incredibly diverse religion, with very big huge differences between different forms of Buddhism.
But early Buddhism, which is, you know, again, different in a lot of ways from later Buddhism,
right, just like early Christianity doesn't really look like post medieval Christianity in a lot of
ways, it's very different religion. So early Buddhism, we don't know a lot about it in all
different places, right? Early Buddhism had a lot of variation that is lost to us because the texts
are lost. And one of those important things is that the first Buddhists outside of India on
the overland trade routes, we're missionizing to the Greeks. And so it's one of the first
successful missionary religions, they're missionizing to the Greek, the Hellenistic kingdoms
of Western Central Asia. So we're talking about the post-Seliyukid period. So after it's no longer
like under direct control of the Greek Empire, but and Persia has is rising up and reclaiming
its sort of over this over these generations, Persia is revitalizing, right, and becoming
less Greek. But the peripheral areas of Central Asia retain that sort of Greek cultural value
that the semi-autonomous kingdoms or autonomous kingdoms of West Central Asia that are Turkish,
I mean, not Turkish, that are Persian and Greek simultaneously, they don't reject Greek culture
the way that the Babylon and the heart of Persia like are like, we're not, we're not Alexander's
subjects anymore, right? We're not, we're not following those Greek and Roman rulers. But
you have this part of Central Asia where Greek cultural capital remains strong, where you have
indigenous Persian, you know, tribal lords, but they still like see Greek culture, Greek literature
as cool. And it's in that phase that you have like early Central Asian Buddhism has this strong
Greek aesthetic quick character, like the statues are depicted using Greek like iconography
and text. So go one one slide ahead. I think I have a picture of that's one of the oldest images
of the Buddha we have is there on the left. That is a and from right around the time Jesus was born.
And what language do you notice that his name is written in?
That looks Greek. That is absolutely. So this is one of the first surviving images of the Buddha
that we have on earth. And his name is inscribed in Greek. So early Greek Buddhism is lost to us
still because there would have been of course, a lot of written texts, a lot of those many diverse
like literary strands of early Buddhism. And they're you know, like the sectarian landscape of
earliest early Buddhism is quite mysterious and enigmatic. And it's undoubtedly the case
that the early Western form, the early form of Buddhism that was spreading
through the Greek diaspora in the periphery of the Persian world would not have necessarily
matched the later forms of Buddhism that we all know. So we have to kind of make guesses about
what early Greco Buddhists thought and did. But one of the things they thought and did was they
thought it's cool to depict humans as gods in human form, right? So the Buddha hadn't previously
been depicted as a, he had been depicted and iconically, right? Early Buddhists did not
usually depict him in art. They depicted like evidence of his presence, like symbols that
what he was associated with, you might have a footprint that said he walked on earth, right?
But he, he's gone into the highest Nirvana. His physical form is no longer, no longer part of
earth as we know it. So there was this early tradition of not actually depicting him. But
once the Greeks got ahold of it, right? Like we'd make, we have Buddha statues because of the Greek
like obsession with idols, with, you know, with making gods in human form that you could worship.
And so, yeah, so that, that's, it's crucial in the history of Buddhism, that Greek
decision to anthropomorphize like the concept and turn it into, you know, turn, turn the Buddha
into a statue. So, well, and now, so that is the one that we've just discovered in 2022 in
in Egypt. And what I know about it is it's got a very Persian style halo. The halo itself is
likely introduced to Christian art from Buddhist art. And again, we don't have like rock solid
evidence here. It's, it's, it's missing. And one of the problems is that academic study of Western
religion and Eastern religion are siloed, right? We don't have enough specialists who are trying to
bridge the gap. So I'm one who's aspiring to try and bridge the gap a little bit here between,
you know, Central Asia and, and the Greco-Roman world. These, these are not different planets.
They have cultural traits in common at the same time, and they're linked geopolitically
throughout this period. But we ignore that, that sort of like frontier interaction between Greece
and Persia during these key centuries, these crucial centuries where you've got Christian art
and Christian monastic cultures both get established in Egypt and the Eastern Mediterranean
at this time. So like, where are the earliest Christian monasteries? And when?
The same period in time that we're talking about. This Buddha is in Egypt at the time when
some Christians are starting to organize the religion along as like into, into monasteries
and convents, which is a Buddhist thing long before it's a Christian thing. It just comes
out of nowhere to some degree. Now, asceticism is a part of Judaism and Christianity. I'm not
saying, I'm not saying that the ascetic lifestyle or the virtues of what we would consider to be
the behaviors amongst the nuns. I'm not saying that those are introduced from, from Buddhism,
right? Those are obviously indigenous to Western religion. But what I'm talking about is more the
institutional character of the monastery, right? It's structures, it's, it's, it's bureaucracies,
it's kind of like the, like the, like the, the entire, the material culture of monasticism,
right? The way the physical objects that are associated with it, the behaviors like shaving
the head and all that stuff that we associate with both monks in the East and monks in the West.
They do things that are similar and that, that are not just generically like, like John the
Baptist lifestyle, right? It's not, we're not talking about just like living in the desert.
We're talking about the physical rituals that are associated with organized institutional
monasticism. So I think that the presence of a, of a multi-generational Buddhist community indigenous
to Egypt in the third century is a huge big deal for that region, reason. And so again,
because the article suggests that this Buddha statue, the one on the right there, is,
is made locally and it's older, substantially older, according to their estimate,
than the late third, mid third century Sanskrit inscription. So they have a securely dated
inscription in Sanskrit, a language of ancient India that is at this site and they say that this
Buddha is from somewhat earlier. They call it the earlier Roman period. So it could be as old as that
coin in theory. I'm not necessarily leaning that way. My instinct from the style is that it's
probably second century, maybe third century. But the point is we're still dealing with decades
long period of an indigenous community. Well, I should say indigenous, they're probably diaspora
Indians, but they're making this stuff locally, right? Right. These are locally made objects,
meaning that the community is practicing Buddhism here in Egypt at this time. It's part of a larger
pagan temple complex. So they're not, but that's the way Roman, Roman religion worked, right?
Religions weren't segregated. It wasn't until Christianity came along and said,
you can't have any of, you know, it's just, it's us or nobody, right? Pagans were much more
like pluralistic. They were like, okay, add another guy. To me, it's much better. I think
so. Add another guy to our, to our collection. Okay. So, um, oh, then I want to say something.
I'm really disappointed though, that the Buddha statue is missing his right hand. Because I
believe that that right hand, like the coin there, the Buddha is making an important gesture. It's
the gesture of fearlessness. It's the abaya mudra. So this is one of the most, um, one of the most
fundamental, uh, symbols in early Buddhist art is this, the hand that's raised up like this and is
in a, in a sign of fearlessness. And we'll get into that. So let's move on and we'll talk more
about the Christian and Manichean connection. So there, there's just a map. So those are the trade
routes from, they go all the way from China to the Eastern Mediterranean. And you'll see
that the Greek Buddhist area that we were talking about where the, where the Greco-Buddhist art
originates is right around that middle part of the Silk Road that I'm showing here, right? So you
have like, um, Bactria, that's the, right in the middle of the map. That's like the, the ground zero
of Greek Buddhism. And you can see that those caravan routes that were flourishing in antiquity,
right? The so-called Silk Road where people were moving the trade between Central Asia and,
and the Eastern Mediterranean, which is where Christianity originates is, these are not separate
planets. These are geopolitically and economically connected to each other for the duration of this
period, right? And we're, we ignore it. So then I show you down there, Berniki is a coastal port
in Southwest Egypt on the Red Sea. So it's much more likely to be supplied with its Buddhism and,
you know, Indian culture via the, uh, the, the oceanic trade routes around the Mediterranean
Peninsula. But nonetheless, they're, if they're getting the rock from the North, it's all an
integrated world here. It's not like these are different planets. Okay. Next slide.
So the key period in time here is the third century. So do your viewers, or do you, Derek, know
what the, what was happening in the Roman Empire in throughout the third century? This is crucial.
Um, like historically in terms of that period, that period from the early to mid to late
third century is a, it's called a crisis. I am thinking of the rise of Christianity in terms
of its political power, but I mean, I honestly, so Christianity is getting organized. It is the
period when Christianity is getting organized, when the Orthodox movement is really getting
legs, right? And they're, and they're saying they're, they're, they're pushing out the, the
heretics of various forms, right? So the third century is a crucial period in the early,
in early Christianity. It's also when you get sporadic persecution of Christians,
not as not, it's not like the myth of, of total persecution from day one all the time. The religion
obviously grew and expanded in, in periods, right? But it was during the third century when the, when
official state sanctioned persecution of Christians happened spir, sporadically,
it would, there were periods of genuine physical hostility against Christianity scapegoating it
for the problems of the empire. The crisis of the third century was when late imperial Rome was
at its weakest in history. It was the one time that Persia was more militarily more powerful,
right? So it was like the moment when Rome almost collapsed under its own weight.
And it's, it's the period we call the barracks emperors, emperors, I'm sorry, the barracks
emperors, when you have basically a bunch of military leaders running Rome and assassin,
and an epidemic of political assassination that happened, that causes basically multiple emperors
to be, you know, like a rinse and repeat cycle of regime change in Rome. So it's Rome is incredibly
weak. This is the period when at least one Persian emperor captures and kills a Roman emperor,
right? There's a monument to it. And so this is really the weakest point in, in Rome's political
history. And the point when foreign religions are being scapegoated most as a result of their,
like they're blaming, you know, the xenophobic hostilities against foreign cultures that as
associated with this like period of great instability and chaos. But this is a period when
Greco-Buddhism in Persia, there's a long period in East Central Asia, when the Hellenistic
Buddhist art production, so art that is Greek and Buddhist is thriving. So it's the very,
like the moment when Rome is at its weakest and Persia is at its strongest is the time when Greek,
Greek Buddhism on the east border of Persia, so going clear away from the Western empire.
Right, away from Rome, Central Rome. Yeah, so you're getting far away from Rome here,
but you're seeing that Hellenistic art isn't dead. Right. Even though the crisis of the
third century is a period when culturally Rome is weak and isn't doing much. There isn't like a
lot of like burgeoning art in from that period in Rome, but there is a related Greco-Buddhist
style that is happening in the much more politically stable regions of East Central Asia.
Okay, next slide. By the way, I just want to ask you about this art on the left.
Are we getting to that at some point here? Oh, I, you know what? I have so many pieces of art,
I could talk about all of them. That's the emaciated Buddha. So when the Buddha is,
and you see the halo, right, that whole use of the halo as in art, in monumental art,
it is earlier in Buddhism than it is in Christianity. So that round halo you see behind
the head in Christian art, that happens later. And it is most definitely, in my opinion,
has to be stimulated by Buddhist art because the particular forms you see in Buddhist art
are so similar to the Christian one. So the emaciated Buddha is like he's
fasting to the point of starvation. I noticed that. Yeah. Right. And it reminds me a little
bit of like later plague crucifixes, you know, like medieval crucifixes where they show
like the body, like a corpse, like a rotten corpse on the cross because it's there. He's
being identified with the massive dead, number of dead people in the plague period. And the one
down below is the lack of necessary, like physical, like who cares about the physical? Like, you
know what I mean? Yeah. And then below that, below that is,
below that is the temptation by Mara. So there's a similar scene in the Buddhist story. You know
how the Jesus goes out in the wilderness and the devil, the devil tempts him to, like he says,
I'll give you all these kingdoms, turn this, yeah, run the this bread into
the rocket bread and stuff like that. And there's a very similar passage in Buddhist scriptures
where Mara, who is like the Buddhist devil, the Lord of illusion with his daughters, tries to
tempt him away to prevent him from getting enlightenment. And he does the same thing he
uses. He masterfully rebuffs the efforts of Mara, Lord of illusion to destroy his concentration
and prevent the, so it's an important one. And then the one on the upper right, that's a Bodhisattva,
which is a, I forget which one it is, it might be Maitreya, the future Buddha, like the second
coming of the Buddha from the next world. I don't, I don't remember for sure which, so the problem
with those, those Gandharan Bodhisattva statues is they're hard to identify. You know what the
kind of category of deity it is, but it's hard to say for sure which particular Buddhist character
is being represented in some of them. And then the one at the bottom is the Parinirvana. So that's
when the Buddha eats rancid pork given to him by a devoted student, right? He's given, because you
eat what is before you, right? When you're a monk and you're begging, you beg for food,
someone gives you food, you eat it. You don't say this, I didn't want this. This is my,
this is my thing. You eat whatever is given. So it was given like bad pork and he died of
some foodborne illness, and then his body dissipates, right?
I literally was thinking of Socrates, like an art that I've seen of Socrates laying there like that,
but then again, I'm throwing the deity at a wall. Right now, now if we were to go into this, we could
talk a lot about the way that Hellenistic art, man, and we'll have some more examples actually.
Okay, okay, let me shut up. I'll definitely have some better examples to show you exactly how
Hellenistic figures get represented in, I mean, or Greek motifs get transformed in both Buddhist
and Christian ways, right? Whether the same, the same source gets, right, divided into different
cultures. Go on. Next slide. Okay, so yeah, this is just a screencap from Wikipedia showing the
number of emperors in this like 25 emperors in 50 years or something like that in the middle of the
third century. Just give you an idea of how awful it was to be in the center of Rome at that time.
It meant that there was a perpetual bloodbath, and it meant that artisans, right, the people who are,
by the way, they're, these aren't famous artists. It wasn't like Michelangelo. They didn't have like
prestige back then. They were just working class people. If you were a stone carver who made statues,
it was just a trade like building or anything else. It wasn't like, we didn't have like eco,
uh, uh, cults of personality around famous sculptures. So if your, if your job was to carve
sarcophagi, right, imagine your Biff with your chisel and Biff's job is to make fancy funeral
furniture. Rich aristocrat, he's going to croak and he wants a fancy tomb with all that cool art,
and you get hired to do that. Do you imagine that people doing that in this period in this place
would have had a lot of work, a lot of stable work? Maybe, maybe not now. It would have been so
chaotic that this would have been, and we don't have a lot of art, this would have been a period
when talent would, would lead. So my argument in my paper is that there is a socio-economic
push-pull migration force across the border, right, with, with, with Greco-Persians in east
Central Asia, being a place where artisans would be moving when their employment was less stable
in the heartland, right? And it's at the same time that you have like sporadic persecution of
Buddhists. I mean, not Buddhists of Christians, Buddhists are doing fine, but the Christians
that are getting sporadically persecuted, right? That's another thing that acts as a push force
in migration theory. A pull force in my, in like social, social sciences to study migration between
countries, you'd say, you'd say a pull force is an economic opportunity, a stable political empire
where you can go and work and do your, make your art and live. A push force is my sect is being
attacked by, you know, by the state or by, you know, whatever. There's some reason I'm on the
outs. I'm associated with the hated foreigners for some reason, and they want me, they don't let me
coexist peacefully. Got it. And so, yeah, so, so this is, my feeling is that during these periods
of persecution in the empire, in the Roman empire, you end up with a safe, more hospitable
place in East Central Asia. And then, so next slide. Okay. Then monacheism is, emerges right at the
very moment we're talking about. So Monty, who is this, he's a Jewish Christian kid born in Babylon.
Well, he was, wasn't born Jewish Christian. His family converted when he was like a small child.
Okay. Inverted to Jewish Christianity. So this would have been like similar to what the Ebonites
were doing, right? So they were outside of the Roman empire. They were not part of the, the
proto orthodox form. They would have been Christians who ate kosher, right, and didn't
necessarily think highly of Paul initially, although Monty later did. Monty later thought
himself, thought of himself as the second coming of Jesus, the second coming of Buddha,
the second coming of Zoroaster, and the second coming of Paul. He was like all these things,
you know what I mean? He was the culmination. He was the new it, right? The culmination of all
these traditions, according to him. So he's born. His family converts to Jewish Christianity. From a
very young age, he regards himself as a prophet who fulfilled, and he's in Persia at a time when
Buddhist missionaries are active when the Zoroastrian state religion is institutionalizing,
because early on Zoroastrianism was like a folk religion, right? It was more like a tribal religion
originally. It didn't have like the, the, it didn't, what didn't have like a theocratic character,
right? So it's during Monty's lifetime that like the institutions that we think of as Zoroastrian
are beginning to form and solidify, right? Like it becomes a, it becomes a bureaucratic thing.
Buddhist missionaries are coming from the East, and he is part of this thing Christianity, right?
That's, that's a Western religion. And in Persia at the time, all three religions were local,
right? These were not foreign religions. These would all have been seen as Persia. So why during
his lifetime did he get such, he had a lot of success for a period with patronizing the Persian
royal court, because they saw it, especially at a period when, when Rome was weak and falling apart,
they saw a religion like Manichaeism, which combines Christianity, Buddhism, and Zoroastrianism.
They saw it as potentially an asset, because it can unify the empire, right? You take the,
you take the Persians that live in different regions of your domain that practice different
religions, and you say they're all part of one religion, right? It's like, it's like wrapping
it up and tying it with the bow. So he went through a period when he was really successful,
and that's when he started, he grew the religion during his own lifetime. And then
some, one of the members of the Persian court died, who was his like protector and patron,
and his younger brother rose to power. And that caused him, and his younger brother was favored
by Orthodox Zoroastrians who hated the Manichaeans, because the Orthodox Zoroastrians were like,
who is this guy, right? He's, he's claiming to be Zoroaster. No. And so the Orthodox Manichaeans
were responsible for the martyrdom of Mani. Mani gets put to death. How it happens is hard to say
there's different, there's contradictions. You either died in prison, or he's flayed alive,
or he's crucified. He gets referred to as like, he's crucified. So his claim to be Jesus, right,
fits in with the whole fact that many of his traditional accounts of his martyrdom is through
crucifixion. And so you get this religion that moves, that grows and expands and gets bigger on
the trade routes after the, the profit is put to death. And it becomes hugely popular in North
Africa. It becomes popular throughout Egypt. And again, the earliest Christian monasteries
and the earliest Manichaean monasteries were simultaneously being founded in Egypt during
this period. So I don't think it's purely Buddhism that we're talking about as the key between the
key go between here. I see Manichaeanism, which went through a period in this early phase when it
was very successful, very powerful. It was, including in the Roman Empire among Romans,
right, that this is one of the ways that Buddhism and Christianity get blended, right? Not it's the
Orthodox form received some of the, you know, how shall we say, combined Buddhist Christian elements
from the Manichaeans without even realizing that they were, because it was just part of the
cultural fabric at that point. So next, next slide. Yeah, he also probably feeds what eventually
becomes early Islam a little bit. A number of early Islamic titles were first used by Manichaeans.
Like Somani was the messenger of God, the seal of the prophets, right? So things that we say about,
about Muhammad, things that Muslims say about Muhammad, Manichaeans said about Manny first.
So Islam is some of its institutional character, some of its like structure was borrowed from Manichaeanism.
And so that, and just go back to say that where, where do we see this Buddha statue that we just
found? We see it on the coast of the Persian Gulf right across from the Arabian Peninsula.
So this is going to be a period when, you know, the Arabs could be involved in this too.
There's so much I thought of too, just, I thought about Muhammad and how he crafts this new version
of their religion in a way by using existing, pre-existing traditions and such too. So it's
really interesting that if we look at Manny as an example of how a new religion can be constructed
using prior traditions and blending them, I think we find something like that happening
also down there with the, with the Muhammad. So
I have a very quick text to send. It will only be one second.
Okay. Do you want me to back out? Are we good?
No, I'm, it's so awesome. It's just, it's just a miscommunication with a family member. It will
not take. Oh, you're texting. I thought you made me.
Yeah, I'm just sending a text. So that's just why my, my mind's off this.
No worries. No worries. He is a family man, ladies and gentlemen.
Yeah, sorry. Yeah, there's, you're never free. Oh, sorry, you're done.
What were you saying? I was just going to say that I'll get to the super chats as soon as we're
done with the PowerPoint. I'm trying to keep my eye on the chat as much as I can on my phone,
on my hands, but here I am watching the screen too. So if you need to take a pause so we can
do some super chats, you can do that. So we'll do it at the end. So go ahead and skip forward.
Maybe I'll, so yeah, I said this already. He's, so these are just a few of the things that early
monastic forms of Christianity and Buddhism have in common, right? They, the attire that monks and
nuns wear, the fact that they shave their heads, the fact that they have ideas about like alms giving
self-mortification, right? Where you like, you like, do corporeal abuse of your own body,
you know, like, like you take a stick and beat yourself on the back with it, that kind of thing,
right? Buddhist monks and Christian monks do that. Meditation, celibacy, right? The use of bells,
believe it or not, is one of these things that come that it's not, we take these things for
granted. We think of them as like normal, but they weren't universal customs in the past. These
were specific customs that seem to have a specific origin. The right of confession, which I don't
know if you're aware of this, the right of confession originally was only in monastic settings,
right? Early Christians had public penance when they, when they confessed and sinned. You would
like wear sackcloth and ash and, and have like ashes, like I, I, I had an affair with my, whatever,
somebody like, I ended up getting busted for some moral transgression, that kind of thing.
So you would get like publicly humiliated for a long period of time. And that was the only way
you could undo your sin. Because once you were baptized, right? You were supposed to stop sinning.
Right. So after baptism, it meant that you were on the hook. You were, you were definitely on the
hook. But that was not very popular. Can you imagine that that wasn't, that that early Christianity
was not, it was not very popular. Whereas in monastic settings, where monks are trying to
like work on each other's discipline, then they commit, they can, they confess to each other
very small sins all the time. Like, you know, like I had a wet dream last night or something
like that. You know what I mean? There's like this, there was a much different practice in the
monastic setting. And then in Irish monasteries, they said, Hey, wait, everyone can do this.
Right. And so it was the Irish that took the, what was a monastic practice and popularized it
in the medieval period. And it became something that lay people did too. Right. It's, it's an
important sacrament in Western Christianity. But early on, it was part of the monastic
institutional program. Right. And so, and then the use of relics and reliquaries, the fact that
people venerate the bones of the dead. And I'm here, we come back to Manichaeism again. Buddhism
did it first. Manichaeism starts a huge fad around 274. When Mani is martyred, his disciples go and
they collect his hands. Right. And they venerate the physical remains of Mani, of Babylonia.
This is exactly when, if you're familiar with the work of Candida Moss and her book, The Myth of
Persecution, when does she say the reliquary obsession and the martyrdom cults in Christianity
really take off right around this time? It's like in the decades beginning, and this is when
the major persecution of Christians under like Diocletian and all that stuff is first happening.
And, and, oh, here's another thing. So like after Moni's death, here's another thing. The
persecute, the state sanctioned persecution of Christians, it coincided with the state
sanctioned persecution of Manichaeans. Wow. So when, when like Diocletian launched
initiatives to, to physically punish the Christians, he launched initiatives to do
Manichaeism as well. Both of them were hated and they were associated. Manichaeism was hated
because it was associated with Persia. Right. The Persian enemies. So it was the enemy within,
it was like a, to be a Manichaean in the late Roman Empire was people suspected you
of Persian sympathies. So that's why it was scapegoated. Christianity was scapegoated for
other reasons, but they both had this period of social solidarity. Right. So when Christians
and Manichaeans were both being publicly tortured and, and brutalized, right, that would have formed
a bond between them. They would not have in that, that moment seen themselves as different.
And sure enough, Manichaeans went through a period around that for around 40 to 50 years
after the Edict of Milan. Manichaeism was officially tolerated under Christian,
the Christian Empire officially tolerated Manichaeism for decades following the Edict of Milan,
because the Edict of Milan, remember, was a general toleration. It wasn't just for Christians.
The Edict of Milan, the text of it was that was religious persecution will cease. We're no longer
going to persecute the Christians. They're fine. It wasn't until later, right, that Christianity
starts to persecute other religions. In that early period, you have Manichaeism and Christianity
emerging as institutions in Egypt side by side. And furthermore, the Maniches. So what was the,
do you know what the major heresy controversy was around the time of Constantine? What's the big,
the big heresy around the time of Constantine? Why did the Council of Nicaea, what?
Yeah, the big, I think, isn't it particularly, well, when they're dealing with the Trinity,
that some thought that he wasn't God? Right. So Arianism, right?
Arianism, yeah. Areas at the Council of Nicaea. So the big targets for heresy hunters early on
is not Manichaeans. The big targets for heresy hunters early on is Arians. And the Manichaeans
had no problem saying the Nicaean creed. So if you went up to a Manichaean person and said,
do you have a problem seeing that the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost are co-eternal and equal
in power and age, right? They go back to whatever the beginning, like the, this sort of
hard form of Trinitarianism that emerges as doctrinal orthodoxy after the Council of Nicaea,
that Manichaeans could pass that test. They had no problem endorsing the conclusions of that
Council. So that was part of how they kept going under the radar. It wasn't until the time of
Augustine that they got really attacked for being heretics within the Western Church.
So my argument is that that is a plenty of time, right? As monasteries are getting set up for a
feedback loop where the content that has been mainstreamed into Manichaean monastic life
by their synthesis of Buddhism and Christianity, right? That can then be at the ground level
at the root of monastic Christianity in Egypt. Wow. All right. Next slide. We can fly through
some of these. You didn't talk about Rosary, but you did. Oh yeah, Rosary beads. That's another
throughout Central Asia, like Muslims, Buddhists, everybody uses prayer beads for counting. Where
does that come from? Right? It's a Buddhist thing first. It's part of the sort of popular
religion of the trade routes. So we're talking about a generic kind of Central Asian popular
religion that makes it, that leeches into Western religion. And then, oh, the incense
censors. You know, when priests carry the bulbous chain, metal chain censors and swing them,
the smokos, Buddhist monks and Christian monks. That is, again, as a very specific
piece of material culture, the fragrant burning essence carries the sense to heaven, right?
You're currying divine favor with the use of bells and smells. The bells and smells that we
talk about when we talk about Western, Old Order, Orthodox and Catholic Christianity
are held in common to Central Asian Buddhism, right? Buddhists were doing it earlier.
So, so pretty much anytime you hear someone say, we learn everything's pretty much coming.
Everything good is coming out of Christianity. You hear these things with arguments of morality
or this or that. You should pause for a second and just go back and look at the history.
Well, I'm not, I'm not knocking Christianity or and I'm not, I'm also not a mythicist. I'm not
saying that its core features are borrowed from Buddhism. I'm saying a lot of the way it's practiced.
I think we could do that even with morality, like, right? But I don't want to get lost.
Oh, yeah, no, no, I'm not here to tell any and I am so indifferent to what other people choose to
believe. So, of course, I have, I have zero dog in the, in the weather or not you believe one
religion or another race. That's not what I'm getting at is it's like, I think the more we
learn the history of these ideas, the less we can pretend. Well, everything was just given to us
through Christianity. And it's like, when I hear that argument, it sounds like an ignorant person
who's not aware of how much synthesis from other traditions, cultures, practice, morality,
concepts, the whole nine, that Christianity is actually sucking into it. And so, the people
who are using it as a weapon today in today's thought, acting as if we owe everything to
Christianity, then we might as well say, sure, I'll grant a lot of this stuff to Christianity,
as much as I would say Christianity owes these other places that they're borrowing and taking
their ideas from, and those places borrowed from places, you know what I mean? Like, there's no
like, this really, really quickly because it's a different topic, maybe for another day, but
really quickly on that note, I'll say it goes both ways, because of the Manichaean synthesis. So,
I argue that Manichaeanism is like the backdoor of Asian religion into Western religion at the
crucial like ground level of its institutional formation. That's I strongly believe that. Yeah.
The same thing happens in reverse in China, where I should say that the direction of influence in China
is as a result of Manichaeanism there, where it's a form of Buddhism. So, in the West, it's a form
of Christianity. Right. In the East, it's a form of Buddhism. So, as a result of Manichaeanism being
a form of Buddhism for a thousand years in Southern and Central China, lots of ideas from Western
religion get brought into Chinese popular religion, including things like the whole Messianic
expectations. Right. Because Monty is a Messianic figure. He is taking Messianic Jewish Christianity
and turning it into a Buddhist thing. And therefore, you see things like rebellions and
various events in Chinese history that have explicitly Manichaean ideas involved. And you
could say that's so, you know, so these human religions are related to each other. It's like
they have like DNA in common that comes not just from like primordial origins, not just from their
beginning of time, the fact that we're all human and we're all trying, but there are like real
historical links that are maintained like cross pollination, cross fertilization of the soil of
these places. Right. Because of these movements like Manichaeanism. Please go to the next slide.
I may have mentioned this already just briefly that before Monty, there's this Clement of Alexandria.
He's the Egyptian early Christian father who writes favorably of the Buddha. And this is good,
goes back to what I was saying about, we don't know much about early Western Greek Buddhism,
because none of the paper sources survive. If I could magically reconstitute a lost text,
it would probably be any Greek Buddhist scripture of love, if that could just come back. But they're
gone. But we have a hint that both Monty and Clement were dealing with a form of Buddhism
that's a little bit different than the others. And that is because, for example, they both mentioned
seven, well, hold on, I should say, Monty mentioned seven Buddhas, and then he mentioned an important
semi-historical, semi-mythological Scythian or Scythian philosopher named Anacarsus.
So the name of this particular Scythian philosopher Anacarsus comes up in Monty's discussion of
seven primordial Buddhas. The fact that Clement of Alexandria writing before Monty also mentioned
seven Scythian sages, and then the Buddha. He mentioned seven Scythian sages. He mentions Anacarsus,
and then immediately he talks about the Buddha. Those associations of those names in that sequence
suggest that both Monty and Clement were probably dealing with the same extinct form of Persian
Buddhism. So this would be a Greco-Persian sect of Buddhism that's not identical to the ones that we
see surviving in Sri Lanka and China and Tibet, that Buddhism changes when it migrates. And so
when it moved west, it became a western form that is now lost, but may survive, pieces of it survive
in things like Manichaeism. Okay, next slide. One quick comment if I can. I'm thinking of,
because I've been doing a lot of Inokian literature lately, and we're talking first century BCE,
even into the first century CE. There's a continuum of this literature of Inok,
and I've shown and used people like Seth El Sanders and other academics that there's a genetic
connection between what happens in Persia with the Aramaic, connecting these ancient Babylonian
and Mesopotamian myths of Adapa, Atana, and the sage, these sacred sages, which are semi-divine
figures. And if you look at like the ancient Sumerian kings list and stuff, you have seven
figures leading up to the Adapa character or Atana, depending on the myth. And I'm wondering,
I don't know why, but I'm wondering if there is some connection to Mesopotamian
legend and myth into or culture into the East, which- I want to read a book. So this is a book,
this is a controversial author. Can your viewers see me right? Because, okay, so this is a controversial
author Christopher I. Beckwith. He wrote Greek Buddha. If you're interested in this topic,
this is a good book to check out. He definitely maintains that early Buddhism has a strongly
Persian and Zoroastrian influence. So he would definitely agree with the notion that early
Buddhism gets a direct influence from the greater Persian empire as Buddhism leaves on the overland
routes. It leaves India and goes into Central Asia and the Persian-speaking world, the Indo-Iranian
world. That's where you- and it's probably the case that that's why Buddhism has like heaven and hell.
Got it. Right. And the notions of karma as being like sin, where your karma affects your rebirth
status. Yeah, we reincarnate. Indian religion has reincarnation. Western religion has heaven,
hell and the day of judgment. But Buddhism is kind of have both, right? Buddhism is- because
you can reincarnate in heaven and you can reincarnate in hell. And you'll be there for an Eon and then
you'll reincarnate somewhere else. But you know what I mean? It's not permanent. But the fact is,
is that these- the fact that your actions in this life affect your rebirth status in the next life
and you can be born- you can be boiled alive for an Eon in, you know, in a cauldron of whatever,
all that stuff, it's there too. Buddhism is there too. So yes, the Emperor Diocletian last of the
Beryx emperors. He's the guy who scapegoats Christians and Manichaeans. He also Persianizes
the Roman Empire. How does he put a stop to the massacring that's going on? Like all the-
he was a Beryx emperor. But he- he adopts Persian court rituals. When we think of a- when we picture
a royal- a European royal king wearing purple robes and fancy metal stuff on their heads and,
you know, sceptres and things like that, we're not actually picturing ancient European royal
customs. We're picturing Diocletian's adaptation of Zoroastrian court ritual for a Western audience.
Right? So he- he basically- so the reason why the Beryx emperors were always assassinating each
other is because the democratic ethos of ancient Rome was that the Emperor is like us. The Emperor
is one of us. He dresses like us. He sleeps in the same tents with us. And so when the Emperor pisses
off the guy next to him, out comes the Gladius, you know, the short sword ends up cutting his head
off or whatever. And so you end up with this extreme period of destabilization as a result
of the proximity of the sword- the dudes with swords to the dude with the power. He realizes you
have to have a much bigger wall- firewall between the Emperor and the- and the guys under him. And
it's- and it's that. So it's Diocletian's reforms that make the late imperial period thrive again,
right? That puts an end to this period when, like under Constantine later, the army is much bigger.
We think of Christianity as the period of the decline of the Roman Empire, but actually
the adoption of Christianity was a revitalization of late Rome. It was- it was what put a stop to
the decline that had been going on in the third century. Okay. Because that- because remember,
it's one of his tetrarchs who is Constantine's father. This is the period right before Christianity
takes over. So here's just an example of a piece of art that gets adopted into Buddhism and
Christianity. This is the Good Shepherd, right? Which originates as Hermes carrying the ram.
Hermes the Rambearer. So you can see the Good Shepherd was a way- a crypto-christian kind of
thing. It was a way Christians could have something that looked pagan, but actually be Christian. We're
going to rename this guy. He's not Hermes anymore. He's Jesus and, you know, with the Good Shepherd.
And so really, really popular. One of the oldest Christian art motifs. There is the Good Shepherd
on a pillar in a Greek Buddhist statue, right? So the Buddha, the birth of the Buddha. He's born
miraculously out of the side of Queen Maya. So Queen Maya, who her- she doesn't give birth the
natural way. She gives birth like through her ribcage. And that is depicted there. And the fact
that there is a Hermes on this wall is just an indication that the same Hellenistic motifs were
present in both situations. This is not a case where you have direct like Buddhist influence on
Christian art. So next slide. I think I have arrows. See, it's just showing that- it's just showing
that the same Hellenistic precursor is adopted independently in Christian and Buddhist context.
There's no need for a back-and-forth explanation. But with other examples, I think that's not the
case. So skip forward one more slide. The triad representation is where you have the Buddha
flanked by Hindu gods or Indian god, Romanical polytheistic gods. So here you have the Buddha.
This is the Kanishka casket from the 2nd century. So you had cremated remains of a Kushan king. So
he's one of these tribal Persian Greco-Buddhists. And they have- and so his cremated remains would
be in this box. But here you have the Creator Brahma, so the Creator God Brahma, and the King
of Heaven Indra, who is similar to like Zeus or Hercules. You have these two deities both
worshiping the Buddha. Right? You see that? Yeah. Makes me so I've been lished on the
transfiguration anyway. Right. Yeah. So basically what this is, is it's Buddhism saying brahmanical
polytheism is subsumed and superseded by Buddhism. Right? So it's supersessionist because brahmanical
polytheism, which becomes later, we call Hinduism, but at the time it would have just been Indo-European
polytheism of India. Right? The Buddha is a man. He's a human being, but he's superior to the gods.
Right. The gods are like, we're not worthy. They're like, they're like, they're, they're bowing in
observance of a human. So that's a big deal. So that's a very early art motif is this triad
representation. Go to the next slide. Here is two examples, one from a Christian sarcophagus
and one from a Buddha, another Buddhist one. So the one up top, the one up on the left is pagan.
That's the Melphi sarcophagus, which is, it's got like Helen of Troy and like Athena and a bunch of
pagan gods. And you see how the dudes and ladies are under colonnades, niches and colonnades.
Right? Right. So the Bimmeran casket, this is another example of one of the oldest depictions
of the Buddha, like that coin that I showed you earlier. This is one of the ones that's like
first century, really old, maybe second century. And you see, it's a, again, it's a gold casket.
It's a gold box for relics for cremated remains that are venerated. And you see, again, the Buddha
flanked by Indra and Brahma who are paying reverence to him. That's the triad representation.
Look at the early Christian sarcophagus on the bottom left.
That is Christ, in the middle, flanked by, with his hand up in a gesture of reassurance,
that Abaya Madurai said, he is flanked by Peter and Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles and the
apostle to the Jews. And what is he doing there? He is, he's saying paganism, Greek paganism and
Judaism are what? Both brought together underneath the new religion of Christianity.
So the two shall become one, right? The Gentiles and the Jews are now united by their common province
of promise of salvation. And he's got the scroll. He's dispensing the law, the new covenant, right?
He's got the paper mandate, which he is handing to his apostles here while he's making this gesture
of reassurance. What is the Buddha doing in that scene? The Buddha is coming down from Tushita
heaven and dispensing the law. The law is Dharma. So he is coming, he's gone up, he saw his dead
mother in heaven. And now he's, because he's not dead yet, he can go anywhere he wants,
he's the Buddha, right? So he's gone and visited heaven, seen his dead mother, and he's coming
back down to earth and he's being followed by Indra and Brahma who are like, oh, and he, you know,
they're like fanboys. And he has, what? He's got his hand up in the gesture of reassurance
and he's dispensing the law. So it's an old motif called the lawgiver motif. Traditio
legis, I believe, right? It's the, it's a stock motif in Roman art that goes back a long ways
where you have, you know, basically like an emperor with a retinue and he's giving a command.
So he's got like his, you know, so it's an imperial image and it has imperial metaphors.
So here is, it's being used in two different contexts, one Christian
and one Buddhist, but the Buddhist one is older. So people, so go, go to the next slide.
Again, so I, this is just where I articulate in, in text, what I just said, that super
session is a more replacement theology, the notion that the earlier religions are completed
and replaced by the later ones. Guess what? Guess what? Monarchism did it too. Monarchism said
that Monarchism does what? It takes Christianity and Buddhism and brings the two together. So that
try it, that, that notion that a new religion comes along and it doesn't abolish the old ones,
but it completes them. It puts the finishing touches on the old religions so this is transformed.
Islam does the same and that's right. Islam is, with Islam, it's Judaism and Christianity.
Right. It's the same. So it's like this, it's a common formula and I'm saying it starts with
Buddhism. Got it. Starts with Buddhism, doing it with the, the, the various polytheistic traditions
of India, which are represented by like the, the warrior caste, the, the priestly caste,
Brahmin, Brahmin's and, you know, Indra would have been associated with the kings,
like the political leaders. Brahma would have been associated with the religious leaders in
ancient India. Right. Okay. Okay. And so one more slide ahead to get the little arrow. So the question
is, is this like Hermes Cryophoros, which we showed you before? Is this like the good shepherd?
I'd say no, because the, the pagan art there is not as old as the buddhist art.
That Melphi sarcophagus is not, it's, it's made after the buddhist example. And it doesn't have
the common symbolic inventory. So, so it's not a case situation where it's in traditional leg,
legus is independently adapted from Hellenistic precursor in both geographically removed areas.
One, skip ahead. Okay. See, I've changed the, the, the arrows now on my little scribbles.
So what I'm, I think it is much more, much easier to maintain that the buddhist one is the precursor
to the Christian one here, again, because of both the super sessionists content and the hand gesture.
Right. That, that hand gesture is key. You see that hand gesture meet with the same meaning
in early Christian art a lot. And it's not the only one, but it's probably the best, the most,
like, because it's like the earliest buddhist mudra that's constantly, that's regularly depicted.
So I'd say that hand gesture, along with things like rosary beads and halos, right, are all part of
that sort of symbolic inventory that you see shared between the two religions. Next slide.
I think we're, I think, you know, I have a lot more slides because there's a ton of this stuff,
and I love talking about it, but I really don't want this just to be meat blathering at you.
If you ever want to take a break and deal with super cats, I, you know,
Yeah, I'm fine. I mean, I don't have a problem if, unless you think we need to split this up
in the live streams, but I just, I'm all good. I have to leave in probably 40 minutes. So I,
I can keep going. Let's, let's pause here and see if we can't pick up and do another live stream
when you have more time, because there's so much more to unpack. If that's cool with you.
Either way, I mean, I'm also happy to just, you know, I don't know. Yeah, whatever.
Well, I say that because there's super chats and I don't want to leave people hanging. There's a lot
of, yeah. So let's not leave people hanging. Let's take as many super chats as you want. I would
love to answer any questions. Oh, yeah, just fly here, fly through some of those images really quick.
So just this, that is an example of again, this sort of late Roman art style in Christian and
Buddhist art. Look at the way that the body positions are. Then the next one, these are
among the earliest representations of Jesus in three-dimensional sculpture, right? There's earlier
paint wall paintings of him, but you don't, it's when you get and look again, look at that. So the
Jesus is on the right, the Buddha is on the left. I see these as having like real, real resemblance
and echo. So that's it. I think that that's enough slides for now. And yeah, maybe we'll do another,
another live stream. I'm about to get started with the semester. So it's going to be,
it may be a little tricky, but we'll do our best. Absolutely. And there's so much here that just
makes me like, I think learning the history, approaching this and learning this stuff is
just fascinating to see how, how and why and in what ways these influence and what were the
ideas that rose up and stuff. So I think anybody who's a history buff or even interested in these
things, this is important to know. So you, you've brought up a lot of cool things. So let's start
the super chats. Stop scamming man. Thank you so much for the super chat in the bio of Apollonius
of Tiana by a Roman named Philo Stratus. It speaks of him going to India and portrayed its wise men
in high regard while maybe not accurate. It gives insight into their outlook. Yes. And I, I, I agree
with that, that there was a very positive view of India, particularly in ancient Greece. So India
was not considered to be a place where bad religions were practiced, right? There was, and
there was a recognition of a kinship between the forms of Indo-European polytheism practiced in
both places. And when Buddhist art was adapted for a Greek audience, they made connections
between the same deities in different contexts. What do I mean by this? Like Indra, who I mentioned,
Indra is conflated with Heracles. Right. Heracles and Indra are actually related, distantly related
because they are both, Heracles is the son of Jupiter and Jupiter is in, in, in cognate with
Diuspiter in Sanskrit, which is another name for Indra. Right. So these are linguistically linked
Indo-European king of heaven guys with the lightning bolts, whose slave hydras, right? They have the
same, they're some of the same mythological motifs connected to Indra and Heracles. And they made
this connection. And they said, when we were depicting the God Indra in Buddhist art, he
develops, they say, and you're a Greek sculptor, you're of course going to say Indra is Heracles.
And as we see features of Heracles in Japanese Buddhist art, right? You go anywhere you see Indra
in a, or in some other deities too, anywhere you see the, because Indra becomes like a protector of
the Buddha. He's like a guardian of the Buddha. He's like a, his wrath is now directed in service
of Buddhism for Buddhism. Right. And so in Buddhist art, Indra has this like wrathful protector deity
guys and it developed and it absorbed from Hercules. Yeah. Wow. And then why did Buddhism become a bad
religion in the West? Because of Manicheism. Manicheism was hated. And so people wrongly thought
the Buddha was a disciple of money. So in later literature, they said, who's this Buddha guy?
He was some Manichean and Manichean is Manicheism is hated now. So Buddhism developed a bad reputation
by association with the hated local heresy of Manicheism. So, so it's only in that early period,
right, before Manicheism gets persecuted that Buddhism is treated with a lot of respect in
Christian sources as like a cool religion that those that those cool Indian people are doing.
All right. Next. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for Mahindra Acharya. Acharya, forgive me.
He is wrong. Yes. Anthropomorphization of divinities in India was was. Go ahead.
Yeah. You want to read these wrong anthropomorphization of divinity sacred in India was a result of
contact with Greeks. I think that that's what I said. Now there are there are different schools
of thought on this. There are some people who believe it independently happened in southern
India as well, but certainly in the Gandharan case. So in other words, Buddhist art moves in two
different directions. It moves south and it moves north. It's the northern branch of the expansion
of early Buddhism that is associated with the synthesis of Greek stuff. So I don't know exactly
what your friend is saying I'm wrong about. I'm happy to be corrected by someone who knows better
than me. I'm not I'm not being egotistical here. But yes, and I can an iconic representation that
I was referring to the Bodhi tree crossed crossed fly whisks, which are like royal standards,
right? Parasol, which is a royal thing that that an attendant holds up to keep the sun off
a royal person's head because the Buddha was a prince, right, who abandoned his his his princely
duties, the symbols, the trappings of an ancient Indian royal life are used as symbols for the Buddha,
the wheel of Dharma that he turns, right, the footprints that show where he walked. So I think
I'm agreeing with this person. I don't see where they're correcting me. But maybe I'm wrong. Maybe
I misunderstand. And I love the whole an aniconism and how are you pronounced that anthropomorphization
of divinities, right? Right, right, right. I mean, the same thing happened like in Shintoism,
for example. Originally Shintoism was animistic and all the deities were like nature deities that
had no physical human form. But then the Silk Road trade brought like art from that was realistic
representational art from Central Asia that was again distantly related to Greek art. And it comes
through into early Japan and all of a sudden Japanese Shintoism, the polytheism of that religion
stops being purely animal or animistic, you know, nebulous, non non human like creatures and becomes,
you know, where the deities get named the Kami in Japan get named and take on human attributes,
right? And so yeah, this is a this has happened many times before in the past. It happens in
ancient India. It's associated with early Buddhism as a missionary religion expanding out of India.
There are two different camps. Some believe that the indigenous form is slightly earlier than the
Greek form. The indigenous South Asian form is slightly earlier than the Greek form. But in terms
of dating the artifacts, there isn't enough precision for one of these two competing views
to win the day. So it's certainly safe to say that the the Greeks were the earliest ones to do
it in the region we're talking about. Because we're not talking about southern Buddhism. We're
talking about northern Buddhism. Hank Fashi, thank you so much for the super chat. As a practicing
disciple of Shaolin, one of the things that fascinated me about some of the Gong Fu forms
was how they incorporated Buddhist mudras. Is there any evidence of mudras being borrowed by
early Christian or Jewish art? Yes, and I was getting into that some of my later slides we're
going to get into some some different examples. They kind of go their own separate ways. So like
Orthodox Christian iconography, think of Orthodox Christian iconography. There's tons of symbolic
hand gestures, right? Where you see any Orthodox icon, the hands mean something. They're communicating
information when the Jesus when Jesus has two fingers up or I don't know them all. You know what
when the Jesus when Jesus or a disciple is doing something with their hands, you can read explicit
information from that depiction from that. So not there. The the the languages of hand gestures
are not identical in Buddhist and Christian art, but they have a number of hand gestures that do
appear to be similar. One of them is of course the mudra of reassurance, that mudra of fearlessness
that I talked about. The right hand held forward, which is again one of the earliest one of these
symbolic hand gestures you see in either art form. But there are some other ones, some in Central
Asia, some scholars have made arguments that in Central Asian Christian arts, you get very close
relationships between Buddhist and Christian hand gestures. Thank you. Hang on, thank you for the
super chat, my friend. Stop Scamming Man says, is that a menorah on the coin? Also, it's interesting
both religions have halos in their iconography. Do you know how far back halo iconography goes?
I didn't think I saw a menorah on the coin. I forget. I don't have the we don't have the coin
up on the screen right now. I don't know what that is. I maybe a colleague would know better.
It's only got four candles on it if it was a menorah. It's yeah, I'm sure that there is a
standard interpretation of that. But again, we're dealing with really early stuff here so that it
might not have an obvious explanation. I don't believe it's similar. Thank you. Yeah, both halos
do have it. Both religions do have halos in their iconography. And the piece from Egypt that was
discovered has an extremely Persian style halo because it has the sun rays. Can you zoom in on
that a little bit more? Yeah, you can sort of see it there. See how see how it's not just a blank
solar disk. The halo is like the sun disk or the aura, the aura of holiness that emanates from the
crown chakra, the seventh chakra, which is the top of the head. That's where your life force
leaves you when you die. It goes through that. And so if you are a very holy being, what's your
life force doing? Your aura is like shining, radiating out of your crown chakra. So that is
how it's interpreted in Buddhism. But it's an old Persian thing to have solar rays
coming out of the iconography. But it gets adapted into early Buddhist art and then later
into Christian art. Right? So the later form of the halo behind a saint is a Christian thing.
What I'll point out, remember how I said there's seven chakras and seven sacraments?
They don't all correspond exactly, but there are some interesting parallels. The seventh sacrament,
extreme unction, is the last rites. So when a Catholic priest goes, where do they put the oil?
The seventh sacrament is oil placed on the crown of the head before you die and your
soul leaves your body through the crown of the head, the seventh chakra in Indian religion.
Right? So it's a weird coincidence. I'm not saying that those are definitely historically related
ideas, but it's just really a weird coincidence. Or what's the other one? The root chakra. Do you
know what the root chakra is? No. The root chakra is your ass. The root chakra is where you defecate
and your genitals. And why? And it's active when you're a baby. So the root chakra rules your body
when you're an infant and you're pooping in your diapers all the time. What's the first sacrament?
Infant baptism. Got it. So you get this or what's the heart chakra? The fourth chakra is the heart
chakra. That's active when you get married. Like a young adult gets married. They're ruled in Indian
thought. You're being ruled by your fourth chakra when you're a young adult getting married. Right?
And that's the fourth sacrament is marriage. Right? So they don't all line up perfectly,
but there's like this weird similarity between the chakras and the sacraments.
What I love about what you're saying just to be goofy as we move to the next super chat is that
none of what you said gets into... I don't mean this disrespectfully. I mean this sincerely
into woo-woo. Okay? So there's some who are like so new-agey and so like everything matches and
parallels and genetically connected. What you do is you say, here are the facts. Here are the
practices. Here's what scholars think and here's why. Instead of like just gymnastically jumping
and saying this absolutely connects, but it is interesting even historically. This is not like
a leap to think there potentially is some reality culturally or even practice wise between these
things you're saying without getting, like I said, woo-woo-ee. So to get into a little bit about my
background, I was raised by hippies. And I had a very large extended family with lots of different
forms of religious pride. I mean, I have some like... I have some extended family who are Jews,
but for the most part, my immediate influences were Catholic and Protestant. My father's side was
Irish Catholic. My mother's side was Scottish Protestant. So from a very early age, I like was
like, what the fuck is part of my French? Sorry, I didn't mean to cuss in your soup in your live
feed. No, you're fine. As long as no one else is ascended. Bleep it out later, please. I got my
reputation to stand up. I don't normally do that. But I would say why are these religions in
contact, in conflict with each other? Because my parents were like hippies. They were saying,
you know, nobody's right or whatever. And they also were kind of like had this a little bit new
new age kind of Christianity that I was a little bit exposed to as a young kid. But I have like
some more conservative evangelicals in part of my extended family. So these are people I've
known and loved my whole life. So I was really familiar with the different manifestations
of these religions. And I recognize from a very young age, they can all be right,
but they're interesting. And so I developed a kind of a organically into an agnostic who wants to
study them. And I did have Wu as a teenager. I would have definitely been believing in, you know,
like the cosmic significance of the stuff. And as I've gotten older, I've become more skeptical.
But it's not because of hostility towards people that believe that. I think that one possible
explanation is it's true, right? And people who believe in religions have chosen to say,
to believe in particular religions, have chosen to say that they do so because they think it's
true and the evidence for them supports that. I have so many people I respect on all sides. I have
radical atheists in my family, like some of the most hardcore atheists you've ever met and some of
the most hardcore Christians. And I love them all. And so that's who I am. That's where I come from
is a person who just is trying to make his way in the world and figure out the best of my
understanding what's going on here. And just to comment on that, I've had people who go,
why you do what you do is because you hate God. Like this is how they interpret it. And I'm like,
I'm a member of something that I don't really believe in, right? I have no animosity at all.
It's also why I don't call myself an atheist. I call myself an agnostic, not because, and by the
way, we're not going to get into the definition of atheism because that's really, but just like
Darwin, Darwin called himself an agnostic and rejected the name atheist, right? Because he
wasn't denied. He didn't want to deny anything. He just wanted to be undecided, right? And so I'm
sort of in that, you know, I'm sort of undecided. I get it. Yeah, I mean, and militantly,
I call myself an atheist, but I think that pigeonholes me for a lot of people who just
anyway, I'm no problem with other people picking their own names. Everyone should just pick their
own thing. Yeah. Call themselves what they want to call themselves.
Hang for she again. Thank you. Sorry if this was covered. I'm at work, so we'll watch later. But
what are the chances of young Jesus running into Buddhists while he was in Egypt fleeing from Herod?
Well, that's assuming the historicity of that flight to Egypt, which I think is questionable.
It is possible that at the very inception of Christianity, so when
Christian events, the ground zero of Christianity, the earliest movement that we know of,
it's possible there's some Indian influence at that stage, but that is much more controversial
than what I'm doing. It is much harder to prove, right? When you look at, I think like
Zechariah Stundi, T-H-U-N-D-Y wrote a book called,
I think it's what's it called about Buddhist and Christian nativity stories. I forget that it was
published by a serious academic press. It didn't make a huge impact in the field, but I think he
makes the claim that yeah, the evangelist Matthew we call Matthew is probably influenced by Persian
Buddhist sources in the way that particularly in his nativity account. There's a lot of parallels
between the Buddhist nativity story and like particularly in one of the first century Buddhist
nativity story called Lolita Vistara. I believe is that I might be pronouncing that name wrong. I'm
bad with my instant recall of Sanskrit, but it's one of the most popular early Buddhist nativity
stories and it's definitely the same genre that we see in Christianity, right? Like Matthew and Luke,
they're producing the same genre of literature that you see in the Indian version, which suggests
that the genre of the nativity story, it's a genre that transcends ancient Israel, right? It goes out
of the region where we see it in the West and includes stuff in South Asia too. There's probably
other religious sources that are similar. Dr. Richard C. Miller shows several parallels between
the Matthews birth narrative and Alexander the Great's birth narrative, which we find in Plutarch.
What I find interesting is maybe, just maybe, here's the stew of East and the West and the
Hellenism. It's really, really fun. Yeah, but again, but the details are not concrete enough for me to
sit here and stake my reputation on that, that on Thundy's work. I like Thundy's book and it
influenced me and inspired me earlier in my career. I recognize now that it wasn't as solidly
argued as it could have been, but particularly like Simeon, like the old man who says who weeps
because he won't live to see the child grow to his potential. That character is found in Matthew
and in the Buddhist source. There's a couple of other ones, like when the heavenly hosts proclaim,
like there's parts of the narrative that are eerily similar between Buddhist and
Christian. In terms of him encountering, practicing Buddhists, I'll say it's possible,
but I have no evidence. That's why I've chosen to focus more on the period when Christianity
is getting established as a religion rather than the period when the founders were doing the things
that the Christians write about. I get it. No, thank you for that. And I'm nagging the house.
Good to see you, my brother. This is fascinating. I will do some research on this topic. Thanks,
Derek. Thank you, my friend. Stop scamming man says, have you heard of the Celtic story of a Wren
perching on an eagle to win a contest? I wonder if it's connected to the Chinese Zodiac animal race
story with a rat getting on the ox as per the Celtic migration to China. Okay, so I don't know
about the Celtic migration hypothesis because some people who are nationalists will take one parallel
and they'll assume that a particular national origin is like the source. And the other one is
the recipient. I would definitely say that with that ASOP's fables and a number of other popular
legends in European literature and folklore are Sanskrit in origin. So what happened is early
Buddhists popular literature includes something called Jataka stories. Jataka stories are the
previous lives of the Buddha and they're usually clever animals because the Buddha was reincarnated
as all these different animals and people, right? Like he's been he's lived a million times before
his final incarnation where he stopped reincarnating because he finally hit Nirvana. Before that time
he was like, he was like here in and out in and out of the world all the time. And he would be like
a rabbit and you say, oh, I see a starving man. I'm going to jump in his soup pot and boil myself
so that he can eat, right? And which is an act of total selflessness. Because the Buddha is like
he is so or I'm a I'm a man and I'm walking on a hilltop and I see a starving tiger who is who's
emaciated cubs are about to become her next meal because the tiger is starving. So what does the
man do? He jumps off the cliff, shatters his body on the rocks below so the tiger can eat a meal
and feed her tiger cubs. And then of course what happens is the tiger cubs reincarnate as the Buddha's
disciples, right? So the Buddha is back and like you were the that second cub, the one that had the
black spot on its tail, that was you bear. And so like these stories, these Jataka stories are
incredibly popular. And a lot of them get turned into asops fables and other things. There were
so many of them. A number of them became Christian saints stories, right? Like there's at least
six or seven popular Christian saints that were originally Buddhist guys that were
previous lives of the Buddha that were then turned Christian eyes. And I again, I think I've said
this on your channel before, I blame Manichaeism again. Right, right. Manichaeism is like the way
that they take Buddhist documents, they give them a Christian gloss, Christians read them later and
say, Oh, this is a Christian document. Right. And who is the one who's who are the people who are
incentivized to translate between the religions, those people who believe the religions are the same.
Got it. Manichaeians are both Buddhists and Christians at the same time. Okay. Just one comment.
You brought this up before the stream. And of course, we don't need to go in depth about this,
but I thought it was interesting to bring up. You say that there is an account while there are
various forms of how many died, the founder of Manichaeism, one of them he's flayed alive or
was it Buddha who's flayed alive? No, not the Buddha. Money, money is money dies. So the founder of
Manichaeism, prophet money of Babylonia, he is killed either as a result of starvation in prison
or he is crucified. In one popular version, his skin is taken off of him and blown into a balloon,
which is then his like his, his, his epidermis is made, it is displayed on the palace wall of the
gate of the palace, right? After he has had his skin removed from his body. What I mentioned is
that Saint Bartholomew, who is the apostle who is accused, who is not accused, the apostle who is
set, attributed as the founder of Christianity in Armenia. Armenia is the place that is the one
kingdom. It was independent of Persia and Rome, right? And it adopted Christianity before Rome,
before the Edict of Milan. It became the state religion of Armenia. And so Armenian Orthodoxy
has the privilege of claiming it's the oldest state sanctioned Orthodox Christian tradition on
earth, even older than Rome itself. But their legendary founder Bartholomew happened to die
in almost exactly the same way that money did. He gets flayed alive. And then he preaches the
gospel without his skin on. But what's interesting about that story is Saint Bartholomew's
biography has a lot of details in common with Monte's biography. And Saint Bartholomew's biography
is also, even though it's set in the first century, it is more historically resonant with the events
of the late third century, when martyrdom is the thing, right? And when Buddhist Christians and
mannequins are all doing reliquary veneration, they're all venerating the physical remains
of dead people. In the case of mannequins and Christians, people murdered by the state.
So the fact that a Zoroastrian king of Armenia killed, because remember Armenia was Persian,
they practiced state Zoroastrianism too. A Zoroastrian king of Persia killed Bartholomew in
the same way a Zoroastrian king of Armenia killed Bartholomew in the same way a Zoroastrian king
in Persia killed Monte. And so I think personally, as some other people do, that the stories are
very related, that these are legends. One is in a Christian context, one is in a
Manichean context, but it's the same story underneath. And even in some accounts,
the place, the name of the town where they were martyred is the same, right? And that when you
see a place name in common between two versions, it's kind of like a smoking gun that the texts
are actually related to each other. I forget the name of the town. I don't want to say it from
memory because I'll get it wrong. I get it, no worries. It's with an A. It's like a Rabion or
something like that. Okay. We have quite a few super chats. I'll try to blast.
I got at least 10 more minutes, so I'm not rushing away.
Let's try to rush these things because I don't want to leave anyone hanging if we can.
If Monte was like Indianite, is there any evidence for them in this time and place beyond what set
up Monte? So technically, he was not an Evianite. He was, I think it's the term is Elkocyte,
but it's related. So in other words, Evianite is one word that we use to describe early Jewish
Christians. They were not the only group like that. There were various groups of baptizing
people around Mesopotamia and the Levant, and they were moving back and forth between Mesopotamia
and the Levant for centuries. Some of them were even pre-Christian. I don't know if you've ever
heard of the Mandians who claimed descent from John the Baptist's community. They spoke Aramaic.
So there are quite a number of these small groups that are practicing various versions of this
faith. So I'm not saying that Monte's parents were Evianites, but I think they were called
Elkocytes is the particular second name, but it is very similar to Evianites. And so the evidence
for Jewish Christianity in Persia and Arabia is enormous. Islam is based on it. Why does Islam
exist? Because there were tons of Jewish Christians in the Arabian Peninsula that were still eating
kosher. What's Halal dietary restrictions? It's basically Muslims believe Jesus is the Messiah
and they believe that He is not God and they still eat kosher. Some of Muhammad's own family
members were Evianites or were practiced a form of Christianity that's more like Evianite.
Thank you so much. 12 more here. If the number of academic study in Hellenics versus studying
Persians was reversed, how different might views and interpretation of interconnectivity be?
That's a good question. I don't know. I don't think it's the problem isn't necessary. I think
there is a lot more interest in the Greco-Roman world in Western academia, right? So for sure,
Persia and Central Asia are neglected in the Western Academy, but there's still lots of
really good people, much smarter than me. I do not claim to be an expert in the primary
literatures we're talking about here. I'm a material culture guy. My PhD is in archaeology
and more anthropology with a focus on artifacts and objects. So I'm interested in art and technology
and things like that and also in religion, but I don't have the linguistic chops to prove some
of these like arguments beyond a shadow of doubt on the basis of texts alone. I know there are a
lot of people who do Manichaeism and do the primary texts of Manichaeism that have been
discovered as a result of the library cave in Donghuang, China, which is one of the library
caves, which is like a Tang dynasty document dump. Massive repository of documents in
that is a Chinese cave that has documents in Hebrew, Aramaic, Chinese, Tibetan,
Sogian, like numerous ancient languages are represented, including a ton of primary sources
in Manichaean studies. People who are doing that work, all that stuff is still ongoing.
There are people who are finding like Manichaean citations of the gospel according to Thomas,
right? So these Manichaeans use Thomas. We think of Thomas as being a lost extinct
Christian gospel like that was like in the Nagamadi codices and that its community was
extinguished by the church and we think of it as a lost gospel. The Manichaeans used it for like a
thousand years. We know this because it influences their writings in ways that we can only now see
because we have finding their documents. It used to be we were judging this religion just based on
St. Augustine's polemics. He was writing all this anti-Manichaean stuff and so we had this
caricature of the religion based on its enemies. It's former adherent turned enemy, right? So
yeah, okay, we got to get on to another subject.
Barum and Joseph, or Joseph is a Christian version of Buddha story. There was a fusion of
Buddhism, Zoroastrianism and Iran and Buddha Mazda being a major deity.
Right. Okay, so I think I've talked a little bit about Barum and Joseph out on one of your
shows a while ago. Absolutely Barum. Barum is the corruption of Bhagavan, which is a generic
Buddhist word for saint and refers to the first monk Buddha saw when he left his palace and who
was the guy who led him who started leading him on a religious path. So the Buddha was originally
a spoiled prince who is like given all this drugs and sex to try and his dad keep him from
getting enlightenment because he wanted a powerful king and not a religious leader. So when he
escaped his palace, he met a monk and that monk is the Barum character in Saint Barum and Joseph
at Christian legend. Joseph at is Bodhisattva Buddha. So the Buddha's name gets translated from
Arabic, whereas Buddha soft because Georgian and Greek scribes didn't notice the difference between
the Y and B in Arabic, which are similar characters. So Bodhisattva Bodhisattva becomes
Yoda Sattva. Remember when I did the Yoda episode with you? Yeah, yeah, this was about Yoda Sattva
Yudhisattva. Yudhisattva then becomes identified with Joseph at Joseph at in the Bible. And so
Saint Joseph at absolutely. And I think that mannequins are definitely implicated in that one
too, because mannequins were tolerated in Persia during the golden age of Islam. So early tolerant
cosmopolitan Muslim rulers allowed mannequins scribes to produce Christianized versions of
Buddhist stories. And that's ground zero for Barum and Joseph at it's during it's when it's when
Muslims taught the brief period before Muslims started persecuting mannequins in Persia that
mannequins successfully transplanted Buddhist stories like Barum and Joseph at into Christian
contexts. Sid Dave says Greeks in India converted to Buddhism, Hinduism and played a major role
in spreading Buddhism and they traded with Egypt. So Buddha story went there. Yeah, I mean,
absolutely. That's that's the physical argument we're making. We now have evidence of not just
one like one one off some Indian shows up and drops an artifact. This is not like some tourist thing,
right? This is a community based around a temple that went decades, if not a century or more, right?
There was definitely a a practicing Buddhist community in the Hellenistic world.
And in Sid also follows the first human images of Buddha, Hindu gods and goddesses were made by
the Greeks. Buddhist art, Hindu art owes a lot to the Greek converts. As we've said, we've been
over that and that's pretty much accurate. Thank you. Stop scamming, Mr. Hello, Joseph. Are there
any lectures or presentations about Native American religion on YouTube which you recommend?
Oh, that is a hard one. I do study Native American religion. So I it's a topic that I'm very familiar
with. Because, you know, my background is an anthropologist. But that is not something unfamiliar
with in terms of YouTube. Got it. That is not my exposure to YouTube channels. I sometimes stay
away from the Native American stuff because it's often not accurate, I find. So I haven't I'm not
aware of one that is accurate, but I'll I'll think about that. And if I find out some information,
I'll tell Derek privately later. Cool. How can we be sure later Persian influence affected
Buddhism and that it wasn't a natural development of the same old Indo European source that both
Vedic and Persian culture came from? Absolutely good. A brilliant question. We can't. That is
most definitely plausible. The reason why is because we're dealing with the period before
the institutionalization of all these religions. And India and Persia come from the same branch
of Indo European. So Indo Iranian, Indo Iranian culture, which goes from northern India all the
way through Mesopotamia is what we're talking about here. And Buddhism is a product of early
Indo Iranian culture. Back with I said he's a very controversial guy. Back with says he thinks
that the Buddha was was a Scythian, I think, which would put him in more up in the in the
the Persian zone that we're talking about. But Indo Iranian India and Iran were not separate
planets. They were even closer to each other than say Persia was to the Greeks, right? They were
there's a lot Zoroastrianism and Hinduism are very closely related, extremely close. There are
lots of deities in Zoroastrianism that are also that have versions in India. So there is no way
to say that's a chicken and egg question that's really unanswerable. Okay, would you consider
Hinduism to be the last thriving original Indo European religion, Hinduist Zoroastrianism
descended from in that so I would say when you say thriving, certainly in terms of number of
adherents, there are hundreds of millions of Hindus practicing early, a descendant of early
Indo European polytheism. And most of the most of the European forms of paganism when extinct
in the medieval period, right? Parts of central Europe, there were indigenous forms of paganism
that survived into the very late medieval period. And as a result, we can see in places like I think
Latvia and Lithuania, you can see elements of folk religion, particularly in rural areas,
which might have a stronger connection to the most the latest forms of surviving paganism,
right? But absolutely right. Yeah, I mean, the only the only possible exception to that would be
places like Siberia, where there might have been forms of European, Indo European paganism
that were, you know, parts of the really remotest outskirts of Europe. But for the vast majority
of people, yeah, Hinduism wins that award. I'm hip, hip fire these ones if you can. I don't have
enough time. Okay, I'm just worried about your time. I do have to leave, but but keep going.
Is there any evidence Jainism influenced Christianity? Jesus's philosophy seems to be about
Ahimsa. Ahimsa is radical non violence. There is absolute more like Mahavira than Buddha.
Interesting. I don't have any concrete information about direct influence of Jainism upon Christianity,
but I do know that people have made the argument that Jainism influenced Manichaeism.
Um, I forget I've cited it in my earlier scholarship, but I don't remember the source off
the top of my head. But if I go back to my own writing, I can find the citation from my 2008
paper on it. If you want and feel free when you have time, give me some links. I'll add them to
the description and for those. Yeah. And the argument that the J. So the reason why Jainism
is not generally reviewed viewed as an influence is because it's not a foreign missionary religion.
Jainism never really made it as an export, right? It was always indigenous and it survived. It's the
example of an ancient Tramana movement that survives to this day and is the most conservative.
It's like probably the closest to the way it was practiced thousands of years ago,
like right now. It's really conservative compared to say Buddhism, which changes all the time.
Right. So, so that's the argument against Jainism influencing other religions.
But according to this argument, there may have been some Jains on the missionary trade routes
at the time Manicheism was founded in Persia. And that the evidence for that comes from specific
Manichean teachings about plant souls. Because only Jainism really strongly believes that not
just animals, but plants are conscious beings with souls. So that, you know, we, why do you fast?
Not just because it's spiritually good for you, because you're not harming the things you have
to eat to survive. Right. So when we eat anything, we're killing, even if it's a plant. And so that,
that idea is also found in Manicheism. In fact, it's one of the things St. Augustine mocked.
St. Augustine was like, you stupid people, you think plants have souls. It was one of like,
one of the things he mercilessly mocked his former Manichean co-religionists for. And that,
that fact is, is like that common thread that only connects to Jainism, not to Buddhism. And,
and so that's, that's where that argument came from.
Courtney Brown says, just saying thanks for a great show. And thank you for talking about
art and sculpture as part of Knowing History. This has been such an informative talk. Thank you.
I'm really glad that so many people seem to be appreciating this. And this was a really good
show. Imnaq, thank you, Dr. Joseph. You have a wealth of knowledge and I have a lot of research
to do. Do you believe the Catholic Church knows its history on religion is fake?
Well, I have to problem-puntize that the Catholic Church isn't a thing. The institutions don't have
actual knowledge. People who are Catholic, some of them are incredibly smart. Yes. I have known some
amazing scholars who were practicing, practicing Catholics and absolutely did not believe everything
was handed down in like this pure and uncorrupted form. And they were open 100% open to seeing the,
the heterogeneous and complicated way that their traditions form over time. And no responsible
historian believes that it is like, you know, handed down unchanged from, from, from ever.
There are certainly a lot of Catholics who are not that well educated, but Catholicism is too big
to define in that quick way. But thank you for your question. Yeah. Thank you. Be bare. Do you
know much about the Katha Upanishad? Where do you date it? There are Christian and Platonic ideas as
in there. I don't know much about that. I'm not a scholar of Brahmanism, Brahminism,
polytheism, Hinduism. I know that it is one of the later parts of the, the Hindu canon, right?
The early parts, like the Vedas, like the oldest Vedas, that's where you get like the,
the branching off point between Greek, Persian and Indian, the early Indo-Europeans, right?
There's a lot in common between the earliest Hindu scriptures, the earliest Zoroastrian
scriptures and the earliest Greek philosophical texts. They have lots in common, indicating
they all shared that like free, that really primordial Indo-European stuff. The later stuff,
I'm sure that there's back and forth and, and like, like they said, later philosophical influences
from Greece, these places were interacting, but I don't have the specific answer there. Okay, next.
Thank you. On Robertson, just seems all roads lead to Rome. And behind that is Thebes, just seems
the Greeks really were everywhere. Scythians or Scythians went to India. Question mark. Yeah.
I don't know. I'm never sure which way I should pronounce that either. There's some,
the hard C versus the soft C is always, it depends on who you ask. And that's true,
not just for that word, but for most incidences of the letter C in ancient languages, you can kind
of go both ways. You skipped one. I did. I'm sorry. I'm reading below. Apologies. But yeah,
you didn't answer that question. I guess on the Scythians thing, I don't know if you wanted to
say, did they go to India? Went to India? Yeah, because it's, well, remember the indoor,
unless this is what I said before, the Indo-Iranian cultural area is massive.
It goes from Northern India out into Eurasia. And there's a huge area that goes from Western
China all the way to Europe that include, that is Indo-Iranian in terms of its linguistic
ethnic culture. So the Scythians were everywhere. They were like some of the most, and they were
horse people, right? Right. And they rode through the arid step corridor. So those folks made it
absolutely right. And they were instrumental in the spread of ideas from one area to another.
Okay. And then Rumrunner said, it's important to note that most Buddhist stories were never
taken literally even early on. They're myths that use skillful means to tell truth.
Yeah. Well, that is a philosophical Buddhist statement. And many people who are particularly
Western converts have that attitude. But folk religion, go to like a small Buddhist village.
There's a lot of people who just like worshiping the Buddha like a God, right? You know what I mean?
There is, so there's a big difference between academic Buddhism versus popular Buddhism. And
that's true. So the same thing we were talking about with like a Catholic scholar in a university
versus your Catholic grandma, right? These are two different people and their approach to the
religion is very different. Thank you for that. And then Joe Medley says, does your work suggest
that we should, should seek an Eastern origin for the Gospel of Matthew, the Gospel with the
wise men from the East? Has anyone done that? Yeah. So the book by Zechariah Thundi, T-H-U-N-D-Y,
that's called like Buddhist and Christian Nativity. I forget the exact title. I'll,
I'll try and get you, we'll be in communication. I'll try and get you some specific citations to
append to this. His work is basically maintaining that Matthew is heavily influenced by Persia.
And that is a result. It doesn't mean that the, the Gospel itself is from the East,
but he is a Jew with a Persian cultural affinity or Persian cultural, uh, who regards Persia with
highly, obviously presents the Magi as Paragons, not as, and Magi or Zoroastrian priests. So if
he's presenting them as Paragons, he's not anti-Persian. Got it. Is that Zechariah Moody, Moody?
Thundi, T-H-U-N-D-Y, Thundi. And then also I would recommend, Joe, if you haven't read Resurrection
and Reception in Early Christianity from, uh, Richard C. Miller, he gives a parallel showing
like comparisons between Alexander the Great's birth where there are these Persian Magi who come
from the East as well. I think it's something to that form at his birth. So check that out. And
it's contemporaneous with Plutarch writing it. So it might be important to see that as a closer
antecedent or some, something there, but it's worth checking both out. Two more. Andrew, uh,
how does the Euphrates River drying up factor into revelations? Supposedly four great demons
were imprisoned there and that kings would invade. I apologize. I know you spent good
money on that super chat, but that is not my area. I know some really good scholars of revelation.
I've worked with some really good scholars of revelation. I find it to be a really interesting
subject, but it is not my wheelhouse. Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. Sorry about that, uh, not being able
to give you a good. Modern Hindus is a mix of the Vedic religion, Buddhism, Jainism. The identity
of Hindus in a religious group happened after Islamic invasions and then British made it a
formal organized group. Yeah. It's, that Buddhism was eventually declines after the Islamic invasion,
Buddhism in India, but it had, it had transformed what we call Hinduism. So aspects of Hinduism
are deeply influenced by Buddhism. Like Buddhism made an indelible, I mean, so the fact that
like the, the national flag of India has a Dharma wheel on it, which is originally a Buddhist symbol.
Okay. Right. So there's like a Buddhist symbol that has been in a Hindu context, right? That is
one of the central state, state symbols in India. Got it. Right. So yeah, absolutely. You can't,
you can't have a religion be like close to the state religion for centuries, like the better part
of a thousand years where it was the most powerful religion in the country. You can't have it just go
away overnight and not, not leave an impact. Right. Hinduism, Hinduism would not be what it is
today without Buddhism. Thank you. And then last one. Sid, Dave, Buddha became East Asian when
Buddhism went to East Asia, just like Jesus became white in Europe. Yes. People naturally saw gods
were like them. Yeah. Absolutely. And it's also because people weren't familiar with foreigners.
Like, like when people drew pictures of people, they drew pictures of the people that they knew
and saw. They didn't have photographs. Nobody knew what people looked like on the other side of the
planet. And so they just assumed that a person looked like one of them, which is normal, natural.
Yeah. It's not racist or anything. It's just the way art is done. Yeah. A lot of people take it that
way and they're like, you whitewash Jesus. It's like, look at Christian art through the centuries.
He's wearing a toga. He looks like a Roman. Yeah. It's because they were depicting the people that
they knew and saw. Yeah. Yeah. And so the only way you could depict people when you didn't have
photographs. Makes me think of Xenophans, a horse drawn the image of its god, looks like a horse,
et cetera, et cetera. Thank you so much, Dr. Wilson. Any final words from you as we let you go? This
was an outstanding episode. We had almost 400 people watching and I'm really pleased that as
punched is that it went this well. I hope to, I hope to get this manuscript published at some
point and then we'll have to come back and talk about it again once I have like actual writing
to share. But I will be happy when I'm back at my computer later today to send you some links
to include in the comments. At some point, I will come in and respond in the comments section
below. If people want to ask me questions there, I can do my best to answer them when I get a
chance. And it's been a real pleasure. This has been a lot of fun. I want to compliment you and
just say you speak clear. You say what you mean and mean what you say and you're very, very good
at teaching. So keep up doing that. I always enjoyed these episodes because a lot of compliments
throughout were like, man, this guy just said, and he was very well articulating what he meant.
By the way, I'm also, I hope that this is a good thing. I'm willing to admit when I make a mistake
and I do not claim to be the be all end all expert on this stuff. One of the hard things about being
a generalist and trying to cobble together arguments from really disparate areas is you
have to be really humble. And you have to say, this is something that I really believe based
on my impression of the data. But if someone who came along was much better like steeped in that
very specific area, then I will defer to them every time. I will say, oh, my bad.
Or at least evaluate what you're saying and see that there's competing ideas about this. And you
might say, it could be, they might be right, depending on, but I get it. I'm all about that as
well. I think it's good to defer to the experts who specialize in that. And guess what? They
themselves should always be humble and recognize and change with whatever the data is. And that's
the good thing about researching and being a scholar. All right. Well, I do really have to
leave now, but fortunately my point is not too far away. Well, thank you so much. Everybody
have a wonderful day. Hit the like button, share this out, drop a comment, let us know that you
enjoyed it and that you want them back. And he'll be talking in the chat. So have a good one.
