This is what it was again, I said empty your mind, be formless, shameless, like water.
Now you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup, you put water into a bottle, it becomes
the bottle, you put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot, now water can flow or it can crash.
Be water my friend.
We have Joseph Atwell with us, but I'm going to leave all the specialties up to Luther in introducing you.
Go ahead Luther, talk to him.
How do I talk about this great man? Joseph Atwell is an independent scholar, lecturer and author of
Caesar's Messiah, The Secret Hidden History of Christianity in the Gunples and Shakespeare's
Secret Messiah. He has discussed his theories on the origins of Christianity on the BBC,
Fox News Network and Russia's REN Network. His website is Caesar's Messiah.com where his
book may be purchased in questions and comments posted. You can send emails directly to Joseph
at JoeAtwell, that's A-A-T-W-I-L-L at gmail.com. Well, I guess Derek are just too good to have just once on the
water boys, so get ready for take two, reprise the reboot, the sequel of The Man, The Myth, The Legend.
Mr. Joseph Atwell, welcome Joe, it's great to have you back on the show.
Oh man, the pleasure is all mine. So good to be back on, you know, the best sort of discussion show on the
internet. I mean, in the years to come, I think that this will be what I say is like, you know, the high
point of like, my career as an independent scholar is when I was able to talk to you guys online.
I really like, I was talking to Derek earlier to speak about that, and I just like the whole kind of approach that you
have, so broad-minded and has such positive energy. You know, in the world of New Testament scholarship,
you may not believe this, but there's actually a lot of ill feelings. It's not really, you know, kind of a club gentleman.
Wow. The problem is, is that it's a very, very low resource environment. The people who are in it are basically starving,
except for very few, like Bart Erdman, but beneath him and a few others, you know, people are broke, and so there is always,
when you exchange ideas, this problem that you're basically taking food off their table if you're having a successful
book, and it's just, you know, that kind of bleeds over into the debates, and so then you get just real, you know, not kind of
exchanges that have any value to the public, except to, they can see that, you know, this version of scholarship, New
Testament scholarship, and is a food fight, you know, and so that's why when I'm mentioning the Derrick anger, God,
I could listen to you guys forever, just because it is just so pleasant to listen to people who have the kind of the white spirit,
you know, and that's the thing is that I hope you guys never lose that. You just have this great enthusiasm and open-mindedness
and just your way ahead of everyone else just by having those two criteria, you know, those qualities.
Wow, Derrick, what do you say about that? Thank you, Joe.
Man, thanks for the word of encouragement. It really is wonderful to have an encourager like you by our side,
and also your own work with such great information, so it makes us want to get even greater with what we do.
I will say, yeah, I was going to say, this is one of the best compliments I've ever heard in probably my whole life.
I don't think my wife's ever complimented me that well, so I have to say, but I will say this, if you see me speak
and you don't hear me, it's because I'm muting my mic after everything so that I can clearly hear what you're saying.
So you're going to be reading my lips probably throughout this show, but I'm not going to be heard unless I'm going to actually speak
so that the quality is good for our audience.
Anyway, Luther, you want to go ahead and lead us off into the first question?
And your breathing is very clear, Luther, like they can hear you breathing heavy, so if you can mute whenever you get done,
that'll help us a lot, because you're no offense, but your breathing is pretty heavy, brother.
We'll do, we'll do. I kind of ran to the spot today so you can tell, kind of in a mad rush to get to the mic, right?
I tell you, Joe, last time we had you on, you teased us with an outline of your sensational book, Caesar's Messiah.
You had us looking so much at this exciting material you gave us whiplash.
So we're going to start this time talking about probably the only man our audience wants to know more about than Joseph Atwill,
and that is this man from Galilee who went about performing miracles, healing the sick, raising the dead, Jesus of Nazareth.
Now, everything I said could be true, but increasingly scholars and researchers questioning whether it is literally true or historically true.
So, Joe, what's kind of a summary of the reasons to question this idea about a historical Jesus?
Well, I mean, one sort of strong but overlooked or often overlooked reason to not see him as a historical character is because he is very suspicious as he fits into history.
In other words, this was a period of time when Rome was occupying Judea.
The Jews were clearly looking for a Messiah who would be a military leader.
This character, Jesus Christ, which obviously cannot be his real name because you wouldn't name a child Christ.
So say this is how we know him as a Christ.
It's clearly a Messiah in the lineage of David.
Now, think about David.
He is the original prototype Messiah, a king of Israel who had a connection to God.
That's all that this Messiah concept means.
But he is a warrior, a xenophobic, and cuts the head off of Goliath.
And so this is the prototype Messiah.
And so Jesus is not to be suspected as being perhaps fictional just because he doesn't fit into either the idea of a Messiah in the perspective of the Jewish religion.
And also this particular time in history, there was definite belief that there would be a Messiah who would come to lead the Jews in rebellion against Rome.
Josephus describes this.
The Dead Sea Scrolls describe this.
So it was a common theme of this first century struggle is that the Jews were looking for a Messiah who would be a warrior to lead them against Rome.
Instead, they got a turn the other cheek, metrosexual, who suggest they should carry Roman backpacks an extra mile, give to Caesar what is Caesar's,
and then suffered a kind of humiliating crucifixion, which isn't really the sort of heroic end you would expect from someone from this literary tradition of the Messiah.
So yeah, all these things make you just, I think, have a question about him being a historical character.
You know, I think last time we talked about, you know, there is this fine line.
It's a semantical problem.
You know, you could imagine a Messiah who was, you know, basically had followers who perhaps was born at Nazareth.
I think that's is I'll explain that.
That's not really possible.
But someone kind of had some background that that the people who are creating Jesus used in building the character.
And then you can say, well, historical character, but he was embellished.
He was embellished by the authors.
So when does a character stop being an embellished historical character and start being a fictional character?
I mean, this is the semantical.
I think Jesus crosses the line way over the line because the problem with Jesus is, and this is, you know, beyond sort of the historical suspicion that you would give to this particular character.
You have the problem that he is a typological character.
In other words, the stories of his life are constructed out of other stories, right?
So when you when you, you know, read about him like in the wilderness or, you know, his father going down to Egypt, you know, because Herod does masquerades.
These are not historical events.
These are stories that are constructed out of stories in the Old Testament.
So it's all it's been widely known that Jesus is this, you know, very typologic character that much of his, you know, his words, much of his, his behavior, you know, that he goes through.
These are not real events because you can actually play some other being based on other stories.
But then when I wrote Caesar's Messiah, I said, well, wait a second.
If you actually link the, the, the character to the stories that that are in the works of Josephus that were then used for the rest of the character.
In other words, if you add to the stuff that comes from the Old Testament that everybody knows about that, you know, the authors are replicating the Elijah, you know, kind of cycle with the fishing, you know, all the fish being made, you know, and stuff.
So when you, when you add to that the fact that all these other stories are found in Josephus, then what happens is the character Jesus Christ simply disappears as a historical character.
There's nothing left.
I mean, you can literally disassemble this a character and show where every single one of the events in his life virtually came from.
And so I would say that he's not only fictional, but he's one of the very few characters that you can actually disassemble and act and demonstrate that he is fictional.
Yeah.
That's, that's interesting because I actually years ago I went before church in New York and I saw patterns.
Much of what you're talking about, I saw a theme between Moses and Joshua, Elijah and Elisha, and then John the Baptist and Jesus in the church.
And I saw this pattern, this theme, and this was when I was inside of the box.
So I was in the box.
And so a lot of people would go, something bad happened to you, like you purposefully left and, you know, like you stopped bleeding in the Bible.
That's what made you go outside the Bible.
Well, you could say that after I had so many red flags within the text that made me go, there's something else going on.
And so in light of that, just to get on, because what I think you're hinting at is you're showing the parallelism, this idea that if one text is saying this and we can show it in sequential order, which we're going to get into some of that and the show is going to go on.
I think we need to stop for one second for our audience just to help them out, Joe, and tell them who were the players.
You know, who's playing this game that's going on in the first century because we know the Romans destroyed the temple.
And a lot of people just read their Bible and they go, oh, there was these false messiahs who came along and then there's these people who revolted.
We know that the Gospel or the New Testament talks about that.
They don't really know why, like what was really going on.
Of course, your book emphasizes a lot of detail on this, but why did the revolt happen?
Why would they go into this?
And what would be the influences, the powers that be, if you will, as you've told me before?
I don't want to steal your quote, but follow the money, if you will, and the politics.
So there would be a reason and an influx of money trying to get rid of whatever was going on in that first century.
Maybe you could talk about that cancer that was developing in the first century, if you don't mind.
Sure.
Well, I mean, Rome was a prison of nations, right?
That's what it was.
And it had every imaginable way of keeping control over the colonized nations that it had conquered.
Religion was one of them.
You had this thing called the imperial cult.
It was all over the empire.
And it was basically just to give people the idea that Caesar had some divine essence that would make him difficult to rebel against, basically.
It was just kind of mind control.
But the key here is simply taxation.
This is the money side of it.
You had two great tax collecting families.
There's some issue about this, but not in my mind.
I think there's plenty of evidence to support it that really the Alexanders and the Herods, their close relationship with the imperial family is based upon the fact that they were tax collectors.
They were sharing the revenue from their tax farms.
The Herods were in Judea.
The Alexanders were in Egypt.
With Rome.
So now these families were ostensibly Jewish.
The Alexanders were a family that produced Philo, who was the most famous Jewish intellectual.
He wrote a bizarre sort of quasi-Judaism where he blended in a lot of Hellenistic themes to create a, you know, basically a Judaism that could get along inside of the Roman Empire, right?
The Herods were originally Arabs, or at least from Arabia, but they attempted to breed into the Hasmonean family.
The Hasmoneans were just critical to understanding the Gospels.
Got to understand the Hasmoneans.
When Alexander the Great conquered the region, after he died, he left it in the hands of his generals, and they tried to Hellenize the region.
So they were introducing the religious Jews to the idea of gymnasium, to, you know, kind of Athenian beauty and sensuality.
And so this met with a reaction from a more fundamental group.
This was the Hasmonean family.
They're known as the Maccabees.
Maccabees just as a nickname means hammer.
That gives you an idea about what they were like.
Well, anyway, so they, they organized themselves.
They reconquered the area.
They kicked out the, you know, the cellul seed leader who was a descendant from one of the Alexander's generals, and they set up what they called Eretz Israel, a religious state.
It's a religious state, and it's very, very orthodox.
Anybody who wasn't circumcised was done so compulsorily, right?
No, no, getting around it.
This was a religious state.
Now, the problem was, is the family had divisions, and there were, there were group of Vi for power.
One group needed some help, and they, they went to their allies.
At least they thought at the time they were the Herods.
The Herods were in Rome's pocket.
They came in to help this one side, and then they, the Herod never left.
They brought the Roman troops in to help them defeat one half of the Hasmonean family.
But then they simply ran the other side as puppets, and then eventually got rid of them all together.
And the Herods then took over what had been Eretz Israel.
Now, the Herods were, you know, they, they would then breed into, they actually took wives from the Hasmonean line,
so that they, they could then represent their sons as legitimate messiahs.
But the people weren't buying this.
They knew full well that this, these were puppets, that they were coming from the Herod, you know, kind of non-traditional Jewish world.
And so they, they wouldn't buy these guys, and then eventually they organized a rebellion.
And this was a ferocious nationwide rebellion.
And this is, again, something that people misunderstand is that the rebellion in 66, which lasted to 73, purportedly, to the fall of Masada,
that rebellion actually kicked the Roman legions out.
Now, you have to imagine how ferocious and organized this military effort was.
Defeated several Roman legions.
And this hadn't, you know, really been done before, where one of the provinces had rebelled successfully and basically then set up a nation-state right inside the Roman Empire.
So this was just a catastrophe for Rome.
You could imagine they had, they had a prison of nations.
One of them has successfully rebelled.
They set up a nation-state.
They're meeting their own claims.
They're trying to establish trading relationships with other countries.
If this thing spreads, it's going to be, you know, kaput for the Roman Empire.
So Nero, who was in charge, brought in his best generals, Vespasian, basically, his son Titus, and said, go down there and clean up the mess.
And that was when you had this, you know, the famous Roman-Jewish war that ended up with the, with the raising of the temple,
probably the most famous, you know, event of the war with the temple's rays.
Now, this war is critical if you want to have any understanding of Christianity.
If you do not have a deep understanding of the war, you pass, go, and you don't get to collect your crucifix because,
telling you, you have to understand that all of the prophecies that Jesus is making come to pass in the war.
So many Christians don't know this, that when Jesus talks about the crushing of Galilean towns, Jerusalem being encircled,
the abomination of desolation coming to pass, the raising of the temple, these are military victories of this Savian campaign.
So the victors write history, and so already it's very suspicious.
Why are Matthew, Mark, and Luke, supposedly, you know, these Christian Jewish people writing about a guy who's prophesizing Roman victories?
What is going on here?
So this is the first, I think, step that a Christian needs to take to become clear-minded about the origin of the religion,
that it is based upon the military victories of the Flavian family.
Now, you know, so then if you want to, you know, kind of see what was the motivation of this group to Christianity,
because my theory is that the Flavians then produce the Gospels.
This group had the motivation because following the war, which was this was been the time when they would have written the Gospels,
because you can see that it was written after the war, because all of these events from the war are predicted by Jesus during the war,
it will come to pass during the war.
Anyway, so they had a motivation to find a way to pacify Messianic Judaism, because it was the problem.
This was what their historian, Josephus, said was most propelling Jews to rebel.
They believed that there was going to be a David, someone like David coming from God, he'd have the power of God,
he would lead them against Rome, and then the Rome would be driven out.
They believed that, and so they kept hoping, and they kept rebelling.
So they had a motivation, the Flavians, to find a way around this particular kind of theology.
This was why the Gospels theology basically is a reworking of the Torah and the way that that literature looks for a military leader type.
You have Jesus Christ, who's a kind of quasi-pacifist.
So they had a motivation to produce this literature, but because they were allies with the Alexanders and the Herods,
they had the capacity, because this group of intellectuals that funded the Flavians had every understanding imaginable of the Old Testament.
I mean, the Herods were breeding with Asmonians, and the Alexanders were producing the most famous Jewish intellectuals of the era.
They could have written something like the Gospels.
They had all the technical understanding of typology in the Old Testament that are used in the Gospels to create the story.
So you have the motivation, you have the capacity, and then, bear in mind, they controlled history.
I mean, this group controlled the historical narrative, and so they had the opportunity to try to insert something into history as preposterous as the story of Jesus.
They introduced the Gospels probably, you know, in eight or ninety toward the end of the first century, and who was going to say boo?
Because, yeah, they controlled history, and so this was how it got done.
You had one group and only one group that had the motivation, the opportunity, and the capacity to create the Gospels and the religion.
And so people asked, well, why should we suspect the Flavians?
And I say, well, because they're the only ones that basically are legitimate candidates to be guilty.
Okay, okay. Now, Joe, there were military victories that were pretty plain and straightforward,
but there were also literary victories because you talked about the Maccabees and about that term, or that name, meaning hammer.
But also, the name Mark means hammer. It comes from the same place, but here we're not talking about a military hammer, a force.
It's more like a velvet hammer or a marshmallow hammer that gets put across through the Gospels.
So here you have writing coming into play. There's a war behind the war.
Okay, so Josephus, whose name, by the way, means he shall add.
Well, certainly he shall add to the aims of the Roman Empire. He shall add and advance the cause of Rome.
Why is he important in determining the early history of Christianity then and now?
And I'll give you an example of how he comes into play.
I was in Atlanta many years ago and a preacher was in the middle of his sermon and he quotes Josephus.
And I heard other preachers talk about his sermon after when they said, oh, he's great and his exegesis is great,
but he strays from the scripture and he quotes Josephus.
I mean, what is it about Josephus that people want or at least organized religion wants to steer clear of him,
wants to divert attention away from him?
And here you are, Joe, saying he's so important, you got the Josephus Witness Protection Program,
in effect, to keep him safe for posterity and bringing him out.
So we'll learn about him. Tell us about Josephus.
Well, I mean, the thing about Josephus is that he's the one who wrote the history that the original church fathers,
people like, you know, Eusebius and Augustine stated that we can be sure that Jesus was divine
because the historian recorded that his prophecies came to pass.
So this was a whole branch of Christian theology, the preterites,
who believed that there was this basic relationship between the war and Jesus's prophecies.
This was the dominant Christian theologic position up until, you know, basically the beginning of the 20th century.
I mean, this was what everyone thought was the correct understanding of the Gospels.
The one we have now with the second coming and all this stuff, that is very, very late, that's very recent.
So Josephus was so important that there are some very ancient Bibles, you know, found in monasteries and whatnot,
that actually have Josephus as part, his works as part of the Bible.
You actually have, you know, the Four Gospels and the Letters of Paul and Revelation and Josephus.
I mean, he was like a book and this is because he recorded what everyone understood was simply the coming to pass of what Jesus predicted.
The prophet predicts and the historian records the miraculous occurrence of what the prophet had predicted.
So Jesus and Josephus were actually completely entwined as if they were one intellectual system.
And so the idea that now people are like trying to divert attention from Josephus is quite preposterous.
And in fact, it's very telling, I think, that kind of the underlying historical basis of Christianity is starting to erode,
because if it wasn't the case that they wouldn't be trying to shy away from Josephus much.
I mean, it's just, it's more and more now, I think, becoming basically a region of scholarship where people are beginning to link up the Jesus,
Josephus connections again.
They're simply too obvious to really, you know, to separate them.
And I think that it's very healthy.
I think that, you know, as we get to an era where Christianity is not basically an intellectual dominant structure in our culture,
it'll be it'll be very easy to kind of start to recognize a lot of the parallels between Jesus's storyline and what Josephus is recording.
It's a they, you know, I get in a lot of internet battles and it's really quite interesting because they have to basically deny some of the parallels.
I mean, they can't deny things like, you know, well, encircling Jerusalem with the wall or the, you know, the, the, the crushing of the Galilean towns or the raising of the temple.
And these things are just, I mean, they're they're not much you can do about them.
I mean, they're they're historical.
So you're just you have to accept them.
But then when you go, well, get this event between these two, you know, historical things that you are certain are reading.
Look at how close that is.
For example, like I show, for example, the crucified one survived story, right?
And I go, look, this occurs exactly at the right place.
And if you believe these other parallels and surely you believe this one, it looks pretty much like the ones that you believe in.
But they can't Luther.
They cannot because if they take one step into that world, like if they agree with the fishing of men.
Well, you know, or, or any of the other 50 ones that I show, if they agree with one of them, they agree with one, then the whole historical foundation of Jesus disappears.
So that's why that's why when, because once you see with the sequences, what we got here, we got like a long,
like a long sequence of like 50 things, right?
Once you go, you know, I'll tell you, all these historical things are correct.
And yeah, that three crucified, you know, one survived sure seems like it's parallel.
There must be some dependency.
That's a key word.
There must be some dependency.
The authors of the Gospels must have known about the story in Josephus where this guy survives a crucifixion and they kind of use it.
Maybe the, the flavor up, you know, because, you know, because the, the name of the character Joseph of Arimathea is sure a lot like the name of Joseph Bar Matthias.
Sure, an awful lot like it was only two Greek letters off.
So you go, wow, that's pretty close.
I guess they use that character.
They, this character Joseph of Arimathea must be based on this character, you know, who got the guy down from the cross who survived there.
But once you take that Luther, the whole thing collapses.
I'm telling you, because if you go, once you go to one of the, of the parallels that are not just, you know, you know, obviously historical things, it all collapses because then you can wait a second.
It's all like that cutting down the fruit trees, you know, the divide the family three for two, all of the weird little parallels because see they all look the same sequence.
You see, once, once you start going down the path and you go, well, I like these seven sequences, these seven things.
And yeah, they aren't sequenced, but this eight thing, no, I'm drawing the line there.
It's not, that can't be.
Well, what if you do?
What if you go, you know, that just makes, it's just too, it's too obvious.
There's got to be dependency because once you take that step, then believe me, it just all collapses in a few days.
And you go, you know, the whole thing is, you know, the war is the basis of Jesus's adult myth.
So, wow, Romans left this for us.
This is that, you know, I mean, look, I get a lot of, obviously, you know, people, they dislike me because I'm bringing this horrible reality about history.
Well, look, look at it from the other side, use Christianity as mind control basically to set up the feudal system.
Right. That's really what the thing is.
If you think about what it is mechanically in history, that Constantine, you know, he, he makes it the state religion begins the process.
And he also starts the feudal system.
And the title system, you got the Pope.
Well, that's just Caesar.
It's the city name, Pond of Maximus.
That was the title of, you know, Caesar.
And so, but now you don't remember because, well, Jesus, you know, is like, he's Jesus's emissary on earth.
And so the whole thing is really just kind of a, you know, a mind control, flades sort of philosophy.
And, and the Flavians were incredibly vain.
And this was to thank God they were.
Otherwise, we would, you know, we'd be in darkness about Christianity.
If you drive around Rome, or Ephesus, or any of the places where the imperial cult was big, all you see are Caesar vanity.
Displays giant temples and statues, you know, nude, Nero with gold leaf, you know, and a little fig tree.
And these things are like, I mean, I'm not talking, you know, like, you know, like, double lock eyes.
I mean, like 50 feet.
I mean, they got a hand to the mission.
So they love their vanity, right?
So they created this weird character.
You see, if you read the gospels carefully, no one does, and it's pretty boring.
Really, you know, they read as religious text.
But if you read it, like, you know, just as a, as a history or as a, you know, literature, then it's dull.
But you got this real problem in there.
Jesus is supposed to be the son of God.
He's talking about this guy.
He calls the son of man.
And he goes, man, when this guy comes, it's going to be a bad day.
And he talks about all the things are going to happen.
Jerusalem is going to get encircled.
The temple is going to be raised.
The abomination of desolation.
Everyone's going to get wiped out.
And he goes, this guy is going to come and it's going to be really bad for the Jews.
And it's going to add for, you know, like just a lot of people.
But you see, when he does that, he's kind of saying, well, that guy is more powerful than me.
Right?
I mean, I mean, you go, why is Jesus, who's the son of God talking about this guy who's going to come in 40 years?
But that's when that's when Jesus specifically states when the guy is going to come during the war.
Why would he say that this guy has all this power?
And you see, this is the Flavian vanity.
They created this character, the son of man that Jesus, you know, predicting who's going to come.
Because it's obviously the Flavian Caesar.
You see, there's nobody else it could be.
It's impossible to be anyone else.
And that's why you've got this really weird typological system that I show and see.
On the side where you've got all these little weird, crazy things, you know, that are just all over the place that you would never, you would never look at them and go, well, you know, what the heck, you know, like, like, why is this here?
You know, but it's when you read them in sequence that you can see.
I mean, like, you know, I just, I just happen to have one couple of my peers like a great.
So this is never even people never see.
So, so like, you know, if you're writing, if you're reading in sequence, you go, um, Joseph writes, and thus that sedition, which had been divided into three factions would now reduce to two, right?
Divide three for two.
And then now Jesus, Luke 1251, he goes, do you suppose I came to give peace on earth?
I tell you not at all, but rather vision from now on, five in one house will be divided three against two and two against three.
Right.
So it's an obvious parallel.
It's a little weird, but I mean, it's like, oh, okay, well, why is that, you know, why is something that is parallel occurring?
Maybe it's just some sense.
But then you go to the next line, it goes, and if it, you know, and then, and then, you know, it goes and Luke says, well, Jesus says, if it bears fruit, well, great, if not, that you can cut it down.
And then Josephus says, well, you know, so Titus threw down all the hedges of walls that made the gardens and groves and they cut down all the fruit trees.
So you go, wait a second, divide three for two, cut down the fruit trees.
And then, then like, now.
Whoa.
You know, which of you intending to build a tower to sit down first and count the cost, whether he has enough to finish it, unless he has to laid the foundation or is he not able to finish and see who's beginning to mock him?
And, you know, now if this Titus goes around the wall looking for the best place to build a tower, you see, a tower, where's the best place to build a tower?
Luke goes, you know, like, or else, while the other is still gray off, he sends a delegation and ask conditions of peace.
And if reading along, you know, that's 413 and then Wars of the Jews, five, six, just attempted to discourse to those who are upon the wall about terms of peace.
So you get, it's not completely verbatim, but see, then the next thing is, is like, you go, well, Jesus goes, for the days will come around on you when your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you and close you on every side.
Josephus goes, well, they must build a wall around the whole city.
So, so you see, it's like, and I could go on, but I mean, it's like the thing is, like, you lay the text side by side, and you get the sequence, the temporal sequence of events, because there's a little hocus pocus, you got to kind of like fiddle with a bit.
But it's, you know, I've been, that's one of the reasons why, in the addition I have out now that the Flavian signature, I don't mess around with the parallels that aren't in Luke.
I could bring more parallels in, but I figure I don't really need to do that.
I'm bringing in like 50 of them.
What I do is I lay Luke against Josephus, and I don't vary.
I just say, here's Luke, here you go, right down.
Here's a circle by the wall.
Here's the, there's the temple being rare.
Here's, you know, the, the son of Mary, who's a passenger, Passover lamb, here's three crucified ones.
I lay it out.
And then, and I almost have no comment.
I just occasionally I'll throw something in, you know, like a line, but I just want the reader to go through it and see that, that this is the basis of the adult ministry is the military campaign of Titus.
And so when you do that, then you can these events and subtract them from the historicity of Jesus, right?
Because you can see clearly, you know, when you know that, if you want to get into the system, you know that Jesus didn't go around talking about cutting down fruit trees,
because that's obviously right out of the other book, you know, because look all these, these events are all sequential.
But once you start taking those things away from the character, what do you end with?
We don't end up with anything.
You see what I mean?
This is, this is why it's fascinating is that they, they want to cling to Jesus as a historical character that was embellished.
You know, they, there's a whole branch of that, that historical like Bart Erdman, you know, he's a historical character.
You know, these miracle stuff, they got added later, but you've got to, you just have to have this guy because look at all these people who wrote about him long after he was dead.
So there has to be some historical kernel there, you know, here's the problem.
Like you look at like, for example, the John the Baptist story, right?
Okay, look at that story where Jesus gets baptized.
You start taking out of the story the stuff that comes from, you know, Elijah, right?
You know, the John's clothing and the river Jordan, you know, and then you start realizing that actually now that they're also using the, the story of Moses with the, with the passing through the water and the baptism.
And the whole story goes away.
There's no story left there.
I mean, literally everything that is described in the story is from some other story.
And so now what do you got left?
You got nothing.
This is what's supposed to be done.
Luther, the, the, the Indians put in this crazy son of man character in the future for the very purpose that, that when we unraveled the literature and realize that we've been fooled, that we would remember them.
You see, it's legacy because I mean, I don't pretend to know what the psychology of a Caesar is.
I know it's bad.
Okay.
I don't know whether it's not like you and me.
They're different.
Right.
They can murder anybody they want.
They have slaves galore.
They have.
Okay.
They, they, they try to make themselves human gods.
They're different.
I know one thing about them.
They are as vain as can be.
And that's why I know that the purpose of this whole typology, because they didn't have to do this.
They did not have to write the gospels like this.
The gospels were written.
Like this with all this typology linking to their military campaign.
So that in the future, we would realize the second we got fooled.
And now we're close to like, think these guys were like, like clever and, and like give them legacy.
Well, you know, sorry, not from me, but that was what they did.
Oh man.
Well, that was a great show, everybody.
Now I'm just kidding.
You went through everything, Joe.
Hey, not really.
Actually, you know, we have questions that we've had set up for this thing.
Cool.
And to be honest with you, you got me so excited about those parallels.
I almost want to run with them.
But because I mean, it's really fascinating to see, but that's what I did.
You know, I didn't have Josephus in my hand.
The only thing that was missing was Josephus.
I could look at the old, I could look at the new and go, whoa, hold on.
And like you said, they become the same thing.
And you're like, hold on.
Well, how can they be separate historical events in the literal sense when they become the same thing story wise?
They're a literary device.
And anyway, going to stay to the format as much as possible, even though we will veer off with someone like you who's got a lot of input and information on this.
That's expected, though.
And I'm glad.
Right, right.
I'm glad it is.
Beautiful.
I am happy that you are doing this because things come up and you just got, you run with it.
I love it.
So keeping the scenario on the ground because it works there.
Militant Judaism versus Rome.
That's what we're seeing.
The Jews Messiah was independent and above the fray.
He showed the militant Jews that they were wrong.
While Rome fades quietly into the background, the picture you paint stays on the ground first showing the adversarial relationship to be acute.
Central to the social fabric.
And worthy of Rome's very best efforts to diffuse it.
These were revolutionary times.
And in a revolution, people aren't singing.
They're swinging.
Paint a picture for us.
How adversarial were they to each other?
I mean, how bad was this between these militant Jews, which were messianic?
And maybe we got to emphasize that to the Romans.
I actually, my opinion is that you had, you know, they people talk about all kinds of different sects of Jews.
They have the Essenes and the Sadducees and the Pharisees.
I'm not buying it.
I think there were really two types of Jews.
I think there was like Rome and like Messianic Jews.
I mean, Miss and I had one more like one flavor, but that was the basic thing.
You're either in or out.
And particularly when you get to a situation where you're rebelling against Rome and having Eretz Israel,
I guarantee you they have like lots of different sects of Jews in Eretz Israel.
No, that is not happening.
These guys were fundamental.
They would have executed anybody who wasn't on the party line.
So you have Messianic Jews.
It is the basically the religion, the common Jewish person, right?
It's the Torah and the Torah is pretty clear cut.
You don't, you know, the land was given to you by God.
That's the Torah's position.
And if you look at Deuteronomy, I mean, man, it is the most genocidal document imaginable.
They want to kill all the Gentiles.
They list the races.
They're going to evaporate.
So this is the perspective that the Torah is giving these guys.
This is what Rome is against.
They are Rome, the, you know, indomitable, you know, I mean, cannot crush it.
The Jews are just not able to accept it and they're just going to explode.
The war that Josephus describes is 66 to 73.
I mean, there's no great, you know, evidence of like the numbers,
but Josephus recorded over a million people died in this battle.
So it's just absolute bloodbath.
But now that was only one of three major rebellions.
There was the famous Bar Copa rebellion, which is in 133.
And that led to the diaspora.
I mean, that, that one was an okay, now I'm going to take the last one first.
And the diaspora at the end of it, there's a ceremony that takes place after a successful military campaign
where the general comes to Rome and there's a salute where the,
the Caesar says, how are you?
And the general's supposed to say, I am well.
The troops are well.
If the, if Caesar is well, they didn't do it that time.
It's the only time Rome, not did it because they were afraid there would be rioting
because so many Roman families had lost sons in the war.
So that's how much the carnage had occurred in the, in the Bar Copa.
There was so much death that let go of the, the salutation that, you know,
with returning victorious general, that gives you how bad it was.
But that wasn't the real nightmare.
The real horror story was the Bardoma rebellion in 115.
Now they recorded that, like in the island of Cyprus, I believe.
Yeah. Cyprus, the Jews got the Senate, Jews got military control
and they genocided the entire Gentile population, a quarter million people,
supposedly quarter million people, all gone.
Serenia was depopulated.
This is where they're, so the rebellion was now south.
It was coming from Egypt because they've been kicked out basically, you know,
during the first rebellion, they've been, they've been driven south.
So the Messianic movement was in Egypt, Serenia, Cyprus.
In Cyprus, they genocided 100% of the Gentile population.
Several Roman historians recorded this.
Serenia was so bad that they had to recolonize it.
I mean, as far as anyone can tell from the records, they killed everybody.
The Jews had tremendous military power.
They actually got a document of one of the Roman prefects trying to get away from the Jews
going down the Amazon, down the Nile.
He was going south, trying to get away from the control that they had over, you know,
around Alexandria.
So the Bardoma Rebellion was one of the biggest bloodbaths, you know, anyone's ever imagined
in terms of the documentation.
And then that led up to within, within like 20 years to the Bar Copa Rebellion.
So think about it.
The 66-73 Rebellion, the 114-116 Rebellion, and then the Rebellion 133-135, three absolute
bloodbaths.
And these, so what you really have was in the first century, in the beginning of the second
century, you had a race war.
It was a race war.
And the idea was to exterminate one another.
And there was no, I mean, looking at the casualty numbers, there's no, there's absolutely
no quarter given.
And I'll even go a little bit, I'll speculate, because I think this is part of a longer struggle.
I think history we have is BS.
I don't buy it.
What I think happened is that it was Hannibal and the Carthaginians that were really the
first Messianic struggle against Rome.
I think that they separate out the religion of Moses from the, you know, the Carthaginians
because that whole culture got evaporated.
We just don't have records.
But I think that it was, they were obviously Semitic, they were Phoenician.
I think they probably were very influenced by the Torah.
And I think that was the first kind of Jewish-Roman war.
Hannibal went into Italy to try to see if he could take the battle to Rome after, you
know, after a Carthage had been raised.
But he lost and he went east.
He disappears and I think like basically northern, kind of southern Mesopotamia area.
You don't really know exactly where they got him.
But what I suspect is it was only like 20 years later that the Hasmoneans pop up and they
pop up north of Israel.
I think the Hasmoneans were actually like the descendants of Hannibal.
And that's where they organized this new religion or reorganized into what we know today as like
the current version of Mesopotamia and they were the ones that then headed south.
And they went, they went there with the idea of establishing the religious state because
I think that there had always been a kind of religious connection between Carthage and
Israel that has been disappeared from history.
And I mean, I don't have documents to prove this.
It makes kind of logical sense to me.
You know, it's interesting speculation, but the we don't need to speculate about the first
and second century blood bath and then the diaspora.
And I also think that, you know, the perspective that was developed by basically by the Messinic
Jews in the first and second century, I think it is still with us.
And I think, you know, that, you know, it's not just in kind of in Zionism.
You know, if you see the basic kind of racial and aggressive militarism of Zionism, you know,
I think it's also in Freemasonry, which is a little more speculative, but I think it's
certainly within within within Zionism.
But then we'd get into another because, in fact, people, you know, they think Zionism
was a, you know, a Jewish production.
And this is what led to the state of Israel that there's somehow these little rabbi in Europe,
you know, that organize and then herzel pops up.
And then the next thing, you know, but that's nonsense.
Zionism was actually an operation of British Freemasonry begins in 1840.
Paul Marston, who's prime minister, he takes out a position in the newspapers and he says,
now is the time for the Jews to return to their homeland.
This was complete news to the Jews.
They go, what is an Anglican telling us it's time to leave Europe, you know.
Right, right.
But you see his entire group, then, you know, it was it was a disraeli, this little collect
and the Freemasons that were running Britain, you know, Salisbury, the Churchill Cecil family,
they're the ones that created the ball for a document.
They were the political form that actually created Israel and people that and and herzel,
who is the, you know, so the father of Zionism, he was simply an employee of this group.
I mean, I kind of off the subject, but but this is something that kind of, you know,
I think you don't clear understanding of history.
If you don't understand that there was a group that was purportedly Christian.
I mean, you know, like, and they were the ones that wanted to create the state of Israel.
Now, Paul Marston key to this Lord Paul Marston, he was the one who actually was, you know, 1842.
Now is the time.
And then from there on, you know, the funding, he arranged the funding for all these projects to survey,
to establish a British protectorate in the area to get the Ottoman Empire.
So Paul Marston 1842 is doing it and people go, well, you know, Paul Marston,
he's just he must have loved the Jews.
He's just like this lovable guy.
I guess he's reading the Old Testament and go now is the time.
Well, wait a second.
Paul Marston was the guy who manned the gunship.
He was the head guy who killed all the Chinese when they tried to resist the opium addiction.
That's Paul Marston is also the guy who institutes the Irish genocide.
He had the largest estates in Ireland and he was starving.
All of his inhabitants kicked him out, sent him to the U.S.
And then he was taking food out of Ireland while it was starving.
So wait a second.
What is the political perspective of this guy?
You know, why does this guy want to reestablish Israel when an 1840 is part of the Ottoman Empire?
The Jewish population is 3%.
It makes no sense.
So anyway, these are very, very controversial areas.
I know, but an off topic.
But I just thought I'd throw them in because why the hell not?
Go ahead.
All right.
Right.
Well done.
Well done.
You got my head spinning right about now.
But obviously the Jewish militant threat was so widespread that it called for Rome's best efforts by any means necessary to resist.
And some of those techniques we can say are in the area of or were in the area of scientific engineering and invention.
I think about this figure from history, Joe.
His name is Harold of Alexandria.
And also he's called hero times you drop the N in his name, but he lived from 10 AD to 70 AD.
And I was reading about him and he was a mathematician, a scientist, an engineer, and an inventor.
And he was the kind of guy that the Romans would have gone to say, OK, to keep everybody quiet.
Let's keep their religions afloat as long as they worship the emperor alongside their provincial religions.
Everything's OK.
So let a guy like Heron customize and supercharge the religions.
You know, it's kind of like a body shop, you know, where a Ford goes in, Batmobile comes out.
You know, Heron had all the smokes and the mirrors.
And if your God needed supercharging, he would do it.
There was one thing that he did where the priests in a certain religion would burn incense on the altar.
And that would raise the temperature and set in motion a series of pulleys.
And that would cause the doors of the temple to appear to open by themselves.
And it was a trick, but you think that the gods were doing it.
So can you imagine the Romans enlisting somebody like Heron along with the writers that they enlisted
all to manipulate very craftily what was going on in the empire and quell that militaristic impulse?
Absolutely.
And it's something that drives me crazy is like academics say, well, Rome couldn't have invented Christianity
because Rome only knew warfare.
Rome didn't know religious propaganda.
What history are they reading?
Rome was all about propaganda.
Rome was all about controlling asses by any means possible.
If they could, if they could find a religious angle, man would play it to the health.
The spasian, who was the father of Titus, right?
And it's saying, you know, the father, son, holy ghost, and you're talking about the plebeian, right?
The father, the son, holy ghost.
Anyway, so the spasian, when he was in Alexandria and the, they make him Caesar, right?
He goes, wow, I'm seeing, you know, this is terrific.
He goes into the temple of Seraphus and he has a moment and he comes out and he goes, hey, guess what?
I am Seraphus.
I'm no longer a spasian.
I'm Seraphus.
And just to show off, he teures some of the blindness by rubbing shit on their eyes.
And he sees a withered arm and he goes, no problem.
Let's get that thing working.
And so, yeah, oh yeah.
You see, because, remember, they control history.
They, you know, they, the idea that the historian, the Roman historians are actually giving, you know, this truthful legacy to posterity is preposterous.
These guys are like mafia guys.
They want every angle they can get.
And so religion, history, philosophy.
Everything was angled so that, you know, at the end of the day, you're just going to do what we tell you to do.
And that is pay us taxes and don't rebel.
It's funny you say that because I was reminded of a lecture I listened to recently by a Freemason, Manly Palmer Hall.
And Manly Palmer Hall actually brought up something that coincidentally goes right into this pocket.
He says something to the extent that Rome's number one priority, though they were very open to religions, their number one priority was the state.
So as long as you were tiptoeing the line doing what you're supposed to, paying your taxes, you know, not rebelling against the state, simple things like that, they were cool.
They didn't mind that you worshiped whatever you wanted to.
When you started to resist the state, you caused problems.
Well Manly Palmer Hall, I'd love to see more sources of course myself, but nonetheless, multiple sources who don't even agree, you know, in the same vicinity or come to the same conclusion.
And he makes that statement.
He says that they never destroyed, ultimately, their enemies' religions.
They always wanted to control them because why destroy something?
It's so much harder to replace it.
The religions were there as like population control aspects in the first place.
Right?
So why would they mess with that?
They're just going to try to control it.
If you want to know what Romans were like, you know, because remember basically Rome took the position that you can just believe any little thing you want.
Just believe any God.
They had hundreds of God.
Anyway, it didn't matter.
As long as you pay your damn taxes and just don't rebel, we're going to be just fine with it.
You know who they're a lot like?
They're Americans.
You're right.
You're right.
And look, a lot of people listening to this will agree.
They're like brothers.
I mean, they're like, they're just Americans.
It's like, you know, you can be as like a, you know, like you can buy any kind of Democrat you want to be.
It doesn't matter.
As long as you're like happy with the Federal Reserve and, you know, the war is like slaughtering them.
We're just fine with you guys.
You know, you're just three Americans.
All around you.
Right.
Well, let me ask you this question.
Because I rather trailed into that.
So let me ask you this.
What lessons from history that we can glean?
What lessons did Rome learn from the Druids?
Now, we know the Druids were very highly religious people.
But can we, what lessons did they learn from the Druids?
And can you give us some type of reflection onto the situation that was taking place or the wars with the Jews?
You know, it's fascinating because I don't think we can really know for sure.
Because unfortunately, the Druid literature got wiped out.
Very interesting.
I mean, we know about the Druids how, you know, through like other people who were in deals writing about it later on.
After that, this is kind of what happens with the Jewish literature.
All got wiped out.
And the Carthaginian literature did get wiped out, you know.
And so what would wipe out the information sources that it saw as basically ways that could help organize rebellion?
I mean, I think that's kind of what they, what was that was dividing on one.
Religions were fine.
A philosophy is fine.
But if they thought, well, it could help organize rebellion, that's not fine.
That goes in the fireplace, you know.
So that was, that was why what we have, what we got left in terms of the Druids, I don't think is an accurate thing.
What, what you can know about the Druids is that the Spas and and Titus had spent basically their whole life fighting these guys.
There was rebellion after rebellion.
And these were, you know, tough Roman legions in there trying to get a grip on these guys.
So there must have been a lot of them and they must have been tougher in hell.
That's why, in my opinion, Nero got this Bosnian because he knew that this Bosnian had been able to crush a religious rebellion and crush a religion.
I think this Bosnian went down there with the idea of not just defeating them, but ending the religion.
I think that was key.
And I think that, you know, that's why when you look like where, where is the scripture?
You know, the men, you see, they brought back what Josephus referred to as the law, the written scripture.
The Josephus recorded that the Flavian family got the law, got the scripture.
They took it back.
They had all of these things that they took from the temple.
They had the menorah, the Ark of the Country, a whole bunch of booty, right?
And they made Josephus says they built this huge palace of peace.
Huge peace.
And they showed off all of the booty that they got from sacking Jerusalem.
But they said, there's only one thing we didn't want to show anybody.
That was the law.
We got that to ourselves.
That actually didn't leave the palace, you see.
So this is, this is, they're just telling point blank what we have as history is best because this is what they did with what was real.
What power to, to affect rebellion.
That stuff didn't leave the palace.
The law is the one part of the Jewish booty that wasn't the display at the palace of peace because they, they were going to twist the law.
They were going to change it.
When the law pops out, what is it?
It's the story of Jesus Christ.
That's the law.
So the law, the law goes in.
It's like, you know, David the warrior, cut off the head of Caesar.
And then it comes back out.
Oh my gosh.
Here's the Messiah.
Here's all of the Messianic prophecies.
There's a lot.
There's a lot there.
Wait a second.
This is a brand new Messiah.
He likes Caesar.
I mean, what the heck?
How did that happen?
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
This is, this is, I mean, you know, broad stroke.
What went on is that the Druids, I think the Druids probably were undigestible.
They, they had a, they had a fastness and, and Rome had only one way of dealing with them.
And that's like the thing with Carthage.
They just basically exterminated them.
What they, they co-opted when they could and exterminate when they had to.
And that was the Roman Empire.
They were very pragmatic.
They had the army to basically enforce their will.
And, and so we ended up with a fake history and a fake religion.
And basically we're looking in kind of the, how does it describe it?
Sort of like the aftermath of a slave system.
You know, I mean, nothing we have is really helping promote our spiritual development.
What we have is really enabling us to really take mankind to where we should be.
I mean, all of these picky uni problems, which we are, you know, was hunger and, you know, and war and, and, and, and, and liberally malevolent medicine, right?
Where they're trying to dumb us down, you know, make us stupid.
I mean, where is all that coming from?
Well, it's because we're at the, this, this kind of tail end of a slave system where you've got all these mind control stuff, you know, and not just Christianity.
The whole history, you know, it's all of the, I mean, it's, so we're, we're in a very difficult situation.
But, you know, the good news is you guys have shown up.
And so we can look forward to getting our ass out from underneath these problems because the thing is, is the internet.
And I mean, I make that, I'm not, you know, trying to put pressure on you guys, but I mean, the thing is, is that I don't mean it completely facetiously.
Because the internet is the very first time where the common guy gets to share information.
See this, the internet is clearly, I mean, DARPA developed it.
You can see it was, it was created from mind control.
It's like they were going, this is terrific.
This is like Christianity on steroids.
You know, we're going to be in everyone's home.
Yeah, yeah.
A little guy might start talking.
They just might, they, they, they, they look at us basically as subhuman, you know, like they're too stupid to really, really do, but you know, they might start talking.
And then the next thing, you know, you've got what could be called an alternative.
And, you know, they're trying to control it.
You can see that, you know, like, like, I mean, I would say like Alex Jones is an obvious, like, you know, cul-de-sac that they've created, you know, but there's just too many guys out there.
And a lot of them, you see what happens is, here's what happened, guys.
You got like Wolf Bitzer or Sean Hannity.
The average person listened to that.
And even though we're dumbed down by thousands of years of mind control, the average person goes, you know, this guy is a lying bastard.
I can just feel it in my bones.
I mean, every word is untrue.
He's just, look at him.
He's a liar.
And then they look at you guys and they go, I mean, heck, I don't know if they know.
I don't know if they know up from down.
I know they're telling the truth and I know they have, it's coming from the right place in the heart.
And that's when I was talking to Derek and I was saying, man, God bless you.
Just an expression I use.
You know, it's like, I hope you guys just become so powerful and popular because the heart and the clear mind and the sea, it's like you're already, you've already won.
Just by, because when you bring that to the public with who've been putting up with Sean Hannity and Wilk Blitzer and Judge Judy and, you know, I'm like,
like lightning of mind control devices that are just to make you feel horrible and give you fake history, that when we laugh, when we can communicate, when we get the sense, you know, we're telling the truth to one another.
Yeah.
That's right.
That's right.
That's the revolution.
That's the revolution.
That's what how we can get to a better place is that we need to reestablish kind of the brother.
They've atomized us, right?
They atomize everything.
Right.
They got the pornographic male and the single mom, right?
This is great, right?
This is their goal is to atomize.
They break down the family.
Why?
Because the family is a threat.
Why?
Because it could get extended families.
Now you've got a problem.
They want to break down all the connections.
They want one big clump of atomized humans, pornographic males, single moms, states managing the kids.
Perfect.
They're in complete control.
But the problem is we are actually social animals.
We relate to one another.
And when we get a chance, like with shows like this, things happens.
We wheel spin deep down inside us.
We go, you know something?
Maybe we don't have to live with eight hours of pornography and three hours in the bar.
I mean, the thing is, okay, sorry to be kind of off subject.
But now, when the cultural Marxists came to us in the 60s and they go, feminism.
Men are horrible.
We've got to have feminism.
And then they brought us pornography.
And they're going, look, you need sexual revolution and sexual liberation to be free, right?
This is going to be terrific.
You're going to, you know, laid right and left.
And it's just going to be terrific.
And the women will have power and everything is going to be great.
And now we can see that this just took us right off a cliff and everyone is miserable.
And if you've ever seen like a 51 year old guy in a single bar, right, you know how miserable he can be, right?
Because, I mean, this guy is sitting there, you know, and it's not, it's not working anymore, right?
He's over it.
But what does he have?
Nothing.
And of course, the tracks, the single moms, you know, right?
I mean, they're now seeing, you know, wait a second.
You know, I've got this great job and I've got two kids that I've never seen, but I'm powerful and I'm liberated.
But, you see, so the fact is that the cultural Marx, and that's just an expression, you know, to,
to miss the oligarchs, basically, they were using.
But they, they had, they could make the case in the 60s because no one knew any better.
But now that they, they took us off a cliff.
And so now when, when your show comes on, I mean, I just think the timing is right.
I think the timing is right.
I really do.
I just, you know, that's why I wish, you know, I was telling Derek.
He, Derek, I'm not sure he thought I was telling the truth, but I really am.
Man, the world is, this is, timing is everything, guys.
I think that the world is ready for you guys.
I think, and not just you, you guys are not the press run.
But for everybody to get into the internet, communicate, reestablish the communion, the brotherhood, the family structure,
start protecting one another.
You know, when the atomic police start feeding up people, there should be other people who will step in and go,
you know something, I just feel you're violating the human rights of this individual.
And I'm going to not let you do this.
And then suddenly too many people show up with the same perspective.
And then we stop being afraid, right?
Then, then, then maybe we can, we, we actually can start.
But, but the real key is, you know, is to create better political leaders.
You know, we've got to start looking for, you know, I would, before I was saying, you know, like the ones that were given are ones that create hate,
because the hatred is what is a replacement democracy.
You know, Trump or Hillary, you hate Hillary, you hate Trump.
Now you, now you have a reason to think that the election has some meaning.
But it doesn't matter if it's Hillary or Trump, you're going to have the Federal Reserve on one hand and the wars on the other.
Right? See, the real issues, you don't get to vote on.
So, so we need to create a broad and again, you know, the, I'll use the expression to try to then, you know, fair information shows like this.
This is like really the, you know, the step to take.
We're going to get a slavery.
It starts with you guys.
This is how we get out.
The information gets spread.
People start relating to one another and they're going, you know, something I want to be with that information source, sharing that information.
I don't, I'm not going to turn on Sean.
I'm not going to listen to Judge Judy.
You know, I'm not going to listen to Wolf Blitzer.
These guys are obviously puppets of the oligarchs.
I want people like you guys because I can feel it in my bones that you're telling the truth.
So there we go.
Wow.
Joe, thank you so much for helping us to speak truth to power in our small way and our humble beginnings.
Yet you have commissioned us to really see what we were here for, Derek, what we're really all about.
Because that's what the public spawned because the public is ready.
Timing is everything.
People are sick.
People are fed up.
They know we're being lied to.
They know it.
I mean, I was looking at statistics.
They're like 70% of the people don't buy the 911 story, but not a single politician is talking about that.
Wait a second.
That's right.
How can these two facts be side by side?
70% don't buy it and not a single college is creating a course about this or questioning the engineering.
How can these facts be side by side?
It's a slave system, brothers.
It's a slave system.
It's controlled.
Well, we can stop it and hopefully we can do better than they did as far as creating a culture because it's time to make a new one.
Right.
You know that number about 70 some percent.
What did you just quote?
It was 70.
I mean, they're different quotes.
It's about buy the government story.
Right.
Every year there is like some organizations that attempt to get data.
I don't know how to even do it.
It's sort of like a Kennedy assassination.
It's more than 50%.
And when you juxtapose the skepticism with the way that we are being presented this information with zero at colleges, right?
No engineering classes are trying to determine a building sevens collapse as feasible as any other than control demolition.
Why not?
That's right.
And where's the media stories?
Right.
So the fact is, you know, the media stories are, you know, this is just what we had after, you know, Constantine started with the state religion.
You know, they have a narrative, you know, the Jesus story.
That worked for them.
There was no communication.
They controlled the roads, the information.
Right.
The slave was told, you know, yeah, it's kind of tough times for you now.
I will be a worker's paradise soon as you die.
And that was good enough because they believed in Jesus.
But no, I think now we can, we can go beyond that.
And well, you know, I went off on a political rant.
You can kind of see that was beautiful.
It was wonderful.
But you know, the thing is, I have to come back.
I'll come back until we'll talk some scholarship.
Because I actually asked some ideas about that too.
But I just thought that what I really want to do is just announce my strong support for you guys.
And hope that, you know, everybody who is, you know, listens to me will try to reach out and find a way to support you.
Keep you on the air and find a way to spread your information.
I mean, you guys know better than I do about how to spread information in the social media.
Thank you so much.
No, but that's really what has to happen.
So let's, you know, let's all do that.
Let's get when we get done.
So just go out there and support the water brothers because that's what I mean.
Yeah.
But that's good.
That's fine.
Yeah.
That works, man.
I can't help myself.
Well, look, I've been into my bad people, man.
I've been reading like Shakespeare and the gospel and stuff like that.
You know, one thing ultimately, Joe, is we, no matter what all the information ultimately really is, I mean, that's our goals to try and figure out what the real truth of this is.
But we want people to, we have enough evidence to know what we've been told isn't the case.
So now we're looking at guys like you.
We're looking at guys who are saying this is all Astro theology.
These historical, literal people have fed you a lie.
And so we're looking at everything and we're seeing truth everywhere and we're going, hold on.
And so we see what you're saying and we're going, wow, this theory makes a lot of sense.
We know Acharya S would not have followed her position if she didn't know that there was absolutely some truth to this.
So me and Luther are going, okay, you said the Alexandrians.
Well, Acharya said the Alexandrians, hold on.
Could the same people be doing this for political and spiritual means and create a great system that could replace what they had and it would pacify?
I mean, one thing that I have to say, because man, we could go on these questions, but when you feel it and you're in the moment, this is kind of its own question.
And I'm kind of feeling this at this moment.
And Luther, sorry about this.
I just, you know, got to get away from the format for just a second.
Okay, something that just, something that just, it's resonating right now.
And I think it's important is you have shown and evidence has shown that these people were militant.
They hated the Romans.
Show me in the New Testament anywhere.
Give me anything that shows.
I mean, come on, you named three revolts.
And I know that there was stuff that happened before the first century.
It was a blood bath.
It was a total blood bath.
I mean, you had from Judas to Galilean, it was a total blood bath all the way up.
It was never a period where there was just nothing going on.
It was a constant warfare between the Jews and the Romans.
They didn't want to be colonized.
They didn't want Roman.
I mean, look, look, look, their religious book tells them they've got to have control over this land.
They can't have like statues of New Nero, you know, I mean, they're craving images, right?
That this just isn't, isn't going to fly with these guys.
So, so there's no way this is going to work.
And then I pop Jesus Christ will wait a second.
I mean, it just, it even, it's once you go through history.
Yeah, the whole thing is preposterous and particularly that little detail about, well,
what happened to all of the Jewish scripture, which we, which would have told us,
we probably would have talked about Jesus if he did exist,
but certainly would have talked about the warfare and, you know, all the real Messiah stuff.
What disappears?
It goes into the palace.
Focus, focus.
It's on.
So, Joe, on that, on that, in that vein.
Okay.
You know, I have a lot of people who say that the New Testament is a Jewish and strictly Jewish document.
So we could agree with them with your theory that this is a Jewish document.
Yes, the Jews may have had some, I guess you say pagan thoughts tied in, which would make any sense, I guess.
And it could, if they were Hellenized, whatever.
But nonetheless, why aren't they talking crap about the Romans?
Every situation that you could have said, look, screw this Pontius pilot guy.
Hey, this Centurion is BS.
Hey, check this out.
No, no, this isn't cool.
Caesar, I'm not going to say.
I'll give you my favorite.
See, like, you go, well, where is the war, right?
Jesus is coming up and Jesus doesn't talk about it.
Paul doesn't talk about it.
What happened to the war?
Yeah.
Why isn't Paul talking more about Jesus?
Well, wait a second, like 50, 60.
I mean, he should be talking about the war because the Jews are winding up the river, the Roman Empire, like a one-two punch.
What happened to that?
Where's the discussion about that?
The thing is, the Romans don't want you to know about the war.
That's part of the history they would rather forget.
But the way, I mean, so just makes all these predictions.
But my favorite way that Jesus is actually wired into the war, and no one ever talks about it.
As far as I know, I was the first person to mention it, even though it just seems, maybe I wasn't.
I don't know.
But okay, so he is the human Passover lamb of the New Covenant.
You had the Old Covenant with the Passover lamb, and then in the Old Covenant, you got the 40 years wandering in the wilderness,
and then the Jews are giving Israel, right?
So you got the Passover, you got the 40 years of wandering, and then you get the ownership of Israel, how the Old Covenant worked.
Here with the New Covenant, you got the human Passover lamb, 33, Passover 33, Jesus gets crucified.
Then you got the Pentecost, which Axe talks about.
So you're following the sequence, right, just like the Old Covenant.
And then, so then you go, okay, well, what happens 40 years from the day?
What happens?
So in the Old Covenant, you get ownership of Israel.
Right, promise lamb.
The New Covenant, that would be the exact day.
That massada falls in Rome, gets control of ownership of...
Wait a second, wait a second.
The Old Covenant is like a mirror, maybe of the New Covenant.
I mean, it's exactly the same thing, except it's Rome that gets control.
This is the New Covenant, right?
So, well, Jesus wasn't just like kind of pro-Roman and like Caesar and stuff.
But look, my gosh, he was actually the Passover of Roman ownership of Israel.
Yes, something got passed over all right.
They passed right over to the Romans.
So that's just obvious.
73, if you look in Wikipedia, 73 Passover, that's when massada falls.
End of the Rome has control over the area.
Jesus is crucifixion, 33.
I mean, this is what Wikipedia will tell you.
The perfect 40 year is the human Passover lamb.
This has to be wired after the fact, which means that Rome wrote the gospel.
Because you don't go right and know quasi-Jewish prophecy Messiah guy and ending up with Rome being the...
Right, this is just not happening in real Jewish literature.
So, it's fake.
All of the numbers are fake.
The character is a typological construction.
And the whole thing about the pro-Roman perspective is just mind control.
Wow, wow.
Hey, Joe, I've got a quote here I want to include in the discussion.
And this is from an author named Margaret Starbird.
She's got a book called Magdalene's Lost.
She's talking about the divine feminine and she's really doing a good job of setting up historical context.
But this statement, when we knew we were going to have you on the show again,
I thought about this statement that knocked me out.
This is what she says.
She says, in the first century AD, nearly one-third of the citizens of the Roman Empire were either Jewish or Judaizers.
That is, persons who were in sympathy with the monotheistic religion and high ethical code of the Jews.
She is saying one-third of people were potentially dangerous and militant against Rome.
Can you imagine what kind of threat that would be if the Romans actually perceived it?
Well, I'll tell you.
I don't know where she gets the data.
I've seen print sources.
That would be kind of toward the high end, but I have seen lots of people who have looked at it.
Basically, how they can kind of find out the ethnicity of people who were in the empire at that time.
And they were everywhere.
They were widespread.
I think you can obviously say widespread.
And here is the critical point to me.
Josephus recorded that what the Romans were most afraid of was that the Jews would attempt to take their military messiah concept to the Jews throughout the empire.
So Margaret Starbert, who is a good scholar, I'm sure she has a good citation in back.
She is reflecting what was no doubt the critical existential dilemma of the Roman Empire is that the Jews were everywhere.
And if you started having, well, particularly after, you know, Eretz Israel was established in 66, if you started having rebellion throughout the empire, then the whole thing was going to collapse.
And if you look at the Bardoma Rebellion and the depopulation of Serenia and Cyprus, you could see that this was an idol threat.
This was, you know, this was the critical militant.
It's been hidden from us.
We don't talk about it.
We don't know it.
But it was the critical threat that the Roman Empire faced with the Jews.
And it wasn't a political struggle.
It was a religious genocidal war.
And so that's why the character Jesus Christ came into existence, because the world wanted to find a way to tone down the messianic literature.
That's all this is about.
The character Jesus is really carefully crafted.
Man, and the guys who put that guy together were geniuses, because the Old Testament and a lot of astroastroceology stuff, too.
They're weaving all this stuff into a story, but then they had to make the guy lovable.
They had to bend the love of like, like, you know, people away from, you know, maybe maybe a guy who's a missionary for the Jewish militaristic messiah.
They had to bend, you know, guys away from him toward this new kind of Jesus.
And then it had to work as mind control later on for the surf, you know, the slave system, the feudal system.
So, yeah, that was they they hit a home run with that character.
I mean, that was like the Star Wars.
Yes.
But it was, you know, but when you start, like, kind of looking at it as like, what's the history here, man, there's nothing.
Because because the thing is, it's like, there's just too much warfare hatred, you know, for this guy to pop up.
I mean, it would really be like, I mean, in the most fundamental kind of, I mean, say, say the Iran when the when Ayatollah Hameini, you know,
was was in power.
And it would be like, you know, a sect of Islam developed was like pro-Roman.
Right.
And the Ayatollah and his revolutionary guards would have just gone fine.
Yeah, that's great.
This is great.
You know, and like, and like, and like say that this sect would have really liked David Rockefeller.
That was who they were most.
This new guy, this like, this like Muslim Christ would go, you know, David Rockefeller.
What is David's?
I mean, yeah, this is the thing that when you try to put it in a parallel historical context, the character Jesus is just nonsensical.
It's really nonsensical.
I tried to arrange an argument, a debate with Bart Erdman.
He's like a scholar.
He's like this Jesus is embellished.
He's an embellishment guy, you know, where he's like, he's real historic.
Everybody wrote about him long after he was dead, of course, but so he must have existed.
And so he was embellished.
And he says, you know, he said, Atwell is, it's a horrible theory.
And my students could defeat Atwell in debate.
And so I said, Hey, really, Bart, you know, you're talking trash.
So how about like walking a little walk here, buddy?
You know, let's have a debate.
You and me.
And he goes, Okay, we'll have a debate.
And he goes, Oh, here, talk to this, this lady.
She's my debate.
And so she, she gives me like, basically an invoice for her to show up like a personal
appearance fee of like 10 grand first class plane ticket, you know, and I go, wait a second.
Wait a second.
I go, I go, Bart's students wouldn't pay 10 bucks to listen to him talk.
You think I'm going to pay like, are you out of your mind?
We've got Skype, but put Bart on Skype.
We can just, you know, if he's like sitting there publicly trashed me, he should have
at least guts to like get up there and talk on Skype.
But instead I get his public, you know, servant trying to get me electric to like, like, give
him an in.
But this is what I was saying.
I knew Testament scholarship is, it's a crazy world.
I mean, I, I don't really have much hope for it.
I think it's, you know, it's, it is what it is, but the people are, what's more important
is that the ideas of like, look at Christianity as a blanket, right?
Just look at it.
I'm getting a lot of feedback guys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not from my end.
Yeah.
I'm getting a lot of dropout, Derek.
I don't know if you guys are getting that too.
Okay.
It's good now.
Anyway, I'm just saying that like, what's more important that is the, is the approach
of like, this is a process of liberation.
They, the Jesus as a historical character is very much, you know, been something that
has been useful to oligarchs.
So we need to end that light and we don't need to come to, you know, like every, you
know, like this theory is right.
That person is a terrible person.
What we really need to do is create a spirit of skepticism about government.
We need to create a higher quality of democracy.
So that's right.
You know, so it's like, you know, like, like this one guy ripped off my Shakespeare idea.
I was talking to Derek about it and I was going, you know, I could care less.
The thing is, what's important is that these ideas get out because when we create revisionism,
right, people are afraid of revisionism.
Notice, notice how like historical, like conspiracy theory.
Well, that means that, that they know that history is propaganda and that it's a tool
and they want to us basically enslaved by it.
So we want the spirit revisionism.
And so when new ideas about Shakespeare, when new ideas about Jesus, look, all of the ideas
are good because they are all helping us to get into this spirit of revisionism where
we're going to say, you know, man, we don't want any more fake history.
We're sick of it.
We're tired of being mental slaves.
We're sick of that.
We're going to just not buy anything, anything that we can't really understand and, and that
we, we don't get information that come from people who are obviously psychopaths.
I don't want Sean.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah.
See that, you know, like, I'm sorry.
I'm just sick of all that.
Real humans, real conversation, real communion with people and, and when, because we create
this broad framework, it's going to take a long time to redo all this, but we start with
shows like this.
And if they can become really popular, then we are on our way.
So let's,
Wow.
Let's hope so, brother.
Let's hope.
Joe, Joe, you know, the institutional church was on the side of the divine right of King
s.
Yeah.
That was, that was defended by the Roman dynasty.
Christianity supported that notion.
You know, the King's son automatically becomes the new King, right?
And Bishop John Spong, I don't know if you're familiar with him, but he made this statement.
He says that the institutional church has been on the wrong side of every social issue throughout
history.
Yeah.
When it comes to women and suffrage, you know, women getting right to vote gay marriage,
civil rights, slavery, war in the Middle East, you name it from top to bottom.
The institutional trigger has always been on the wrong side of that.
Did you guys know he Michael Jones know he is?
He Michael Jones.
He's a Catholic and he is a social critic revisionist about Catholic.
And I think one of the very best historians that the internet has, it's quite odd that
a devout Catholic in my opinion would be such, you know, so much revolutionary information
is coming from him and really good information.
But he looks at the cat, or at least, no, he doesn't, but I do the Catholic church was
in many ways a defense against the worst excesses of the oligarchs, right?
In some cases, but not in all in generally, like you said, it was been on the wrong side
always.
So people now have kind of this nostalgic idea, you know, about well Catholicism, but
no, it was always basically a tool of the oligarchs from the very beginning, you know,
from the playvians, the feudal system, right up to the present time.
And so, you know, it's a hard thing because people who are Christian, people who are Catholic,
we'd like to have the biggest tent we can to bring them into this, the new kind of way
of thinking.
I hope we can.
And I hope that they are not put off by revisionists, people who are, you know, in more revolutionary
kind of streams of analysis, even if they question the foundations of their religion.
We've got to find a way to unify.
I mean, I'm not interested in how we're different.
I could care less.
And what I want is a way we can, the people who have financial and motivation to not any
longer be slaves because we don't want to be genocided, that we create a kind of, you
know, of community.
That's what I really want.
And I hope that Christians come in.
And I hope that Christians understand I am not, you know, I have my analysis, I believe
it's correct.
I hope that a lot of people find value in it.
But if you don't, and if you stick with your faith, that is none of my business.
What is my business, what I really want is to try to get more understanding of how we
have been enslaved and how our political system is owned.
And even inside of Christianity, this is the thing.
Christians have to understand that a lot of their leaders have been co-opted.
This is going to be hard for them to understand.
Is that, you know, the CIA or whoever, you know, is in there.
They're the ministers, the popes.
I mean, just as an off example, like, you know, Alan Dulla was the head of the CIA.
His cousin, they were, I think, Anglican or something.
His cousin one day decided to convert to Catholicism.
Just one day decided what the heck.
Five years later, he was a cardinal.
So you see, meteoric rise with the Catholic Church, how could it be?
Well, it's because it's the authority structures have all been corrupted.
All of the authority structures, everyone, the religions, the oligarchs have been there.
They look for these points of control.
It's just like the Roman Empire, think of the Roman Empire.
They would come up to a, you know, they would conquer a place.
They would look at it, well, how to control the mythology, this or that.
They would work with it, you know, but they would take over the leadership.
They'd make sure that there were no rebellions were going to be coming out of it.
So that's why when you look at leaders, these people you see on the TV, don't trust any of them.
Trust the people with a good heart.
Trust, I'm going to use the expression one last time, the water brother.
I just can't help myself.
Thank you. Thank you so.
You there.
When you talked about, yeah, you talked about the leaders being corrupt and getting control of the leadership.
First, I think about the war in Iran.
One of the details, it's not really a detail, but you don't hear about it anymore.
Is that the intellectuals in Iranian society were quickly eliminated.
There was a murder in the intellectual class to gain control of the thinking of the people.
And then, of course, the infrastructure, but all of that is part of the military domination techniques.
Absolutely.
And remember, the way to control opposition is to lead it.
And so, you know, we need a ground up, not a trickle down.
Trickle down is 100% old.
You look at guys that pop up, I mean, like Gloria Steinem, you know, meteoric rise, and then you scratch and you go,
wait a second, she's a CIA agent, you know, you know, and this is just how it is.
I mean, that's why Alex Jones, I don't buy this guy.
I saw an interview he did with David Rothschild, the scion of the Rothschild family.
And I second, why is that guy hanging out with this dirtbag?
I mean, there's something wrong here.
I mean, you know, you couldn't, you know, you wouldn't be able to use this kind of an interview unless there was something weird.
And so, you know, but at the same time, I mean, even if he's a limited hangout, and I mean, I don't know Alex.
I'm just, this is my impression of the guy.
But the thing is, leave and limit hangouts are valuable because they, you know, they recognize,
they all recognize that there's this effervescence is bubbling up.
And guys like that are helping people to wake up.
You just have to remember, you can't trust the ones that are, you know, this meteor or rise guys.
These people, we have to be very skeptical of.
It's you guys, the guys that are bubble up, not when they're top down,
when they appear in a nowhere and they have like funding and this and that.
Man, who's got funding in the industry?
Well, I mean, think about it.
I don't know anybody.
I know the whole, I mean, pretty much I'm in hundreds of shows.
I know these guys.
Nobody has money.
So if they got money, if they're being top down, I just, you know, it's, it's bubble up,
but bubble up has to eventually become big, right?
And then it has to be well funded.
And that's why I hope people support you guys.
It's, this is, you know, it's going to be tough because we're going to, they will study us like they always do.
We're going to come up with techniques to control our, our movement.
But you know, if we can just keep the internet up, if we can keep shows like yours,
I've, you know, I think 10 years, I think that we would be almost impossible to put back, you know, in the bottle.
The genie would be upset.
I got, I got to take off.
I got a minute behind the table here.
Look, just, just a heads up ladies.
We love you too, bro.
There's the book.
Hey, who wrote that thing?
Listen, I'll tell you guys, I hope to God, I'm just using it as an expression.
I hope that you guys will have me back on.
Absolutely.
I think I kind of know.
I mean, like we went with the flow.
I just like, you know, that's awesome.
I'm like, I'm like a, one of those guys that speaks in tongues.
You know, you had the spirit gets into me and I just, I can't help.
Look, Joe, next time we're going to let the spirit speak, right?
And you're going to go through every parallel.
Let's go through the whole, let's go through the whole thing.
That would actually be kind of fun.
You know, there's like, because there's some of this, I think is really very, very clever.
The guys who wrote it are very clever.
And they don't really get enough, you know, kind of act like they get none because nobody
writes about the stuff.
But there's some of the stuff that's so kind of these, these intellectual puzzle boxes,
like the Good Samaritans, one of my favorite ones, you know, it's like, well, what the heck?
How can this, what are they talking about?
I just think that's so clever how they do that, you know.
Yeah.
Anyway, guys, I'm available.
Let's do it.
Whenever you want.
I'm here.
Thank you.
Thank you, Joe.
Love you guys.
All right, brother.
Yep.
We love you.
We'll see you soon, Joe.
Thank you.
We will talk.
We will talk soon.
That's right.
All right.
All right, brother.
Bye.
We shall.
Bye.
Bye, Joe.
So, Joe is pretty good show we had with Joe here.
And I just love talking to you guys.
I run.
Anyway, have a great show.
I mean, I mean, great shows, and I hope I can come back soon.
I just want to hang out with you guys.
Absolutely.
We do, too.
Yeah, we do, too.
We're signing off, Joe.
If I come to South Carolina soon, I'm going to find a way to come up and see you guys.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, what about our song?
Come and visit me, Joe.
I'll come if I'm in the South.
I don't care.
I don't care.
It's only like three, you know, like Waffle Houses away.
Yeah.
Right?
That's right.
That's right.
Well, thanks for joining us, Joe.
I appreciate it.
Joe Adwell, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm an author of Seasons Messiah, a secret hidden history of Christianity and the Gospels.
Bye, Joe.
Joe Adwell, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm an author of Seasons Messiah, a secret hidden history of Christianity and the Gospels.
Bye, Joe.
