All right, ladies and gentlemen, we're live on MythVision Podcast.
I have a special treat, we'll just say an ex-Christian apologist who left Christianity, but has not
left the idea of God.
And we're going to have a wonderful discussion today, so make sure you stay tuned, subscribe
to his YouTube channel, and be ready for a fun ride this morning.
I hope you're all doing well.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill, and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill, and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Light music
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Mithvision Tyler Vila, is it Vela Vila?
Vella.
Vella, Vella – Welcome to Mithvision, my friend.
Thank you, thank you very much, man. I appreciate it.
Thank you. Um, let's get right into this, right? So, first thing I want to do is let
Let everybody know.
I thought I was sharing the dang screen.
Here we go.
Sharing the screen now.
Subscribe to Tyler's YouTube channel.
He has announced that he has de-converted from Christianity.
And so go check out his channel.
Go subscribe.
He's at 1.05k subscribers.
Let's see those numbers grow and show some love
to the community.
When someone is willing to push the boundaries,
even when it's uncomfortable, I think
it's important that we pat people in the back for doing things
that seem to be an honest approach to the material.
And I really listen to your de-conversion.
And it seems more of an intellectual pursuit.
It's not you just want to go sin and be a bad boy.
But it's a lot of the accusations I see or get.
Or that you would never really want the true Scotsman
fallacy, right?
So there's all these issues.
No true Scotsman.
You also have a bad policy.
I get that one.
We can come back to that.
But I actually understand that comment.
We can come back to it.
Yeah, yeah.
You're coming in a bit hot.
I don't know if it's the audio.
Or the audio is a little loud.
But I don't know if there's a way to turn it down just to smidge.
Or is it just so that we're all, you know,
I don't want to like blast it too loud.
We got the Patreon while he's working on that.
Make sure you guys check us out.
Help support us.
We've got more stuff coming.
Of course, we always take deep dives
into the biblical text, mythology, legend, the whole nine.
And we have courses.
If you haven't signed up for those courses,
I've got right now, and I'm working on more,
creating Jesus, why Mark's Gospel was forgotten.
It's been buried beneath Matthew, Luke, and John
in the way that people understand the New Testament.
The historical Jesus quest, this is an amazing course.
And then ancient Greek mysteries within David Littwa.
We've got more stuff coming.
So check out the description.
But again, subscribe to the YouTube channel,
The Freed Thinker with Tyler Vela.
And I'm going to refresh this at the end
so that we could see those numbers climb.
That's the whole goal today.
Please, if your mods are in the chat, do me a favor
and remind people when they come tuning in.
Tyler, what happened to you, my friend?
What happened?
Is it still hot?
I only have a few minutes for one.
Is that better?
All right.
It's a little bit quiet.
I'm not going to lie though.
It's just a smidge.
All right, we went the opposite direction.
All right, hold on.
Just a smidge.
I want people to really hear you.
Is that better, worse?
It's hot, but you know what?
I'll go with hot before not.
So let's just go with hot.
This is why I'm hot.
All right, I can sit back a little bit.
Yeah, let's see how it goes.
Yeah, so what happened?
Over the last two years or so, I
started to have just an erosion of belief on some things.
Things just started not adding up.
And I started finding that I had all of the explanations
that I had for things.
I even did apologetics for 20-something years.
And it just started to become a mountain of little ad hoc
explanations for things.
And if you look at them individually, that might work.
But it just started to become a tower to the heavens,
so to speak, of really contorted explanations
after a while.
And it just eventually caught up with me.
And there was a good amount of time
after I really struggled with a lot of beliefs
and a lot of the doctrines of classic orthodox Christianity,
that I was like, oh, I'm really struggling with doubt.
I'm not really believing it.
I started talking to a lot of people.
And it was almost like a past scali.
And hey, you're on the fence.
You're struggling with doubt.
It's dark night in the soul.
Really, you stay faithful.
And so there's a sense where I did the Pascalian thing, where
it's like, I lean in.
I have faith.
Because I think Pascal, it's not an argument for God.
I always thought that it was an argument.
It was a call to the will as a volitional thing.
It's a, you're deciding what you're going to be committed
to and aligned to.
And so I was like, OK, well, this could be a dark night
of the soul.
This could be whatever it is.
I was going through some personal life things.
And I was like, I'm just going to double down and remain faithful.
I'm going to be committed.
And I probably read the Bible more than I ever had, committed
more Bible scripture to memory, took more classes,
taught more things.
Like I just prayed way more.
Like I just really doubled down on all of that
to try to remain faithful.
And then a few months, well, it's been probably six months now
or so, five or six months.
I'm right around there where even that faith commitment ended.
So that's when I was like, OK, I now don't have the belief,
but I also now don't even have the wherewithal to continue
on this just faithful commitment.
I'm kind of this volitional commitment.
So then for our audience, because they don't know your past,
what were you believing?
What was your position?
Because by the way, no matter what you say and what you do,
you know this from experience already.
You're going to get pigeonholed by some Christian somewhere.
It wasn't the right Christianity.
It wasn't this.
I'm safe from any scrutiny.
But what did you believe?
Yeah, so you and I came from civil backgrounds.
I was a reform presbyterian.
I was actually ordained in the PCA.
I was an ordained role in the PCA.
People don't realize how conservative the PCA was in terms of.
But yeah, go ahead.
I mean, the PCA is a very conservative reformed
denomination, reform presbyterian.
I mean, they're not like independent fundamentals.
Baptists are not like KJV only.
There might be some in the PCA that are, but it's not
a normal thing.
The PCA is actually, they do have moderates in there.
They're big, the issue that they're having right now at their general
assembly is ordaining homosexuals.
So it's not like they're the most staunch, conservative, whatever.
But they're very theologically conservative.
Like you hold to the Westminster standards.
Reformed Calvinist, Covenantal, very, very presuppositional.
What is the chief end of man?
Glorify God and enjoy him forever.
So I mean, I taught through the Westminster standards for years.
So that's the tradition that I came out of.
Awesome.
Real quick on that note, though, like you're right.
There's like differences of opinions.
I came out of a particular group of them in North Carolina.
And I don't know if you've heard of Andy Webb.
It's a pretty large group.
You know who Andy Webb is?
I do know Andy Webb is, yeah.
OK.
So that was my pastor who excommunicated me.
And so they're very conservative in that particular group.
They literally tried to get my wife to quit working
so that they were going to pay our bills
till I could get a substantial job and make her stay at home,
the whole nine.
And they were like showing up at my house on Sunday
saying you broke the Sabbath, that kind of stuff.
So they would appear at the house.
So I would put them, and they would argue, even in church
on Sundays, against these groups that
are trying within the PCA to go and say, hey, same sex,
or people being ordained that are not supposed to.
They're very conservative in the group.
There's a fraction within PCA happening.
Yeah.
And there's actually, I mean, there's several.
So within the PCA, there's that, which
is very, very conservative fundamentalist, very traditional.
And it could be the fact that I was in California.
So even California conservatives are
moderate, like left of moderate for a lot
of Southern conservatives.
Like I remember, I went to Moody Bible Institute,
and I remember going and being like, you guys are,
you guys are even really conservative.
Like I'm an Uber conservative in California,
and you all are, wow, like, OK.
So there is a little bit of that.
But yeah, so that's my background.
That's where I came from.
My channel was, I did a lot of biblical theology,
systematic theology, and apologetics.
My background was in philosophy.
My undergrad was in biblical theology.
And I'm actually still halfway through my master's
at Reformed Theological Seminary.
I've obviously stopped doing that act.
I actually stopped about a year before I was done,
maybe two, my last class.
I was going to pick it up again.
Have you been excommunicated?
I voluntarily left.
I didn't have to get excommunicated.
I voluntarily removed myself from the roles.
Got it.
So did you have to sign anything?
Because they sent me documentation to excommunicate me.
I haven't signed it yet, but I told them I need to.
I'm still in that process.
It's a voluntary one.
They don't have to excommunicate me.
Let's get into the fun stuff.
I wanted to get a little background for people.
So they understood where you're coming from.
I wanted to show the YouTube channel again,
so people will subscribe.
We are checking back at the end of this to refresh and see
how many count.
I like to count and see how many we can get you to grow.
It's like a walk jogathon.
Yeah.
Let's see what we can do in terms of growing the platform.
Tyler, what are some of the arguments?
What are some of the things that you had a problem with that
led you out of Christianity?
Give us some details.
Yeah, I had a lot, actually.
And they started to accumulate and grow.
And I've realized in telling about and coming out
of my deconversion, I've realized that for me,
the order that makes sense isn't necessarily
the way that the story should be told,
if that makes any sense.
So I've been telling it from the end and going reverse order.
So I've been focusing on the problem of hiddenness.
Because the problem of divine hiddenness
was the thing that sealed the deal for me.
That made me give up even like being faithful anymore.
Because there was a sense where it's like, in the terms,
I'm a non-resistant non-believer at this point.
I am actually proactively doing everything
I can to be faithful, to pray, to read the Bible.
Not even into God, you owe me anything.
But just like, I'm doing everything
I can to have this relationship.
And still, on my channel, I said, still, it's crickets.
Like, I still have nothing.
And so if God wanted to have some type of relationship with me,
that would have been the easiest time.
I wasn't asked, I'm not asked for miracles.
I'm not asked for money, healing, nothing.
I just literally want, it could be,
I remember begging and saying, it
could literally be an intrinsic, in the Mormon's call,
a burning of the bosom.
It could be anything that I could just internally know
that I could never defend to an atheist.
I don't care.
I just want something that I know
that you're my Heavenly Father and that you love me.
That's it.
Or that you even care or that you're in anything like that.
And so that was like the final straw.
And I've been telling it from that point
and working my way backwards.
But really, I'm realizing as I'm having conversations,
because people are like, oh, well, you're just going on a motion
and giving up.
And I'm like, no, that was like the final straw,
like everything else that led up to it.
So the things that actually started leading up to it,
ironically, had nothing to do with Reformed theology
and Calvinism.
I mentioned this to you before the show.
I actually think as far as systematic theology goes,
if you're going to hold an errantist view,
a view of the scripture as a comprehensive message
from one divine author with human authors
as writing it down, all that kind of stuff
with the Chicago Statement of Merit.
I actually think Reformed Calvinism
is the most consistent way you're going to do it.
So it wasn't like I was like, oh,
there's something fundamentally wrong with that.
And so now I can go look at open theism.
Like those were worse.
Like if I'm going to take the Bible seriously,
those are worse ways to do it.
But it started being fundamental contradictions
between what I believed about God in,
because I'm still a classical theist.
I still think God is omnimax.
I still think God is simple, assay, necessary, right?
I still hold to those types of beliefs.
There was actually a strong disconnect
between that very high view of God
and the very national pagan Yahweh of the Old Testament.
And even getting into the New Testament,
the way that Jesus looked at God and religion,
it was very, obviously the Old Testament
became very tribal.
It was very, very, yeah, very, very tribal,
very, very, very this world.
And as I started reading through a bunch of the other,
the other myths of the Ancient Aries and other ones,
which honestly made me love the Bible more.
We've mentioned this.
You love the Bible.
I love the Bible, of course.
I want people to realize that, but yeah.
I still love the Bible.
I think it's literally, it is the master,
like it is a pinnacle of literary mastery.
When you start getting into the chiasms
and the theme development and like everything,
like the people who loves like multi-series,
I always compare it to like Doctor Who.
The people who love Doctor Who and because they love it,
because a joke will start in like season one
or like back in the sixties
and it'll keep coming through
and like you see these things go,
it's just brilliant.
Like the Bible, like it's just,
it's literally beautiful.
Right.
I love it, but yeah.
Yeah, and it's so fascinating and interesting
and how it's impacted, I mean, it's, I love it.
But also at the same time,
there were certain things where I was like,
not only does this high view that I think
is philosophically defensible,
and like, I have a hard time,
you know, understanding how classical theism
wouldn't be true because of certain arguments.
That just came into conflict with the Bible.
And so as I started reading these other myths,
like those two systems clashed.
Okay, we got a zero in on this.
This is a really, really good point here.
And I read books, I love it.
Like I said, I love the Bible.
One thing that's happened since de-converting for me
and learning more is that I'm also falling in love
with the stories that are not just biblical and fine.
Like I would have never as a PCA guy
loved diving into Greek mythology
or getting an ancient Near Eastern stuff
or the Epic of Gilgamesh.
Like I just would not have found the value of it.
I'd have been like, oh yeah, mythology,
but like the stories I love.
So you have an ancient Near Eastern deity that has evolved.
As you know, they're trying to make that the platonic,
they're trying to make this the God of classical theism
over time and that clashed the biblical,
cause you're a Bible assist, right?
So you're somebody who reads your Bible,
you know what's in here and you're going,
okay, hold on what we've been saying about God philosophically
and what these texts say are not the same.
Yeah.
So you started realizing that's not this God.
That it's not the same.
It doesn't line up, it doesn't match.
And actually there's a weird irony
because in one sense, the open theists,
like the rise of the open theists
and the process theologians, like I always joke,
kind of joke.
I'm actually being somewhat serious,
although a little snarky way.
I actually think open theists,
their view of God is like a mega Zeus.
Their view of Yahweh in the Old Testament.
I mean, I don't know how you can get much more pagan
of a view within kind of Christian theology.
I mean, because he's finite, he's in time,
he makes mistakes, he learns, he adapts,
he can't, you know, he can't always get his way.
Like he has to do these things in time music.
Like it is a Zeus story.
It's just a mega Zeus because he's bigger and more powerful
and somehow transcendent and more good.
He's not as, you know, he's not gonna come down
and like in the form of someone
and like seduce a woman and sleep with her, right?
So you lose someone you see.
But then again, like when you start,
when you start studying like it,
but it's also not clear that like for a long time
that the Greeks even believe that those were true.
Like they kind of understood for a long,
there's a lot of scholarship to show that
they kind of thought that those were myths too.
They didn't think that Zeus-
Yeah, the philosophers did.
Let me ask you a question
because I wanna make sure our definitions are right here.
You use the word pagan multiple times,
just so that we're properly defining this
because when I research in scholarship,
the term is a fuzzy one.
I usually I'll use it to kind of refer to,
when I use pagan, I'll put it in quotations to say,
I'm saying non-Jewish or something like that.
But the way you're describing it,
it sounds like you're saying,
the God that looks like the Zeus,
like the other demi-gods in the world.
So is that how you're defining pagan?
Yeah, so I would use pagan and I should be clear.
I don't mean that in a derogatory sense.
I did when I was a Christian, to be honest.
I don't mean it in a derogatory sense.
It's a helpful taxonomy.
It's these very, a pagan view of God,
and you could put it in quotes,
it is a little bit fuzzy,
but a pagan view of God is a very,
this cosmosy idea of a God.
It is gonna be, they are kind of part of the warp and move
of the fabric of, I can't even say the fabric of creation
anymore, but the fabric of reality.
And they're kind of like just really big us's.
Yes, and that's actually the ancient Near Eastern concept
of gods, so we're on the same page.
I just wanted to make sure I understood you right with that.
By the way, Camille Greger's in the house and he says,
if there was a button that would wipe all memory
of your deconversion and make you wake up a Christian,
or wake up the Christian you used to be, would you push it?
No, that's a good question.
No, because as of right now, I believe that it's false.
And so I wouldn't intentionally force my,
I wasn't like happier.
Actually, this is, I don't talk about this one that much.
I did a little bit in my first video.
I love where this is going, by the way.
Yeah, part of what came about in my deconversion was
without going too personal, I went through some things
in my life and then I went on kind of like a finding myself
as existential as that sounds.
But I really worked on myself to become a person
that I'm very comfortable with my skin, who I love being.
I mean, I was never like super not that before,
but there was tension and there was a lot of ways,
I think where I had suppressed some of like myself
within Christianity for various reasons.
And so I'm actually-
I relate, brother, I relate.
So like there's actually a sense where I'm much more
like authentically and holistically myself
after this conversion.
So it's not even just, so it's not even like
I miss the bygone days, where I had like hope and happiness
and all that kind of stuff.
That wasn't necessarily my experience back then.
I mean, it was in some ways.
And I think in those moments, I would have said that it was,
but looking back, I don't think that I would.
Although I will confess, I am like,
if someone could convince me that it was true, right?
Not a, oh, I could just wipe my memory and go back,
but right now I know that I'd be believing something.
If someone could convince me that it was true again,
I'd be totally fine with it.
Like I'm not, yeah.
Thank you for the super chat, Camille,
and thank you for answering that.
So you have this, we'll use the term pagan,
ancient nearness is what I like to say,
but there's an evolution, God evolves.
And so, and if this God is active in the world,
it's kind of weird how it always models itself
with the mind of the people at the time.
And eventually philosophers getting more sophisticated,
they reckon, even the biblical ones,
New Testament and later exegetes are like,
we have this, we have this God
that is not the depiction of Yahweh
that we see in the biblical texts.
In fact, you got like early church fathers
like Justin Martyr, who actually wanna say Aristotle,
some of these philosophers that were pagan, I'll say,
but they weren't pagan in the definition,
so to speak, that you're saying,
they actually would think of more of like
a higher platonic God that is perfect form and all that.
So like they called them Christians.
Some of these early church fathers
were calling these non-Jesus followers Christians
because their model of God philosophically
was starting to change.
Yeah.
And it was in line with the model of God.
Now, they would push back because then,
obviously Aristotle and stuff wasn't saying
that Jesus is the unique son of God and all that.
Right, right, right, right.
But yeah, but what they viewed kind of the ontology
sans the Trinity or whatever that is,
those what are called in systematic theology
the incommunicable attributes of God.
Right.
Those were very much present in kind of those
pagan philosophers that they were dealing with,
the platonic philosophers.
So yeah, it's very much present.
So God, you smack dab in the face of God of the Bible
and you're now like at conflict.
Is this an early stage
or is this like a late stage in your deconversion?
No, this is one of the early stage.
So it's strange.
I was not a young earth creationist for very long.
When I first became a Christian, I was like,
oh, well that's just because where I was saved out of
young earth creationism,
like that was just what Christians did.
So I was like, okay, like I'm gonna go along with it,
but whatever it is, what it is quickly,
that phase did not last very long.
Went to kind of just like an,
I don't really know,
I don't know what to do with it,
but I did a whole research project
and came away basically thinking,
and I still think that the most likely thing
that's happening in Genesis one
is that it's an ancient Near Eastern temple text.
Right, it's not talking about material creation,
kind of like a John Walton type of view.
Mix with,
yeah, so kind of a mix.
I think it's a whole another, yeah.
I think there's a little bit of a Klinean framework fear.
There's a whole bunch of things going on there,
but I did a whole series on that.
But what I think what that did was,
it trained me to also,
that's where I got a lot of my training
and hermeneutics and understanding ancient Near Eastern
context and backgrounds and all that kind of stuff.
So a lot of people be like, oh, well,
your view of Genesis one is the thing that did you in
and indirectly it might have because it's the thing
where I was like, okay,
but like good historical hermeneutics,
dealing with the history and the grammar and the context
and backgrounds and all that kind of stuff.
When we started employing that kind of across the board,
that's when we start,
that hermeneutic is the thing that I think started kind of
doing me in, not necessarily just isolated my view
of Genesis one, right?
So that started to go through and we go,
and when you start looking through the ways
and polemics can only get you so far.
Although I think there is polemics that are happening
in Genesis one.
I think there's polemics that's happening
in the Exodus cycle and the plagues and the,
the strong right arm is one of my like favorite polemics
in the scripture.
So, there is a bunch of that stuff that's happening,
but that hermeneutic of reading things
within their historical context and seeing that the way
that the biblical texts is actually interacting
with those things and then carrying that forward
into the New Testament and seeing the way that they're
interacting with the literature of their day
and how Mark is actually,
there are all these theories about what they're interacting
with and Homeric myths and all that kind of stuff.
I don't go necessarily that far, but I think Mark,
I think actually Mark, the messianic secret
is a very interesting kind of inversion of what's happening
with the announcement of a Caesar.
It's actually showing that he's the humble king, right?
So, there's all these kinds of like interactions
that are happening that don't necessarily,
it wouldn't necessarily mean that Christianity is false
or that the Bible is false, right?
You can, you can, and I did for a long time.
I read these as, oh, that's just, you know,
kind of a Mike Laconian, that's the literary genre
that they're doing and that's okay.
But those types of things just start to build
and build and build and build and balloon
until there's so many of them that it becomes a point
that it's like, okay, there's so many of these
and it addresses almost everything
that at what point do I think that any of this
is actually true anymore?
It's interesting and it's fascinating.
And there's same things. I love it, yes.
But at what point do I, does any of this now
like matter for salvation anymore?
Right. So, did it still the magic away in a different way?
I mean, the faith magic, like, is there a sense
where you're kind of like, I'm actually grasping
the literature now, like I get what they're trying to do.
I saw behind the curtain, I love it for what it is now,
but I don't see how this is abracadabra for me anymore.
Yeah, yeah, one of, and it's interesting that one
of the things that really did me in
and kind of turned the tides when it comes to seeing
the biblical contradictions and not trying to harmonize
like the gospels anymore, which is big.
That's a big thing.
When you can stop trying to harmonize every single passage,
a lot, once that shift happens, a lot,
I'm sure you're smiling.
I'm sure you get this feeling.
Once that shift happens, you're like,
like what was completely reasonable.
And I still say it like, I get it.
Like I don't necessarily think it's a bad way
to think about things.
Like a lot of times we try to understand things
in the context of things that we think are more true.
It's not intrinsically bad to hold beliefs
simply because they are the most consistent
with other things that you do have a warrant to believe in.
I don't think that's a bad reason to hold.
It's just not a strong reason.
And once that goes away, you start looking at a bunch
of the things that you're believing and you're like,
well, now it's like a domino.
Now that this one anchor thing
that made all of these other things consistent is gone,
once that's gone, well, crap.
Like all the other hundred things domino after it
and are gone.
So the thing that did me in actually,
the domino was because I love the literature.
I love it.
And I love the theme development.
And I love like understanding what was Paul's theme
of election in Romans.
Right.
And I listened to a talk with Bart Ehrman
because you have to, whether you like him or not, right?
We both like him, whether Christians like him or not.
But I remember listening and he was like, look.
Who is he?
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
Bart Ehrman, right?
So, yeah.
So he was talking about how if you take,
it was the time of the crucifixion between Mark and John.
Right.
And if you try to harmonize those,
you actually destroy the theme of Mark individually
and John individually.
Because John has him as the sacrificial lamb.
It has to be the day of preparation for the Passover
because that's the, like that, if you break that,
you break a major theme in John, right?
You break it.
If it's not the, if it's not Passover,
you break the messianic secret in Mark, right?
So like you, if you harmonize them,
you're creating a third gospel.
This Bart Ehrman is famous for saying this.
You're creating your own gospel,
but you are breaking the two gospel.
You're not harmonizing them and keeping them,
you're not keeping them harmonious.
You're actually breaking the original data.
And the original data is beautiful.
They're brilliant on their own.
They just can't be harmonized and stay brilliant.
That is such a good point.
And later on, you have the diatesser on.
They're trying to do some fixing of a problem,
but I don't want to get caught up in that
as much as just pointing out.
I love what you said here.
And you went right for the jugular.
You didn't play around with the baptism narrative
because there's a problem with that.
I mean, every single narrative has this kind of issue,
whatever is being left out by Matthew and Luke,
it seems for reasons they don't want that,
or they're changing things.
In Matthew, John the Baptist begs Jesus
not to baptize Jesus.
And Mark, it's just, yes, baptize him.
And there's not this issue,
and it's for the forgiveness of sins.
Whoa, Jesus, what?
So there's all these issues,
and Christians don't notice this because they can run.
In fact, recently in a course I've been promoting
with Dr. James D. Tabor on Mark,
he wants people to read Mark as Mark,
and he points out how in Mark,
when he finally goes, who do men say that I am?
Okay, Peter finally goes, you are the Messiah,
you are the Son of God, okay?
Two verses later, he doesn't say,
blessed are you, the Father in heaven revealed this to you.
That is not in Mark.
Christians immediately go, James is of the devil.
I mean, I've had comments like crazy, Tyler.
And what he says, two verses later,
because he tells them in what he's gonna die,
he says, hey, you said I'm the Messiah,
I have to die, right?
Then he's saying, no, you are not going to die.
He rebukes him and says, Satan, get behind, okay?
So like, what the heck is going on in Mark?
Matthew wants to go, blessed are you,
Father in heaven has revealed this to you,
not flesh and blood.
Well, that is a change that is radically different
than Mark, and you went to the juggler.
My point, before we get to the super chat by Camille again,
Camille is showing some love this morning,
is this is the pinnacle of Christianity, the resurrection.
And if we can't even get the story
of the God of the universe and flesh,
as we like to understand it,
we can't even get that nailed down accurately.
How reliable, how trustworthy
can we really say our New Testament is
on depicting what really happened?
This is a question, you can find ways to reconcile
if you try hard enough,
but this is a sincere question, right, Tyler?
It is a sincere question, and I will,
well, I'll try to be brief,
because I know you wanna get this in turn.
No, no, no, take your time, we'll get this in.
But he, you know, like, I haven't fully jumped ship
or anything, right?
So I'm not out here spying like,
oh, you know, the Gospels are just like,
and I'm not saying you're saying this,
but like, you know, the Gospels are entirely meth,
or because they get one little detail wrong,
you get everything, right?
You could go like a Lacona route, right?
You could, you could go down there and you could say,
okay, well, these are minor discrepancies
and all that kind of stuff.
You could, you could remain a Christian,
you could be a progressive,
you could be a Randall Rouser,
and you could say, okay, you know,
they get the gist right, they're overall,
they're still reliable.
You know, I don't think that my, you know,
that my girlfriend, when she, you know,
doesn't get the time for, you know,
her and her friend, you know, get the time,
you know, five minutes off or a day off or something like that.
What happened 30 years ago?
They're totally, you know, it's all garbage, right?
That wouldn't be the argument that I would make,
but what it does is it says, okay,
what can't be the case is like,
I don't see how inerrancy can be the case anymore.
I don't see how infallibility can be the case anymore.
And when, when you're,
when you're systematic is built on that,
and when you're done trying to harmonize it,
what happens is those anchor points come loose, right?
And so there's a, there's a trickle down effect.
And so you start looking at it.
So, so like I still look at the Gospels and I'm like,
okay, like, like I think the Gospels are probably generally
reliable about what an apocalyptic teacher thought.
I think, I think they're probably,
they're probably close to what he was teaching his disciples.
They probably, they almost certainly theologized,
like crazy, you know, they, they almost certainly slanted it
towards the theological inclinations of the communities
that they're writing for.
There's all that stuff's happened, but, you know, I'm not,
you know, I'm not, I'm not out there trying to say like,
therefore it's, it's entire, you know,
you can throw the entire thing out.
And the reason why I think this is important,
and then the last, last thing on this,
the reason why I think this is important is because what I
find now, and, and I started to see this when I was in
Selenapologetics, but it's like full force now,
there's a mountain Bailey fallacy that happens a lot
in apologetics, where in order to defend like minimal
facts, resurrection or even maximal facts, resurrection,
or inspiration and heresy of scripture,
they defend reliability, right?
And they're like, oh, well, they get this like minimal
reliability of, oh, well, you know, they, they get,
they get cities and places and geography, except for when
they don't cause like Pyrenees, but like, but like even,
I mean, Josephus gets things wrong sometimes.
And we're not like, to hell with Josephus,
get that guy out of here, like, you know, whatever.
But like what happens though is they say, see, it's reliable.
Therefore we can trust all these resurrection stories.
And I'm like, that's such a mountain Bailey.
Like you cannot do that.
Like that, that is, you have so much more spade work
to go between.
It's generally reliable to therefore we can trust that it's
what it says about the resurrection.
If you read Homer's Iliad, The Odyssey or Virgil, okay?
You're going to read geography.
You're going to find places.
You're going to find probably events, Trojan war
probably happened, some form of it.
It's been heavily legendary or mythologized, right?
I think the same of the gospels, if it walks
like a duck and talks like a duck.
And I think what happened for me as I was
deconverting, and I can't even remember the chronology.
I talk about this stuff so much.
So it's difficult to know when was I thinking this or that.
But I'm with you, like when I started seeing that they're
going out of the way, they're not making mistakes,
I would say, on writing their narrative of the passion
or whatnot differently.
They're purposefully being creative and intentionally
writing a fanciful tale their own way.
Sometimes adjusting or correcting the earlier gospel,
in my opinion, but I would definitely say
that Matthew and Luke are correcting Mark in many ways
or adding to and wanting to do something special.
I don't think it's intentionally or a mistake necessarily.
Sometimes I do think there are mistakes,
but these are all like my guess is at the end of the day,
though, they have the liberty to create narrative,
to create their own version of what Jesus' death was like
or how the resurrection happened,
who showed up, who's wanting to do what at the resurrection,
what Jesus did, how many days did he stay on earth?
The whole nine, right?
He decides to ascend in Acts chapter one,
but this is after 40 days, but in Luke at the end of Luke,
which is supposed to be the same author,
he doesn't stick around for 40 days, he already goes.
So there's like, there's so many discrepancies
that you have to at least be honest and say,
look, I don't know if this is historically reliable material,
which made me open other doors
and investigate things further.
So I love the way you're describing this.
It's kind of interesting how far you've gone into
investigating these discrepancies.
Were you still a Christian when you found this stuff out?
Yeah, I was still a Christian.
I mean, I was still a committed Christian.
So, you know, going back to what I said,
I mean, I was still a committed Christian
until I finally basically said I'm not committed.
I'm not committed anymore.
I'm out, like my deconversion now to me.
I was still a faithful Christian until that point.
I had lost my beliefs about six or seven months before that.
Like they had been eroding for about a year and a half
before that, you know, a year and a half before I lost them.
I lost them and then I remained faithful
for like another six or seven months,
you know, really, really trying to do the Pascalian thing.
And so yeah, I mean, these were all things
that I was reading and investigating
and thinking about like as a Christian.
So a lot of times people are like, oh, like, you know,
you're an atheist now.
And I'm like, no, I mean, these are a lot of things
that like, you know, that I was thinking about
when I was a Christian.
Right.
And, you know, this comes up a lot
like when we're talking about like objections
from morality and I've started to see this a lot too
is like when we talk about, you know, oh, like,
like I've been posting a lot of moral issues
that I'm finding and they're like, oh, well, you know,
how do you ground morality and all that kind of stuff?
And I'm like, you know, I'm still, I still, you know,
slightly have the precept impulse, I get it.
I understand it.
I'm still a classical theist.
I still think God grounds those things.
But I started realizing like a Christian,
I started asking these questions when I was a Christian.
I started saying, hey, I'm starting to see these things.
How does, how does this make sense?
How do we reconcile this?
How do we reconcile this with the God of love?
I was asking as a Christian, the answer,
well, how do you ground it wouldn't work with me?
I would say, well, you grounded in God.
Like that's how you ground.
So, but can we still, can we still ask these questions?
There, those answers just, that may be a good, you know,
tactic when, when you're dealing with an atheist
and I did that, you know, previously,
but it doesn't actually answer the challenge
because all you have to do is swap out the objector
from a Matt Dillahunty to, you know, a me
when I was still a Christian, asking those questions.
And now that, now you still have to answer the question.
So, morality is a definite rabbit hole
that can get lost.
Everyone has arguments for, against,
or whatever their position is.
I wanna get into this Pascalian thing real quick.
Please bear with me.
If you super chat, I will get to those shortly.
I really wanna cover a few things with Tyler
that I think are relevant.
So Pascalian, and then I wanna deal with the problem
of evil in your estimation pertaining to the biblical text.
So, and how that relates to your, your adjustment
to classical theism.
So Pascalian, correct me.
I'm throwing something at the wall to see what sticks.
You're, you're like, what if I'm wrong?
It's better to just believe in case, right?
Like, look at what they say.
This loving God is gonna do to me for all eternity
if I'm wrong about this thing.
So you're holding on to whatever you can.
Tell me, I mean, I don't know, I'm guessing.
Tell me your Pascalian issue.
Yeah, so, so I was never,
and maybe this was the problem.
I was never afraid of hell.
So, and some Christians have been like, well,
I mean, that's, that, that could be like why,
and maybe, maybe because I was never afraid of it.
Like maybe that would have kept me in line.
But, but for me, the Pascalian thing was more of like,
it was more of like in a relationship where it's like,
look, like I, I'm not feeling anymore.
I'm not all that kind of stuff,
but like I'm gonna stay committed and go, you know,
we're, I'm gonna commit to therapy,
and I'm gonna commit to doing all the things
that I can do to possibly salvage this, you know,
even though, because, because I think they're, you know,
at the time I was like, you know, I could be wrong.
I could, you know, I could, I could be having a dark,
you know, they talk about dark nights of the souls
all the time for millennium Christianity, right?
For years it could be a dark night of the soul,
and then people have, you know, rapturous experiences
afterwards, you know, so, so I was like,
it could be, it could be one of those things.
I'm gonna stay faithful, committed.
I'm gonna try to live out these promises,
all that kind of stuff.
But at the end of the day,
there's a certain point where I was just like,
I started thinking about it,
and this will come up when we talk about the problem of evil,
I started thinking about it like in context of, you know,
I'm a father to my kids,
heavenly father to his children.
And I started thinking about that, you know,
how do you, even if you're sinful,
know to give good things to your children?
And I started thinking about in the context of like,
love and comfort for my kids, right?
Because sometimes I might do things that my kids don't like
and are uncomfortable for them,
but it's for their benefit, it's for their good.
But I started thinking about like,
if my kids were literally telling me like,
we don't think you love us,
we don't know you, we don't know you're around,
we don't think you love it, we don't feel safe here,
we don't feel comfort, all that kind of stuff.
If I was a loving father, that would break my heart,
and I would do everything I could,
maybe not to, I don't want to maybe spoil them
and then give them a Mercedes,
but I'm gonna make sure that they know that I love them.
Right.
I so relate to you, Tyler, right now.
This was my issue as well, there's,
I had a problem, I read Romans nine
and Paul's hypothetical debate partner,
when he says, after he explains,
before any of them had done either good or bad,
I hate and I love,
and then he explains for the purpose of election,
this is why systematically I'm with you, at least Pauline.
If we take Paul and his perception
and make that the whole systematic view of the Bible,
yes, I think that we're dealing with a kind of
what we call reformed or Calvinistic type of thinking.
He's a predestinarian, he's a deterministic type.
He's some kind of, yeah,
and I don't know all the nuts and bolts,
but at the end of the day, he's like,
how can he, I mean, like, how can God find fault?
And he pretty much, his answer is,
shut up, you mortal clay,
God the maker can do whatever he wants,
he's justified to do it.
And I now imagine in that world,
that kind of makes me wonder,
like, how are parents at this time?
Like, and you're calling them heavenly fathers.
So like, like you're describing here,
I'm a father of three sons.
I've been married half, over half my life almost,
I mean, like for a long time, 16 years.
And I'm sitting here thinking,
I love people that may be reprobates.
We love to throw that term around in the Calvinist circles.
And does that mean that I love people more
than God loves some people?
Which was an issue for me.
I was a five pointer and beyond,
not the four pointer universalist diet.
God's struggling with his two wills.
I thought that was schizophrenic,
or at least two personalities.
Like God had a disorder, his prescriptive will,
which is what's known,
thou shall not,
but really what happens is what he really wants.
So I did not know how to reconcile this issue.
And I thought Calvinists were crazy trying to do both.
Because to me it was like,
his will is what happens and what gets done.
He tells you things,
but he purposely works you against,
he causes you to do things against this prescriptive.
If he hardened your heart,
which I saw that as a proactive thing,
not a, he negates his spirit
and therefore you start to fall into sin.
Not actively harden people's hearts.
I stopped beating around the bush
and called the Bible for what it says.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
I'm getting excited, but you see what I'm saying.
You're exactly right.
And I make, this is why when I did my,
and when I went, you know,
I did part one of my deconversion,
that's when I said, you know, well, look.
Cause people were like,
oh, well you could just become another type of Christian.
And I'm like, I mean,
the only other type of Christian I think I could become
is maybe a progressive.
But then at that point,
I don't know why I even care about the Bible anymore.
Cause that's just a wax nose for progressives at that point.
Like if I want to take the Bible seriously, right?
I think that reform, theology and Calvinism
is the one that does it.
It's the most consistent with what the text actually says.
Because what happens is, you know, you get all these,
and this is where I, you know,
when I was a Calvinist and I was debating non-Calvinist, right?
I did a lot of those types of debates.
But you know, they would, you know,
the free will theodicy and, and well, you know,
God doesn't, God allows evil, but it doesn't cause evil.
And I'm like, I mean, that's garbage.
That's BS.
Like here are like all these passages in the Bible
where God, whatever you want to make of it,
however you want to try to gymnastic out of it,
like God takes causal credit for it.
Whatever you think the metaphysics of how he does it
or allows it or whatever, he is taking credit for the outcome.
And the outcome is someone sinning,
someone being deluded, someone having a false belief,
someone being what, whatever it is.
So like, I, like, and I have tons of examples of them.
And I would use this as a Calvinist.
And I would say when, you know, in debating non-Calvinist,
like, oh, well, God just, God just allows the free will
decision, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
All right. And I'd be like, okay, well, like, first of all,
you have biblical texts that directly contradict that
cause he takes causal credit where it's by his hand
that pilot and the Jews and Herod crucified Jesus.
By, it's literally says by his hand.
It's by his, by his pro aridzo, by, by his, his four
ordination by his hand in the next verse,
his hand is the thing that heals.
His hand is always causally active in any scripture
passage that's used it.
Right. Uh, you know, he deludes people in, in second,
in second Thessalonians.
He hardest.
He's the author of confusion, Tyler.
And then he got confusing people in the tower babble.
I mean, you can go anywhere.
And, and, and in second Thessalonians too,
where it says that he sends a deluding spirit,
it's, and you follow the causal chain.
It's so that they'll believe what's false.
Why? So that he can judge them.
Right. So, so he literally says that God make God
intentionally deludes them so that he can judge them.
Now, again, Calvinists will, will bite that bullet.
They'll, they'll go hardline. It's fine.
It takes the text seriously. Right.
So, so I look at these other, these other views,
the open theses, use the other ones that I'm like,
I just, if, if I'm going to take the Bible seriously,
that's just not an opt.
That's just not a live option for me.
And, and mind you, when you're saying this for the people
who are just tuning in, when he says take the Bible seriously,
this is some, if we're systematically trying to rectify
and make a unity, meaning the whole biblical corpus,
then overall that position makes most sense.
Tyler's not saying that there aren't arguments
that contradict the, the view that we're describing here
because you can find God not knowing the future.
You can find God kind of mistakenly not understanding
things, things like that.
This is also one of the reasons we no longer,
I would say, hold to the systematic view.
But if you are factoring that systematic view in, in mind,
and that's what Christians who are harmonizers,
inerrantist, infallibility, or at least some model
in which scripture is, is God breathed,
however you wanted to find this,
that, you know, they're coming up ways,
trying to fit these contradictions
and fix the discrepancies between gospels
or God's personal character or what he's doing.
Does he know the future?
Does he predestinate?
Is it some middle view?
Is it free will all the way, open theistic?
Anyway, I just wanted to grant that.
So we did Pascalian.
We definitely have been tackling this whole
God's view of love.
Did you want to piggyback anything else
into that Pascalian thing about how you, as a parent,
loved your kids?
Yeah, so one more.
So the other, the other thing that happened
and kind of that like, you know,
in responding to non-Calvinists and saying,
well, no, God actually does cause,
takes calls of credit for evil.
But, but I also said, okay,
let's imagine your view is right.
Right?
Let's, let's imagine that, that, that it is allowing
all that kind of stuff.
And I remember this, this was something
that also turned the tide is an argument
that I used against non-Calvinists.
And I said, look, think of the book of Job.
Right?
And, and imagine for a second that it's not God.
Right?
Imagine that I moved into a neighborhood
and I, and I knew that there was a psychopathic,
sociopathic serial killer next to me.
And I went to him and I'm like,
hey, have you considered my favorite son?
Right?
And he's like, yeah, but you protect him.
And I'm like, okay, but I'm going to leave town
so you can do whatever you want to, to him.
You can kill all of his friends.
Cause remember, like,
saying like didn't just kill Job's family.
It was all his friends.
They were there.
You know, it took out everything.
By natural causes.
Right?
Took out his friends, killed everyone,
killed the whole family, took his wealth,
killed, you know, his day laborers, everybody.
And then, you know, round two, he's like,
oh yeah, he still hasn't cursed you.
And God's like, okay, well, like,
you can do more if you want to, just don't kill him.
So now he gave him like boils and all that kind of stuff.
And like, imagine that I did that with the serial killer.
And I was like, you, you, you can do that with Mike.
You can kill all of his friends.
You can kill the rest of my family.
You could do all that kind of stuff.
You can burn down the house.
You can destroy, you can do all,
you can do all that kind of stuff.
You can give him leukemia.
You can make him give him a boy.
You can make him as sick as you can.
You just can't kill him.
And it's okay because at the end of the day,
I'm going to give him, I'm going to give my son back
like more friends than he had to begin.
So like, let's ignore all the ones who died.
I'm going to give him more.
Right.
Like, how many of you would call me good?
Yeah, so.
Or loving.
You had five children now.
God kills them all.
And you had six friends, kills them all.
Your wife says curse God and die.
Later on, I give, or somehow you're,
you end up with 10 children.
Double what you had to begin with,
but those five are dead.
You have 12 friends.
You first had six best friends.
Now you have, you have 12 now, later down the road.
Like, good God.
Yeah, like, like that.
And, and, and here, you know,
cause there, there's the creator creature distinction,
which means say, okay, well,
God doesn't have to be moral like we have.
And I'm, even if I grant that though, right?
This is the argument that I've been making recently is,
even if I, even if I grant that, right?
We're told that God is love.
Whatever love is, God is.
And we're told that the greatest commandment,
love the Lord your God with our heart,
mind, soul, and strength,
love your neighbor as yourself.
We are to be loving as God is loving,
we'll be holy as he is holy.
So there's a sense where it's like, okay,
the question isn't if it's moral or immoral, right?
I'll put that to the side, right?
Maybe God has the right to do things
that we, it would be immoral for us to do,
it'd be moral for him to do whatever.
I don't think God's a moral agent,
and he's not a moral subject, but whatever.
But the question is, is that love, right?
Because whatever, whatever that means,
whatever love means, that's what God is.
And so if we look at that and we'd say, okay,
not maybe, not only is it right or wrong or whatever,
but is that love to my, my child?
No, that's not love.
And so what you're saying then is it would be unloving.
It would be, if I did that,
it would be contrary to the nature of God,
because it would be unloving and God is love.
But if God does it, then it's okay.
But that means God is doing unloving things.
He's being, he's being not God.
You have to redefine what love even means for God
at that point.
And then we almost have no way of being able to relate,
to understand how that could be loving.
You would, I would look at you if you did that to someone
and say, you're horrible.
Like, I don't care that you paid him back double,
you're horrible.
Like this is not love.
It's horrible.
And if they try to say, oh, well, God's love
isn't like our love, then I'm gonna say, okay, well,
I understand, you know, there's,
there's analogical language about God.
I get it.
I totally get it.
But there has to be some touch point
where there, where there's similar concepts, right?
And if God can do something so unloving,
but it can be love for,
I just don't even know what that touch point is anymore.
That's exactly.
Like it just, it just becomes inco,
like I can understand the whole like,
it seems like God doesn't know something old,
old estimate and that's anthropomorphic language.
I can actually get, I can get on board with that.
I can totally get it.
You know, I used to argue that I buy it.
But if this is like something like X can be not X,
then I don't, it's not analogy anymore.
Like it's not, it's not anthropomorphic language anymore.
I understand that, that saying God is father
is anthropomorphic language.
Cause it's not like he birthed us,
but there's conceptual overlap between those two things.
Right?
That makes the analogy work.
If unloving can be loving,
there's no conceptual overlap.
I don't even know what the analogy means anymore.
Well, what they meant for evil, Tyler,
God meant for good.
Well, and that's the thing is like, I've asked him,
okay, let's go to the Job example.
What if I told you that I knew that doing that to my child
meant that somebody else, you know,
some random person elsewhere would become a saint
or there'd be soul building for me
or there would be, I'm protecting free will
in the abstract, which by the way
is a terrible theodicy anyways.
But you know, I'm like, how would that justify
what I just did for my child?
Like would that somehow make that
not an unloving thing anymore?
No, like those are terrible justifications
for anything like that.
So yeah.
So we're tapping in, it's not only that we're dealing
with this Pascalian issue, it's also a problem of evil
that we've been also touching on, I would say.
And that, what you heard my view is I heard this
and I thought in my mind, it was just a little chink
in the armor, it wasn't like this is what made me
not a Christian, it was something that I had to,
big pill that you have to swallow and that was,
do I love people more than God?
Because it's clear if God is doing all this stuff,
there's some vessels for glory
and some vessels for destruction.
And that's all in God.
So, who are you, Oman, to say to the maker,
why have you made me thus?
It's so clear that the language is saying this.
So I had this problem as well, trying to figure out,
what's the point?
Is all this just almost meaningless on this level,
but to God, something else is going on?
And we just, all this experience to us
is just really nothing.
That was hard for me to grapple with in Christianity.
And by the way, everything you said
was while you were a Christian.
Not saying we can go back to the memory of it
and argue the point and still use it today.
It's just, I have come out of that box
and I suspect you have too now
and we're making totally different arguments
from historical linguistics and discrepancies
and other things that would make us say,
this is a man-made document, Christians go,
of course, men wrote it, but God's behind this.
We're saying it doesn't look like God's behind this.
Yeah, and I should be clear.
One of the answers that I love getting now is the,
oh, like, well, you don't understand the argument, right?
You don't understand the moral argument it ever is.
I'm like, really, because like,
seven months ago when I would present the moral argument,
like, I've had like literally the same people
who used to like share my stuff
and be like, this guy's a great apologist.
Like he's, you know, I had people like, you know,
saying like they love the way that I talk about it
and finally get it and all that kind of stuff.
I'm like, literally six months ago,
you said you knew that I understood it
and you shared that I understood it.
Now suddenly I don't miraculously,
you know, I like miraculously completely forgotten,
don't think about things anymore,
or like, you know, all that kind of stuff.
And it's, you know, I can hear some of like
the response videos coming and be like,
oh, well, like, he doesn't understand the Bible.
And I'm like, okay, like, of course,
did I not understand this entire time?
Now, I will say it's not an argument from authority.
I've met lots of people who are like,
they were ex-Christians.
I don't think they can accurately describe Christianity
to like save their life, right?
That just because you used to be ex
doesn't mean that you understand ex-well
or ever understood it well or describing it well.
Like I'm not trying to say because I used to do this,
therefore I, you know,
you should believe that I'm perfectly accurate,
you know, representing it,
but like nothing has changed in how I understand it.
And so, you know, for the people who are like,
oh, you know, before they always thought
that I understood it, or, you know,
people are gonna be like,
oh, well, you don't understand Calvinism.
I mean, like, I mean, well, I mean,
the ordaining committees in the PCA
and when I had to teach the Westminster Confessions
and teach series on Calvinism and go through it,
you know, I've reformed the logic,
they all thought that I understood it fine.
So, you know, the people who asked me to debate it
and, you know, who presented my debates as like,
you know, one of the more robust Calvinists out there,
they had no problem, you know, saying that I understood it.
So, you know, maybe I misunderstood it,
but then a lot of people who claim it
and misunderstand it also.
So.
I got one more question before we get
to any super chats here.
I took this picture and made that phone now, right?
Seems like there's like a apologetic empire here.
Have you had any run-ins or had any discussions
with any of the people you see on the image since leaving?
Not really since leaving.
That was at an ETS conference a few years back,
probably three or four years ago.
So, we all got together,
we went in and out late one night after a bunch of,
you know, days at a bunch of talks and everything like that.
So, haven't really talked with most of them after the fact.
A few of them have like checked in and said,
hey, we love you, you know, if you need anything,
let us know.
I got a couple of invites to be on a couple of different shows
that they've largely gone dark.
But yeah, so, I mean, I still love all those guys.
They're great guys.
And, you know, that actually, you know,
almost everyone in that picture,
I think are brilliant.
I think they're, you know, they're doing good thoughts.
You know, they're not those,
that group is not like the Kenhams of Christianity.
So, yeah.
I would argue maybe a couple of these guys
can do some tweaking in what they say,
but nonetheless, you know, what do you do?
What do you do?
Camille's back.
Thank you, Camille, for the super chat.
What's your current view on, one,
all human decisions were decreed by God.
Two, everything ultimately happens because of God's glory.
Even, e.g., the Holocaust.
Three, human prayer causes God to do other
than what he would do otherwise.
So, okay.
Your current view, of course.
Yeah, current view.
I don't think decreed by God,
although, you know, I am a determinist.
So, I'm still a compatibilist, right?
So, I still think that all human decisions
are determined and yet we are still substantially free.
I just don't think it's the result necessarily of a decree.
Everything ultimately happens for God's glory.
No, I don't think so.
And human prayer causes God to do
other than what he would do otherwise.
I never thought that in the first place.
So, you know, in Reformed theology,
human prayer doesn't cause God to do other than he would.
It gets complicated.
Yeah, it does.
But that was never my view.
So, it still isn't my view.
You would almost ask a prayer,
but if it be thy will, God.
Yeah.
You know, like yours.
The view was it's means.
The prayer was the means that God ordained
to have the ends come about.
So, it's not that you could actually change God's mind
with your prayer, because God's omniscient.
And I still don't even know what that means to say
that an omniscient being can change their mind
or change what they're gonna do,
because if they know, if they're omniscient,
they know what they're going to do.
You can't change what they're going to do.
Otherwise, it's possible for them to be wrong
in their prior knowledge, which it just gets incoherent.
So, yeah.
So, prayer in Reformed theology
has very much a means understanding,
not an effective understanding.
Thank you, Camille.
Appreciate that, Super Chat, my friend.
Seriously, MNAG, I just say MNAG.
Once you start on the road to deconstruct,
you really need to see how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Eventually, you will see the light.
Maybe.
It is a very surreal experience sometimes
where you're like, oh, like,
like I still have things that I'm like,
you don't realize where you believe something before.
And then, you know, now I'm like six months later,
I'm like, oh, like something rubs up against the now.
I'm like, oh, now I have to like take that thing
and like re-look at it and see it like so.
It's definitely an interesting experience.
I, in this Super Chat, just want to ask you,
have you, like you mentioned this earlier,
but just to emphasize again for those who are tuning in,
have you felt a sense of freedom in a way
that you didn't before?
Like there's almost a burden lifted off your shoulders
in a way?
Maybe like an intellectual burden.
I love having my Sundays back, which is great.
That's, you know, I don't know if that's a freedom thing,
but yeah, it, I don't know if it's a freedom feeling.
I, you know, I-
Like maybe-
Like as a reformed guy, let me,
let me emphasize something here.
You're a wretch, okay?
You're righteousness is filthy rags.
Like you're almost just nothing.
That mindset really stuck with me.
And in fact, I have a brother
who went to the same church under any web
who will write me stuff.
I don't deserve it.
I don't, I'm not worthy of anything.
And like this is his mentality.
That's the kind of mentality I had.
Have you like let all that baggage go?
So I never had that view.
So there, there is a reformed theology there.
There's a, there's a distinction.
So it might've been because you came from a very,
very fundamentalist kind of version of it,
but historically in for reformed theology,
the wretched was vertical, right?
So, and this gets confused a lot.
This, this in a lot of fundamentalist circles,
the wretched is you are a terrible person.
You're bad, you are wretched.
You are filthy, you're awful.
Like it can, it can like eliminate your self-worth
as a, as a human being.
In the reform tradition,
there's actually a long where you're,
you're, you are wretched in regard to God,
vertically, you're wretched.
It doesn't mean that you,
you have zero value horizontally to other people.
Yeah, I didn't know how to compartmentalize those
because when I read Paul and was just like,
oh wretched man than I am.
And he bragged to those on the horizontal plane
about how wretched he was.
I just saw my self-worth as nothing in this Christ in me.
Nothing, I am nothing, but Christ in me is something.
So I really took that literal.
And, and maybe it was meant literal.
I don't know because the way they were willing to
or seemingly getting persecuted and willing to go
almost in an insane way of going to the cross, right?
Take up your cross and follow me.
Yeah. I don't know.
And maybe-
I mean, if you think about the gospel,
like even in Reformed theology,
think about the gospel, like if everyone was,
if everyone was a wretch such that, such that they were
devalued as they're being,
then a lot of the other statements wouldn't make sense,
right?
That you're to love your neighbor as yourself,
that you are, right?
Because there's a certain sense that you can only,
if you think of yourself as the worst type of person,
or love your neighbor as yourself,
that you love your neighbor as the worst type of person,
there's a certain sense where, where you are to,
it doesn't mean that you have no self-worth,
no self-esteem that you are just intrinsically
a wretched person that you should just like curl up and die.
Right?
Right, right, right.
And it would actually, if that was the case,
and you kind of universalize that and you said,
okay, well sin just makes people wretched people,
terrible people, no value people,
then a lot of the other statements about like,
you know, there's neither June or Greek slave or free,
like all that kind of stuff,
like where it collapses all those categories into,
we are all, you know, children of God,
we are all image bears,
there's value in those types of things.
You couldn't have that if that kind of that wretchedness
is universalized, right?
So that, that is a trend in very like fundamentalists,
reform circles, but there is in reform theology,
there is this theme of that, that's a vertical thing.
And so you are wretched with regard to God,
you can, you know, tear your clothes and cry and beg out
and scream out and think you are wretched
in the sense that you have no righteousness,
but that doesn't necessarily mean
that you like have no self-worth.
So I didn't have that feeling, you know, during it.
So I don't really have to work it out coming out of it.
Yeah, and like you should hate this life
in order to gain life, but if you love this life,
you will lose life.
Like those kind of things, man,
those are pretty smack in the face type stuff.
And those were value statements, right?
Those are saying, if you love this life so much
that you're going to hold onto it
and you're going to forsake the things of God,
then yes, don't, you don't love this life.
You don't want all kinds of, but it's, but it's not defeatist.
It's not, you know, why polish the brass on the Titanic, right?
So you're still, you know, that's why you still have
true religion is to care for orphans and widows, right?
You still, you still have that idea of there is still,
there's still beauty.
I kind of wonder, and I don't know where to interpret this,
but I kind of wonder if leaping to James
to try and understand what true religion is,
especially since he actually conflicts
with Paul's own letters.
I don't know.
I mean, like this is the thing where I'm at now.
I don't pretend there's a systematic way
of knowing what the meaning of that is without like,
it's really an interpretation type thing.
And it's like, I don't know what to make of some of this.
Well, well, you have to remember right now,
neither of us think that the gospel is true, right?
So, so here, here I'm kind of,
I'm re inhabiting like the Christian, you know,
this is how I would answer and say, like,
you could consistently, you know,
hold these types of things
and have that vertical and horizontal distinction
because this is one,
if this is one unified message,
then you have these examples that justify that distinction.
That's what I, this is really interesting.
I never really thought of it in those terms,
but I'm reading Paul.
Paul doesn't want people to get married.
This is a horizontal thing
because he expects the vertical to take place
at some point, the coming down of the Lord,
the Pharisee of the whole nine,
and that did not happen.
So anyway, Chris H, thank you for the super chat.
What is Tyler's new path looking forward?
Will he now move towards social justice
and defending those harmed by Christianity
like LGBTQ people?
Yeah, it's a good question.
I mean, I, I don't know.
I, you know, I don't, I don't know what I'm going to do.
LGBTQ is an interesting thing.
I don't know if you had this experience.
Well, let me, let me actually caveat this.
You know, I'm not, I'm not going to say
I was like an LGBTQ advocate or anything like that
before when I was Christian,
but you can actually look through some of the back catalog
and I, I hated the way that the church treated
the LGBTQ community, right?
Even though I thought that it was sinful, right?
Cause I would always be like, okay,
but we think adultery is sinful.
But like, if, if, if, if, if someone caught an adultery,
like goes through cancer and they have children,
we still organize meal trains for them.
We still care for them.
We still visit them.
We don't ostracize them.
We don't, you know, all that kind of stuff.
Like, you know, if, if we still welcome them into church,
right?
You do, you do all this kind of, like,
I could never grasp why the church treated LGBTQ
as if it was like this special thing to be like.
Yeah, like a beyond skin.
Yeah. Like I could, I could never.
So like, you know, I, and this, this sounds cliche
and I know like the backlash to this type of comment,
but like, I, like, I always had LGBTQ friends.
And like, even, even when I, even when I was like,
hey, like I disagree, I still think like the activity
is sinful.
I never thought the orientation was sinful.
I never, like, I, you know, anything like that.
But so like that never drives.
So I was never fully there.
But what happens weirdly enough is that, not weirdly,
I mean, it makes sense.
When you leave the justification, obviously,
for even thinking it's sinful, you're like, oh, well, like,
well, that was dumb.
That, you know, that, I don't really have any, I mean,
maybe if some, I know there are like some atheists
that are against it for like trying to claim
it's like unnatural, whatever.
But I just, like, I don't find that convincing.
And then any support that I had for thinking
that it was sinful is gone.
Cause I don't think sinful is a thing anymore.
Right?
So, you know, I don't know if I'll move towards
like social justice activity.
Maybe, I don't know.
I don't know what's gonna happen.
Thank you for that answer.
Chris, thank you so much.
I love you.
Thank you.
Nutty squirrel, great discussion.
I hope that was the next one here.
Yes, great discussion.
Look, we've got 485 people.
And I need to let everybody know,
this is a popping stream right now.
Go subscribe to Tyler's YouTube.
We'll refresh this at the end.
And we're gonna see the count.
Let's hope we can get Tyler some more people
to check him out.
You can agree, disagree, whatever.
Take him to task in his comment section.
But it's all about having that discussion
like we're having today.
So I really appreciate that, Nutty Squirrel.
Thank you.
I always appreciate the support.
Henry Marr says, the God hidden this problem is the worst.
We really haven't talked about that much,
but there's like a spider web
within all these things, this thought,
about like, if God loves, like we're talking about,
God is love, is it like,
I'm trying to even defend the idea
of like how this is even possible.
As someone who struggled, and I always go back to addiction
because I'm a recovering drug addict,
seven years off a heroin.
Good job, congratulations.
Thank you, thank you, appreciate that.
Yeah, I was literally at death's door.
And sometimes tough love is a way to help the addict,
especially when they're sabotaging their own life
because they have an illness.
There's a real issue here.
I would call it a disease
under the specific definition that it's called.
And I'm sitting here thinking like,
how is God's hiddenness even helpful
in trying to help us when we have sincere doubts
and questions about this issue?
You can almost see why Christians sometimes, not all,
will say stuff like, you have a secret sin
or you just wanna keep sinning.
They wanna find other excuses for why you've left, Tyler.
But divine hiddenness, hit that one real quick with us.
Yeah, divine hiddenness is basically the,
I mean, there's lots of them.
There's lots of different versions of it.
But the one that I had is basically get,
I run it as an internal critique of Christianity, right?
So if the promises of Christianity are true
and the statements of God are true,
and I didn't even do it as a universal hiddenness,
like to all of creation, which I could do, right?
I don't find the answers to it.
Be like, oh, well, it would violate free will garbage.
That's a garbage answer.
It's just not, that is not a good answer.
But I was like, as a Christian,
like Christians shouldn't experience hiddenness
to the point of deconversion, right?
If Christianity is true, if the promises are true,
if what is said about God being father are true, right?
If all those things are true,
if that's the background information,
we shouldn't expect hiddenness for that class of people,
right?
And yet that's exactly what a lot of,
you know, I've talked to a lot of people
who've deconverted recently, obviously,
that experience of hiddenness,
and I've talked to a lot of people, like with me,
like, I mean, I wasn't like, you know, I wasn't drinking,
I wasn't having sex, I wasn't like, I had nothing,
I was like begging and pleading and going to church
and doing like all that kinds of like,
hiddenness should not, if that's background,
we shouldn't expect that.
And so the fact that we expect that,
that it creates a hiddenness problem.
I know what reformers during the Protestant Reformation
were big when they criticized the Catholic miracle claims,
they finally eventually scalpled their own Bibles, right?
Cause the claims they used against the Catholics
kind of worked inward on their own scripture.
But in that process,
they came up with a solution for this problem
where why is not God doing the miraculous
since they definitely were using this
against the Catholic church.
And so you find this argument, oh, cessationism.
So he, that which is perfect,
when that which is perfect has come in,
the canon of scripture,
we noticed the interpretation there.
God's not doing these things in front of people
or to show himself anymore, he's hidden.
He doesn't need to.
You have all you need,
the fundamentalist evangelical presuppositionalist
or whatever might say that argument.
My point is, is did you ever just, human,
I want your honest opinion,
you ever read the Bible and go,
just do this for me this once,
like just please anything like a doubting Thomas kind of.
So yes and no, right?
Because there is a sense where under Sola Scriptura, right?
So you have, the Bible is sufficient revelation
for life and godliness, right?
That's the same, right?
So, and again, I still conceptually understand it, right?
This is why I said earlier when they're like,
oh, like you weren't a true Christian,
like I understand, like,
I don't actually don't make offense
because I understand within their system,
that's what makes sense.
Cool, like I get it, you know,
you're working within your system.
If your system is true, then yes,
that's probably true, right?
Same with Sola Scriptura,
like I get where it's like, it's age of miracles,
they're, you know,
God was working at these times
where he was validating the message,
he's validating the gospel, all that kind of stuff, right?
So cool, totally get it.
There was a certain point though, where I was like,
look, again, like,
I'm not asking for a pillar of smoke and a pillar of fire,
right?
I was, by the way,
I was like, it could be still small voice.
I don't care, I don't care.
You're hardly gonna know if it was me though,
versus anyway.
But like, I wouldn't care,
and I think that, like,
I was like, anything that I could attach
that significance to, totally fine with it.
Like, again, like I said earlier,
even if I could never justify it to anybody else,
like bring me back in, you know,
whatever it is.
But there was also,
I started just being really dissatisfied with that answer.
And I talked about it in my last video,
the Deconversion part two,
which it doesn't show up on the videos,
it shows up under the live tab.
But there was,
there was a moment where I was like, okay,
but
why?
Why not?
Because there's a sense of like,
oh, well, you can't ask for miracles
because then you're making God your cosmic butler.
And I'm like, okay, but
the core claim of Christianity is a miracle claim, right?
So which one is it?
Is it miracle?
A miracle is the most sufficient thing to drive belief,
then why not more miracles?
Or is it miracles aren't sufficient for belief?
You just have to have faith.
Then why is a miracle the core claim of Christianity?
Well put.
And then that just spiraled, right?
So one of the examples I gave in that video is,
okay, like, imagine how many people,
I'm sure people just gave thumbs up in your comments.
We'd see a thousand thumbs up,
or I guess you only have four.
Type one, if you're thumbs up in right now.
Type one, if you're thumbs up, right?
You left because,
at least in part, maybe not maybe,
but at least in part,
the church was corrupt,
evil, abusive, covered for abusers,
stole money, something along those types of lines, right?
That was at least a part in why you left, right?
So the example that I get in Acts,
when Anais and Sapphira,
they don't even steal from the church, right?
They sell a field,
they give half to it,
and they say they gave a whole, right?
They gave a 50% tide,
all they did, I mean,
did they do something wrong?
Sure, they wanted to look more generous than they did.
Fine, whatever, was that wrong?
Yeah.
Were they stealing?
No.
Were they embezzling?
No.
Were they stealing from the poor?
No.
All that kind of stuff.
What happened?
God kills them both at the rebuke of Peter.
Separate times,
but kills them both at the rebuke of Peter, right?
And the answer that's given is,
well, that's to a stab that church needed establishing, right?
It shows that God would protect
the sanctity and purity of his church, right?
And I'm like, okay,
imagine, maybe not even to death,
maybe every single time someone stole
or embezzled money from the church,
stole from the poor, whatever it is,
abused, covered for pedophiles, whatever,
anything that didn't protect the purity of the church,
God would give them boils, right?
All of those ones would go away, right?
Every single one of those ones would go away
because we'd be like, oh, like, and I have to imagine,
like for me, I probably never would have left Christianity.
Right.
Because I feel like it's so clear
that like God is protecting this thing.
Right.
So the amount of, and I got to imagine more people.
And then imagine comparing it to other religions, right?
And they don't have claims that come to pass or something.
And you're like, well, this is clearly evidence to show.
Yeah. And so it's one of those things where it's like,
so that's not me asking God to be a cosmic butler.
That's not me asking for some personal miracle.
That's not anything,
that's just straight divine hiddenness
in ways that we not only shouldn't expect,
but we don't see in the New Testament anyways.
And it's hard to say that it's cessationism
because cessationism has to do with like
personal works of miracles and healings
and all that kind of stuff, which would also be,
I don't know why people wouldn't believe
if every time someone prayed over them in the name of Jesus,
that there was healing,
how would that violate free will
or prevent soul-making or sainthood?
That would make a buttload of saints.
People would freely believe because there's miracles.
So, and that's the other thing is,
I don't understand how seeing a miracle violates free will.
Like it imposes too much.
It forces you to believe.
Like, does that mean that the resurrection
violated the free will of the apostles?
Like, I just, I don't understand the argument.
So like that type of hiddenness
in ways that we wouldn't expect hiddenness
or where the hiddenness seems to cause more detriment
to the very things that God says he values, right?
That's the conflict for me, right?
That's the thing where it's like the Christian promises,
like it's not just in violation
with what we observe in reality,
it's intention with its own biblical Christian promises.
That's where the tension is.
And I think, come back to the same words.
I got, I don't know if you know the Christian YouTuber,
Ruslan, I might be making a trip down to California
sometime probably in May to have a conversation
with this guy on his actual platform.
But I bring up honesty a lot.
And I think if you're being honest with this material,
this is a valid criticism.
These are valid issues.
So anybody, whether you're a Christian
or not at the end of the day,
hearing what you're saying, Tyler,
should walk away going, I get it.
This makes sense, I get it.
So-
Or at least understand why people might walk away.
Why people might say, oh, well, this is a problem.
And again, I can almost see some of the videos coming out
and they're gonna be like, oh, well, that one thing,
well, that's not a reason to leave Christianity
because does that mean the resurrection didn't happen?
And I wanna point out like,
I'm not saying that this, I'm almost a cumulative cases.
I'm not saying this one thing is the death knell
to Christianity or it's a silver bowl
or whatever analogy you wanna use.
There are hundreds of these things,
hundreds of biblical problems.
Like they just started mounting and mounting and mounting
and mounting and mounting to the point where I'm like,
well, that's just a big pile now.
I don't know what to do with that.
I'm with you, I'm with you.
Wayne Wright, thank you for that 20.
I really appreciate it.
What does Tyler think about the Bible's silence
on the Trinity and the church's undying devotion to it?
I'm not sure that the Bible is silent on the Trinity.
I still think that there is, I think that the,
okay, let me put it this way.
Whether or not you think it's coherent
is a different question.
But I think as the theology of the Bible developed,
it very clearly, and again,
whether or not you think this is original to,
if it did develop later or it's original
to the original author or the intention of Genesis
or whatever it is, I think there is this very clear concept
that develops even in the Old Testament
that God is somehow either multi-personal
or that there's a, I don't wanna say polytheism
because I don't think that that's the case.
They started, I think there was a tension
in the Old Testament of like,
God is more than just one person.
I don't think they had the categories to talk about it.
Some that might be, you might read that and cash it out
as like, well, they view the divine counsel
and there's these multiple beings.
But there's this tension and it's ambiguous and unclear.
I think by the time you get to the New Testament
and you see it starting to develop,
there is a very real sense by,
I think by then the Holy Spirit is a person.
So I think by then the Hellenistic Jews
would have almost been a bi-personal at some point.
And the way that the New Testament authors
even very early in the gospels take Old Testament passages
there's Richard B. Hayes has some things
that the echoes of scriptures in the gospels,
the extra scriptures and letters of Paul.
The ways that it takes these descriptions of Yahweh
and applies them to Jesus,
they do seem to think that Jesus is this unique either person.
By the time you get to John,
I think that it's just completely there.
But you have this that Jesus is the special person of God.
But in a way that you could say something true of God
that is true of Jesus.
And so that I think they're working that out.
So I think you can get Trinitarianism
by the time you get to the later epistles,
I think it's pretty developed.
Not as developed as you get with like Homo Uzias
and that whole thing by the time you get to the councils,
they develop the theology and the philosophy of it way there.
But I think by the time you get to the end of the New Testament
you do have a view of three persons in one being.
So I'd take Bart Ehrman's approach on this
and other critical scholars like James F. McGrath.
I actually interviewed him and asked him.
It's worth showing you this to give you a laugh actually.
James F. McGrath, he actually is quite a character.
But I don't think the New Testament teaches Trinitarianism.
I do think however that the development
using New Testament ideas,
because I think Jesus is the image,
he's the image bearer of God,
which you can easily conflating that he is God,
but he's always praying to God.
So you kind of wonder,
and I know the Trinitarians will have to find a way
to make this make sense,
but I got to play the intro so that everybody watching this
can at least have a quick little chuckle,
put some energy into this thing here.
But it fits this issue.
Jesus and God, and this is his little statement.
We might as well get a laugh while we're here together.
Here we go.
Does the New Testament teach Trinitarianism?
No.
No.
No.
You want answers?
I think I'm entitled.
You want answers.
I want the truth.
You can't handle the truth.
Nice.
Anyway, to those who are triggered easily,
I had to give a warning for triggering people there,
but so I can see how later,
we talk about systematic canonization and whatnot.
I could see how someone, they're trying to work out,
but they definitely see him as a son of God.
They see him divine.
He has an apotheosis even early in Paul.
So he is divine in their eyes.
But how that fits within the matrix,
I think they fix those nuts and bolts later.
Yeah.
That's my take.
I think it'd be similar.
I'd say a similar thing where it's probably anachronistic
to say the New Testament is Trinitarian.
Right.
But it has the building blocks of the Trinitarian theology.
Right?
And I would say it's anachronistic to say Paul was a Calvinist.
Right?
That's entirely too anachronistic.
But the theology that, or even to say Paul was Augustinian,
that's just not the right categories to use,
but everything that is Augustinian or Calvinistic
was in Paul.
I would say everything,
predestinarian stuff.
I'm with you.
There's something to do with it.
Everything that makes it distinctly
that in that predestinarian determination, election,
all those types of things is present there.
It's just not.
I'm with you.
Yeah.
I just would take even the Romans 9 thing, Romans 9 to 11.
I want to get to the next super chat.
I think that we, as Calvinists, as when we were,
we universalized this message and not realized
this is like a Jewish context here
that we're kind of like, oh, it's all for everybody.
And I get it, the framework's there,
but I don't know if that's the message here
in Romans 9 to 11.
He's trying to create a category to graph Gentiles in
when this wasn't meant for them.
This was for the Jews.
And so there's all sorts of stuff.
Actually, I had a debate on this with, oh my gosh,
I'm totally blanking on his name.
John Cranman, because he takes a corporate election view
that kind of, it's a Jewish thing.
It's all about that kind of stuff.
I actually don't think that's the way to read Romans 9.
Interesting.
For several reasons, exegetically.
And I still think, actually, that it's not the way,
I think Paul actually was making universalizing principles.
I think he was applying it in certain contexts,
but I think he was actually making universal principles.
So I look at it as Paul's last day's apocalyptic Jew
who thinks that Jesus is coming back any minute.
And the goal he has is the only way he's coming back
is to gather the nations in.
So in his mind, he has to find a way
to bring the nations in in order to have
the second coming take place.
And of course, when the more he keeps going to the nations,
trying to get to Spain, it doesn't happen.
So, you know, we probably have some overlap
on how we read Romans 9 to 11,
but I don't read it the same way I read it before,
but there's that passage about election
and like, who are you, oh man?
That hasn't changed.
I mean, that is like pretty blunt.
God's a hardcore dictator in that.
Zyctomorph, thank you for the super chat.
Thank you for going through this in real time
and under the microscope.
It does help a lot of us going through similar spots.
Thank you.
Yeah, I appreciate it.
And, you know, I've said this before,
like I'm not trying to de-convert anyone.
Like I have people that are Christians
and they've reached out and they came
going through the same thing.
I don't want to leave like, who should I read?
I'm like, here's like, if you're wondering,
if you just want to read like the best Christian answers,
like here, like go read this scholar,
like if you want to salvage your faith,
like go read this, like if someone's like,
hey, you know, I'm pretty sure I'm de-converting,
like, you know, they want to read,
go read that one, like I just, you know,
I want to help people on whatever journey
they want to go to, but I'm not like out there
trying to be like, hey, you know,
I'm trying to win de-converts or anything like that
from Christianity.
But I also, you know, I do, you know,
biblically iron sharpens iron.
There is a sense where I want to be like,
but Christians, you've got to do better.
You've got to give better answers
than the theodicies that you're giving
because they're pretty weak.
Well put, and I feel you on that.
I am trying to defang fundamentalism,
but at the same time, in all of its forms,
but you know, at least, I don't know,
I think we could, I think that there's serious walls
that get built up and it's something I'm trying to do.
So thank you so much though for that super chat.
Ultimately, I want people to value the literature
as literature, you know, that's something I'm trying to do.
So Joshua Springer, thank you for the super chat.
You put and, oh, is this a scripture?
And if they do not persist in unbelief,
they will be grafted in for God
as able to graft them in.
Again, Romans 11, 23, love you brothers, God bless.
So this is kind of, they open the door, you know,
and it's available.
Hey, I get it, man.
You know what I mean?
I get it and respect.
I just, I also wonder, and I don't know if you,
this is a worth topic bringing up
because in that mentioning of Ruslan,
which you probably don't know who that is,
it's a big YouTuber, Christian YouTuber,
you may have ran across this stuff.
He thought it was narcissistic of me to say
that this was narcissistic.
I had family members who sat around
and when we have these conversations from time to time,
they're looking at me going,
one day you're gonna come back, you're gonna get it.
And I'm sitting here trying to explain to them like,
and I said this statement, I've forgotten more
than you'll ever, like you probably ever cared
even read your Bibles.
I've forgotten more about this than you ever have even known.
And I'm talking about combined,
because I know my family, right?
So they don't read their Bibles
and not serious students of this stuff.
And it's like, I felt like that was kind of condescending.
That's probably the better word rather than narcissistic.
It's like condescending to go,
Tyler, you're gonna come back, trust me,
you're gonna come back.
And so like, have you really walked through the process
and understand what I'm saying
and how it's actually making sense to why I don't believe?
Yeah.
I don't know.
Yeah.
What do you think?
No, yeah.
I mean, again, it's like the whole,
like you weren't a true Christian.
Like I try not to take, it can be condescending,
but I'm like, hey, I get within your system
that that's what you think.
And I just kind of cheekily point out,
like Romans 11, 23 says that,
if we don't persist, we can be crafted in.
Hebrews six says, once we fall away,
it's impossible to bring us back to repentance.
So I don't know which one it is, right?
I don't know if I still have hope or I'm just done.
Yeah.
I'm with you, man.
What do you do?
Constellation Pegasus says, you're a determinist,
then I'm assuming you know stuff
about physics and astrophysics.
I know some stuff.
I mean, I'm a determinist.
Well, I'm a compatibilist,
which is the idea that determinism is compatible
with freedom necessary for responsibility,
largely because I think libertarian incompatibilism
is just incoherent.
I don't see how someone can hold to something
like a principle of sufficient reason
and still be a libertarian and say,
well, it's entirely indeterminate
why I choose the things that I choose.
Because the incident I asked, why did you do that?
And you start giving me explanations.
You're giving me causally determinate explanations.
So I'm largely a determinist
because I think indeterminism
and incompatibilism are just incoherent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Appreciate that.
Do you still pray?
Not really.
I mean, let me actually backtrack.
I still find myself like sometimes being like,
like almost like talking to myself, but not to myself.
I still do it every now and then.
If something's happening, I'm like, okay, like God,
I don't say God, but I'm like, oh, like please let this happen.
You know, something like that.
But no, I don't like conscientiously pray.
Thank you. Appreciate that.
I know this personal question,
but JR token, thank you for that super chat.
I didn't see a comment.
I'm just rolling through here.
I don't like to leave people hanging.
Shane Torres, if you're comfortable sharing,
have you dealt with a spouse who still believes
in how to maintain peaceful marriage?
I have not dealt with that.
Thank you, Shane.
Appreciate that.
Henry Mars, has Tyler read the book of Enoch?
I have, actually.
One of my research projects he did was on the book of Jude
and its canonicity with regard to its use of Enoch.
And so, you know, I think Enoch is fascinating.
I would probably have to revisit it.
I wrote that back when I was still pretty committed,
like not even really struggling with doubts yet.
So definitely roll back, but yeah.
So I read, I think it's interesting.
Yeah, thank you, Henry.
Jamie Russell Christian Middles says,
speak to the resurrection of Jesus and belief for.
Thank you.
I don't know how to answer this.
I'm not speak to the resurrection of Jesus.
I don't think he did.
Yeah, you haven't brought us through some of the arguments
that you personally, what I guess the best argument
isn't what's against it.
How do you make sense of what you think's happening there
if you're taking an approach
that this didn't actually happen?
What is your personal position?
I think largely, and I've said this,
and this is probably kind of a crass way to say it
and probably not the most helpful way to say it,
but people are familiar with C.S. Lewis's,
Lord Liar, Lunatic, and the potentially legend on there.
I think the category of what's happening,
if you had to use those categories
as some type of blending of Lunatic and legend,
but I don't mean Lunatic like Jesus was a crazy person.
I mean, I think he was an eschatological preacher.
I think that he thought he was ushering in the end of time
and all that kind of stuff.
I think he was probably sincerely mistaken.
And then there was legendary development after that.
I'm with you.
Now, how that happened from the get?
Like, did someone imagine that they thought they heard,
or who knows?
I mean, people have all sorts of beliefs
and see things Elvis Presley's visited people since dying.
So, JR Token, evidence shows Yahweh is not guilty of existing.
It's a good way to put it.
Thank you, thank you for that.
Spartan says, I'd love to hear more about Tyler,
your current beliefs.
I mean, I'm still a classical theist,
as I said at the top of the show.
So, I still believe in God.
I still think that if a being like God exists,
he still has those attributes of being,
because when you start doing a conceptual analysis
of what type of being that cause would be,
I think you do get something along the lines
of omnipotent, omniscient's tricky.
For a couple of reasons.
Omniscient, I think is the right term,
but I don't think I would hold it the same way I did
when I was a Christian.
So, you have omniscient, omnipotent, transcendent.
I don't think he's within space time, immutable, I'll say.
And part of immutable, I'll say,
is because for a being that's outside of time,
I don't see how process would happen,
or procedure would happen.
And so, I don't know what it means to say
a transcendent being changes, for example.
So, there's conceptual in us,
but it's largely kind of the God of the philosophers.
I don't know what to do.
I don't have an, I've realized actually
that eschatology is more important
than I ever thought it was.
And I'm realizing a lot of the things that feel weird,
and I don't know what to do with,
are things where we're having an eschatology answers it,
or solves it, or satiates that need for something,
or some type of answer.
So, not having an eschatology is weird.
But you don't have one right now, like.
It's just, I don't know what to do with it, right?
So, I don't know what happens when we die.
Do we die and we blink out of existence?
Maybe, do we reincarnate?
I don't know, my like, having eschatology for decades,
like, I feel an affinity for that,
but I don't know if it's,
I don't know if there's reason for that,
or if it's just kind of a Christian hangover,
or whatever that is.
So, I don't know what to do with that.
So, that's kind of where I'm at with that.
Thank you, appreciate that.
Mr. T Brown, deconversion came after years
of studying and thinking.
Is there anything you would say to a teenage dial-up
to prevent conversion?
No, I don't think that I would prevent conversion.
I, you know, I kind of look at it as my life,
as my life, and it took the path that it did,
and I'm happy where I'm at.
And I have, you know, if I hadn't gone through that,
then I wouldn't have my children that I have right now
who I love, you know, are my life.
So, you know, I don't like living in the questions
about like, what would you do to change my life?
Probably nothing, like, I mean, at the moment,
like, I guess at the moment,
without factoring in what we know, then maybe,
but like, it's like reliving a certain moment,
and not knowing, having no omniscience,
and being kind of an open theist yourself, right?
I probably would make different decisions,
but the problem is, I would have to know
that I shouldn't make that decision when those things happen,
and therefore, kind of like, falsifies itself.
It doesn't work, it cancels itself out.
So, it's difficult to know how to answer this kind of,
I mean, and that's my drug addiction phase, right?
Like, I caused unknown suffering to my family,
to my children, to my wife.
Do I wish that?
I didn't do that?
Yeah, I do wish I never did that.
I also have to live.
I have to be me in this world that I live in,
and so, this is a tough one,
but it's one of those I don't really know how to answer.
Yeah, yeah.
Mark, thank you for the super chat.
Was Tyler predestined to leave Christianity?
I'll see myself out now.
I mean, I think I was determined to leave Christianity.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Thank you, Mark.
If Christianity, if, you know, reform Christianity is true,
then yeah, I was predestined for it.
If Molinism is true, I was predestined for it, so.
That's true, but the Molinism described by Craig,
William Lane Craig, for those who,
when he said a long time ago,
I wasn't even a Calvinist at the time,
he said something like, God, I think God,
where people are born in the world,
so that if they never hear the gospel
and they die without Christ,
he knew already that if they did hear it,
they would reject it,
so he had them born in places where, inevitably,
they're gonna go to hell.
Yeah.
This was his.
Transworld damnation, any possible world
that person never would believe,
so he just took those cogs and put them in.
I don't even know what that means.
Like, I don't know what it means
that there's like this like platonic form,
it almost feels like a soul bank,
like the Jehovah's Witnesses that have the soul bank
or the Mormons, one of those,
there's like the soul bank,
he like plucked this one soul
that would never believe anywhere
and like put it somewhere,
but I don't know what it means to say like,
an abstract soul wouldn't believe in any,
because part of it makes you feel happy.
Yeah, like could God not make a world?
Your personality, so.
It's weird what you're saying,
like making sense of that is like,
that would mean that there's not a single world
that the God of the universe couldn't make
to make sure that they would be saved.
And it's odd that you wouldn't put the responsibility
somehow on that being,
who is the creator of these worlds,
whatever world that may be, I don't understand that.
Yeah, yeah, really odd.
Boris says, my final try at Christianity
started with 2nd Corinthians 13.5.
Do you know that passage by heart?
I don't know it by heart.
That is, examine yourselves,
examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith,
test yourselves,
or do you not realize this about yourselves,
that Jesus Christ is in you,
unless indeed you failed to meet the test?
Or in the KGB and accept EV, reprobates.
That's where we loved using that word.
What was it, the 1599 Calvin edition?
I can't remember.
He had a commentary in his particular edition.
Yeah.
I'm gonna try and blast through these
and then I'm gonna allow you
any eschatological final statements here before the end.
Calvin M, thanks Tyler for speaking,
helps folks on journey.
Thank you, Calvin, appreciate that.
I do think that your story
is gonna touch some people here
and hopefully help people at least understand,
even if they disagree,
like understand where you're coming from.
I think you've taken quite a sophisticated route, man.
So I commend you for that
and I hope you continue on your journey.
Theo Janssen, thank you for that super chat says,
in the first gospels,
Jesus does not seem to be out of time in any,
in many, I'm gonna say in many way,
immediately this and that.
So he's always immediately, immediately.
Yeah, like in Mark, it's youthus, youthus, youthus.
It's immediately and then immediately and then,
yeah, that's more of a literary device,
like to move the plot.
The plot, it's rapid fire plot.
It's going, going, going, going, going.
He's busy.
Exactly.
Thank you, Theo.
Grace says, past and current thoughts on Romans one.
I mean, Romans one covers a lot of that.
My guess is the long, the longer section on Romans one,
dealing with, that you're without excuse.
That's my guess, because that,
that's probably the one that,
that part of that that's most relevant.
Yeah, so, so that, I mean,
that section basically deals with,
that there is this kind of,
apart from special revelation, you have general revelation,
that just by looking at the Creator order,
people know God, his immutable attributes,
his power and all that kind of stuff,
and they're without excuse.
I generally think that we can,
we can infer certain things about God by looking at,
by looking at creation.
Again, I'm a classical theist.
I'm not sure that it has the moral input.
The thing that I find interesting though about it is,
now when I'm, when I'm going back
and I'm talking to my,
my presuppositionalist ex-brothers, friends,
still friends, ex-brothers, still friends,
is they'll, as they'll do like, you know,
well, how do you, you know, if you don't have the Bible,
how do you know and all that kind of stuff?
And I want to be like,
one of your favorite passages is Romans one.
And your own, like if I just do an internal critique,
your own view says that I can know these things
by general revelation.
I don't need this special standard to know
to know about God and to ground certain things
like the laws of logic,
which, you know, precepts love to bring up, right?
So, so why do I, I keep asking that.
I still haven't gotten an answer.
I actually, I was asking this while I was a precept even.
I started asking is like,
why is the trinity?
Why is a trinitarian concept of God
necessary to ground the laws of logic?
I can understand the argument.
I still get there with like intentionality and stuff.
How it's, how it's, how a God can ground laws of logic,
but how does that get you to Christianity?
This is one of those like Martin Bailey things
where I'm like, I don't understand how this argument
that, you know, God gets you the grounding of logic
or intentionality or whatever it is
or transcendental facts of reality
to therefore that Christian,
the Christian God is necessarily true.
And there's an impossibility to contrary to the trinity.
Like I don't understand that.
And given your own revelation of Romans one,
we shouldn't think that either.
Interesting note on, on Romans one,
Revelation one, Romans one is, is this is philosophical.
And I guess what they,
because you find this kind of general revelation theme,
and it is something that you find the Greeks
and the Romans that kind of use this.
They might find their way.
Classical theist might try to go,
see even Paul kind of hints at this,
but there's other, there's a lot more baggage
than just classical theism as you're describing.
And those, and the baggage can be tested.
There are claims there that can be tested
and shown that just don't,
they don't meet the, what would you say, the muster there.
Notion slave, what's your view on Islam
as a possible next faith to investigate?
Not going to, I just, no intention.
It's, you know, it seems to me,
because Islam builds on the Abrahamic religions.
It seems, if I think the foundation's already wrong,
why would I, why would I want to go stories up?
I'm with you, I agree.
And that's straight to the point.
Camille Greger, again,
if you had a ranking of individuals
who most contributed to your deconversion,
whose names would be on the top?
I mean, I mean, not to sound cheeky or anything,
but God's number one, right?
So the, you know, the God could have prevented it easily,
you know, if that was true.
As far as like scholars and academics go,
Bart Ehrman was, again, that was a flashpoint
on a lot of the things.
A lot of it was conservative scholars.
I mean, Mike Lacona, John Walton, they'll hate this,
John Walton, right?
Michael Heiser, right?
There are a lot of these scholars
that they're, you know, they're gateway drugs.
They're, you know, they're the things
that have you start thinking about things differently
and understanding texts within their historical context
and start seeing some of those things.
And honestly, the fact that there weren't scholar,
there weren't, these weren't people
that like gave arguments for why I should leave,
but I started struggling and having issues
and the best scholars, you know, the best apologists
and all that kind of stuff,
the answers were just poor.
The ones that came just weren't good,
the theodicies weren't good.
I mean, I've said it before, the free,
like the free will theodicy is just nonsense, right?
Because it says, oh, well, you know,
got, you know, there's evil
because God wants to protect free will.
And I'm like, okay, but God can,
in the philosophy of action,
there's a difference between free will and outcome, right?
So God can prevent 100% of murders.
He can stop them at the moment
that they're about to murder someone.
They still would have freely chosen to murder, right?
He can prevent the outcome,
has nothing to do with free will.
The free will theodicy just does not work
because it does not answer the problem.
The evil is the outcome.
The choice is evil in itself.
Maybe there'll be minor evils,
maybe there'll be minor evil choices,
but God could prevent every single harm to a child,
every single murder,
he could have prevented the Holocaust,
he could have prevented all of that stuff
without ever stopping a single free will choice.
Like those types of things, they just don't work.
And the fact that they're so ardently advanced
as if they work,
those types of things are started to eat away at me.
Thank you Camille for the question.
Try to get through these.
I was heavily involved with Mars Hill Church.
It took way too long for me to escape that community.
Any thoughts on that church and its influence?
That church was brutal and it's really scary
that there's basically part two,
which is even worse than Mars Hill
because Mars Hill at least fell under the banner broadly
of kind of evangelicals
before everything about Mark Driscoll was known.
Now he has his other church that's even like,
I'm not gonna say it's a cult,
but it's really close,
it's really, really, really close
from what I've read about it.
If anyone is really interested,
they kind of like these sociological
like storytelling podcasts like This American Life.
There's one on the rise and fall of Mars Hill.
That's fantastic and that is a scary term.
I'm glad you got out of that.
That was a scary environment.
Thank you, thank you.
Grace says, I just got here,
so forgive me if I missed it,
but what do you think about all the historical evidence?
Talk about the resurrection of Jesus.
I think it's interesting.
I just don't think it accomplishes the conclusion
that it wants to accomplish.
I think they're interesting.
I think the minimal facts argument is interesting.
I think the maximal case for the resurrection
is probably a stronger case than the minimal case
in different ways,
but I just think, I don't think they get to the,
I don't think they accomplish just to find the conclusion
that they're trying to accomplish.
Thank you, thank you.
I'm not even gonna comment
because I wanna make sure we can get to the end here.
Thoughts on Jay Dyer, Flavored Presup.
Have you heard of that person?
I do know who Jay Dyer is.
Jay Dyer's best moments, he's good.
He has a lot of worst moments.
Grace, thank you so much.
Festering boils.
If there's really a God,
why do you think he allows all these false religions
to flourish among his creation?
So in your view, this sounds more like censure a theist.
Do you think, in your mind,
God gives a crap about what people believe?
I don't know.
See, I don't know.
There's no special revelation
that tells me what God gives a crap about, right?
So there is a sense though,
where I think that most likely what,
again, if I have to come with what's consistent
with what I think is true,
I think about it in the sense of my kids.
I don't try to control everything that my kids believe.
They don't all have to believe like me.
They don't have to all think like me.
I want them to be good and I want them to thrive
and I want them to do well.
If one of them ends up being a conservative, great.
If one of them ends up being a Democrat, great.
If one of them ends up being whatever the dichotomy is,
one is a Christian, great.
One's a Muslim, great, whatever it is.
As long as they're loving and kind,
and that's what I'm gonna be proud about,
I can imagine some type of God being similar to that,
where the doctrine might not be important,
but the impulse for the thriving of humanity
and the development of culture might be good.
Okay, the time is now.
We're gonna test this thing.
I'm gonna give people, since you just tuned in,
10 seconds, oh, it already refreshed, holy smokes.
Why does it do this to me?
We're refreshing it, screw it.
1.12, I don't know how many specific,
because it doesn't show me the details on your YouTube,
but you got some subscribers here.
Thank you, thank you, I appreciate it.
Absolutely, Tyler, I wanna leave you
with the final word here.
You're speaking to somebody out there,
maybe they're going through a similar process
or they're considering it, or whatever.
You're talking to the world here.
Give them a final statement from you, if you will.
Yeah, I mean, the only thing I would say,
and this was always the purpose of my endeavors
in the podcast and the YouTube channel
was always to think hard about things
and to explore and to think.
I mean, the freed thinker was a devil on tundra.
It was about being freed in Christ,
but I never understood the indoctrination,
all that kind of stuff,
because even though I had ecclesiastical alignment,
I've always just questioned and believed
what I thought the evidence lined up to,
and that has led me down this journey.
So I'd keep encouraging people to think hard
and to think freely and to keep exploring the evidence
and wherever that leads you.
If that leads you deeper into Christianity,
so be it, it's great, but to keep thinking
and keep exploring and asking questions.
Keep asking questions, subscribe to his YouTube channel,
check out his podcast.
He has the freed thinker podcast,
and we have the Patreon help support us here.
We're working our butts off.
I've got so much content coming.
You don't even, I don't even know what to do with myself.
I'm editing nonstop.
We have courses as well, mvpcourses.com,
down in the description.
A course right now on Ancient Greek Mystery Colts,
and they get kind of compared to Christianity in a way.
Historical Jesus Quest with Dale Allison, don't miss it.
It's fire, I swear.
Apology had just told me yesterday.
He's like, oh my gosh,
I didn't realize how good this course was.
So he's checking it out,
and of course got an interview coming out with him soon.
And then of course, creating Jesus.
Why Mark's Gospel is Forgotten.
I love educating the world, Tyler,
and I love to learn myself.
And I think the more we have these discussions,
the better.
I hope to have you back in the future, if you will.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'd love to come back on.
This was fun, and I'm gonna do,
let's do our outro, apocalyptic outro.
Thank you, everybody.
Hit the like button, share this content.
Show love to Tyler by subscribing.
If you wanna help support us, go to the description.
