Are you the Judean people's front?
Fuck off.
What?
Judean people's front.
Are the people's front a Judea?
Dr. Allison, I was just talking about the forgery if we could.
If it was a forgery of Morton Smith's secret gospel mark and I thought,
what about all the potential forgeries we actually have critical scholars say are in the New Testament?
Some are disputing that James is authentic,
but some say no, James is probably a forgery in the vein of a Jamesian Christian though, just like Paul.
Church thinks there's 14, at least if you go back historically.
They count Hebrews because, well, two sevens.
You've got a special number there and maybe they have other reasons.
But ultimately, where do you fall on the scale?
Can you take us through the 27 New Testament books?
Really, the Gospels don't count because it's its own thing.
Yeah.
But who do you think didn't write?
I don't think Matthew wrote Matthew.
As I said in an earlier segment, I don't think John wrote John.
I think the safest bet is that Luke did write, Luke acts.
That involves all sorts of fascinating questions, but that's what I think.
Mark, I'm just agnostic about where that comes from.
As far as Paul goes, I am not with the evangelicals and I'm not with the mainline consensus.
So I think that Paul is somehow connected to Colossians.
I don't think it's a pure pseudepigraphon.
And I think if you look at, there's a little book John Barkley wrote on Colossians and Philemon.
I think it's the best introduction to Colossians.
And when he goes through all the arguments, you realize how close they are on both sides.
And it's a very difficult decision.
But I come out with Paul being connected with it somehow.
I don't think Paul wrote Ephesians.
I don't think he wrote Titus.
I don't think he wrote 1st Timothy.
My problem was with 2nd Timothy.
And there are parts of 2nd Timothy that sound to me like Paul.
And so I'm actually attracted to the old theory of Harrison,
an old British scholar who argued for a fragment thesis,
which is that there may be some authentic fragments of Paul in the pastorals.
Now, that's an odd thing to argue.
But 2nd Timothy causes me problems.
I was taught that Paul didn't write it.
And I assumed for years that he didn't.
But I'm just not sure about it.
I do think Paul wrote 2nd Thessalonians.
But if you know scholarship beginning in the 1970s,
more and more people have begun to question whether Paul wrote 2nd Thessalonians.
I still think he did.
And I think the arguments against that are they shouldn't carry the day.
So that's my own view.
So I'm with mainstream scholarship about some of that, but maybe not all of it.
I don't think anyone knows who wrote Hebrews, right?
I have argued at great length that James did not write James.
I think it's a pseudepigraphon.
I think it's written by a Jewish Christian in the 2nd century.
I don't even think it's a 1st century text.
I think it's an early 2nd century text.
If I had to guess, it's got some sort of Italian Roman origin.
Despite being extremely Jewish.
1st Peter is always a mystery to me.
I don't think Peter wrote it, but I have no idea how it came to be.
1st Peter is a total cloud of fog to me.
I can look at little pieces and say I think I understand this.
But the whole has always remained a mystery to me.
I really don't know anything about it.
2nd Peter, I wouldn't bet my soul that Peter didn't write it,
but I'd wager a lot of money.
To me, it's an obvious pseudepigraphon, and I actually think it's also 2nd century.
I think it may be 2nd half of the 2nd century.
I think it may be really, really late.
I don't know who wrote 1st and 2nd and 3rd John.
I don't think John the Apostle did.
I just don't know who did.
Jude, I've not spent enough time with Jude to have any serious opinion about it.
It's not that big anyway.
It's not that big, and you can make a case for it being written by Jesus's brother.
It's a really odd text.
I've never been able quite to place it.
So I'm just agnostic as to where the heck that came from.
The Revelation to John?
Wow, I don't think John the Son of Zebedee wrote it, and I don't think John the Baptist wrote it.
We did have a commentary years ago, which argued that a lot of this goes back to John the Baptist.
But it's not inconceivable to me, and here I exit the mainstream.
It's not inconceivable to me.
There's some connection between this and John the Son of Zebedee.
I don't know exactly what it would be.
David Onney argues in his commentary on Revelation that this book actually didn't appear at one time,
but you can see stages it went through, but it may be the same author who does an addition here and an addition later on.
When I worked through his arguments, I thought, yeah, this makes a lot of sense to me.
So I don't know the name of the person.
I can say this.
I'm of the opinion that the book of Revelation is not just a literary product.
I think it's a mixture of authentic visions.
That is, I think this was written by somebody who had visions, whatever the metaphysical source of them.
But I also think he's written them up in stylized fashion that he's using sources also.
He is some kind of writer, although he doesn't know Greek very well.
My own view is that this guy's thinking in another language.
He's thinking in Hebrew or Aramaic.
His Greek is terrible, and it is very, very Semitic.
Whoever he is, I think Greek is his second language, and I think he's a visionary.
When would you say he's writing this?
Or at least the earliest version?
So if I remember, Ani thinks that there's a first edition.
Is it around 70 or something like that?
And then there's another edition two or three decades on.
And if I'm remembering that rightly, I would have no problem with that.
I don't think Revelation is a second-century book.
I think it's a first-century book.
And again, parts of it seem to me to almost be cut and paste.
I may be wrong here, but almost cut and paste material.
And then it's mixed in with visions.
And then the guy, again a guy, I think, the Jewish Bible is his language.
He doesn't know how to write a sentence without borrowing language from back there.
Actually, the main ideology of the text, this apocalyptic worldview,
would fit, I think, one of Jesus' disciples.
I'm not concluding that one of his disciples wrote it.
But if I die and I go to the Great Library in the sky,
and I learn that John the son of Zebedee, it would not shock me.
I'd say that was very interesting.
I didn't know that.
But I wouldn't say, gosh, how could I be so wrong about something?
I'd just say, well, okay, all right.
Something interesting that Dennis brings up that I just learned,
he thinks that the author is suffering with PTSD because he's a survivor of the war.
Of 70.
Yeah, and that he's a survivor of the war.
And he's living with constant paranoia, so to speak.
Look, God hasn't done anything yet, but he will.
He can't sit back and let this keep going.
Look at what's going on.
The saints are mourning.
When will it be?
They're under the throne.
They're beheaded.
This is, once again, trying to analyze these minds.
But his wife is, I think, a psychologist or something like that.
And he said, when I read this out to her, she's like, that really sounds traumatic.
Like he's suffering with a PTSD, like any one of us would be if we saw what happened
to Jerusalem or something.
Yeah, so how would I know?
I'm not a psychologist or a psychiatrist.
But of course, these people are real people.
Of course, they have syndromes.
Of course, it's really hard to diagnose them from a distance.
Right?
You can go back to Albert Schweitzer's old book on the psychiatric study of Jesus,
where he looks at what all the 19th century Germans did with Jesus
and how they analyzed him psychologically and what they found and all the rest of it.
And you also have to be careful when you're doing cross-cultural work.
So I don't know.
Maybe PTSD manifests differently in different cultures, different times and places.
Maybe there are cultures that don't have it.
I don't know anything about it.
I'm just talking off the top of my head.
I get it.
But the point is, is that we do usually read these texts as though,
and we say things like, I do well.
This person is a Jew.
This person is apocalypticist and so on.
But aside from Paul, we don't do a lot of psychologizing, right?
And maybe it's because we don't have enough material to work with.
But you would think, now that I think of it for the first time this way,
there's probably a lot of material there in John for somebody to do something with.
So I don't know if it's PTSD or what it is, but it's weird.
It's a combination of eschatological optimism because he really is optimistic.
But the world is a very bad place, right?
And he's not at home and terrible things are happening.
And demonic powers are running the show, right?
Thank you.
The only people we ate more than the Romans are the f***ing Judean people.
