Please consider becoming a patron of Myth Fish and Podcasts, you'll get early access
to every video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private
message me anything you'd like.
Professor Joel Baden, I have a good friend who hip-fired a bunch of questions and I
said okay this is just going to be one video, I did this with Dr. Collins and you know he
just jabbed away at him the best he could for what he has, there are seven questions
and I guess when the seventh is up we'll just rest like god here, okay.
Number one, and you might know this, Dr. Collins didn't know the answer to this because it's
not his field.
Do DNA studies show no difference between Jews and surrounding Middle Eastern peoples,
and inside it was DNA that disproved the Book of Mormon's claim the American Indians were
descended from the Middle East?
My understanding is that the DNA tends to show that there is a reasonably close relationship
between Canaanites and Israelites, which isn't surprising, Canaanites and Israelites were
the same people basically, they just lived in slightly different parts of the country,
so in a sense that goes against the biblical story where Abraham comes from outside and
comes in and goes more toward the scholarly story where Israel is just like people who
moved away from Canaan into a different part of the place, so I think that there is genetic
evidence linking present day Jews and ancient Canaanites in a way that is logical to me.
I don't think there's more than that beyond that in terms of other ancient Middle Eastern
peoples.
I just don't know that anyone's done those studies or why they'd care to.
There's some people in this vein of this conversation here who want to say they have
this crazy, I think it's a conspiracy theory, that there's no modern Jews or they try to
argue against the idea.
Yeah, anti-Semitic freak shows, I'm not interested.
Keep your anti-Semitism out of my timeline.
That's the thing.
Oh, goodness.
The point is they'll say there's just a 1% rule in the world and they're trying to get
us with this crazy stuff.
I don't know.
Anyways.
I mean, it's super unoriginal.
Anti-Semitism is the oldest trick in the book.
It's just played out.
You know what I mean?
Come on.
It's super transparent and boring.
Not that it's not dangerous and it's obviously dangerous, but yeah, your conspiracy theory
is 700-year-old medieval nonsense.
Number two, do either, he's referring to you and Dr. Collins, believe the exodus occurred
as described in the Old Testament, if not what probably did happen.
You don't have to go into the long what you just said in the previous video, but what
would you say, obviously, no to the first?
No to the first.
The exodus didn't happen the way it's described in the Bible.
In part, that's because, again, if we recognize that the Pentateuch is made up of various
sources and the sources don't agree on how the exodus happened, what does it even mean
to say it happened like it says in the Bible?
It certainly didn't happen like it says in this conflation of a variety of different
sources that all disagree about how it happened.
I got one source that will tell you that the Israelites were enslaved.
I got another source that will tell you they weren't enslaved even.
One of the Pentateuchal sources doesn't think the Israelites were enslaved at all.
I got a source that will tell you that the Israelites wandered for 40 years.
I got one that's like they didn't wander for 40 years at all.
There's not even a true biblical story to say happened.
For sure it didn't happen that way.
I think for the most part we're talking about here is there are probably kernels of experience
of peoples fleeing from Egypt, fleeing from some sort of oppression or for some other
reason who made their way up into Canaan into the group that became Israel and brought with
them their story of escape and gussied it up as miraculous and divinely inspired and
divinely aided.
It only takes a tiny seed of a story over time to grow into a multi-branched epic where
there's one version here and one version here.
They all stem from the same kernel, the same seed of experience or belief or narrative,
but then they all flower in a whole different ways.
What does current scholarship think about the theory first proposed by Albrecht Alt, that
the settlement of Palestine by Jewish ancestors was a gradual process by highlanders gradually
displacing Canaanites living on the lowlands closer to the Mediterranean?
Like it a lot.
That's pretty close in one way or another.
What's being countered there is the biblical story which is like conquest.
How did Israel come to be where it is?
The Bible tells us they all came from Egypt and they all swarmed in and conquered and
took over by battle.
With any sort of little variations here and there, basically everybody's going to tell
you now that in fact it was a much more gradual process, moving originally from the coastlands
and the major cities into the highlands and then as that culture expanded eventually creeping
back and taking that over.
We have the stories about this.
In the Bible we have the stories of Israel having to deal with the existence of non-Israelites
in Canaan, like negotiating those kinds of identity and cultural boundaries and subsuming
them sometimes not always by conquest, sometimes more just by over time.
The basics of that idea, which is that Israel became Israel and took that land over and
came into existence in a gradual, sort of expansive way as opposed to through the biblical
story of conquest, yep.
Thank you.
Four, how does current scholarship respond to the theory advanced by Martin Noth that
the books from Judges through Kings were composed by one author?
Okay, so we'll do a couple of things here.
First of all, it's totally not your fault, but he's German, so his name is Martin Note.
I'm going to do an all of my students who make that mistake the first time, and how would
you know any different?
So fine.
So we want to be clear.
The question is, is Joshua through Kings, it's not composed by one author.
It's the Judges through Kings, sorry.
It's Joshua.
Joshua through Kings all falls under a category that we call the Deuteronomystic history, which
is slightly misleading.
Well, it's descriptive, but also confusing.
The idea is that somebody wrote, sat down and wrote all of those at once.
It's that in fact, much like the Pentateuch, which is a collection of sources, those books
too are a collection of sort of source material, bits from, you know, like, annals, bits from
poetry, bits from preexisting stories, you know, I will tell you that some of it I think
comes from like, you know, some of this David story comes from an original like story about
a narrative about David, a text about David, reworked in various ways.
But all of it, you know, brought to put together to create like the history from the death
of Moses through the exile, right, and that's exactly the history that's told from Joshua
to the end of Second Kings.
How do we explain all the things that happened to us in that time period?
Everything in there is explained through, this is why we call it Deuteronomystic history,
through the lens of Deuteronomy's theology, which is if you obey, you will be rewarded
and if you disobey, you'll be punished.
But this is Deuteronomy's whole thing is like, you know, here's how life goes, right, follow
the laws and you'll be fine, don't follow the laws and bad stuff is going to happen to you.
I suppose that's almost universal, but it's really in biblical terms, it's very closely
associated with the book of Deuteronomy.
Somebody came along and said, all right, Deuteronomy gave me like the theological overview for how
this is supposed to go down.
Here I am sitting in exile.
We must have done the bad stuff, right, like it went bad for us.
Let me go back and like try and trace out like the ups and the downs of Israel's history
according to that, right.
And so, you know, the whole story from Joshua through the end of Kings is how good were we
at following the basic ideas of Deuteronomy.
Don't worship foreign gods.
Make sure you're only worshiping in Jerusalem, but like these really basic like Deuteronomic
principles that Deuteronomy hammers home again and again, whatever you do, don't worship
like the Canaanites.
Don't intermarry with the Canaanites.
So, you know, how do we do?
Well, in the time of Joshua, we did great.
We were all one people.
And then in the time of judges, things started to fall apart because everyone was doing what
they thought was right in their own eyes as judges at Joshua, end of Joshua says, and
then judges says.
So, like, people kept on sinning and then God sent judges and then everyone obeyed those
laws and then we sinned again.
Okay.
And then eventually we had a king.
How did the kings do?
Well, some of the kings were great, right.
David followed all the things exactly.
And then some of the kings worshiped in different places and like that's when things went bad.
How come we all ended up?
How come the Northern King fell because they disobeyed Deuteronomy?
How come the Southern King fell because we disobeyed Deuteronomy?
And so, like, it all becomes a narrative of like, and you can see, right, all the kings
are evaluated, right, like, did he do right in the eyes of God, did he not do right in
the eyes of God, right?
What does that mean?
It means, did they basically follow Deuteronomy's concept of, you know, not worshiping foreign
gods and centralizing worship or did they not?
And that's the end.
And so, it's not that the material under, like underlying it, in other words, the individuals
as an example, the individual story of any given judge, Samson.
And Samson's story isn't like, doesn't really fit into that at all, right?
Like, it's just an independent, nice story.
But when you frame it with, where did Samson come from?
Well, we needed a judge because Israel had sinned, right?
Like, so somebody has edited the Samson story into this larger history.
And so, yes, I think for the most part, I fully am on board with the idea of a Deuteronomistic
history that is an editing project.
You know, bring together all sorts of sources that tell Israel's history.
And I'm going to frame them all in terms of good and bad, right and wrong, sin and punishment
and, you know, like, obedience and reward in light of the theology of Deuteronomy.
And that's what we have in Joshua through Kings.
It's like one, it's a book with lots of sources, but it's one sort of conceptual whole.
Thank you.
Number five, was Deuteronomy the scroll found in the temple during the reign of Josiah,
as mentioned in Second Kings and Second Chronicles?
Some scholars have advanced this hypothesis.
Not only have some scholars advanced it, right?
The idea that Deuteronomy is the scroll discovered in Second Kings is, like, almost essential
to all modern biblical scholarship, right?
We're talking back in the early 18th century when a German scholar was like, I think that's
what's going on here.
And that has, that opened the door for literally everything that we now think of as critical
scholarship, certainly in terms of sources and dating and understanding sort of the general
shape of Israel's religious history, like, that, it's crucial, right?
It's central.
There are people who sort of push back against it a little bit, but in the only way I would
push back against it is, I don't take the story in Kings literally, right?
The story in Kings about the discovery of a scroll in the temple is a story about Deuteronomy,
but I don't think that anyone actually discovered the scroll of Deuteronomy in the temple, right?
That is, again, I think that, as I just told you, that Kings was written in light, like,
with knowledge of it in light of Deuteronomy.
And I think what the story in Kings is saying to us is, like, this moment, which is in the
reign of King Josiah, right, the greatest, most obedient, wonderful King there was, right?
This is the moment when Deuteronomy, like, rose again in its own narrative telling.
In reality, we're probably talking about this is when Deuteronomy came into existence
in the first place, right, which is very much not the biblical story.
But so, second Kings saying, like, we discovered the scroll in the temple and now we all obey
it, is essentially narrativizing and, like, making ancient, right, a scroll that kind
of just came into being, right?
And that's a thing, obviously, that has lots of parallels, too, right?
I'm not going to pick on the Mormons, but, like, that's this, it's the same idea, right?
Like, somebody wrote a thing and they were like, look, I discovered this ancient thing.
It gives it, right?
But we know he found it, or he created it then, or very, like, right.
But so you get two parts, right?
You get the story of the thing created, which is itself a kind of canonical text, and you
get the text that is said to have been found, right, which is itself, but all of it is kind
of a creation of the, it's all sort of a creation at the same time and place, basically.
So yes, I think that the story in Second Kings is a story about Deuteronomy, but I don't think
that the scroll of Deuteronomy was actually found in the temple, right?
I just think that it's, it's all part of a literary construct intended to give Deuteronomy
an incredibly, like, this super prominent place.
Yeah, give it antiquity.
That's interesting.
Antiquity and authority, right?
Right.
Because the story is, they found it and they were like, oh man, we found this old thing.
We'd better start, like, doing all the things in it, right?
So you have a story in which Israel's greatest king, since David, follows Deuteronomy, right?
Your story is already telling us that we should be following Deuteronomy, but even without,
it doesn't say Deuteronomy because it wasn't called that then, right?
Right.
Yeah, the law.
Right.
But, right.
So at that point, you can imagine a scenario in which somebody says, and this is the law
that King Josiah found that he started following, and you should too, and it even says things
like, if you follow, you'll be rewarded, and if you, like, it all builds on itself, right?
It's a whole self-enclosed, conceptual world.
That's really fantastic to think like that.
I never really thought of it that way, and I'm glad you pointed it out.
It makes me kind of think, like, Josiah was actually known as a good guy, right?
Like, he had this thumbs up because he found this, and it fits your narrative about Deuteronomy
and obeying Deuteronomy, and it also explains why, before Josiah, things are bad.
They don't have the Deuteronomy text that they're following.
You see, it's really funny how that works.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, there's a whole thing.
Essentially, this notion of it having been lost kind of since Joshua, essentially, right?
Which isn't surprising either, right?
Joshua was the last time that everybody was all together, and, but of course, remember,
the idea that Josiah was a great king is also a construction of the same story, right?
So they've created, like, it's not that Josiah was objectively a great king.
I mean, he might have been a fine king, but like, the reason we talk about Josiah as being
the greatest king is because the book of kings tells us that Josiah was the greatest king.
Why was Josiah the greatest king?
Because he obeyed Deuteronomy.
Because Deuteronomy, like, it's all, you can't get out of the package into, like, the reality
of, like, oh, yes, Josiah was really great.
No, no, no, that's just part of the story.
Oh, yeah, Josiah did really fine.
Nope, that's part of the story.
Oh, the scroll was part of the story, right?
Like, it's all part of the story.
We can take it from that and be like, what of this, like, what can we say about, like,
the world outside of the text?
And sure, like, I imagine this is all being part of the propagandistic, like, all to the
point of, like, getting Deuteronomy out there.
Like, that's what it's all kind of about, or at least the Deuteronomic ideas.
But that's about as much as I can say.
It's like, this was all written in order to promote Deuteronomy and those ways of thinking
about the world.
Interesting.
The truth of anything that's going on in there.
Number six, how do scholars know Isaiah was composed of three segments, chapters one through
29, 40 to 45, and 56 to 66?
Yeah.
I bet, I bet Collins had a very thorough answer to this, because, you know, this is in a sense
his thing.
He's better at this than I am.
It's not so hard, right?
Part of his chronology, right?
So one through 39 is basically set in the 8th century.
Isaiah's talking to, like, kings back then, Uzziah and Hezekiah, right, 8th century kings,
and reacting to 8th century issues, right?
He's, like, talking about the wars that are going on at that time and place.
And, you know, suddenly in chapter 40, it's not about what's going on in that world anymore.
It's about, like, Cyrus, and, like, we're centuries later.
You know, we're in the exile, and we're looking forward to return to the exile, of the exiles.
And it's just, like, I mean, it's a completely different field of reference, right?
Like, no one, like, we don't care anymore about, like, the Arameans, who we were fighting
with back in the 8th century.
Like, now it's about the, like, you know, the Babylonians and the Persians.
Well, why didn't the, why didn't Cyrus come up in the first 40 chapters?
And why didn't, you know, anyone care about, why didn't anyone in the Aramean talk about
the Arameans in the next few?
And, you know, so there's a huge chronological jump, which, of course, is explained, you
know, traditionally, by, like, he was a prophet, like, he's looking ahead.
That's not how prophets work in the Bible, right?
Prophets don't tell the future, not like that, right?
They don't do the, like, I'm going to talk about, like, historical events that haven't
happened yet.
That's not a thing, right?
When they talk about the future, it's always like, if you don't change your ways, then
this is going to happen in the future.
Or even immediate context future, like, always.
If you go up to the, if you go to the Philistines, you will die tomorrow.
Sure.
Yeah.
Sure, sure.
But none of it is like, you know, ah, and in, like, you know, and a kingdom will arise,
right?
Like, that's not, anyway, that's just not how biblical prophecy works.
Separate conversation.
Bigger conversation.
Right.
That's not how it works, but there's a, there's a change in, so there's change in this chronological
gap.
There's change in reference.
There's a change in writing style, right?
They walk like a dog and it talks like that.
Yeah, right.
It's all, it's all pretty, you know, suddenly a second, what we call second Isaiah, that
is from chapter 40 on.
Second Isaiah suddenly is, has, you know, connections with and references to other parts
of the Bible that the first chunk didn't.
There's a million, a million reasons to recognize it as the case, right?
The only, the only way you don't see it is if you are committed to the notion that it's
not the case.
Otherwise, this is, this is a very old, like, well-recognized thing.
The question of whether there's a third Isaiah or not is actually like a little bit more
debatable.
There's definitely another shift, right?
Chapters 40 through 55, the prophet is like, you know, it's all going to be great.
We're going to go back and it's going to be wonderful, right?
The pair away in the wilderness, right, we're going to, right, we're going to go home and
triumph and it's going to be terrific.
And then chapter 56, suddenly it's like, guys, can we get a little enthusiasm here?
Like, and it seems to be written not in exile where the previous ones were, but like actually
in Israel, right?
Like, or in, in Canaan being like, looking around and like being like, it's not as good
as I hoped it was going to be.
Like there's a sense of disappointment at the failure of, right?
Because second Isaiah is all like, is not just, doesn't just say like, we're going to
go back and triumph, but like, this is it folks.
It's the eschaton, right?
Like the, our return signals the coming of the messianic age and like we're right on
the cusp and it's like, all we got to do is go back and build the temple and like it's
going to be fantastic and we're going to enter the end times.
And here's in chapter 56, it says 66, clearly is a dude who's like in what was supposed
to be the end times being like, it doesn't look like the end.
Like it kind of looks like life isn't awesome and like some of us came back and a bunch
of us didn't and like, we're not building the temple and like it's not as easy as I
thought it was going to be.
And it's certainly not messianic.
And so there is a jump there between what is called second and third Isaiah.
The question is whether there's actually a prophet second Isaiah and a separate prophet
third Isaiah, or whether, as I actually tend to think, it's the same person who like had
the prophecies from before they went back and then got there.
And I mean, it doesn't have to be more than 10 years later.
It was like, oof, like this isn't, this didn't work out the way I was hoping it was going
to be.
And like there's a second set of prophecies from the same, from the same person.
Anyway, that's why we think Isaiah is three things or two things or at least is multiple
things because like it for sure is.
Thank you.
Question, why do mainstream scholars, number seven here, why do mainstream scholars believe
Ruth Esther and Jonah are examples of Jewish, Jewish fiction?
Why do you think they're examples of Jewish fiction?
Well, I like, I don't know, I think it's all fiction, right?
Like why do I, the better question is why does anyone think that anything isn't fiction
in the Bible?
Right?
Like, it's,
That doesn't mean there's not history there.
Sure.
Like kernels.
Sure.
But it's certainly Ruth.
It's certainly the book of Ruth is not like what we couldn't possibly get at the history
there.
It's a story about like individuals and a family, like we're never going to, like you're never
going to get a like historical evidence for something like that, right?
It's got all the marks of, of a, of a fiction, of a novel, right?
It's a novel let, right?
It's, it's just a small story that again, it has no, it's not about national things,
right?
We can't, we can't historically give credence to anything that's just like a story about
individuals doing stuff.
But for the most part, these, I mean, they do, they, these are, these are small tales
that have often morals or like, you know, clear, like, I know why we're doing this,
like payoffs, right?
Ruth is a nice story about belief and about, you know, foreigners and becoming part of
Israel.
And Esther is a story meant to explain how the, right, it's meant to explain a part of
the holiday of, of Purim.
It's also Esther is clearly comedy, right?
Like it's poking, it's making fun of the Persians.
Like that's not really something history does, right?
Like that's something, it's historical fiction, right?
It's set, it's got characters that we know with names that we recognize.
And like, so it's, you know, but it's historical fiction, it's comedy.
And Jonah is also super comedy, right?
Jonah, Jonah and Esther are the two funniest books in the Bible.
And like Jonah is a satire of prophecy, right?
A prophet who didn't, the prophet who didn't want to prophesy, right?
Like the dude who's like, God's like, go do this thing and he's like, I really don't
want to.
And like how far he has to run and so, you know, again.
And the people he has to go to, he's not.
Happy about it.
The whole thing, right?
He doesn't want all the other people, all the people on the ship and all the people.
Anyway, these aren't, yeah, they're, again, I think that it's less the question
of why do we think these are fiction and why, and rather to reverse the question.
Why, when we read anything in the Bible, do we think that it's historically
accurate as opposed to a fictionalized telling of a thing?
And again, if you look at the difference between the, like narrative of any one
of the kings, Josiah, and you look at the story of Ruth, they're just not
generically the same, right?
Like one refers to annals and talks about historical events and, you know,
international, whatever.
And it is clearly an attempt to tell me a history and Ruth is an attempt to
tell me a story and like there's, it's hard to define those things specifically,
but we know them when we see them, right?
Like, you know, when you pick up a novel versus you pick up a nonfiction, even
if it's a historicized historical fiction, you know, it's fiction, right?
It's just read the same as like a biography.
So it's my brief answer to that.
Thank you.
