Derek from MythVision has dropped a super chat that is the question that I was going
to start off with. So Derek, thanks for kicking off the conversation with a beautiful question.
It's love, Dr. Lilly. Question, please tell me how the apocryphal of John paints Yahweh
as the wicked creator. And why do the Christians think this way?
Hi, Derek. Thank you so much. And that is a really awesome question. I have to say that
I probably nuanced this a little bit differently than some of my other colleagues do. And one
of the things that I think is really interesting in this use of Yahweh is that I don't actually
think it's supposed to be necessarily the creator of the world from the Hebrew Bible.
And let me say a little bit more about that. So one of the things that the apocryphal of
John is doing is playing with these two different stories that we get in the Genesis narrative.
So if any of you have read Genesis recently, there are actually two creation narratives
embedded in Genesis one through three. And we get this first creation narrative where
we get the creation of the world out of the void, out of the chaos. God creates things
and it's good. And then God says, you know, let us create a human being in our image, male
and female. They created them. And then we like start again. And God creates the world
again. And this is the story where we get the Adam and Eve story from is this kind of second
narrative of creation. The interesting thing about this is that in the first narrative of creation,
in the so we're going to go with the Septuagint on this. And so this is the Greek translation
of the Hebrew scriptures. In that first narrative, God is called Phaos. So the Greek word for
God. In the second narrative, God is called so Yahweh. So it's Elohim in the first. The second
one is Yahweh. And God and Yahweh is actually translated as Corios or Lord, which also translates
as master, which is also the title given in Greek most of the time for the Roman emperor.
And so I actually think that they are playing. Yeah. So, yeah. So playing two narratives. And
so you get this first creation, which is the creation of the above, the world that's kind of
in perfect harmony with the first Adam that is wonderfully harmonious before we get this rupture.
And then in the second narrative, we actually have the creation of Adam and Eve from the earth,
which is what we get in Apocryphon of John in this second in kind of the second set of stories,
the second creation story that's there as well. So one of the things that I think they're doing,
and I have to say who I'm really following on this is Karen King, but I'm taking very seriously
that this is a critique of these Roman emperors, the kings in the ancient world who claim themselves
to be gods and really think that they're the ones who are in control of everything and do try and
actually control everything through violence, kind of in the name of in the name of peace, maybe taking
the name of peace in vain with the things like the Pax Romana. So yeah. So that's interesting. So you
sort of, we have this, like to play off what you just said, let's say, let's go with it that. All
right. So you have this idea of spirits that are controlling things like Demiurge and there's
Daemons underneath it. And then so that's representative of the heavens and different realms,
but on earth, you have a similar setup, but it's the Roman emperor at the helm, who's sort of like
the Demiurge followed by these satraps, governors, whatever they are. And then these are the
principles of the powers that be the, what do you call them, the rulers, the Archons.
The Archons, principalities, powers, Archons. Makes a lot of sense. Yeah. So that and I don't
necessarily want to take away the mythological form of this. I mean, these are really full-blown
myths. They're using as many resources as they can from their environment, but so many of them
are using what we would talk about as Jewish tropes, that to think of them as anti-Jewish
in this way, I think misses, misses the ways in which they're actually using things like midrashic
interpretational methods to really play with these stories and look for multiple meaning in them.
You know, if you're, if you're not really interested in Jewish stories for existence,
which is kind of one of the narratives that comes out of this scholarship sometimes,
why would you pick the Adam and Eve story as the one that you're going to elaborate?
Just as one, one of many questions we could ask about this.
Yeah. Before this, before I move on to the next, uh, scrooper chat, I just want to ask you, because
this sort of begs the question about Marcyon and then these other groups, like for example, the
this one, I think the best example I think are the Canites, because the Canites are saying
Cain is the good one, because he's the tailor of the land. He's not offering up meat for blood,
like he's offering, he's the peaceful. So where do you think this, do you think that we shouldn't
be looking at these groups sort of as like together, they're all, we should look at them all separately
maybe? So that's one of the questions that, that, um, I have had for a long time and continue to ask
is what are the ways, particularly, um, these groups that have primarily that kind of the
scholarly lenses that we use have primarily been shaped by the anti hereseological writings?
What would it look like if we kind of just got rid of the categories for a little bit
and really started looking and seeing what's there? And again, I just, I feel like I need
to name Caren King in this because a lot of this comes from, from her, from her really fine work on
this. But, but thinking about this real diversity that happens within the first many centuries in
the early Christian, early Jesus movement milieu before Christianity is really a codified thing.
And that, so we get, um, both similarities, overlaps and differences between all of these texts,
and we've wanted to codify them very easily. But the thing that I think that obscures is both the
similarities between texts that we were told, Oh, this is orthodoxy, this is heresy, they don't have
anything in common, or between, or between, um, you know, different heresies, different things
that are orthodox that actually have a lot of difference baked within them. But because we've
created these meta narratives around heresy and orthodoxy, and I might say that, you know,
narcissism becomes a stand in for heresy in certain ways, that it actually obscures, um,
many of these. So like, for example, Apocryphon of John uses this wonderful piece of Enoch,
which is basically a critique of, which is basically a critique of empire and Enoch.
And I remember reading, and I'm not going to remember who this is at the moment,
but a really wonderful scholar of this literature basically saying, you know,
this is great Apocryphon of John is clearly using Enoch. But you know, the Gnostics don't care about,
don't really care about these political critiques, but Enoch it does. So, you know,
it's just missing the bow on Enoch, instead of asking the question of, could this actually,
could Apocryphon of John actually be making a political critique about this? And that's
actually the reason why it's using first Enoch in this way. So those are the types of questions
that I think, for me, have been really, really helpful. So I have to say, I'm still kind of
moving my way through some of these major heresies and thinking about what it means to ask different
questions concerning what it said that they believe, and then going back to the text and
seeing what's actually there. And I think what I really think people should, I don't know,
you do whatever you want, but like me personally, the idea of these groups are heresies,
these groups are, you know, not orthodox. That needs to go. The idea that there's a proto,
I hate to say proto orthodox, that needs to go too. Like, oh, I get it. Okay, you're looking at
Justin Martyr, and you're saying he lines up good with what the church later on describes as
orthodox. All right, fine. I guess you can say it's proto orthodox. But like, really though,
these other groups aren't like the Valentinians, they're not being called heresies in their time.
People are like, oh, that Valentinus is so famous and great. The Nasim preacher is so famous and
great. It's not until later that they sort of get tarnished by these texts. So.
Well, and I think that's just to say too, you know, that's the thing about this word heresies
anyway, that where we get heresy from is that it really just means difference. And it used to just
describe a whole bunch of different philosophical schools that might have been in competition
with one another. But there wasn't this like, this is good, and this is bad necessarily. And,
you know, I think about like the physician Galen from the second century who talks about Christianity
actually as a philosophy. And he's like, you know, they believe some kind of weird stuff,
but there are some really great things about this philosophy Christianity. And so there are ways too
in which in which Christianity, you know, in it in all its multiple forms really fits into this
larger milieu of thinking about, you know, what what are the ways? What are the techniques that we
can use the techniques of the self to, you know, to live the good life. And so in this way, again,
you know, what what happens when we start to put to put these different literatures and conversation
with one another and to think about something somebody like Valentinus as well, who, you know,
he was up for bishop in Rome before he was a pope guys, he was almost. Yeah, exactly. And so realizing
that these folks aren't actually that far away from each other. And then even bringing up someone
like Justin Martyr, when we even start to label label him as proto orthodox, what are things that
are obscured in those writings as well when we're automatically assuming this place where it's like
things have worked out already, we already know what's going to happen. And again, we miss the
ways in which there's so much contingency in these first few centuries of of the movement as they're
like, the creativity is just amazing. And what I don't I don't want to try to suppress that in
my scholarship maybe is the way I agree. I like that's why that's why I love having you on here
to explain these things. Derek is back with another one. Is it fair to say their situation in the
empire, or in their environment is reflected in their mythology? Any way to unravel their mythology
that way? Good question. So, so that's, I mean, that's really kind of what I think is going on in
this is that it is they are reading. And just to say, I always like to let people know this
ahead of time, you know, the book centers sexual violence, this is a huge thing in the ancient
world. So just to be aware that we're moving a little bit into this territory. But I do think
it's these big questions about violence and the way in which empire and sexual violence really
go hand in hand for the Roman Empire. And, and so this myth about Eve, a being kind of a part of
this constellation of female or androgynous, but towards the feminine rather than kind of the
universal masculine that we get really seems to be some kind of critique to me of these larger
imperial, both mythologies, ideology strategies that they're using in the world. And this is the
thing about myth all the time, right, is that it's not just about some primordial past, but it's
about using the primordial past as a tool to help us understand where we are today. And so I think
one of the things that these folks are really trying to do is explain the violence that they see
in, in the world around them, you know, what does it mean to be
in a land that's occupied by, by Rome. There have been several people,
including a colleague and friend of mine, Shirley Polson, who has put
she does work on healing and the, and the Apocryphon of John. And she's really asking
great questions around, you know, what if this is written in Alexandria, thinking about the
situation to have the Jews, the diaspora Jews who are in Alexandria using these stories. And,
you know, just to say to, again, like, why I think it's so important to think of this expansive way
of how they're using the Hebrew scriptures is if you look at someone like Philo of Alexandria,
who's writing, you know, the mid first century, he is reading things like Genesis alongside
Plato. He is absolutely combining these things. And why wouldn't we think that the Nag Hammadi
folks are actually using these same allegorical strategies when they're rewriting these myths?
So I think these are some of the ways that we start to unravel what's going on and ask questions
about, you know, even if we think about our myths in the United States, these myths that we have
about all kinds of things, you know, whether it's, that's terrible, George Washington, I was about
to say George Bush chopping down the cherry tree, but it would actually be George Washington, or,
you know, the pull yourself up by your bootstraps, or, you know, the myth of the American West,
all of these things help to shape who we are. And we think about them as kind of, there are these
natural ways to think about kind of who we are as Americans and as US citizens. And we also know
that they reflect very particular ideologies, and they're not just about myths of the past,
but they're about the present. They're about our material reality. And I guess this is one of the
other things too with these Gnostic myths that I really think is important is that because they
were hidden in these jars and we didn't have them for all of this time, there, there seems to be also
this dissociation of them from the material reality of the people who are writing them.
And so how do we start to kind of slowly put these pieces back together, knowing that we're
probably not ever going to get back to, you know, what really happened, but these possible
constructions of what a past might look like. And, and I think too, just to say, you know,
as we're sitting having this conversation now, still discussing these myths 2003,000 years later,
they do do some kind of psychic and creative work for us. And, and realizing, you know,
the efficacy of this, for this type of work, whether it's for us now or in the ancient world,
you know, what, what do myths do, do for us. And some of that is going to be about this stuff
that's actually happening on the ground in their daily lives that that they're reflecting on every
day. And maybe it's something so big that they have to put it in a myth rather than
deal with it directly, which is maybe why a bunch of these texts don't really envision a different
future, but instead kind of envision the total collapse and destruction of the world at the end
of them. Yeah. And the way you're approaching it and like, it makes me it opens up so many
questions on like, who these characters represent on in on earth or in the Roman Empire, like,
is Jesus not only representing a historical person, but also is he taking on the attributes of
something else? Is he like, you know, is he the, I don't know, like, because you have this idea of
the suffering, suffering servant, who's Israel in the Old Testament, and all of a sudden all
these tropes are being applied to Jesus. Is he is like, is he taking on attributes of the nation
of Israel itself in a way that makes you wonder, is that how they're, but I could be wrong. But
like the way you, the way under what you're saying, that's what's making me think that like
these characters in these apocryphal texts might represent more than just one person or one,
you know, when I like, like the, if the demiurge is representing the Roman Emperor,
it also can say, what is Jesus representing? You know what I mean?
Yeah. Well, and I think this is a big, I think this is a big question. If we think about the
Gospels, um, you know, particularly the Gospel of Mark being written, uh, most likely in the midst
of or just after, uh, the Jewish war in, so which goes from 66 to 71, 72 CE. Um,
you know, the Josephus in as much as, you know, some people say he exaggerates. Um, there's a lot
of rhetoric that's going on there too. Nevertheless, we know that. Oh, no, I was gonna say that I
wouldn't really cut you out, but I keep doing that. But I was gonna say, like, when you're reading
Josephus, he's the way he's describing, especially in the wars. It's like, this is a really dark time.
Like you're walking through the countryside of Israel. You're seeing people on crosses everywhere.
You're seeing places on fire. You're seeing people starving, skinny, dying. Like that's,
that's dark. Exactly. And you know, what better metaphor I think for, um, it's not just, I mean,
it's, it's, it's when metaphor actually is reflecting reality, what better metaphor in the
midst of a situation where people are starving, where the world is literally burning, where,
where it, I mean, thousands upon thousands of people were crucified and not just, I mean,
crucified in horrific ways, not, not just the regular horrific crucifixion, but, but Josephus
talks about that they put the bodies on crosses in different ways to kind of, um, make the torture
even worse around this. And so then in the midst of that, what does it look like to have a crucified
savior? I mean, these are all really important questions to ask. And it's not just going to be,
you know, sometimes I think we think about the uniqueness of, of, of Jesus, um, probably a little
too much as like, as if it was only him who was ever crucified with the two people next to him.
And as if people, you know, throughout the empire didn't see this. I mean, it was one of the main
deterrents, um, for people to, you know, to keep them in line is, you know, you throw a couple
people up on crosses, which is one of the things John Dominic Crossen actually talks about, you
know, you throw some people up on crosses randomly to remind them, you know, what the empire can do.
And, um, and that is going to have, um, I think my imagination can't even really grasp the impact
of seeing that at the crossroads or at the wall in the town that you live in.
Well, yeah, thank you for that.
