If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon.
There are different tiers, as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much.
Don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Derek Lambert, your host.
The Christology of Paul's Opponents by David Oliver Smith.
Welcome to the show, David.
Well, thank you very much, Derek.
Glad to be here.
I'm glad you joined me because I've been pulling my teeth out,
looking at these passages for many years on James, Kephas, Cephas, and Paul.
And of course, John plays a huge part, too.
I mean, but bigger is this, this Cephas-Paul issue.
It's pretty blunt.
And I hear a lot of Christians and those who are not proponents of Christianity
just make this argument all the time.
Well, you know, they're brothers.
Brothers fight, don't they?
Paul's language is pretty vivid in many places.
And in your article, you make a point on, well, I kind of have to have the
thumbnail kind of be a click baby, so to speak, on who's the correct Christ,
because it sounds like there's more than one going on.
So with that, I'll hand it over to you to kind of take us into what is this,
what drew your attention to this idea, and what makes you think Paul's Jesus
is different, if you will, from the others.
Okay.
Well, I had noticed in the second Corinthians 11-4 that Paul says,
look out for people coming preaching another Jesus.
And also, Bob Price on his Bible Geek podcast had talked about another Jesus.
What does that mean?
He said something like that.
I said, yeah, what does that mean?
And so I was thinking about that.
And then, and I also noticed Galatians 3-1, where Paul says to the Galatians,
who bewitched you to be thinking that Christ wasn't crucified?
Wait a minute, Christ wasn't crucified?
What is this?
And interesting enough, second Corinthians and Galatians both talk about people,
somebody, some group, preaching a different gospel.
The words are almost exactly the same.
So who's preaching this different gospel?
Well, gee whiz.
What could another Jesus mean?
Well, what do we know about Paul's Jesus?
Hardly anything.
He hadn't tell us about Jesus except that he was crucified and he was resurrected.
That's about the, he had a last supper.
And then you might say, he's a brother or he was born under law, born of a woman.
Those are disputed.
Anyway, what we, what we definitely know is he was crucified and he was resurrected.
Well, another Jesus might be a Jesus who wasn't crucified and resurrected.
So are these guys Paul's opponents, the guys from Jerusalem?
Well, perhaps James and Cephas or Cephas, however you want to pronounce it,
and John preaching a Jesus that is not crucified?
Hmm, let's look into that a little bit deeper and see what we can find.
And then you see in first Corinthians, he talks about the crucified Jesus is the stumbling block to the Jews.
What Jews is he talking about?
The Jews that he's opponents of that, that would be my guess, not just any Jew watering down the street.
It's so there he and the Paul in Galatians in Galatians five and six talks about the stumbling block of the cross.
So it looks like we've got a problem now.
Paul keeps talking about his opponents want to want the convert converts to get circumcised and and that's what's emphasized all along.
But but but it looks like the real basis is that they don't believe in a in a crucified Jesus.
The uncrucified Jesus is coming direct from heaven and is and is going to institute the kingdom of God that is that is governed by mosaic law and everybody is going to have to follow mosaic law strictly.
Paul is trying to do away with with mosaic law. And this is the crucified Jesus, not for just the Jews, but for all mankind.
And so this is an interesting point. I mean, we can rabbit trail easily and I try not to get off into tangents.
Paul obviously says cursed is anyone who preaches another gospel. And, you know, in he break that from what I understand, they say when they repeat something more than once, they're emphasizing something.
And he says it twice in a row, I repeat, anyone who's preaching another gospel is a curse.
So when you're in your article, take a chiastic structure that I think is interesting because I've said this a long time ago with first Corinthians 15 and the latter parts of first Corinthians 15 that Paul seems to be discussing a new creation,
borrowing from Genesis. And we know Genesis one is a chiastic structure. Day one goes with day four, day two goes with day five and day three goes with day six. You've got the heavens, your light and darkness so to speak.
And like there's a chiastic narrative in this he break that Genesis one, and you go and show there's a chiastic structure and Paul running with this chiastic structure.
You can also see where things may not belong in the chiastic structure, which is what you do in this article.
And when you base it off the chiasm there, you can see Paul's argument and it sounds like he's arguing. These other people don't believe in a crucified Christ.
If they did, they would be willing to be persecuted for it. And this is why Peter won't stand with the Gentiles, and you confront some face to face and says, No, I rebuke him to his face.
That doesn't sound very friendly. I just don't see them on the same page.
That's right. That's right. And it looks like to me that the way Paul placed that in Galatians, after they made the contract, that Paul would go to the Gentiles and the Jerusalem guys, James and Kephus and John would go to the Jews.
And it looks like that Kephus is breaking the contract.
And so I think Paul is saying he's telling the Galatians that these guys aren't to be trusted.
I don't know who to believe about this. It's tough to say. I Paul, I'm not a liar, he says over and over. And you kind of wonder, is he the liar or are the guys who are saying, Hey, as long as you're feeding the poor, we're granting you your Gentile gospel.
You can do this in, you know, under our so so to speak, we'll say here's the stamp of approval. And here Paul saying you broke it, you broke the agreement we had.
And now it's war, baby. Now we're going to war. And Paul seems to be saying, Here's the deal. These guys aren't, they may be super apostles, but it sounds like he's, he's making them out to be, they're nothing.
They haven't contributed to me in any way. I, this is a revelation. I have not received this from men like over and over and over. What, you know, this has to have meaning and value in what Paul is trying to argue.
So my question, I guess in this vein, the buddy of me, buddy of mine were talking on the phone prior to this episode and I said, You know, we don't have writings from the opponents. I wish we did.
And you would probably agree.
Unless it's the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Okay, okay, okay. Now, is that just a your opinion you think that they're similar or
Well, I go along with the Robert Eisenman in his, his book, James, the brother of Jesus and, and the New Testament code and the Dead Sea Scrolls and the first Christians.
Now, you know, in the, in the Dead Sea Scrolls, the, the enemy of the teacher of righteousness was the spouter of lies. Well, if they're calling Paul a liar is he if he's the spouter of lies,
then maybe in his epistles when he says I'm not a liar, these guys are calling me a liar all the time, but that's not me.
So that's possible. I mean, obviously speculative, but it is.
Right.
I do like that you don't you don't do too much speculation in this article on that, even though I love speculation like myth vision podcast, we bring a lot of different types of ideas and a lot of times I may not even agree with my guest but
I do entertain it with what you're saying here though.
It's it is personal like I have been seeing this for some time and going, what's going on are these just two brothers who just had this agreement or is this complete fiction where they're just fictionally creating a narrative is Paul really writing prior to 70.
Wouldn't it make more sense if it was written after just different thoughts come into my head and I just go with the consensus typically and say well yeah he wrote before the seven authentic and they're still interpolations probably in those.
And, but what can we know about the opponents of Paul from Paul's letters, I think is important. I mean, we may not know exactly if they aren't let's say the Dead Sea Scrolls sect.
We may not know exactly what they really taught or believed because we don't have them writing in their own letters saying here's my name my name's James, other than the book of James which is quite interesting but we that's a whole that's not really James you know
what can we know what can we know about these guys from Paul what's Paul saying they believed.
They obviously believe in salvation by works.
That's that's right there at the beginning of Galatians. Did you receive this by faith or did you receive this by works that the he's talked about his gospel.
They were.
They believe in strict, seem to be believing in strict adherence to mosaic law, which, which of course, the Dead Sea Scrolls group community did, if they're the scenes or whatever you want to call.
But anyway, so they're strict believers in the in mosaic law and and why would you need to be mosaic law if you're if you've got a a crucified redeemer who made an atoning sacrifice.
I don't know that doesn't quite make sense.
Yeah, Paul does seem to be abrogating the power of the law on his audience.
And I always been asking myself this question you know I've recently read Paul the Pagans apostle by Dr or Professor Paula Fredrickson.
These are just scholars in the field and they all have different takes.
And it is based on her estimation, Paul's audience are ex pagan pagans. These are her words.
And she wants them to remain according to her Paul wants them to remain ex pagan pagans which in a dummy that down is Paul wants his audience to stay the nations.
He doesn't want them to Judy eyes he wants them to remain the nations. And I think Paula Fredrickson and maybe you can answer me what your opinion is on this tries to say well Paul's okay with the law for Jews, but for Gentiles, he's against it.
Do you take that stance or do you think Paul is abrogating the law, pretty much to in totality and that acts might be playing a fiction, trying to make Paul Jews can do it, but Gentiles can't.
He seems to say that in Romans.
It's hard to tell what's what's going on in Romans for me anyway.
But he seems to be saying that the law is okay for Jews.
You know, he says, what's the advantage of circumcision. Well, much in any and every way. Well, what, what do you mean. So, so I can see where she's where she's getting back.
But he kept preaching over and over again that all mankind was going to be is saved by Jesus Christ atoning sacrifice.
That's just strange. Yeah.
He goes so hard in Galatians to saying go ahead and castrate yourself like cut the whole thing off and I know that you mentioned that's a joke and others have mentioned it's not necessarily a joke actually it's kind of a pun saying look if they're going to push it on you they might as well cut their
whole thing off they love it so much they might as well. Yeah.
And Dr. Fredrickson says that she believes Paul isn't necessarily bashing the law, but that she he's trying to downplay it in its influence on his Gentiles his ex pagan pagans, because he doesn't want them to be convinced to go to it.
But if what you're saying is correct, that this is a whole nother Christ. This is a crucified Christ.
Paul's version of Christ has a huge soteriological Christological influence on his audience.
Is that the way we should probably be interpreting this instead of saying well Paul's being hard on the law but only like like we know what Paul's really thinking here only because he wants his audience here to not become Judaized.
Or is Paul really viewing the law as a problem in conflict with his Christ. Does Paul believe in that Christ and I thought Paul was a Jew.
Didn't Paul practice all these law things how did his Christ not interfere with his soteriological and Christological influence. You see where I'm going with this like it just.
Yeah, but I think he Paul saying that once there was Jesus's atoning sacrifice or once God made it known. And of course, Paul is the guy who could could read the Old Testament and and be it was revealed to him.
Yeah, but God had a son and he was crucified.
Now it's been revealed that.
So, but the law is done away with it looks like to me in most places but I guess he's saying if you want to follow the law you can if you want to.
You're going to keep a little you got to keep it all but then he says even the guys who are telling you guys to Judaize aren't keeping the whole law so it sounds like they're actually enemies he doesn't paint them in a good light.
No, not all.
Let me ask you this that this gets into details that you don't go into in the article that I really I'll put the if you're okay I'll put the PDF down in the description for others to read.
Yeah, I really, really appreciate this. This is a very well written. I love the chiasm. It's an interesting angle if you're trying to wonder what may not belong in Paul Paul's corpus here.
And maybe what does because Dr price while debating William Lane Craig famous apologist used first Corinthians 15 and they start arguing over and William Lane Craig wanted to mock him.
So you're telling me that this is an interpolation of an interpolation of an interpolate and I like trying to mock Dr price and Dr prices listen. This is a creed. It's obvious it has been touched. It has been tampered with.
I mean you have different sets of apostles and weird stuff that doesn't make sense as is.
It's clear this is definitely been touched and you say cut those parts out. Look at the chiasm and you'll see Paul's preaching a crucify Messiah. So my question is, and this is something I've asked Dr price and others on episodes.
They have different opinions. It's okay.
What are your thoughts, even if you don't know I'd like just an opinion that's okay.
When he says Christ crucified. Do you think in the similar sense of like a celestial crucifixion and what does that mean because historicist pen it to Roman crucifixion on earth right down the street.
No, I think it was, I think it was a celestial crucifixion.
I'm not sure how it took place, but, but when Paul talks about the, the rulers of this age crucified Christ in what first Corinthians.
So, yeah, it was, it was a, I think the rulers of the ages are some kind of demonic forces.
And they crucified Christ in the heavenly realms.
You've got to kind of assume that, or I assume it in my article and then I come, I come to that conclusion at the end of the article, because it, it doesn't make sense.
Unless there was no historical Jesus, because surely James and Kephas and John would have known whether Jesus was crucified.
And if they didn't, if they didn't know that he was crucified, then, then it must have been in heaven. And that's what you have to have faith in according to Paul.
You have to have faith that he was one crucified and two resurrected. And then you get justification by faith.
You do mention in your article that you found that you believe in, in Paul's writings, it gives the reference that the other apostles do believe, correct me if I'm wrong, I might, I might be messing something.
They do believe that Christ resurrected, but that he wasn't crucified, or is it, what was it that Paul is saying that they, or what they have in common, what was it that they had in common?
What they had in common was that Christ was going to come to earth and set up the kingdom of God.
So they don't even believe he died. I mean, they'd have no use for that. Which do you think this is superimposed from some mystery school stuff and Paul's thinking and he might have too much Hellenism going on while he's reading his Hebrew scriptures or reading the Septuagint?
I don't know. I'm not all that familiar with Philo, but it looks like maybe he's getting, he's getting a lot of that from Philo.
Ascension of Isaiah, where Jesus is supposedly crucified and ascension of Isaiah.
But so there's a lot of, it seems to be a lot of Philo from the little bit I've read in Paul.
But it looks like to me that the Jerusalem Apostles, James, Kephas, and John are looking to Daniel 7, 13, and 14, one like the Son of Man is coming, and he doesn't say anything about this Son of Man is crucified before setting up the kingdom of God.
Daniel doesn't call it the kingdom of God. He says a kingdom that will have no end in Daniel.
But Paul, I think, is looking to like Isaiah 53 and say, no, no, no, there was a crucifixion and Psalm 22.
No, there was a crucifixion and Jesus was crucified.
Interesting, interesting. I want to read, take us back a little bit here.
And by the way, yes, speaking of the Jerusalem Apostles, not knowing about the crucifixion, isn't that the ending of Mark, the women, the women don't tell anybody that Jesus was crucified and resurrected.
I think Mark's making fun of the, of the Jerusalem Apostles.
Ooh, interesting.
Oh, you didn't know because those silly women didn't tell you about it.
Is that your excuse?
That would be an interest. If that's true, that'd be crazy.
I'm going to take us back to the law for a second. The law is obviously a huge, huge issue in this time, which, I mean, the law is a curse.
I've never heard that in the Old Testament. Now, I will say this, I have buddies who go, dude, are you kidding me? How can you not see this?
And then I have other buddies who are like, I'm with you, Derek, I agree with you.
And to me, I can't find anywhere in the Hebrew Bible, the Septuagint, anywhere in the ancient scriptures, so to speak, where it clearly says the law is a curse.
It talks about curses and blessings from obedience or disobedience, but it doesn't say the law itself is a curse.
Is Paul jumping to a conclusion saying nobody can keep this thing? You just, there's no way you're going to be able to do it.
Therefore, it's automatically going to be a curse. Does he have this impossible idea of being able to be completely obedient to the law or?
Yeah, I hadn't really thought about it much, but what you're saying makes sense that I don't know of any place in the Old Testament, although I'm not all that familiar with the Tanakh,
whether it says the law is a curse, but I wouldn't think that anywhere would say the law is a curse, but Paul sure seems to think it is because, you know, he talks about, I didn't know what coveting was until it told me not to,
but the law tells me not to covet, and I want to follow the law, but I can't. I want to do it. My heart wants to do what the law says not to do, and like that.
Was that Romans, I think? But anyway, so it's certainly a burden, and I think Paul would have said it's a burden for the Gentiles who weren't raised that way.
So it was also a selling tool. No, no, you don't have to get circumcised. You don't have to follow all these weird dietary restrictions.
That's interesting. I totally agree. I think there's something there for sure. And the fact that it's a burden, come on, David praises the law, thanking God for the law.
It's such a blessing, and it just has a totally different perception of the law. And something I want to ask, who also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant? Not of the letter, but of the spirit.
For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. But if the ministry of death, having been engraved on stones, and then of course it continues, and I believe this is in Galatians, or no, Second Corinthians, I apologize.
Second Corinthians, he's talking this way. Is this Stoicism? I mean, it sounds like I was listening to a lecture by Dr. Christine Hayes in its Divine Law, and she was expressing that she was going from like old or Ezra and how the prophets view the law.
And then Paul comes on the scene. It is nothing like how they are looking at it. It's almost that in Stoicism, they have the perfect Divine Law, and technically it's immutable, unchangeable, and it's like nature.
It's like perfect. It is what it is. Whereas your writing law is not perfect. It's not 100% accurate.
And this in, I think it's either Platonic or Stoic thought that is influencing Paul here. It's probably both in this, in this day and age, where he's saying, look, this law, you need, you need the spirit.
Obviously, you can't do this alone. I don't, I don't see that a lot in the Old Testament. Like I don't see them not being able or not attempting to be capable of keeping it. There are places where like Job was a perfect and upright man.
They give implications of other people being perfect and upright man, obedient to God and stuff. Just, just, just strange to me. So I don't know if you have a comment on that.
Well, now I really haven't thought a whole lot about that. But you know that the Old Testament is the struggle of the Jews, the Israelites to keep the law, to keep in God's good graces.
They're always falling out and getting back in and falling out. And of course, Israel means wrestle with God. So they're, they're always wrestling with the, how to, with the spiritual, it's as a metaphor, I suppose.
But anyway, so.
Okay. Well, yeah, I totally think there's something there. That's why I said earlier, I think Paul might be realizing we're not doing too well guys, like this isn't working. He believes he's in the last days, which is so important when you're looking at Paul.
Most critical scholars would suggest that he thought something was really about to happen. And it didn't, most will say. But was, did Paul's version, if Paul's was spiritual, spiritual resurrection, spiritual crucifixion, so to speak, it's like, you know, it's not in the literal sense.
Why are Christians running on with a physical resurrection and stuff? It's just, did they get a, do you think some of these other apostles have influenced Pauline School of Thought? And this is a weird mishmash where people think they're going to have physical resurrection when Paul's not talking about that.
You know, the seeds planted.
But it's the spiritual body that rises, not the real little physical. What happened? Do you think Keith, James and John got a hold of people and said, you guys better keep this real physical kingdom coming type thing?
I think this is speculation, pure speculation, but my idea was that the Paul's Christianity was so hard to understand, especially for these Gentiles that are out in the Roman Empire,
that the way that the church says, look, we're not selling this very well. People aren't grasping what's going on here. And so they decided, whether consciously or unconsciously, they decided to make it more concrete,
not a lot of people are abstract thinkers. A lot of people are concrete thinkers, and they can understand a man being crucified, and then magically resurrected, rising from the dead.
But the whole spiritual thing, and you just have to have faith, like Paul was saying, I think they couldn't sell it. I think that they found that as Bob Price calls them, the pew potatoes, that weren't getting Paul's message.
And they had to dumb it down to make it a physical crucifixion and a physical resurrection.
That makes sense. And you can use that for the historicity, because you can see why they needed a real guy at the basis. They're just not able to understand how they can have a celestial being.
Now, my idea on the Gospel of Mark is, Mark absolutely was a Pauline Christian, and he knew that this crucifixion happened in heaven, because in Mark, every event in Jesus' life is based on an Old Testament scripture.
There's an Old Testament source. So what happened to Jesus is being revealed to Mark, and he's writing down. Every teaching of Jesus is based on a Pauline epistle.
So now, he also, I think, I think he used Josephus as a historical context with John the Baptist and Herod and Pontius Pilate.
So he puts it in that, and Mark, I think, this is just solely my idea, I've never heard this anywhere else, is wrote his Gospel, the first written Gospel, was addressed to the Jerusalem Apostles, telling you,
look, Jesus was crucified, because the only people who would get that would be biblical scholars and the Jerusalem Apostles. If they're the Dead Sea Scrolls community, if they're the Essenes who studied the Torah day and night, according to the Dead Sea Scrolls,
they would get those references. They would get the reference of Elijah in the desert, and Elisha being the Elisha, recruiting Elisha in what, 14, 18, something like that, in Mark.
They would get all those references, and they would see that you can read the Old Testament to say Jesus was crucified. And so that's what Mark is doing. He's telling the, and that's what he wrote it for.
He wrote it for the Jerusalem Apostles, for the Dead Sea Scrolls people, saying, that's what Christ was, Jesus was crucified in heaven, and you, but you don't know about it. You say you don't know about it.
Because only a biblical scholar could get all those references. The pew potatoes in Galatia or Corinth or Thessalonica, they don't get that.
No. No, that's interesting. Yeah, I definitely need to look into this more. Are you writing a book and having this in it, or is this, what are you currently writing?
Well, it's, I've got a book on Mark, but I'm not sure that I put that theory in that book. My book, Unlocking the Puzzle, is about the gospel of Mark and how that's been redacted.
And I move Mark around and take out all the interpolations, and then you get a really good gospel that makes sense. It's well structured. It doesn't have Jesus wandering all over the place from here to there.
And so, but anyway, I don't think that's in that book. My current book is on Paul and interpolations into Paul's epistles.
I can't wait to read it.
Yeah, this chaiastic stuff. I can't wait to get it. I was going to read something from your article where you're talking Galatians.
So you say, we can be sure that the apostles who preached an uncrucified Christ and circumcision to the Galatians are the apostles from Jerusalem, even though Paul declines to identify them at Galatians 510.
This is demonstrated by the literary structures found in Galatians. There are a number of chaiastic structures in Paul's epistles to the Galatians. One of the structures encompasses Galatians 2 1 through 12.
The words I have shown in parentheses appear to be later interpolations revealed by the chaiastic structure. Both of these passages appear to be interpolated because there are too many words in these passages without a corresponding chaiastic match.
Given the match frequency in the rest of the structure, the chaiastic matches are shown in italics and then you go in. Then after 14 years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, also taking Titus with me.
And when I went up pursuant to a revelation and I lay before them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them who were esteemed unless I might be running or had run in vain, but not even Titus, a Greek who was with me was compelled to be circumcised.
And as a result of the false brothers, surreptitiously brought in, who came in secretly to plot against our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, so that we will be enslaved.
Not even for an hour did we yield in subjection to them, that the truths of the gospel might continue with you, but from those who were esteemed to be something whatsoever formally they were, it makes no difference to me.
God does not accept man's person, they indeed, who were esteemed contributed nothing to me.
But to the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel of the uncircumcision, even as Peter with that of the circumcision, for he that wrought for Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision wrought for me also to the Gentiles.
I suspect he's speaking of James.
I suspect or God, something like that.
But this is in parentheses.
So this is stuff probably interpolated here.
And when they perceive the grace that was given to me, James and Kephus and John, italics, they who were esteemed pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised.
They only wanted that we should remember the poor money, which very thing I was eager to do.
But when Kephus came to Antioch, I resisted him to his face because he stood condemned for before certain ones came from James, he ate with the Gentiles.
But when they came, he drew back and separated himself fearing them that were of the circumcised.
This this seems to cut a deep vein.
It's a deep course in here that I don't think gets enough magnification on it when we're trying to understand what's going on because I saw in your your discussion with me yesterday about like, who is the audience of the Gentiles.
Remember, we're talking about, are they actual Israelites? There's the theory that these are actual or they or Paul believes they're real literal Israelites.
And then there's, you know, the idea is that these are just they became children of Abraham by faith and stuff like that.
Really, if you look at this close, if Paul is teaching a complete gospel different than Peter, James and John, this can also interpret some of that stuff, you can really start going.
He's not trying to get them to come to Torah. To me, it makes very little sense why you wouldn't want Israelites to go to Torah.
You know, I could see you going to non Greeks to complete others, nation, so to speak, but to make them these, it's an interesting angle to consider.
Yeah, yeah, interesting.
But I don't know if you want to comment on that.
Well, no, I don't know. I don't know much about that Israel only theory. So, I mean, you just introduced it to me yesterday.
Right.
I'd seen some postings on Facebook about it on that you've had. But I don't think I've thought enough about it to be able to make an intelligent comment.
No, no, no, mad respect for that too. I think that's important that we don't until you understand something that's important not to criticize or even possible.
But I do, I personally, from my research can see how there's possible influence on interpretation on this issue. And that's why I think your point is well taken.
Christ crucified and others believe he wasn't. Then what would that make that Christ was that Christ a messianic figure.
You say that.
One like the son of man coming in Daniel, he's going to just come straight down and and set up the kingdom of God and under mosaic law.
I have to pose that I have to I have to put this before you and have your opinion on this.
Okay, I've heard it said recently I got to do an episode of my buddy. His name is dragons and Genesis really is Jason folks is his name but he goes by dragons and Genesis.
He said in passing and it made me go. Oh, no, you didn't know you didn't.
He said that the book of Revelation or apocalypse of John gives the indication that Christ had never come to earth yet, but that he was going to come almost like there was no earthly ministry.
There was nothing here, but that revelation, the book is having him come. He hasn't came yet, but when he does, that's it.
That would make sense because it's a very Jewish book. Very. They say it's the most he break book in the New Testament.
I've heard that. Yeah.
I don't pay a whole lot of attention to revelation. It's so hard to understand.
What is he talking about red dragons and I don't know.
And pregnant women who are running away.
I don't get it.
But anyway, and people just love to speculate on on revelation, but because it's so easy. I mean, it can mean so many things but
it could be that that it anticipates a heavenly Christ that has not yet come to earth.
That's kind of where I'm coming from. I think there's different teachings. I mean, if Paul says there's different teachings, shouldn't we take him out as word?
There's different teachings. And if there are, can we not look hard to see maybe look, I mean, you know, let's look for maybe they are there.
The Gospel of Matthew have an extremely Jewish slant. I came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel, but Luke does not say anything of the such.
It never clearly indicates that. Why are they different? And so that's why I like critical scholarship and that's why I'm interviewing you because your articles really, really interesting.
Great.
But yeah, I guess, is there anything we haven't touched so far? I mean, we kind of practically touched most of what you, in a general sense, of course, you get into detail you spend a lot of time in first Corinthians,
second Corinthians, Galatians, I noticed those are like the three biggies.
Right, right. Those are the ones that are the crux of interpreting what is the Christology of the Jerusalem Apostles. Yeah.
The, might want to get into Galatians five and six, because they see they seem to be saying, saying the same thing.
Here's Galatians five. Here's Galatians six. I should at least I show the chaiistic structure. Galatians six.
But in Galatians five, what is it exactly? Paul writes he if he's now preaching circumcision, as his unnamed opponent has claimed, then the stumbling block scandal on of the cross has been removed.
Apparently, we don't, there's a, there's a letter from the Galatians to Paul, where they say, oh, we hear that you're now preaching circumcision.
They said, oh, really, I didn't know that. But, but if I'm preaching circumcision, then the, then the scandal of the cross, the stumbling block of the cross has been removed.
If I'm preaching circumcision, then there's no crucified Jesus. So, so it's circumcised circumcision of preaching circumcision equals preaching no crucified Jesus right there in in 511.
This is, this is very interesting. I wonder, and this is just speculative thrown and out there I could be way off my rocker here so please don't stone me to death people.
That's why the, the Muslims do not have Christ being actually crucified. They do not have a crucified Christ. It just makes me wonder, you know, I know they do have Judas in one of their.
There's a, there's a pseudoprographical writing, I think, where Judas gets crucified instead.
Okay, okay, you want to hear my, my speculation.
Yeah, yeah.
About about Islam.
Please.
Okay.
I think that after the Romans beat the Jews in the Jewish war. Now, it, it actually could have been more likely at the time of the barcode war in 135.
The Paul's opponents, the Jerusalem apostles, who I think could be the Dead Sea Scrolls community fled because Romans were killing all the Jews are selling them into slavery or something.
They didn't do that in 70. But they did in 135. They got tired. The Romans got tired of all the Jews having these revolts all the time. So they started killing the Jews.
They flee to Arabia.
The, the Jerusalem, the descendants of the Jerusalem apostles, the Dead Sea Scrolls community.
And they even in the Quran, it mentions that Medina has a lot of Jews there and Mohammed has to negotiate with the Jews in Medina.
But anyway, the, so I think that the anti Pauline Christianity morphed over 500 years morphed into Islam being, being there in situated in, in Arabia.
And so there's, there's a lot of similarities between the James and Kephas and John's Christianity and and Islam. And one of them, you hit the nail on the head is the no crucified Christ.
But they say, oh, some people think that Christ was crucified, Jesus was crucified, but he wasn't. Now, of course, Islam doesn't have Jesus as the son of God or the Messiah, but he's going to leave the battle in the final Armageddon battle.
Right. So, I think Islam is the, is the descendant of the, of the James's Christianity.
Interesting. This is interesting, but then they borrow baggage in different ways like.
Oh, you know, there's no, there's no way to prove that because the, the, the Muslim scholars have have done away with all the, all the old.
Documents you, you're never going to find a document that proves that one way or the other.
Right, right. It's interesting speculation because they're very legalistic.
You know, obviously Sharia law and, and go from there, but I think this rift is right at the core. They, the book of acts is trying to paint over this.
Oh, absolutely. No question.
Peter does this and then Paul does exact same thing. And, and then I end up big buddies at the end. Yeah, yeah, yeah, right.
And I think that's why even my friends who are not Christians who are reading these and they take acts at face value.
They think Paul's like really a okay with Torah, with circumcision, all the stuff.
And I mean, you could take that Romans passage you quoted earlier where he's saying, it's okay.
Is Paul losing it is what's he schizophrenic. I mean, bipolar is he's just saying that because he's around some Jews, because he does say I become all things to all people.
Right.
If his whole audience possibly is mainly Gentile, let's say Galatia, and then some of the audience at Rome, Rome is, you know, Jew and Gentile.
Look to the Jews, it's cool, but not you guys. Yeah, I don't know.
It looks like to me that whoever wrote acts where it was Luke or whoever, it looks like to me, he's going he goes through Paul's epistles.
And then, and then he writes a sanitized version of what of some something that that Paul mentions.
And the in action or they have the Council of Jerusalem, which is kind of repeating what Galatians to is talking about, but it's, it's, it's totally different.
But I can recognize it as being the same, the same incident.
And instead of the doing a collection for the poor, then, then Paul has to what he has to fund those NASA rights or whatever.
Because they literally bring up the controversy in acts in a way.
We hear that you're doing something along with the law.
If you prove it to us, pay this blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, why would they even be speculative that this guy's doing something contrary to the law or wrong with the law.
If the guy, I mean, you even have the whitewashed version giving us too much information.
And that's why I have a hard time.
Personally, and I'm very open to this on my channel.
I have a new theory I'm interested in entertaining, and it is the Paul within Judaism school of thought, which is the more radical Paul.
And I want to know it's a, sorry, it's a radical school of thought that says Paul was really being a true Jew and faithful to Judaism and things like that.
I want to hear their angle.
I want to hear their angle, you know, I'm open to all these things, but, but I can't get over my head like, why is everyone even the books that try to paint them good make Paul.
Sound like he's had problems with the law here before.
I mean, was he supposed to Judea eyes, his Gentiles. I mean, what was everyone supposed to Judea eyes. Paul sounds like he's like no. So, you know, yeah, he teaches, he teaches them morals and to love each other and, and he does use, you know, love your neighbor,
which is from Leviticus and such, but, but he's just using the moralistic parts of the law, not the ceremonial part of the law.
Yeah, I'm in agreement with that but you can also find these teachings, even outside of the law, you know, the Torah to not. Oh yeah, they're from Egypt from 2000 BC.
Yeah, absolutely. Right. So I mean, but I suspect it's better to stay in the Jewish milieu when you interpret these things and that's okay.
But I'm with you and I had a buddy recently I wonder if anything you mentioned here has any influence on Enoch or the Enochian type concepts on Paul.
This guy goes into explain Joseph, the guy was talking about the Jason folks that Genesis dragons and Genesis, and he says that Paul's doing a lot with Enoch.
And if you've read any like the animal apocalypse in Enoch, it's interesting. They equate.
Man, it's, it's, it's something worth checking out in this avenue.
While you're writing your books, be just to throw it in there. If it seems like it's relevant, I can imagine you doing something interesting, especially after reading this small article that I thought I was going to tackle it in 10 minutes.
No, this took about 30 to really dig to really hit.
Um, but yeah, he goes into how that thought of Enoch plays an important role in Paul, which would interestingly agree with the celestial son of man figure and all these things.
So I'm fascinated with that.
That's great. Yeah. Yeah.
What else did we not touch.
I don't know.
I could read something from first, first Corinthians 15. If you'd like to talk about that particular passage because that creed is important in your interpretation here.
Right. Well, you're right. We ought to mention that because if you take first Corinthians 15, one through 15 at face value.
It looks like it's directly contradicting what I say, because it says that James and Kephas and Paul all preached a crucified and resurrected Christ.
I show actually Bob Price has an article.
He wrote in 1995.
And he, he was speculating in his article that first Corinthians 15 three through 11 where the creed is that that's an interpolation.
And, and, and I did a, I mean, the, the chiastic, I've looked at it from a chiastic structure and I said, Oh my gosh, Bob Price is exactly right that three three through 11 is an interpolation.
And so the interesting thing about this 15 one through 15 15 without three through 11 so it's fairly short.
But the, the matching language is real close together. Paul doesn't always do that. Sometimes the matching language is 20 or 30 words apart, but these are like three words in a match, three words in a match, three words in a match.
It goes bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang like this, but it, it's, it's clear to me that three through 11 is a is an interpolation.
And the, the chiastic structure just pops right out because you have believed in vain matches your faith is in vain belief and faith is the same word in Greek.
And Christ has been raised matches Christ has been Christ has preached.
And no preaching matches preached our preaching is in vain, and matches crisis preached and he has been raised man matches Christ has been raised.
And then there is no resurrection of the dead.
So it's a clear chiastic structure and that that big long passage three through 11 just doesn't fit somebody somebody stuck that in one thing you have to have in these in these chiastic structures.
You have a matching a prime B matching B prime C matching steep right and and that a a a prime is called a stitch B B prime is a stitch. Well, and each the each half is a hemi stitch.
And the hemi stitches have to be balanced if one has 10 words. The other one ought to have 10 words or about the same number of syllables 10 to 12 words or something like that.
They're, they're, they're balanced so that when you read, when you read it, you can get you can get the balance and the poetry of it. And if you stick in 110 new words in there.
You can see that it's it's been interpolated somebody stuck it in and didn't pay attention to the chiastic structure.
I'm going to share this visual I want to show them the the actual article here for a second just the place where there's the chiastic structure for first Corinthians 15 I hope our audience can see.
But here in in this is this is your chiastic structure.
And I'll just read it a 15 verse one of you are a 15 one says now I make known to you brothers, the gospel that I preached to you which also you received wherein also you stand by which also you are saved if you hold fast to the word which I proclaimed to you, unless you believe in vain,
but if Christ has preached that he has been raised from the dead.
How say some among you there is no resurrection of the dead, but if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised, and if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, your faith also in vain is vain, and we are found false witnesses of God,
because we witnessed concerning God that he raised up Christ, whom he did not raise up.
If that be so, the dead are not raised and a connects to a B connects to B, C to C, and that's chiasm for anyone who's not familiar with it, but you had to erase or if you will kind of experiment here by removing three through 11 if I'm not mistaken.
But you see how it makes perfect sense without that in there.
Yes.
It's a perfect sense argument and, and then, and then the argument in the first half is repeated in the second half backwards in reverse order so that's a chiasm that's and somebody stuck in a whole bunch of other stuff that Paul never wrote.
I think definitely I got to find that article, maybe you can find it but if someone who's watching can find it, comment it down in the comment section of Dr. Price's article because I know he makes the common often when it talks about appearing to the 12 and to the brother and this and that.
Very big confusion on James and the 12 is James not part of the 12 like, you know, there's strange stuff that does not work in right in this whole thing so.
Yeah, Bob Price's article is first Corinthians 15 three through 11 as opposed Pauline interpolation. That's in the Journal of higher criticism, volume two, number two, 1995.
So, so, yeah.
It's in your footnote. I'm sorry. Yes. Yeah. Okay, I was just thinking there was an article because I'm sure he's written on this more than once.
I would.
Yeah, that's fascinating. I never thought to take an a chiasatic approach what made you start by saying, you know what, I'm going to check it out chiasically like what made that happen.
Well, I got used to putting things in a chiasatic structure in in reading the Gospel of Mark first of all, when I started this into the historical Jesus, what 15 years ago, I read Michael Turton's book called a historical commentary on the
history of Mark. And, and Turton introduced me to chiasatic structure I'd never heard of it.
But Mark is every pericope in Mark is a is a chiasatic structure, and Turton sets that out and you can see how things match match up in Mark market is not quite as obvious as Paul but you can see it.
So, I, I started.
I didn't think Paul was was structured like that at all.
But, but I think the first time the first thing I did with Paul and a chiasatic structure was the Galatians to because that the stuff where, where he changes from calling.
He says, Kephus to Peter that, why did he change them? Why did he change his name in the middle of the chapter. Well, you can start looking at it. Oh, I see.
Went up to Jerusalem matches, Kephus came to Antioch.
Oh, and I laid before them a gospel matches.
They wanted us to remember the poor, which I was eager to do. Yeah, I, and so I saw that and then, and what happens poof.
There, there are too many words in, in relations to seven to eight.
And it looks like those are not balanced. They're supposed to be balanced. And if you take out to seven be into a, then, and, ah, voila, your balance.
And then I found an article that people were saying that I got the guy's name I think he's from.
Europe.
That to seven be in to eight are interpolation. Yes, yes. And so then, and then, then I was able to do the same thing with first Thessalonians to, you know, where Paul talks about the
Jews have, have received the judgment or yeah, yeah. Well, not all of that is, is an interpolation.
But, but, but there's there are certain phrases that if you take those phrases out, then it matches.
And so, gee, I wonder if you can do this with all of, of Paul. And then, and so, when I, when I was writing this article, and I think of another, another Jesus and second Corinthians and
why, why don't you believe Christ is crucified in Galatians. And I come across first Corinthians 15. I said, gee, this is diametrically opposed to what of my thesis what's going on here.
And then I said, Oh, three through 11 might be an interpolation.
And so it all, it all comes out.
Wow.
I think that's interesting because I've, I've seen first Thessalonians to and if that's not an interpolation, which I'm, I'm pretty, the evidence makes me think it is.
Then he knows too much. That's the best thing I could say and too many people don't know that he could have had the assumption look how Jews were acting with Rome all this time.
Well, you can make that all day long. You can make that guess all day long that the new the temple is going to come down. All this stuff's going to happen.
But for a fact with the Gospels, that's like dealing with Daniel and dating Daniel. I've got really good friends, digital Hammurabi, Joshua Bowen, Dr. Joshua Bowen and his wife, Megan Lewis that do a YouTube channel.
And he goes in and shows how Daniel's seven chapter seven through 12 had to be written later and after the fact.
So this, this interpolation is, you know, it's, it's people who are historicists and stuff might say, Oh, you're going to hear comes another interpolation like ha, ha, ha, you know, but I think it's important to consider them.
I'm not saying you have to take it to the bank. The words are there.
But if you don't think someone played with these texts, you know, I just don't know how you can't.
Well, in doing the research for my current book, which is on interpolations in Paul, I got William Walker's book interpolations in the Paulian epistles, and, and he says, you've just got to assume there are interpolations in Paul's epistles, they couldn't have lasted
that long without, without being interpolated, because he shows interpolations in, in other ancient writings, not just biblical, but in all that. And he says,
the burden of proof is on people saying that there's no interpolations.
That's a dang, that's a claim like no other but that makes sense. I especially religious ones with multiple versions of Christianity, different kinds of sex of Christianity.
Absolutely.
Yes, sir. Yeah, this is interesting you make me want to go back and reread my the epistles and just kind of look for stuff but are you getting into Greek when you do this or you.
Yeah, I, I really don't know Greek, but I use an inner linear.
So I put the epistle, I take my screen, I'll split my computer screen and have my English translation of it. And, and then I have the Greek on the other side, and I'll count the words and, and, and look at the
meaning. You know, the Bible hub has this great inner linear, and you can click on the strong and find out what the definition of it and how the words been used and other things. It's, it's marvelous.
Yeah, I make sure that the Greek works to that, not just in English, but because sometimes an English, the English will look like it's a chiastic match, and it's not. And sometimes the Greek, the English doesn't look like a match and it is.
Wow.
Like grace. I think it's grace and gift, or basically the same word in in Greek it's, it's charisma, or what the root for charisma.
If you didn't realize that grace and gift are matching, you might miss a chiastic mantra. Now, in Paul, not every literary unit is chiastic some are parallel. You'll do AA, BBC, CDD, or AB, sometimes ABC, ABC, like that.
Wow.
So a little over half of his literary units are chiastic and the other half are either parallel or some kind of hybrid. Sometimes he does weird stuff, but but you can tell that it's, he's doing, he's doing something with words.
Wow.
Matching them up, but you got to, you got to really takes a long time to look at those things and look at it and really look at them and what what is really being matched here.
Oh, yeah.
David, David, David, this is a really interesting article. Everybody watching please go down check it out. Is there anything else you'd like to touch before we get off?
I don't think so. I think we've hit just about everything with regard to this article. Yeah. Yeah.
You're writing a book right now, correct?
Right. Uh huh. I'm right now. My, my working title is rhetorical analysis in the of the Pauline letters detecting fraud and interpolation by the use of chiasm and parallels.
Got to get it. I'm going to, well, when it comes out, you know, we got to have another show. We got to get you on to talk about it.
But you know, it's a little hard to match up these words in when you're looking at them. I tried to do it in that article with italics and you could see where the italics is.
In this book, I'm using colored highlighting. So the, so the A matches are always yellow and the B matches are always green and C matches are always blue.
And so, so the words kind of will kind of pop out for you. But I need to find a publisher who do, who do the colors.
Yes. And that's important for people like me. I need visuals.
That was awesome. I really do appreciate it. Makes me have some things to think about. If you guys thought Paul was, uh, you know, teaching the same kind of gospel, um, you might want to consider thinking again.
And I really do appreciate that this was this bit of heck of a show. You guys, another Jesus, the Christology of Paul's opponents with David Oliver Smith. Thank you for joining me so much, sir. Thank you.
Thank you, Derek. Really enjoyed it myself.
Yeah, we've got to do this again. You're definitely a pleasure, sir.
Thanks.
And now when you come again, this is to be your second coming, not your initial phase where you're bringing the kingdom.
And with that being said, ladies and gentlemen, don't forget we are myth vision.
