Dr. Miller, you have gone from evangelical fundamentalist type thinking to where you are today,
and for those who haven't seen that interview, go check it out. I think I've already made it public
in one of the first videos, but if you haven't seen that, it's on the Patreon. Most likely,
it's already public by now. So apologetics. Geez. This is one of those things that you
know what it is, but in the academic circles that you roll them, they don't even pay attention
to this. I see it because I live in a world where I'm trying to filter good, what I call
ivory tower scholars that are like the legit top, top, top academics and bring them down to our world.
Yes, I know it's a matter world. It's not high platonic world that these high scholars live in,
but in that world, we have people who make it their career in life to go to institutions to
prove and defend Jesus and Christianity as if it's really true. Jesus really rose from the dead,
and there are scholars, I'll put in quotations, who make it their job to write books and argue for
Jesus. They debate people like Bart Ehrman. They debate people to try and like argue that Jesus
is real. As an academic who has that past but where you are now, how do scholars see this
field of apologetics if they even see it at all? Tell me about apologetics from the angle of real
serious academia. Well, it's largely ignored. I don't know. I mean, when I was at Yale and
Princeton in those places, there was no discussion of that. They wouldn't know who William Lane Craig
is. I went to Biola University. I met with James Charlesworth. That's where I did my master's degree.
He said, where did you do your prior work? I told him Biola. He said, Biola what? He had no idea
what that was. That's William Lane Craig's academy there. He had no idea what it was. It's not even
on the radar really. They consider that to be public poop throwing and debate. It's a circus
of spectacle. It's rhetorical and not really meeting any of the standards of rigor that they
would find helpful in their circles. Technically, apologetics is a joke to the serious scholars
in terms of... Well, it's a fundamental violation of our own methodologies. You're starting with the
answers before you even know the questions. That's offensive in every way to the entire
methodological approach of higher academics. That would be a gross dishonesty to begin there.
I already know the sacred set of creeds or propositions must be true. Therefore, we're going
to create a degree even for it. I don't know what that degree is exactly, but these people are going
to go back and interrogate the data in order to somehow prop up these sets of creedal ideas
and defend them. They're defending the village from the village dragon, as it were. In the
academic world, at least as it should be, now unfortunately, our whole field is still skewed
by faith influence and all this. Even there, that's considered an offensive idea. There's no
what are we defending against? What exactly? Are we talking about investigations into the
truths of the ancient world? Is there something scary about that? What's so scary about it?
I think there are a number of myths that exist in more popular forms of Christianity around what
motivates someone like me or anyone in any of these schools that were, I might as well,
for some of your viewers who knows, I might look like a demon sitting here in this chair right now
just for some of the things I'm bringing forward. There's a bias that's built right into that. They
just know we're wrong. They already know some of your viewers that might have watched some of the
videos that we've made together are going to insist that they know I'm wrong from the get-go.
They probably won't even buy my book. Why should they? They'll complain it's expensive or something
like this. They won't reach out and deal with my actual arguments on their own terms and they
can't be persuaded because that's not what they, they're not getting their paychecks for that.
That's not what they went to school for. That's not what they're trying to do. They're not pursuing,
they're not on a truth journey. They're going to defend the castle at all costs and their castle
is this edifice of orthodoxy as they understand it and I find that grossly dishonest, deeply ignorant
and not worth anyone's time who's a serious academic. Thank you. I hope you liked my dead
Richard Millard in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe and never forget we are Ms. Millard.
