But 94 that I think is the last time I looked up to see how many we found four are in our in our book
right 90 aren't and
Everyone including the most radical fundamentalist whose brain is locked in and cannot think beyond his little little world
Agreed. Okay. Those aren't true
Right, no, that's all horse
It's it's absurd and those are the people that are producing and reading those texts are also dying in front of Caesar and all that and so
Cut it out. Basically cut it out. Seriously. What are the Gospels?
I mean, are they histories are they beat biographies are they mythographies? What category do we put them in?
What was their purpose?
What are they most of the scholars I hear will put them in a category of something of a biography, but
Christian apologist online really want to make it biography kind of tethering it to
Historiography as if this is accurate historical data of what really happened
Let me read you a little excerpt
From what Richard C. Miller has written in one of his critiques. You can find the link down in the description
To their credit
Some scholars equivocate from classing the Gospels as historiography proper toward labeling them
Biographies the merit of this template comes in viewing the literary reception of the Gospels
That is how they over the course of centuries forged a new subclass of biography
Namely cultic biography
We find this literary legacy expressed in the late ancient
Vitae of Apollonius and Pythagoras as well as in the Christian hegea graphic tradition
ever untethered from the modal strict strictures of
Classical historiography the Vitae
Eventually enjoyed a rich tradition of romance legend miracle and the fabulous that is as
Licentious cultic iconographies
Residing variously between novel and early traditional biography
Yet when applied to the Gospels at the time of composition the generic label
Biography creates more problems than solutions only Matthew and Luke present anything like a cradle to grave
Story of Jesus as Thomas hag astutely pointed out
Mark and John more closely resemble
Martialogia some martyrology the idea beam martyrs with charged legend laden run-ups though quite inadequate and no less problematic
Luke provides a somewhat fuller life of Jesus
Yet Luke also provides a mini life of John the Baptist lacking in any theological atonement
Signification
Taken together Luke acts presents a
Compendium of scandalous
Martialogical tales with Jesus merely figuringly prominently
Figuring prominently as in the problem with historiography despite close familiarity with the genre the early Christians avoided
Applying biographical labels to the Gospels such labels now become perhaps most problematic regarding the matter of literary object
since most assumed that a history aims to depict ontological reality and biography and
ontological person
Whereas such presumptions break down as one further critically contemplates the Gospels most of all
Referential objectivity in effect become crushed buried beneath a dense bite
brick a large of
cultural literary modals
Governing the narrative construction if ever an ontological Jesus did exist that person was lost to us
Indeed made irrelevant behind many layers of charged
Figmentary early Christian
literary
creativity
Dr. Miller is suggesting these aren't your typical biographies if at
Best you can put two of them in the cradle to grave category because a biography tells you the life of someone
Not a short little blip of their passion story from the time they get baptized to the time they get
Killed it would be much more
If we're looking at heuristic approaches to what biographies look like you would expect that now
You find two Gospels that do kind of do a cradle to grave thing
However, there are so many issues when we're diving into this material on why you wouldn't just
No, it's simple here. It is and of course he sources scholars along the way in this interview
I hope you enjoy this in-depth discussion on where do we place the Gospels and what are they?
With Dr. Richard C. Miller
We have several other interviews that I've done with him that I've put up on the patreon
So I really appreciate the support for everybody who comes and joins the family
I I hope to continue doing work like this and interviewing academics doing a deep dive
Helping bring this to the public. So thank you for everybody who helps us stay alive here and at MythVision
Joining the patreon your super things that are down in the comments section drop in comments
Hit the like button sharing this stuff out. We really appreciate it
Dr. Richard C. Miller, what are the Gospels?
Wow, that's a good question
I would almost phrase it differently. What were they?
Yeah, but I see what they are now and how they perform and in our modern context, you know
Oftentimes almost self-help literature you find in the spirituality section at the bookstore or whatever Amazon
In the ancient world this would have been
Riding these would have been texts that that would have
registered certain ways in the in the minds of those people those participants in that ancient linguistic culture that ancient literary culture and
That's a puzzle, right? We don't hear the early Christians calling them anything other than Gospels. They don't call them biographies
They don't call them histories. They don't even call them mythographies call them Gospels. So what are they doing there?
It's an interesting question from the standpoint of
Genre because you do have I would say a pastiche of different signals different generic signals in the text
They're indicating at various points to frame it this way or that way
It's sort of a pastiche or a bricolage of of different modes
Different it harks back to all sorts of different erotology. It harks back to lyric epic
Poetry going back to even historiography in some ways going back to biography in some ways going back to all sorts of different
generic kind of modalities some of it fluctuating a little bit between
Legend and raw myth and back and forth
It's a romantic kind of form in other words
this is a place where things are are possible that wouldn't be possible in the mundane world and so it's an elevated world where
Where behind every bush and behind every rock there could be a demon or there could be a miracle waiting for you
And so page by page you're finding this and
So anything's possible in a text right or in a Cecil B. DeMille film or something like that
And so this is a place where people can create those alternative worlds. We have the Marvel universe for instance or
What's the other one besides Marvel?
There's various
I was thinking Capcom because I played the video games, but yeah, yeah, the DC universe DC
Okay, so and that's that's me being playful a little bit. This was a little bit more serious than that
but not different in in terms of
The the kind of point I'm trying to make and that is this was they were they were alternative worlds that were being
Written up in these texts. They were didactic texts. They were cultic cult performance texts
These are texts that were meant to be read in Christian environments house assemblies for teaching instruction this kind of thing
People were wanting to follow the master. Well, this is where the master's words were preserved. So let's let's hear them
and so a
location for sermon a location for
Describing community identity and how that's registered
Identity formation is huge in the Gospels
These these booklets these sacred booklets weren't what was at stake in them wasn't the past
You know, what was at stake was their context the future and so that's what they were working towards
These were sacred booklets to meant meant to congeal early Christian communities around particular ideas and particular
identifying under particular kind of
Determinative identity forming
Theological positions and this sort of thing and so the John's Jesus is different than say Mark's Jesus is different than the Gospel of Thomas
Is Jesus is different than and you can go across the line and so the Gospels then
Are that it means glad tidings and so these were a cult
promotional booklets that were distributed in some way
Now distribution very different than in publications very expensive in the ancient world and so when we talk about those texts were
Copied meticulously in some ways. Well, not so meticulously in terms of the detail
But make great care made to make sure that they did not waste the the papyri
That was a very expensive commodity in the ancient world writers
In fact, we're it was it was hard to even find people that were qualified to do this the scribes of the ancient world and and so
Basically, you've got these texts then that that are cult performant. They're not biographies
They don't have any of the the basic signals that you would you would expect a
Well, Thomas Hague has gone into this. He he did a thorough study of this at Cambridge and under Cambridge Press rather and
His conclusion was that these weren't biographies. They have biographic like qualities in places
But that's not the same thing as just shoehorning them into biography
If the early Christians wanted to call them that they knew the genre. In fact, they wrote in the genre
They added they had people with they they produced we tie
Lives of individuals and so we can see that those were embellished and largely later constructs
But at the time of the the Gospels were written
Nothing like the Gospels were circulating in that way and in terms of biographies
You have places where there is embellishment, but there's also efforts made at authenticating some of those embellishments like
The treatment of Nero and the healing of the blind person or whatever you get that
I think you believe it's in Suetonius and so but then there's you know
He tries to corroborate that and talk about you know, and there's even a some skepticism there that's brought in and you know
You don't see that at all. There's no critical reflection in the gospel
you the the reader of the Gospels was was meant was intended to be clearly favorably biased toward the content and
And and they were willfully indulging in the world the mythological world of marvels that these texts presented
And so and it was an uncritical kind of process. So this wasn't you know, there wasn't any rigor around
Weighing competing accounts or you know a strong authorial voice
Expressing skepticism or anything like that like what you would find in like the the classic histories and this kind of thing and so
Um, yeah, if I can press a little here on this
What are some of the signals that you would say would have been clear-cut evidences of them being biographies if they were?
Yeah, well, I think at that time you would find probably something closer to a
Cradle-to-grave story now that there's exceptions and and and and Hague points that out in his book
And so those that are interested I endorse that book and so what's the name of it?
Uh, I think it's biography and in antiquity or something like this. Okay. Yeah, you can find on Amazon very good book Craig
Thomas Thomas Thomas Hague Thomas Hague. Yeah. Yeah
Excellent work and I believe he did
All the diligence that needs to be done around that at least for quite a while
And he's an honest for my could tell a measured scholar in this area
So basically you have a that genre evolving over some period of time by the
Time you get to the first century. It's fairly dry and mundane. You don't have there isn't this like
You know bustling world of miracle and marvel in any of these stories, right?
You might find a translation at the end
In other words kind of a modal reverie at the end that says okay
And this guy you'd find like a normal kind of narrative and at the end
Uh, oh and by the way you send it to heaven or whatever, you know
Kind of kind of like Suetonius does like he gives you this raw uncut version of octavian and
Not always pretty. In fact, he will write some stuff about octavian that you're like
This guy is not favored necessarily throughout this whole text and then all of a sudden he goes
Let me tell you about his birth and the next thing I know you're like, whoa
The guitar and the wall being struck by lightning. They fought against the Romans almost to their own self destruction until they realized
It was a prophecy important of their own
A man coming from theirs to rule the world and like yeah, he gives this wild out of nowhere
But before that it almost sounds like you're reading some like real stuff and then yeah, yeah
so conspicuously absent from the gospels as any effort to authenticate
and I'm not the first to notice this and also and and
And brought more broadly across the whole genre other scholars have pointed this out and you'll find that in some of my writings
I footnote it well
And so the authentication part is a big deal
Like no one is really putting any kind of measure of rigor in the gospels around any of these stories
You get a little bit with the eyewitness stuff in the in the in the translations
But in my view that's falling
You know
It falls perfectly squarely within
The translation trope and so that's exactly where you would expect it to come
I would just emphasize that for the viewer who may not have watched our previous videos
Who may not have read your book? There are eyewitness testimonies
claimants
In the Julius Caesar apotheosis tradition and Romulus really it all stems from the archetypal Romulus story
Um that there's an eyewitness in fact if they weren't mimetically connecting to Romulus
Let's just say I'll play it another way
There's a good chance that there wouldn't be any eyewitness claims or even necessity
For saying so and so saw him and his postmortem resurrected state
That is a sign to you that hey Romulus
Heracles like the the greek roman translation trope. So
The eyewitness claim in the gospel is actually another like
Hey
Do you not see what we're doing because the way I would have read it before I met your work would have been like
Man, they're bullshitting you they're trying and they kind of are their hood winking you in a way
but it's like
You know, I I would have thought they're deliberately
Writing and deceptively trying to say like I kind of think that about john 21
Even though it fits into your thing because he's like, oh, I've seen so many things
If I can write about all the things he did the world that is bs. Let's be on
But luke one
You know the way I read that before was like
He's getting like almost like papious like word of mouth rather than writing
So it's like he's getting these eyewitness testing when he's verbally from someone and then he's like
He's trying to and that could be the case and it would still fit your model. That's the wild thing of right
Right. Yeah, I that's a good point to point out here
Like my my larger thesis does not necessarily depend on a particular like you could say it's biography
And there's some great scholars that I that I respect that that that will take that position
And so I my my thesis does not stand or fall on the answer to that particular question
But I think each one of them would would agree that what we mean by biography by biography isn't what we mean at the local bookstore today
By biography each one of them would admit that there's development in that there's romance in that and it extends
Almost a full-fledged fantasy as you get out into late antiquity in the cultic biographies that are being produced like around
Pythagoras
Apollonius of Tiana these were huge cults in the ancient world competing alongside Christianity
And they had biographical quote unquote, you know
Treatments of their hero in there. They're they're founding figure that are chock full of embellishment. And so
As I think the gospels actually impacted that those were downstream from that and so
The gospel genre itself. I think gave rise to that and so even just going further. I mean you could just make the obvious
What to me is
Just a flagrantly obvious observation that I don't hear a lot of people talking about but
Did the early christians produce anything else?
This
So you knelt me you knelt me hard in your book
I'm reading this thing that came out wrong goodness gracious
I'm reading your book and I'm sitting there going. Okay. Hold on
We have like 94 gospels
Like as far as we've discovered as far as I'm aware there could be more
I'm sure there are that we just don't know about there's probably hundreds
But 94 that I think is the last time I looked up to see how many we found
Four are in our in our book right 90 aren't and everyone including the most radical fundamentalist whose brain
Is locked in and cannot think beyond his little little world
Agreed. Okay. Those aren't true. Right. No, that's all horseshit. That's all horseshit
We get to these four and it's like oh, no, let's switch out the turn on. No, it's it's absurd
And those are the people that are producing and reading those texts are also dying in front of Caesar and all that and so cut it out
basically cut it out this was a movement a
an astonishingly creative and free movement in the earliest
Stages of it and texts were bubbling up in all sorts of directions
And that was the spirit of the whole thing
We take and and sequester four of them out of that a kind of a little subset a tiny tiny subset of that
And try to bestow on it these high qualities and distinctive value and the pure truth is coming here
rest of it all complete horseshit
And so what are we doing?
What are we doing? Well even part airman? Let's be honest, right? I work with Bart Bart's a buddy
Right, but sometimes I
I go
Not convinced Bart you're holding on to something. I think it's old school
And one of those things he does is like well, these are the most historically accurate and reliable books that we have in Christian literature
Yeah, no, it's
And I don't know why he would conclude that exactly
I want to point this out too as much as I like bar and and I do I do like Bart airman. I'm a fan
Um, I do think that I do want to criticize the field though. Yeah, so
What I call argumentum at Bartom
Basically Bart ends up becoming a backstop for all rational discussion field anything beyond him
It basically comes up and I've seen it too many times where even Bart airman thinks that the gospels are you know
This argument this line of argumentation is hogwash
It's fallacious from top to bottom
And so I I want to hear what Bart has to say
But he is not the representative backstop on what good scholarship should look like right
I think it's kind of wild
Usually you hear that though from people who are obviously triggered
Right, so they need to have Bart as a weapon to use against people in his own camp somehow
And that's mostly how he's being used now from all evidence. I've seen at least from where I'm looking
That's those arguments are plentiful and and frankly like the recent critique of you was like
Well, bark doesn't even go that far. Do you get the crazies lit? Well, you've got Richard C Miller
Robin Faith Walsh, right. She's a professor at Miami University. Right, right
No, where it's it's this idea is to try and marginalize our voices
To make it look like we're out of the quote mainstream. I think I've already deconstructed that in prior video
That's not the mainstream in secular academic biosecular academic standards
and so
The lit was the, you know, Dennis McDonald's other figures
I include myself in this. This is certainly where I want to locate myself
We are smack dab in the middle of mainstream secular work in terms of our methodologies in terms of the sorts of
processes and and
Approaches that we're taking in terms of understanding the ancient world Richard Carrier. I would include in that. He is a highly trained
historic historian
And so at two of the top schools in the country
You got to take him. He needs a seat at the table. You might not agree with him
But there's only two options with king Arthur either. He was historical or he was highly legendary
There's only two options with almost any major kind of
sake sacralized figure
from antiquity and those are the two right and so
Uh, this idea that that we need to you know, indulge in all of these other
Viewpoints in order to be fair and honest and and you know, what's the other side? There isn't another side
Those are faith-based approaches
That really aren't contesting legitimately
With a purely secular kind of approach and and you bring it back to the medicine thing
Like I want to come back to genre in the gospel
But just to make the point, you know, would you consider
someone if you're like
Working in modern medicine and you're breaking through. I mean like I have a friend Gary right now
Gary Stone is his name. He's an ex Mormon, but he's brilliant. He's working with a team of people
They have figured out a way to engineer some type of medicine that literally hunts down the cells that grow to make cancer
They know how to turn them off now and it literally
Within months after them turning off that particular cell growth that's taking place your body
Will absorb the the the excess mass and it eliminates the cancer itself
We just recently discovered that now imagine
You're working in the field and someone comes in and they go. Hey, hold on. Hold on. We just should we should just take palm trees
Cut that up mix that with some oregano or some
Yeah, put some uh, some smoke in the air and do some ayahuasca
Abracadabra, you know, like what would you think if the if they brought that to the table?
As you know, you would stop them and just go no no things take that somewhere else if you want
But we're not even entertaining it right right right now
It is possible. There was such a thing in the ancient world as paradoxography and there are modern paradoxes
Even they're finding that with the james web space telescope right now
Uh, yeah, they're getting data evidence that's coming in that is disrupting and destroying prior ideas regarding the big bang
It's upsetting. It's tap toppling the apple cart
Um, now that's through the scientific method, right? And so the same thing is true of any paradox
They're finding paradoxes in quantum physics that the in fact the Nobel Prize that was won last fall
Was the resolution of a major paradox the debate between einstein and neils bore
And so what they were seeing was a discrepancy in reality like this doesn't square with that and we don't know why or how
And so in the ancient world they had the same thing the idea of the idea of the paradox
This was a puzzle, but it was a puzzle meant to be solved
It was it was something that was supposed to upset you that you wanted to get to the bottom to
And so if you saw something that looked like it violated the laws of nature or something like that
Uh, they had a whole text that were paradoxography where there were lists of these like
almost like
Leonard Nimoy from the old star trek series used to do a series called in search of and he would explore paradoxes
In there things anomalies like how do we explain this the unexplainables, right?
And so that's different than what's going on with with the early christians. They're not that's that's not the project
It's not trying to reconcile a literal kind of perceived discrepancy in the universe
A miracle was a miracle in its own right. It was meant to be taken as such
not some kind of scientific naturalistic kind of, uh
discrepancy that needed to be solved
So just on gospels because we got a little off track, but it's still relevant to everything we're talking about
What would you
What would you label them? I read your critique of m david let was work how the gospels became history
The real page that got me that I thought was great
Personally, uh, you know, because I love it seeing the engagement
I'd love to see a critique back if he had some evidence that really was something you were missing give it to me
I'm all about it, right?
But you said like you titled the book how the gospels became history
And in in the book it sounds like he's acting like and at least he's on the right side and saying mostly mythic
Yeah, mostly to his credit mythic legend, whatever
Um
But he acts like right out the gate. They're writing them using mythic motifs and and literary structure and whatnot
But wants them to be seen as historiography
so
They never needed to became the title of the book should have been something like
um
How the authors wrote mythic history. Yeah, how the how the how the authors passed off myth as history
Yeah, something like that instead of became because it sounded like over time. That's what you would imagine
Yeah, no, and I do respect his he comes from kind of a
What I could see there at least kind of a humanistic starting point
He admit he's he's laying the ground
He's basically saying at the beginning that this these are myths
It's just kind of a starting point good and then goes from there to try to describe them
However, these are being written and meant to be read as histories and there he and I disagree
Now the review I gave of of the book wasn't really even about the book at that point
It became almost a heuristic project for myself to articulate my own position on that
Almost didn't even matter that he had written the book at that point
And so what you find is story arc
You don't find that in the histories, you know in the gospels you in fact the idea in in in fiction is to
um
Start posing questions
And then let the reader chew on those but not give them the answers delay the answers to keep them working more
And so you get the story arc going on where where's this going and and so forth and I traced that in there
There's some literary critics that have been able to trace like five or six different kinds of story patterns
There's the cinderella pattern, you know
And and maybe this I think the gospels kind of fit into that in some way
Where you have something horrible that happens and at the end the exaltation that saves and redeems the narrative in some way
right, and so
What about um omniscience of the view like the author
And this is something Richard pervo says in his commentary on axe and his book the mystery of axe unraveling the story and all that
That I thought was great was the author is speaking
Omnisciently like do you get that from historiography and but like biographies like writing in such a manner where it's like
Who the hell was there to know this and they're writing it in such a way
It's like you're watching it actually happen
You get front row seats and the way they wrote it is like you're couched and like get in this
Roller coaster and we're going to take a ride through a story and I'm going to show you things that like
How do you know this stuff? Right? Right? Right? Right? Is that like a clear sign that helps you also see it? Yeah
Yeah, and you get this in the uh the novel that's flowering up in that time period
You know, that's one of the lit was critiques of some of my work as he says something along the lines of it. Well, this is
Clearly if the gospels were myth and therefore and forgive me if I'm quoting you wrong
but
Something along the lines of if they were myth then they wouldn't be in the kind of intoxicating, you know, clearly
You know, they wouldn't be riding it rather in the more sober form of prose
Rather, they would have gone to one of you know to poetic writing or something like that where the where you find clear myth
in prior works
Thinking of he's yid and Homer and so forth or maybe even your rippities in terms of the playwrights
You know, that's just not the case once you get to the the time of the romans
basically you're dealing with prose almost everything's in prose at that point and so even the the the uh
The delphic
Oracles are now given in prose instead of poetry. They've been and so
Um at the same time you get the novel
flowering up and during that time to the so the greco-roman novel and then the uh, the jewish novel kind of follows suit
It has but it's got it, you know, its own kind of character, but it's kind of a branch of the same and so
the idea of writing inventive fictive literature that has peritactical
peripatetic rather
structure and has
Oftentimes the supervision by what feels like a divine kind of author perspective
And this kind of thing there there's a word for that in in literary theory
That that is
Pretty it's common and normal in that time period and when we go to the inventive literature that we're seeing bubbling up in early judaism
That's also going on and so the apocalyptic texts, you know, the old testament pseudopigraphas they call it nowadays
You know that compilation of literature there also regard as horseshit
And and and so the there's the sacred text and then we sequester off, you know
Even enoch were quoted in the new testament as authoritative gets pushed off the table, right?
And there's a whole whole host of other apocalypses that don't get that don't get any airtime nowadays
And so they would fit in what you're saying here
Yeah, they're clearly invented like if you go with uh, you know
You can't take seriously on a literalistic level and that's the point of myth really
It's they're not trying to make a coherent narrative
They're trying to indulge you in a world that they're producing that had out of their own creative creative license. And so
Now it's couched
Subversive literature in the face of empire often that's what's going on with apocalypticism often only thinly veiled
Um, but in that though you're immersed in a world that it's not meant to be reconciled to anything historical
It's meant to be
A world that you indulge in just they didn't have television back then
And so it's not merely entertainment. I wouldn't go that far, but it's also not meant to be taken as literal in that way and so
Um, basically you get enoch if you look at one two and three enoch
If you read through that tradition all the way across and even the biblical enoch
If you want to go all the way back to that, right? If you start crossing that trajectory of who enoch is well, it's an impossible figure
It's kind of like hop along Cassidy, you know
He he he he saves the town gets the bad guy, you know returns the money back to the bank or whatever
And uh, you know drinks his beer at the saloon at the end of every episode, you know, and then he does it all again next week
and so
With with that there's no effort. He it's impossible all the ups and downs
He goes to heaven like I don't know how many times and each time he goes it's so different
Like you don't even know it's the same place. How many levels are there? Is it 12 7 3? I don't know what
Um, and so there's no effort at trying to make a coherent
You know story there that's supposed to be believed in that literalistic hard sense. That wasn't the point of it
and which would be like almost like a
If we took enoch and used the diateseron as an example how they merged them all into one
It's it's really a bad example because they're trying to harmonize diateserons trying to harmonize. Yes iterations diateseron
but it's like
If you took all four gospels and didn't do a diateseron, but you kind of like
Yeah, like we have now, but didn't read them as separate books kind of enoch ends up becoming like this weird thing
It's like hold on but jesus did this. It's almost weird the things. He's doing are different in all of the situations
that example but
Well, the diateseron is helpful because that shows later on anxiety
They weren't comfortable with the gospels being so wild and carefree and the literary license the whimsicality of mark
for instance they didn't have a predecessor and so
Mark is very whimsical by comparison over the other ones and to have them all set alongside and john just does his own
He just creates his own lane all together
and so
You know and then if you go outside of the canonical text to a broader kind of messy picture of earliest depiction
or textualizations of jesus generally you end up with a very
Diverse and almost an ion you can't reconcile it all
And so the diateseron is is dealing with the anxiety around that
Yeah, thank you. I hope you liked my dad richard miller in this interview
remember to like and subscribe
and never forget we
are
miss vision
