Well, breaking news is in. There's a huge, huge court case right now. In fact, a few
prosecutors were called in myself and apologia. And what we have is we have an apologist,
Eric Manning joining us today. He's going to be representing himself, actually representing
Jesus. And we're going to be in a court of law. So we're putting Christian apologist
Eric Manning on trial. Let's hope his dog did not step on a B, if you know what I mean.
And welcome everybody to the chat. I really appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for the
super chats already. Let's have some fun. We're going to put Christian apologetics
on trial and have a conversation about maybe, just maybe we have something in common, but
our differences and allow you and the audience and stuff to steer the conversation via super
chats if you so please. But I have apologia and Eric with us now. Let me pop them up.
Welcome to MythVision, my friends. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me. Now, serious
question. Has your dog stepped on a B, Eric? I don't like dogs. Sorry. I'm just not a
dog person. So I am a cat guy. So I think that might score
me some points with Shannon Q. But yeah, I'm just more of a cat person than a dog person.
I don't like picking up crap in the yard and barking. Oh, you just prefer the fake crap
in your house. That makes just like picking it out of a sandbox. Yeah, that's that's loads
of fun. Well, I appreciate you joining me. Let me give a quick shout out to the YouTube
channels here. Paula Gia has got the big bad boy where he does all his really high quality
edits. You can subscribe to him there. He also has a Patreon as well as his live channel
where you can hang out with him. He anthropomorphizes his cartoon here. So you get the real Paul.
And you can go check him out. Subscribe to his live channel. I'm actually kind of shocked.
You haven't blown up some of the videos you've had and had so many views, Paul. I would have
thought that the the subscribers would have like also you know how it goes. Christians
like to subscribe to things and atheists don't. I get it. I get it. Testify over here. Eric
Manning has a YouTube channel where he is kind of combating some of the ideas not only
in his Christian community like the minimalist approach of resurrection apologetics and stuff,
but he also combats us here at MythVision or Paula Gia or other skeptical channels.
And so we have him hanging out with us. He may have a friend who might join us at some
point during the show. Let me clarify. He has friends. A few, a handful. Some. Yes,
friends for a while. They may not all join. Well, I appreciate you guys joining me today
and Eric. Last minute letting us know you could. I sent an invite to Michael Jones.
He is currently on his way to debating whether or not children should be married to old men.
And that's pretty crazy. So I think everyone here salutes him, including Paul and me on commending
him for taking on horrible ideas like that. So everybody here is on the same page. We found
something in common, right? I mean, if we can't get on the same page about that, then yeah,
that's a problem. Exactly. Paul, look, when you when you when I sent you the invites,
a dude come hang out with me tomorrow. Let's do a lot. What did you have in mind? Did you
have anything like you wanted to get off your chest before we begin? Well, no, what I what I
had in mind was when when Derek when Derek calls, then you just say yes, that's what you know,
that's that's how that goes. And and I was hoping, you know, I was just getting invited to a party.
It turns out, you know, you wanted to you wanted to somewhat a co-plan this mess. So that's that's
all fine. No, I was thinking about the state of apologetics these days, because that's what
you kind of mentioned. And one of the things that I'm finding interesting is, of course,
the lens that I have is limited. I have the Christians my life whom I love. There's Christians
in my life who are less generous. And but that's I that's purely anecdotal, right? Like so, but I
always I do gauge what arguments are out there and what what's happening based on some odd feedback,
because it's really all the live feedback I get. But then there's also paying attention to what's
happening online. And an interesting thing that I'm seeing, and I might be limited in my perspective,
but I do a lot of looking, is that some of the middle ground of where I think some apologists
apologetics happen during COVID times, where everyone is putting their sermons online, and
every Bible study was online, and you could just go free free everywhere, you could just
absorb information this way, all you want. I'm now noticing that things have shifted to
short form video. Like Frank Turrick, for example, is blowing up short term, Mike Winger,
Azos and Genesis, weirdly, like it's just a lot of places are going to the going to the short form,
which is a whole different type of conversation, as you guys know. And then also then to this
to this paid online behind a wall, maybe YouTube's going to cancel us model. And it's not just,
you know, you Derek with MVP and and Bart Armist courses, but like Frank Turrick and Jay Warner
Wallace, and a lot of the, I'm noticing the Christian academics too, they're going to these
paid online courses. So they're kind of abdicating the the high end stuff is going behind some
paywalls or behind at least some community walls. And the shorter form stuff is is now what what's
really feeding. And of course, Michael Jones, speaking of him, just kills it on the TikTok
stuff like he's amazing at that short form stuff. But I think I'm even feeling a little bit sad
that the conversation is leaving some of these longer forms, it takes more than 60 seconds
sometimes to formulate an idea. And if you're, you know, we're no one's sexy dancing to do your
apologetic or whatever. So it's tough to get to that's just something that I've noticed in the
last three or four months. And I don't know if you guys feel the same, but in a way, it's creating
this, this vacuum where I'm not sure where the middle audience is going to go. I don't know
what do you guys think? I think I kind of agree with you. I mean, as I'm listening to what you're
saying, Paul, I would like to see more of the conversation not happen behind paywalls. But I
understand why people do it. I definitely Derek, in his case, he's got academics, who are basically
doing courses. And I think that's beneficial. I think there's a benefit when you pay for something
that you're probably going to put more value and time to pay attention to it. So I totally get that.
On the other hand, like, yeah, I would like to see it stay more in the public sphere. It seems
like a lot of apologetics and counter apologetics has kind of turned into more of just answering
kind of like bad objections on TikTok. Like I like Michael Jones is like, his are amazing,
because they're hysterical. And it's sad that some of the things that he has to answer are things
that he has to answer. And I do them too. It's not like, so I'm not, I'm not saying he's wrong
for doing them. But I would like to see like, less like just going after low hanging fruit,
I guess. And more engaging. That's what I like about you two guys is because you do deal more
with like the historical stuff, the texts, Derek has all kinds of scholars on, Paul, you invite
all kinds of scholars. Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. He does, he's got Allison, he's got
Irwin, he's got, I was going to say just tease about what you're saying here, Eric, on the whole
course thing, two things in the couple together. And that is these scholars that we interview,
they are humans who literally made the career in this vein. So the way we get them time is
money for anyone. The way we get an academic who literally spends their life to make an income,
either publishing, writing articles, going and giving lectures at universities, teaching classes
and courses in real life at universities, to want to come to the internet world and give us
public information that's really in these institutions, unless you want to go buy a
academic published book they may have put out, which is like $80, $90 sometimes, $50, $60 bucks.
I try to get them to kind of take their work, package it into a course curriculum where you
and anyone can own it for life, purchase that course, take the course as many times as they
want, have friends over, whatever, talk about it, argue about it, whatever, and give the opportunity
for other YouTubers to be affiliates to help get those academics to come and give free time,
which helps promote their books, promote their course, and allows them to make a living. And so
it's like a win, win, win for everybody, including the public sphere, but some of it needs to be
behind a paywall in order for that scholar to be able to want to put all the time and energy they
are going to the public sphere. And I don't knock that at all. I wasn't intending to knock it and
I think Eric made a great point. When you pay a dollar for something, you actually pay attention
to it. If you put all those videos up for free, they get lost. I totally understand that. But I
also see like just this vacation of maybe this fear of platforms and how that's going to work,
but I'm seeing like the answers in Genesis. They have a subscription TV now and a camera and all
that kind of stuff. That's all paid now and Ray Comfort's going that way. And Jay Warner Wallace
and Frank Turrick have created their whole behind the wall so that you don't have to deal with those
sketchy atheists when you're watching our stuff. It was not a judgment call. It was an observation.
I get it. To say something to that, I mean, first of all, I don't understand kind of the
cancelophobia. I don't think that talking about arguments for the existence of God or
arguing for the historical reliability of the Gospels or the resurrection or something is going
to get you canceled. I do understand maybe some of the concern because I know David Wood had to
fight with all the keyboard jihadis trying to get his videos canceled. I could kind of understand
some of that because there's just some ridiculous things that go on. I mean, I even published a
video criticizing a Muslim and all of a sudden a video that they made. I felt as almost like my
whole channel went down after that for several months and I thought, am I being like shadow band
or something? Like I'm not trying to get all paranoid or something. So I kind of understand
some of it, but I don't want there to be a retreat. I don't think that there's any reason to think that
YouTube is going to take your videos down because you're promoting Christianity. I mean, if the daily
wire can say some of the things that they're saying on a daily basis, like and YouTube is making tons
of money off them and they're not censoring what they're saying, then I don't understand why
Christians feel like, oh gosh, we got to go underground with our material. To me, it's just,
gosh, I got to be careful. I don't want to get myself in trouble, but if you see...
No, but I also want to take a little bit off of you. I feel like there is... I was giving
examples in the apologetics side, but I feel like there's other examples on general left-wing type
stuff, which is not specifically atheist stuff, but it's a nice talking point to drive people
to other places. I feel like as you used across the board, it may be inappropriately that it's
kind of like this threat of canceling, that we're so edgy that we're not going to be allowed to
speak anymore. It's a marketing ploy as much as anything, I think sometimes,
but not just think about Christians that they're the only ones, because I see it at other places
as well. Hey, just giving a shout out to the supers here. Lost fan, Derek, please passionately
answer the following question and get Paul's opinion too, please. Are we or are we not
myth-vision? Of course we are. Paul, what is your slogan, man? I have a little, we are
myth-vision. Paul, I just opened with where a former Christian takes a look at the claims of
Christians, and that alone gets people angry enough that I don't need to really say much more.
I know I'm triggered. No such thing as a former Christian, you know? Yeah, that's right. I've had
people tell me there's no such thing as a former atheist, and I'm like... Yeah, it's the same.
Yeah, it's weird. The same argument. Imnax says we don't need Derek to answer that because we are
myth-vision. Warm. Thank you, thank you. Appreciate that. And then David Aaron Hill in the house.
David, thank you for that super. I'm just trying to make sure I didn't leave anybody hanging here.
We're getting already in. We're getting already in here with this one.
Can testify demonstrate Jesus really said John 1335? Oh, this guy. This guy started like a big
long chain on my comments the other day. I mean, demonstrate what? Like mathematically?
Like the laws of physics or something? No, I can't do that. But historically speaking,
I think there's a lot of good reasons to think that now this is an unpopular thing to say,
that John is reporting the truth, that he's trying to report facts, that he's an accurate,
reliable reporter, and that his gospel can be trusted. And if you want resources on that,
I would check out Craig Blomberg's book, The Historical Reliability of the Gospel of John,
and Lydia McGrew's book, The Eye of the Beholder. Also check out any commentary on the Gospel of
John from D.A. Carson or Leon Morris, if you want to know more about that argument.
What about John 1135? Jesus wept. Everybody knows that's the shortest
verse in the Bible, right? Yeah. Somebody in the comments is going to correct me,
like, no, it's actually not. No, that is, that's the one I meant. Yeah.
Thank you for that super chat. I appreciate it. Yeah, so like what I think we'll end up seeing
in our discussions really is, this is the scholars that I particularly favor,
and here's the reasons why. I think they're confidence level on this, right? I'm confident
in what they've said in their work on eyewitness testimony in John or whatever. Before we get into
Gospels, I kind of wanted to deal with this minimalist approach and first want to introduce
Stan here. Stan, welcome to the Channel Men. I know you're suffering from an injury and stuff,
but you're muted. I can't hear you at least.
Can you hear me now? Yes. There we go. I hear you.
Like display names? I mean, yeah. You don't have to unless you want to. I don't care.
We'll see. We'll see how long I last here. Do I fit better now?
There you go. I got to make him go above his name at least. Welcome in here. Paul.
Oh, you're fine with that. Just be comfortable, man. Okay. Paul, you're co-host today, man,
so if I have to leave and you just take care of everything, you're not going to have a problem
with that, right? Well, speaking of dogs, at some point my dog is going to go bananas,
so you know, this is the wishing hour, so maybe we'll both abdicate and Christian,
consider going over your channel. How about that? Oh, yeah. Well, we're here to proselytize to the
entire audience. I was kidding. Paul, the minimalist approach, the minimal historical facts,
arguments for Jesus. Let's dive into that. Let's talk about what the case they're making. It sounds
to me, and then you feel free to jump on and then we'll allow back and forth with us and the
Christians in the studio, and that is, it sounds like they are making a lot out of Paul and are
not as dependent on gospels as they are on Paul. What are your thoughts? Yeah, well, my thoughts are,
so when you are working from an academic standpoint, and that is your vantage point,
I think it makes sense when you are hearing that there is broad consensus among secular scholars,
and a lot of scholars, that Paul wrote seven of those books, but the rest of it we're not taking
too seriously. If you want to make headway, just like you and I, Derek, well, sometimes we will
grant things for the sake of discussion, because we want to, you know, move the conversation forward.
For example, we grant in most of our discussions that Jesus was a, there was a human person upon
which the stories about Jesus were based, because that's just a pragmatic thing to do in terms of,
you know, having discussions with those we want to talk to. I feel like granting the letters of
Paul is probably something that like the Gary Habermas's and the Michael Cronus of the world,
you know, in their academic circles, that bodes well, or they can make some headway and people
are willing to listen to the next thing that's on their lips, as opposed to coming in hot and saying,
hey, the gospel is our eyewitness testimony, which they would kind of reject outright. So
from that standpoint, it makes sense that that's an argument that you want to make. And it also is,
I think has rhetorical power. It's an elevator pitch situation when you can say
even the most secular scholars, Bart Ehrman and anyone you want to truck out,
agrees to these kind of things. How can you, Mr. person in the elevator, disagree with all these
other scholars? And so when you can build a case that way, it has, it has that rhetorical quick
hit. I mentioned it before, we're getting like more and more in this TikTok land where
if you're not making your point in that first 60 seconds, two minutes, you kind of get lost.
And so I think that is the strength of the argument because typically those people aren't
thinking about it deeply anyway. So it puts a pebble in their shoe, you'll go home and say,
oh man, maybe I'm cutting against the grain of even secular scholarship.
Now, if you go and you research it out, that's where it's a problem. That's where you,
as Eric once said, you create a monster like me.
That's right. Yeah. It's like, wait, but that doesn't hold up because you told me some half
truths in there. And as soon as you start telling half truths, then you start disregarding all the
rest of it. So anyway, I feel like it comes from a genuine spot of having wanting to have these
conversations. It's just not structurally sound for those who want to think deeply about it.
And I guess that's my perspective at this point. Eric, if I may, just to give my two cents on
what I think's happening with those who are making minimal facts arguments. I definitely think
apology is right. Paul is right in that this is a, it's more, they're trying to take a sophisticated
approach to kind of bridge to the skeptic, like, hey, we're willing to give up some ground to
show you like, hey, we're not just hook, line and sinker trying to accept everything and make
a case that everything is so solid and clear in the cases. They're willing to say, okay,
there's discrepancies. There may not be literal history in some of these places in the Gospels.
We're not, we're not going to put too much confidence in some of this, but Paul will put a
lot of confidence on this guy named Paul. I mean, for crying out loud, why would Paul convert? There's
no reason other than he really saw the risen Jesus. And therefore there's no other explanation than
him actually converting to, or the word convert is a big no-no to Paul, to Paul,
Paul Fredrickson and some of the other New Testament scholars, because it's not like a
completely different religion, but that's a whole different can of worms. I don't want to go down.
So I feel like what I want to give the benefit of the doubt to those who are the minimal facts
argument people is that I think they're trying their best to be honest with gospel discrepancies,
considering they're not on the same page. Each gospel has differences. And if we want to get
into those differences, we can, pericope by pericope, and highlighting those differences
synoptically and whatnot, or even John in comparison and stuff. But I have to say,
pat on the back for that, though it gives up ground, that's where I think the maximalists come in.
And so, Eric, feel free to give us your jab and then why are you a maximalist?
Well, I mean, yeah, if you're, if you are a skeptic and you're talking to that person on the
elevator, I mean, you could just stop them in the tracks and say, well, what were the appearances
like? Like, how do we know that there were, it really was a resurrection from the dead and
not something else? I mean, strange things happen. People think they see
the Virgin Mary or the Angel Moroni or something in Joseph Smith's case.
And so without being able to kind of outline in detail what the appearances are actually like,
I don't think that you have a very strong case. I don't think you can rule out all
naturalistic explanations. Nor do I think that you necessarily need to. There are certain
like I mentioned, Marian apparitions. There's a few of those I don't really know what to do with.
I don't reject them completely, but I don't necessarily think I'm not sure that they happened
either. And so it's a vague miracle report at best might make you go, hmm, that's weird.
But I don't think that you can say, like Gary Habermas says, that you can rule out all the
naturalistic explanations with just the fact that Jesus was crucified and that Paul converted and
Peter and maybe some of the other disciples believe that they actually saw Jesus.
I don't think you can do it all just through 1 Corinthians 15 and some other stuff in Paul's
letters because just epistemologically, like we need details when it comes to
an extraordinary claim and the resurrection, we should just be willing to admit that is an
extraordinary claim. And so that's the fair. Just to be fair, you're saying Paul's letters alone
doesn't cut it. I mean, what does Paul tell us about the resurrection? Yes. Yes. Oh, I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to cut you off there. I just cut you off, but I was just trying to make sure we
emphasize on the same things. Like even in your worldview, like if all you came across were Paul's
letters, you'd be like, I can't, that's not enough for me. Like I know. So, so, so for instance,
like Pine Creek will stick people in the flying man chair, so to speak. And he'll say, you know,
would you believe in Christianity just if all you had to go on was Paul's letters? I would be
like, no, because we, there's no way of knowing that the disciples were actually rational unless
we know what the appearances were like. And so you're going to have to use the details that are
in the Gospels. And if you're off the bat willing to say, you know what, I'm going to grant for the
sake of argument that maybe there are a mess of contradictions in the Gospels. Well, I mean, well,
then what's going on with the appearances there? Like how do we know those stories aren't just,
you know, partially true, and then maybe partially made up, partially embellished.
If that, if those don't reflect the actual eyewitness testimony, then I don't think that you
have a very strong claim. And so people might get mad because I'm helping the atheists make an
argument here, but it's just not a good argument. I think if you were going to go minimalist,
I think the only way that you can pull it off is if you bring in other evidence,
like maybe some really good, well evidenced modern miracle claims might move the needle more.
But that that's that they'd have to use other arguments.
That kind of disagrees into my one of my other critiques about the minimal facts argument,
which is most of the time when I watch minimal facts, apologists make the minimal facts argument,
and objection will come, and they're no longer minimalists anymore. They're bringing in extra
data, and they're going beyond the scope of the minimal facts argument to justify the conclusion,
which just kind of tells you that this minimal facts argument doesn't work. You need more data.
And one thing I'm working on right now is I don't know if you guys watched the debate
between Justin Bass and Bart Ehrman on the unbelievable podcast.
That hurt me, but I heard it. I heard it really poorly. I've been watching it.
It was a bloodbath. Bart Ehrman. I respect Justin Bass. I think he's a good guy,
but he just wrecked him. And that's what happens when you limit your data set to just
four people saw something. I believe they saw something. Okay.
Paul, this brings up Paul. Your hypothesis is that technically one may be two, right?
And you think that kind of spread. Give us your hypothesis here.
Well, so I think the data, especially the minimal facts data is, is completely explained by
one person. I propose Peter because that makes some good sense.
Genuinely believing that Jesus rose from the dead. Social contagion takes care of the rest up until
the time of Paul. And Paul also needed to have, I feel like two people need to have a genuine
experience. Someone initially, and then Paul later having a genuine experience. If you have two
people with genuine experiences, then I think the rest of it is covered. And so, and I've been,
you know, I pitched that with other experts and in this field a lot. And people do generally concede
that with, at least with the minimal facts that does cover it, but they want to then bring in,
well, does it also explain, well, doesn't also explain group appearances? Well, you know what,
minimal facts isn't group experiences, like Eric says. No, that's a good point. Bart Ehrman
doesn't concede the group appearances. Where are we getting that 90% of scholars, if it's a minimal
fact, it's got to be 90%. I was just going to ask, I don't even know what the minimal facts are
anymore, to be honest with you, because it seems like, well, it's faster than loose,
depending on which show they're on. Yeah, that's kind of one of my other critiques is just like,
I don't actually see a set standard of what the minimal facts are. Sometimes I see two facts,
sometimes I see five. And then when it comes to those people that want to say they're closer to
five, I have a hard time actually knowing where they're actually getting some of this data from.
I've heard some people say it's consensus that Jesus was buried. And I'm just like,
I don't know. And I'm saying that as a Christian, which Eric and I probably get upset,
upset a lot of Christians, but. Right. And then, and they use the slush word,
they apostles, right? That's when I, that's when I know it's, it's a trouble because the slush word
apostles gives you maybe the 12, maybe the church fathers, maybe like Stephen Luigi's,
we're just including this big word in there when it's really like, are you still talking about
eyewitnesses anymore or not? Sure. So. There's so many avenues to go down with this, but I think
that typically while they're arguing minimal facts, I don't think they really, that's not all
their arson, arsenal, you know, they have much more in their, in their saddle that they're pulling
out as that argument and debate happens, but they'll, they'll want to really argue on those
certain points, especially Paul and then work backwards and go, well, I do think the gospels
are reliable, but they don't die on the hill of trying to like approach the conversation like that.
So they would be like a secondary form of data that they consider evidence, but they don't make
it a primary thing. You do. And I guess we'll steer now into maximal arguments and what you see
the strength of that, how does that help you in your estimation that this is more reliable or true?
I mean, first of all, I think it's a little more honest. I mean, it's, it's weird to say,
hey, let me just grant for the sake of argument that the gospels really are a mess of contradictions,
but I can still prove the resurrection to happen. But after you convert, like, I'm going to argue
for a whole lot more than that. This book is inspired. And it just feels a little bait and
switchy. Maybe you guys, as, as skeptics would agree with that. And so I would rather just argue
for what I want to argue with upfront. I also feel like we're treating the gospels like our,
this can be kind of bad, but we're treating the gospels like our ugly girlfriend. Like,
we don't really want to be seen with her in public. We're embarrassed of her.
You know, but we, we really, anyway, I'll leave it at that. But
so it's just like, but I don't think that we should be embarrassed. I think that the gospels,
there's a wealth of information, a wealth of evidences for the reliability of the gospels in
numerous different ways, internally, externally. And it gets us to those crunchy details of this
was a Jesus who could be touched. This is a Jesus who had conversations with people,
basically had Bible studies after his resurrection and, you know, spent 40 days with them and stuff
like that. Now, I understand it's the pushback from them is like, well, that's more of an uphill
battle. And you can't really do that in an elevator pitch. But if our argument is correct,
that doesn't really matter. You're going to need to bring in more details anyways.
And I understand like, well, there's criticism and the scholars are against you in this, that and
the other. Well, at that point, I'm like, okay, great, let's let's have that discussion here.
Why I think some of those critics are wrong. Maybe some of these, these are some of their
bad habits that I see. And then you can, you know, kind of take a look deeper from there,
if you want to, or decide what you're going to do.
Jump on that super chat from Blake there.
Well, I've got some back here real quick. I just let's just hit this. I don't want to dwell on it
much, but Holy Freak 86. Thank you. I'm an evangelical from Argentina, a majority Catholic
country that amazes me that evangelicals, Protestants in the US would actually feel persecuted.
Thank you so much for that support. Yeah, the ones that are in power feel the most persecuted.
It's kind of interesting how that works. Blake, I've heard the best proof for the resurrection
is the empty tomb. But why don't we see this defense used by early apostolic fathers? Correct me if
wrong? I have my personal say. This is after reading Richard C Miller's work, which you guys
know I've been like quoting a lot and I've been conversation with. I'm going to be interviewing
him here at the end of this month, traveling to California and getting a bunch of interviews.
It'll be the first time anyone has ever interviewed him and brought his work public.
That's another advantage of taking the courses. It encourages people who are these,
like you come across their works and you're like, oh, look at this tome of stuff. And I have to admit
Christians have been doing this a lot longer than the skeptical community in terms of getting
academics. So like that, like you can get Gary Habermas, you can get, you know,
N.T. Wright to come on a podcast, you can do that stuff. But some of these people are in ivory
towers that you have to really immerse yourself in this material to even know they exist. And then
I'm trying to like get them out of the dark and put them in the light. And so I'll be traveling down
there. Well, ultimately his point in his book, Resurrection and Reception and Early Christianity
is to argue that the apostolic fathers, and of course the New Testament literature,
not making historiography arguments like we see modern apologists do today to argue this is
historically reliable about what actually happened. He says that's absent from Justin
Martyr, Iron AS, you name it, like all these early church fathers and such are not arguing the
historical reliability and trustworthiness like we hear today. I think it's a post enlightenment
development that we need to justify the reliability and trustworthiness historically
about these claims. And that's his case. But I'm going to leave it to the expert for those
interviews to elaborate further. And if you're really interested in diving into his book,
it's like 50 bucks. It's a, it is a academic press, you know, Rutledge book, but he dives
into this. That's his take. Yeah. I mean, to answer that, I mean, Justin does mention that there
was the assertion that the body was stolen. This is in dialogue with trifle chapter 108.
There's also totalian and despeculous. I'm probably butchering that pronunciation. Sorry,
I don't speak Latin friends, but this was in 200. He also brings up the same thing about the
accusation that the tomb was, was the body was stolen. So at least it is in those two
fathers. Those are pretty early Justin's writing 150. I mean, I would kind of be interested in
what Richard Miller says about why does Justin call them the memoirs of the apostles? You know,
why does he call those that? Also, again, like Michael Jones has brought up with you like a lot
of these early apologists, they're not, they're not arguing with skeptics in the sense of like,
you know, give me historical evidence. They're, they're arguing with people who are either Pagans
or they're arguing with Gnostics. They're arguing with Marcian. They're arguing with Roman emperors
and saying, please stop slaughtering us. Our beliefs aren't really that weird compared to yours.
And so, I mean, I'd be interested in what his response would be. I haven't read his work,
so I don't want to like, just assume he doesn't know what he's talking about at all. I'm not
saying that, but I just might, that's my initial kind of like, hmm, that doesn't sound quite right
to me. Miller's work is on my read list. I just need to get some money to get, I want the physical
copy of it. Yeah. So I just being poor, I need to save up money for it. I don't get it. To Blake's
point, is it the best proof for the resurrection? Thing is, it's not part of the minimal facts,
but that's why Gary and all those people, they always want a, I do four plus one or six plus one
and the empty tomb is always the plus one because I would agree that when you add it in,
it requires a whole different field of ex, of explanations than the pure minimal facts do.
And so in that sense, yes, if you are granting the empty tomb, it creates a lot more problems
for naturalistic explanations than not. So in that sense, you're correct. It is a,
it is a good proof because it goes to it. The trouble is, of course, there's nowhere near,
that's the least attested of all the proposed facts within scholarship. But to answer the
second half of the question, why don't, so I'm granting that it is pretty good if you can,
if you can make it, make it stick. Why don't we see a defense in early epistolic policy? I think
if you take the gospels are the way I think they are, and that is that they, you know, between
when Mark happened and John happened, people were asking probing questions and more details,
either more details came to light that were true, if we're granting, or, or, you know,
stories were developed and clearly there's a very, very early response needed for the empty
tomb. Like there was the stories of the guards, you know, we're not in Mark, but we're in Matthew,
and just the, the whole empty tomb narrative, you know, itself wasn't actually in, in Mark and it,
and this kind of stuff. So I feel like by the time the apostolic fathers came around,
those objections were dealt with, I think in the community, I don't know, Eric, would you say
that that's fair? Like by the time John was written, I mean, probably, probably people weren't
arguing that anymore. Yeah, I mean, I think if you look at like Celsus, you know, he's not really
arguing with people like, well, the tomb wasn't really empty, you know, come on, prove it to me,
guys. And so I would, I would disagree with you a little bit, Paul, I think the empty tomb is
definitely in Mark, I understand about the guards at the tomb, just from there, we want to be a
little careful that we're not making an argument from silence. But I understand this from the
skeptical. Oh, no, but even if I let's say it looks like it's an addition. Sure. No, no, no,
but no, but even let's say that if 100%, there were guards, there was a stone, all those kinds
of things, Mark didn't feel like he needed to include the true detail. I got you. But by the
time Matthew and Luke were written, more people were asking questions like, Oh, we better include
these true details, because it's a thing people are talking about. Is that reasonable? I mean,
yeah, I don't think it's unreasonable, no. So I like how you just played in the sandbox. Here's
a perfect example of a skeptic playing in the sandbox. We don't grant that there were guards at
the tomb in our estimation of the data. For the sake of discussion with you, we're willing to put
them there just to dialogue on this issue, because we have a different expectation on the synoptic
problem with Mark being first, and that they're adding details later, whereas you would say it's
an argument from silence. I would say there's no evidence that there were in Mark. And like,
we can't argue there were unless it says that there were. So there's like a difference of opinion
there. One other thing I would say real quick is that the idea of this empty tomb and having
guards there to kind of deal with maybe people are saying, Hey, there wasn't or they did steal
the body or whatever the excuse, the apologetic is for Matthew inserting that. There are a lot of
great scholars. Allison's one of them, of course, I always mentioned Allison, but others that point
out in these early communities, really a lot of this literature we're seeing in the New Testament
are factions of different groups of Christians combating one another. For example, in early
Thomason traditions, you see that Thomas, this Gnostic, what we like to call Gnostic group,
has Jesus not in a physical body. And so you have who touched the physical body of Jesus?
Thomas. So it's almost like a literary purposeful apologetic against other versions of Christ
movements that don't think Jesus has a physical body. So what do you have? You have the very guy
who represents that movement, almost like a nationalistic person like Moses represents Israel.
Thomas represents this group of Christians. Peter represents a group Paul, etc, etc. I am
of Keith, I am of Paul. And you have this group of Thomas Christians who have their guy touching
him, putting his finger in his side and going, okay, okay, I believe. So I know you can explain
that in other ways, but several academics look at this and go, yeah, these are different factions
trying to make sense of the data. I mean, my brief pushback on that, we don't have to go too far down
like different bunny trails or whatever. But I would just say that the Gospel of Thomas is
probably more of a second century forgery, where I would put John is in the first century.
And so I think that's like automatically a problem. And then there's competing traditions of Thomas,
of course, you have Thomas, the one who goes into India, there are still Thomas Christians to this
day, they're basically just like Eastern Orthodox, or I guess there's some, some Catholic versions
of them as well. And so that trace their, their heritage all the way back to him, visiting them
in India. And you have, you do have the acts of Thomas, which is obviously very apocryphal and
super flowery and over the top, but it is also a second century work where he goes
to India and stops wedding and there's all kinds of adventures. It's, it's a wild read.
Right. Paul, I'm going to keep pressing here, brother. Gettysburg, demoniac,
what are the best arguments in your opinion against Christianity or theism in general?
Paul, I'll let you answer that first. Well, so for me, the best argument against Christianity,
and it's, it's not, it's not good as a general proof, but it is a good proof for me is divine
hiddenness. Because if, if I am indeed a non-resistant non-believer, and if I stay that way my entire
life until I pass, that means that God didn't reveal himself well enough for me to even get
to the first level of intellectual ascent to even make any genuine use there. Now, I know,
of course, Christians want to point to suppressing the truth and that would be a resistant to
non-believer. I, the only thing I can know for sure is my own thoughts and I can examine my own
thoughts to see if I'm resisting or not. And certainly when I was falling out of it, I wasn't
resisting. So for me, divine hiddenness is the strongest because it eliminates a loving God
who wants a relationship with me. That good leave opened general deism or, you know, other,
other kind of things, which, you know, you need a false, you need an actual falsification criteria
to get rid of any given religion in general. And often that's sticky. Like, if you, someone
wants to define a God for me, I actually would want to follow up with what's the falsification
criteria. And theism in general, like, so that was why I went there. I think theism in general is
non-false viable because if you want to have a God that created everything, but doesn't interact
with his nature or doesn't care about us, how are we supposed to know? Like, I don't know.
That's fine. I want to turn this and ask if I can just a brief response, either Tham or
then or Eric, what would you say is the best argument against Christianity as a Christian?
Yeah. Eric, do you want to go first? You want me to go first? No, I was thinking this would be a
great one for you since he's done, like, Devil's Advocates debates for atheism before. So I would
say the best case against Christianity is going to be my argument that I made in my Devil's Advocate
debate with Captain Deadpool. So I kind of made a spin off of an argument from inscrutable evils,
and I include divine hiddenness in it. And so if you want to know that argument,
is it okay if I plug that video? Okay. Yeah, you can go to my YouTube channel and just look at
that Devil's Advocate debate. It's a Bayesian argument. I grant a prior probability of 0.99
atheism for it. And I just argue, given even a thousand instances of any of these inscrutable
evils or sufferings or divine hiddenness that you see in the world, there's a less than 0.001%
atheism is true. So yeah, I think that's the strongest argument against Christianity, just
because if there is no God, then Christianity is false. Is it your YouTube's Explore Christianity,
right? No, Exploring Reality. Explore Christianity is my friend, Steven Boyce, and Jonathan Beasley.
Okay, okay. You guys came close to each other there. Okay. Yeah, I don't want to know how that
happened. Who came first? Quick little plug. You want to watch that? You can go over here,
and I'm sure you can discover it on his YouTube channel as well. So go subscribe. You know,
if you want to have the dialogue back and forth, I think it's important we do. Go subscribe to his
YouTube channel. All right, I'm going to keep pressing forward because we could go on and on.
You know how it is. Humanist Reformation says, I could see believing in the Gospels in the first
century, especially after the destruction of the temple. But after the second century, they become
unreliable. Is this kind of like Jesus is a failed apocalyptic prophet kind of argument?
No, I think it's a textual transmission argument. I think based on my experience with
Humanist Reformation, I think this is the apocalyptic argument. I think, and that's only
for my past dealings. And that is the idea that Jesus said some things and expectations were
looking at the temple being kind of like the peak any time now. It's about to happen. So the
idea is in the second century, they would say, hey, this isn't reliable. So I guess if you were
standing to give Humanist Reformation, I want to be able to see Paul too. Well, that's why I took
down the Superjack. If you were standing on the Mount of Olives with Jesus as he's saying the
things he's saying, and there's still a temple standing, and he says, hey, we're in the season.
Day or hour, I don't know, but we're in the season, and here's all these signs.
I could see someone, especially an apocalyptic Jew, holding on for everything there, holding
on to those words and saying, this is believable. What I think Humanist is saying is by the second
century, you're looking back on those words he said, though. We have to make them mean other
things now. We have to stretch out these things. And that's, I think, what Humanist is trying to get at.
Do you want me to go first, then, on this one? Yeah, I was muted in my bed. Yeah, go ahead.
Yeah. I mean, for me, I don't know. I'm going to go back to the details regarding the resurrection
and everything else like that. And so that's part of what I would argue. Number two, if you're
standing back there when Jesus is saying those things, I mean, is it going to sound verbatim,
like tape recorded, like what Mark said? Is it going to be in that exact order? Is Mark narrating
it in a different kind of way? There's just a lot of things going on there. I'm not like a huge Dr.
Craig guy, but he does have a three-part series where he talks about the delay of the Perusia.
And he says that basically, like, the way that things were recorded weren't exactly like,
it wasn't as if it was like a tape recorder version of what was happening there. And there's
some order that got mixed up. And maybe that's some of the confusion that's, I'm not saying I
necessarily would die on that argument. Obviously, Than has had a Bram Rawlings on his show. I've had
Bram and Matt Harky, which is a mutual friend of ours, Derek, duke it out and debate that issue.
So people are, while we're plugging, doing free plugs, I'll plug that. People want to check out
that debate. Yeah, that's right. I got my own super chat here. So check that out because it's
a deep, very deep subject. That is not something that I can probably really give a very satisfying
two to five minute answer at all. I couldn't off the, just off the cuff either. I would have
stuff prepared. I know Inspiring Philosophy has done three videos in response to it. I know Harky
has come on your show and he's starting to respond to those things. And so it's just an ongoing
conversation. And I think that conversation is going to continue. I would say, I will say this,
I'll grant that while we're kind of granting sides a little bit here, I would say this is probably
the better argument that you guys saw. This probably is the strongest argument against my view,
I would say, or at least one of them. And so I'm willing to like grant that this one does have some
force. Appreciate that. I feel very, very appreciated. Paul, did you want to comment on that or?
No, all I would say is I'm less skeptical about the minds. I think they were coming up with strong
arguments, or at least the community itself was coming up with their own justifications for why
it wasn't happening within that first generation. And once you kind of take that on board, I don't
think anything significant changes from second century to third century forth. I feel like
as soon as you were past that first generation, you're kind of just going along with this is
God's plan. So I don't see that there was a huge difference there. It's tough for any of us to
know what we would do if we were there, because we would be different people. So I would agree with
that. Thank you. Daman says, would y'all ever engage with Islam? We need more men. So I get this
a lot. I think in general, those last four words are not true. Right. Just in general.
Islam has plenty of men. I think that this is something that comes up a lot, and a lot of
people haven't seen. I have dipped my toes into critical stuff on Islam. I was never a Muslim.
I do interview ex-Muslims. I have had several ex-Muslims come on. I've talked to academics
in the Islamic scholarship, Koran scholarship, often mostly Western scholars, even a Muslim
scholar themselves. The thing is, I don't want to get into the Dawa beef that goes on in the
internet world. It's really toxic. If you think apologetics in the Christian arena is like,
this is nothing compared to what goes on over there with death threats and the whole none.
And the other reason is, I don't know how much I want to do engagement with apologetics and
apologists. This is fun, but it is distracting, I'll be honest, from me being able to really
dive as deep as I want to go into the materials and to produce these highly scholarly works.
So I'm trying to be balanced and engage and have these conversations, but the whole apologetic
scene of diving in, it's very, very difficult. Some of the arguments I've heard from apologists
in the Muslim world, or the way I've had people phone in to call and challenge the ex-Muslims,
and some of the things that they think are good arguments, I'm wasting my time. How do you
convince someone who thinks because people memorize a book that that proves everything is,
you know what I mean? There's a lot of things. Go ahead, Eric. Oh, I was just going to say,
you have guys like apostate prophet who already just do a really good job
destroying Islam as it is, as well as David Wood. And so it's, to me, it's like you have those two
guys who are just absolute bulldozers, who are pretty popular. So I personally find Christianity
to be way more interesting, even if I was a skeptic, I would probably be more interested just
because Islam makes more ridiculous claims, maybe even, I mean, even when I was an atheist,
I tried to look in Islam and it was just like, okay, well, no, I'm not interested in this at all.
I've just a little bit of looking because it just, you know, there's just a, I don't know how to
explain it. It's kind of an explicit kind of thing, but there's just a weirdness factor to it, maybe,
that I don't see with other religions, maybe, other theistic religions.
My greatest strength online in talking to Christians and even just being able to dialogue with Christians
is that I can pass the Shibboleth test because I was one. Like, I know I can speak, I understand
the shorthands, I speak the language, I can put myself into the place of, it was not that long ago,
I thought they were for 6,000 years old, it's not that long ago, you know, so the trouble is,
so therefore, Christians can give me a little bit of credence that I was at least,
even if there's no such thing as a former Christian, I was at least raised among them and
kind of understand them from that perspective. I feel like I don't bring anything like that at all
to the discussion on Islam. I feel like they're just going to say, well, you are an outsider who
doesn't understand our stuff. Yeah, you don't speak Arabic or you have this. Right, so I don't
feel like I value add on that discussion. And this is another reason I don't do the apologetic
side of it. Look, I disagree with Eric on my interest in Islam as a religion,
and I'm not saying that Eric wouldn't have some interest, just not as much as he does, obviously,
in Christianity, but like when I have done some research into it, it's actually quite a fascinating
thing to like research and dive into. However, I'll make this one comment that let's keep moving,
that is, several academics, Western scholars who have critically analyzed using historical
methodology that we do the same thing with the Bible, and they do this with Quran and
early Islamic studies, they have noted to me, and I'm not naming names, how much crap I'm using
were crap, that they get in emails from those that are religious scholars in Islam. And it is
very sensitive. It is not as sensitive to deal with Christianity as it is to deal with Islam.
And there are reasons behind that. Some I get, and I understand, especially post 911, and anyone
who's a Muslim in the way they're treated in the West, etc. But then there are other reasons
it's like they're actually, they haven't engaged with this critical stuff on their material from
outsiders like Christianity has for centuries. So they've been Christianity has been picked apart,
I would say even by Christians internally, before any skeptics like me and Paul came on the scene
and started to like analyze. In fact, we read works from Christians who have kind of done a
historical critical method in life. So anyway, it's a very difficult subject to dive into,
and demand says, what should the prior probability of miracle be?
Oh, what a fun to find miracle first, because, because of like, if it's literally like if it,
well, if the question is, like, did God create, you know, arrange the circumstances without changing
anything in that natural order, such that, you know, a car didn't hit me on the street or something
like that, right? Like, that's just God ordering things without. And how could we even know? And
I think a lot of Pete Christians that I talked to, they count that as a miracle. So yeah, I wouldn't.
No, I wouldn't. I would say, I think J. L. Mackie, he's a very prominent atheist philosopher has got
a great definition. He says, the laws of nature describe the way in which the world, including,
of course, human beings works when left to itself, when not interfered with. A miracle occurs when
the world is not left to itself, when something distinct from the natural order as a whole intrudes
into it. And so I, I'm actually pretty happy with that definition from an atheist.
Yeah, what would the prior probability be? I guess, and I don't think this is, I mean,
how do you measure this? Yeah, we aren't omniscient to be able to calculate that in the
true philosophical sense, but wouldn't we all agree that the probability is far less than the way the
world naturally works on its own? That I don't. So I don't think I'll take a crack at this. I don't
think you can actually answer that question, generally speaking, because I don't think I don't
like the reference class of miracle is so ambiguous that I think you need to take this
on a case by case basis. Like what's the prior probability of a person growing their stomach
back being a miracle versus what's the prior probability of a person like Paul said, right,
not getting hit by a car being a miracle. I think those are completely different references,
reference classes, and you can't like do this frequentist approach to it.
If that makes sense. So I think the better way to like assess, I'm not going to answer the question,
because I just don't get there as an answer to like a miracle being, if that makes sense.
So I think the better question to ask would probably be something like, well,
how do you measure the prior probability? Or like, how do you at least get close?
And my answer to that would just be something along the lines of I'm not going to put hard
numbers on it. I'm going to use epistemic ranges, like it's modestly expected, not expected or highly
expected. And you kind of just go about that through simplicity and a prior reasoning. So
would there actually be motivation for God to do this miracle? Or would there not be? You ask
those types of questions and kind of assess from there. I want Paul to answer too, if you don't
mind. Yeah, please. Well, I mean, for me, it's going to at least, you'd have to,
it's going to be equal to whatever my prior probability is that God exists.
Yeah, 100%. So whatever, so whatever low value I'm putting on, does God exist? Because if you
get me to God exists, then miracles are easy. So. Right. But even if God exists, I mean,
now I'm kind of pushing back against myself here. But even if God exists, right? I think I even then
we have stopped to ask the question, like, what's the prior probability that God actually did this
miracle? I agree. The prior probability of individual miracles got to be lower than what
slightly lower than whether God exists, but it can't be higher than whether God exists.
Yeah, exactly. So I when I answered that question, I was just kind of assuming my background
knowledge of theism is probably true. Independent of that, I would say, you know,
that the whatever your whatever's in your background, this is with Bayesian reasoning,
but whatever's in your background knowledge is going to affect how you assess the prior of any
given event. Right. So am I here because I see myself frozen on the screen there?
You look funny. You are. I thought you went to sleep. Oh, this is terrible.
Fans talking about probability theory. Yeah. Anyway, real quick, if I could jump on the
question, gosh, I have to look at myself like this. Shall I refresh my own self here? Is that
going to kick me out? No. I would just say, as long as there's a possibility that God exists,
and that there is the possibility that there's an afterlife that God would like to tell us about,
then the probability at least we have to put it at nonzero. And anything with a nonzero prior
can be swamped with enough positive evidence for it. And so I'm going to go back to sleep now,
guys. I agree with everything you said, by the way. Yeah. Mark, thank you for the super chat.
I think everything that was written down in the ancient world was believed to be real.
No one ever wrote fiction outside of theater. So why I think Gospels are more real than any
old saga from any sect. I take, I don't agree. I don't think that the only time fiction was
written in the ancient world was theater. Eric's trying to get in here, but it says device not
detected. So I'm waiting on him to be able to insert back in here. But so I would already be like,
there were different categories of genre other than just plays. I'm still trying to reread to
the question because like you, Derek, I kind of disagree with that starting principle.
And I think he's, I think Mark's trying to say the Gospels are plays. And I have heard,
there is a scholar out there that thinks Mark may have been an act of some sort.
That it's like a play, like the curtain opens. Yeah, I've heard that before. And I think what
Eric and I would probably point to would be just some of the data points that seem more likely
on the condition that the reportage model of the Gospels is true versus some other model, right?
So like Eric and I would point to like undesigned coincidences and say like this seems more likely
on the reportage model than this being a play or something like unified personalities throughout
the Gospels. Those are hard to even in movies, right? Like some person's character is really hard
to keep together if you're just making up a play or making up a story. But throughout the Gospels,
we have characters kind of acting consistently. Just a little data points like that that I would
point to this say like it's more expected you'd see something like this on a reportage model than
a play model. I missed the question. I'm sorry, guys. I know. Sorry. It's really, I think fan
answered it and we got plenty more to get into this perspective. But I don't rule out the possibility
that Mark has used that way. But Jesus is a Muslim. They replaced Barnabas with false Apostle Paul.
Okay, for the super chat. I don't know what that means. There's so many ideas that come up. Wayne
Rossi, what do you think about the passage in Matthew where some of the disciples doubted?
This seems curious to me. Could it reflect memory of descent?
I like this question. This is a good question. I don't think that the appearance in Galilee. I
think this is very possible where the Paul's appearance of the 500 would have happened.
Because I think there were already appearances in Jerusalem that were in a more intimate setting.
And there's, it gets complicated. But I think the Galilee appearance was more of a larger group
appearance. We know he had like the 70 that he commissioned. I don't think that Jesus just appeared
to the 12 and that's it. I think he appeared to several people. And so I think if it's a crowd,
doubt is going to be very possible. So again, that sounds like harmonizing. And I know that's
dirty harmonizing and Dale Allison would hit me with a book on the top of my head and tell me that
that's bad. But yeah, that's what I think. I'm trying to remember, aren't the doubt passages
primarily in John? What in Matthew are the doubt stories? Matthew 28. So I actually wrote
article, minimal doubts article on academia. It's the only article I've had time in light of my
Matthew 28. You heard about the Great Commission section.
It's post resurrection, it may be 27, but let me see. It's 2817, I believe.
Yeah, when they, so now the 11 disciples went to Galilee, where you, oh, yes, yes, it is. Yeah,
they went on the mountain when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted.
It's been a while since I had the quote these things. So yeah, thank you. Yep.
Yeah. So I kind of picked up on this doubting tradition that I found a thread throughout that
I went back and mentioning Paul, but I found this thread that like, if you do take this as memory,
that some of the apostles themselves weren't sure what they were seeing or experiencing weren't really
as confident about what that post resurrection experience was. And there's so many different
ways of answering this and having different conclusions about how you're approaching this
material. But I thought, well, there seems to be at least this consistent material throughout
of a doubting tradition for the earliest apostles that were called disciples in the gospels. But
you know, the American Cuban says, can you disprove hell? This is the single greatest stumbling block
for those considering deconversion. The fear does not allow the mind to be logical.
And I'm going to pop these down each time if you need me to pop them back up because I hate that
they cover you guys at the bottom. Oh, I don't look that good. So, but Paul does.
Well, okay, so as an annihilationist, just even from like a philosophical standpoint,
I don't know where you land the plane here, Eric. We haven't actually talked about it. So
I just think that given like a perfectly loving God, our intuitions when it comes to like moral
things are very helpful data points for assessing things. And so I have trouble squaring away eternal
torments as a way of justice. And so I think you can kind of derive an evidential argument
against the doctrine of tell at least a priori from like philosophical grounds. And I think you
even exegete it through scripture that annihilationism is a better option to interpret the data from
as well. That's at least like my bird's eye view 30 second pitch. Yeah, I mean, I probably hold the
traditional view, but I think that there are good arguments for the annihilation view. Just from an
exegetical standpoint, Edward Fudge wrote a really good book on the topic. I can't remember the name
of it all of a sudden. Fire that consumes, I believe. And so I mean, I could see the argument for
that. I just think it's not been the traditional view for thousands or hundreds and couple thousand
years. So it's harder for me to make that jump. But yeah, I don't know. The point is he's like
saying, Well, you can't reason because you're scared. And so obviously, well, I mean, there are
lots of different religions that say there's hell. And so I'm not like, I don't think that
my reason is just so frozen that I can't assess evidence for the different claims that are being
made. And nor do I did I even really feel like even when I was exploring Christianity, like,
like I wasn't waking up in cold sweats at night thinking, Oh, no, if I don't figure out what's
the right religion is, I'm going to go to hell. Maybe some people have problems with that. Maybe
they really internalize that anxiety. And if you do, I mean, maybe get some help. But I just,
I don't think that that played a major factor in my deciding what is true and what's not true.
Nor do I think that Christians should just try and bludgeon people over the head with the threat
of hell in order to get them to convert. I mean, I think you should be honest about what you
believe. I think you should be honest about what the Bible, you believe the Bible says about it.
But there's so much more to Christianity than just a fire insurance. I think that's a very
emaciated, you know, fundamentalist, King James only kind of weird way of looking at it. Like,
there's a King James only Bible church not too far from me. And there's like angels literally
throwing people. When you are, here's the thing, when you are raised in that, yeah, when you are
raised in that, and you would acknowledge that there are denominations that preach a very
fire and brimstone hell. Yeah, yeah, they are. I agree. And I was in one, and I've talked to
hundreds of people who have de-converted and fear of hell is very consistently the very last thing
to go. And it took me years to not wake up and be afraid that maybe I might be going to hell. So
it's a real thing when you're not starting from scratch. I think when you're starting from
people who start from scratch, have less of a problem with this. So would you say that it's
influenced your in a negative way of finding what you believe is right, though? Like, do you think
that the fear of hell tripped up your? I feel like I held on to religion longer than I felt. I held
on to Christianity longer than I would have if I hadn't been afraid to help. Absolutely. Okay,
that's fair enough. Just to tackle the question from my perspective, you can't falsify some of
this stuff. But I think there's an approach we can take. And that is, I've had scholars come on
talking about God's body, right? Looking at God using heuristic approach of ancient Near Eastern
documents, the name L that is in the Canaanite literature and seeing the name L, the God that
is described in earlier Canaanite tradition in the biblical framework. And you kind of watch and see
what humans have done with God over a very long period of time. And so you start seeing, okay,
God becomes the platonic outside space and time God that can intercede into time. But like, is this
all powerful, all loving omniscient omnibenevolent, et cetera, et cetera type deity. Whereas you see
him as an ancient Near Eastern deity when you look further back. And I would say the same approach
I would take. If you're wanting to study hell and you're trying to kind of relieve yourself on
what's going on here, you can see that this Hades, for example, in the Greek, they had portals,
we call them portals, and we imagine it's an alternative realm. But they actually had physical
places where they believed where springs would come up into the underworld. So they believed that hell
was in the earth. When you now start looking at science, start to understand, you know,
more about what we're looking at, and you go, is hell underneath us really inside this ball
we're spinning on, we call earth, you can logically start to reason yourself out of saying,
maybe this is a construct developed by humans and our perception on trying to understand,
now I'm coming from a completely radical different worldview. But I was within the Christian bubble,
or even the ancient Egyptian bubble, they believed in post tortures and stuff of people who did bad
in life, things like that. So I feel like there's this intuition for humans to say,
I didn't get what I deserved in this life, and Billy over there took advantage of everyone's
whole life, and he had a great life, he needs punishment, I need reward, and you get these
natural inclinations that happen. But I felt like over the years, when I learned that, realized
this was not the only religion that had this concept, that it's just almost like a human
ubiquitous hope, even reincarnation kind of tries to deal with a problem of evil, it's all a problem
of evil way of trying to solve it. So that I have a person, I'll leave it at this, that is
deconverting, there's been messaging me, and I've been telling them, please go speak to a doctor.
It is so bad for them, this thing, and it wasn't on that level for me, even though I probably could
have used talking to somebody, like me and Paul probably could have used talking to somebody,
would have helped maybe speed up the process. They're so trapped in this, that I've encouraged
them to go back to Christianity. If you are that suffering and it is that bad, get right with God.
I mean, that's coming from an atheist. In my mind, I'm going, don't live in this nightmare
that you put yourself into, because your rational mind in some way is saying you don't believe this
is true, and yet you're so afraid of the concept, what if I'm wrong thing? That is what they're
dealing with, and this gets into that Craig statement. I lower, if there's a chance, one
in a million after hearing the good news, you know, like, anyway, that was my little long winded
spill, but sure. Well, I will say just as a Christian, I mean, I don't want to like,
apologize on behalf of all Christians and do the silly, flagellate myself thing, but at the same
time, I think then and I would agree, like, we feel sympathy for people who have gone through
those things as maybe not has experienced the phobia, and it's unfortunate that stuff is out there,
and we would agree that like, an overemphasis on that in a hyper fundamentalist kind of way is
is a bad and unhealthy thing. Yeah, I mean, I didn't grow up as a Christian, and when I became
a Christian, one of the first like huge turn offs for me that sent me into my agnostic stage.
After I became a Christian was that is people trying to jackhammer me with dogmatism and
all this other stuff. So while I can't like, I can't relate to how growing up in that world
to you guys, I can at least sympathize with some of my experiences. And I agree, it's just very
frustrating. And I still do with that. The other thing that helped me, of course, was just the
idea, let the just look at the Christian versus Christian debate on what hell is like, and then
think to yourself, well, if God wanted this message of hell to be clear, why is why is it so
unclear? Like that was actually comforting to me in that, well, if God wanted us to fear eternal
conscious torment, it feels like he would have been a lot more clear about that than than the
Bible is. And the fact that so much debate amongst Bible believing Christians can happen that
you know, that's that's not the that's not the only way to interpret this message. So
thank you for what that's worth. Christine Elise, thank you for the super chat. Just
joining in. How would you respond to those who say God was working with the morals of the time
and that morality evolved according to his plan? Thank you. Is that a question for us or for you
I think so. Okay. So for so I hold to William Webb's thesis, at least a modified version of it,
if you guys are familiar with it, when it comes to just like the ethical issues in the Old Testament
and stuff like that, regarding slavery, all that jazz. And so one of the things I would
disagree with is that morals are changing over time. Rather, what I would say is like something
like the proposition slavery is wrong was true even back then. It's just that God
allowed those things in order to work with people. So it's not the fact that God is like okay with
slavery. Or like, it's he's saying it's a good thing. And then later on, change his mind and said
it's a good thing. I'm not the divine command theorist either. I don't think that God like
says what's right and wrong. And therefore it's right and wrong. I think that there are moral
truths that exist and God knows what those moral truths are. So the basic idea here would just be
kind of correcting that in the first place. Interesting, like no, like, God, God is not
changing morality over time, but rather what's happening is God is slowly revealing in changing
the course of humanity towards a greater ethic. And the analogy that William Webb uses and I use
is just imagine the lines of scrimmage on a football field. The end zone is the ultimate
ethic. And God's just moving you line of scrimmage by line of scrimmage towards that ultimate ethic.
Where men and women are equal, and slavery is wrong, all people are equal, stuff like that.
Paul? Eric? Paul, the other Christian here. Paul can jump in if he wants to. Or I could jump in.
I don't care. I probably would agree with some of that. I think, I mean, if you read,
Jesus himself is approached and they're like, hey, can we divorce and remarry? Somebody else
just did it basically because we feel like it. And Jesus is like, well, Moses allowed that
because you're hard hearted. But then he points to the creational order of things. Like in the
beginning, this isn't the way that it was. And I know, like, I know they're very popular, but the
Bible Project actually has a really good podcast on that particular topic. And they go into a
lot of the scholarly stuff as far as like the Old Testament and some of the weird
laws and some of the things that we see are like, oh, that's bad. But that's kind of the
heuristic, if that's the right word that I would use with that is like, I think there were a lot of
things that that wasn't like his ultimate ideal. And he's always trying to push people towards
that goal line, like, like Dan was saying. And I think it's because of the hardness of people's
hearts. And it's just the kingdom of God is like, you know, the leaven, you know, he puts,
put a little bit in and it spreads throughout the whole dough. And I think that there's a progressive
kind of way that things can work themselves out toward a creational ethic.
That's all I have to say about that. I have, I actually have regarding like slavery specifically,
I'm actually working with Josh Bowen on a video, believe it or not. Because him and I agree on
the majority of stuff when it comes to the conversation. So that's something you guys can
look forward to at some point. Awesome. Did you want to comment on that, Paul?
I guess I always say, if I ever become a Christian again, if I become convinced Christianity is
true, none of none of these kind of explanations, neither the one that the super chatter put forth
nor the ones that I just heard from American fan would satisfy me. But I would land in the camp of
what God has justified reasons that I don't understand.
Well, so almost like a, like a skeptical theism type thing.
I think so, because that is entirely unsatisfying. Well, we could, Paul, you and I could always have
a conversation separately about this, because I only just gave like the cliff notes version of it,
right? Because I actually, this is one of those reasons where I was really doubting whether or
not like we can really say the whole corpus of the Bible since like inspired or anything like that.
And I was kind of ready to let it go until I ran into web stuff. So I can send you the books too,
if you want. I want to make a brief critical comment about the slavery thing. Since that
was an example, obviously, we all agree that's morally just horrible. But Jennifer Glancy,
who is a Christian, by the way, she's not like an apologist in any way. She has done a lot of
research on slavery in the first century. I interviewed her book, slavery as a moral problem
in early early church. And today, the fact that some early Christians were slaves does not present
a moral problem for Christians today. The fact that some early Christians were slave holders
does. Jennifer Glancy tackles questions that continue to haunt contemporary men and women
inside and outside of the churches. Why didn't Jesus speak out forcefully against slavery?
Why didn't the early church see slavery as fundamentally incompatible with the gospel?
Were there any bright moments when some Christians in fact drew that conclusion? And she
highlights a few throughout history. And why don't we know more about them? Why didn't Christianity
have more of an impact on slaveholding in the Roman Empire? And what lessons can we learn as we
face moral catastrophes? And she goes on and on. But two comments. The Essenes, there were some Essenes
who practiced no slavery. And they said it was a crime against humanity. But in her book, she goes
through several of the stories in the Gospels where Jesus is using slavery as an example,
not condemning it, using it. So for me, since this is the pinnacle guy of Christianity and he
is the like the best representative of more morality in Christian, it's like to spin it
another way, taking it off Jesus for Christians. Muhammad, let's just say he really did marry a
nine year old. Let's just say he really was a warlord. Let's go with the ugliest picture painted
by like David Wood and those guys who want to go to Hadith and say, Hey, this guy was this bad.
But he is the moral standard of all time. I would say using that analogy. And of course,
I would still say that if that were true of Muhammad, that's far worse than what I would say
Jesus in this case. But the fact that he doesn't take that stand and really condemn it. And he is
at that point, one has to make other arguments in my opinion to try and say, Well, just a guy's
working with what he has. And like, I guess, I don't know. I mean, Paul called himself a
bondservant of Christ. And so I don't really have a problem thinking of myself as as a slave to God
in a certain sense. I mean, I'd be curious to read that book. I wonder what she says about like
by Lehman and the story between she gets into all this and all that other stuff. Because I guess
I just I see like, taking on slavery back then in the Roman world, and this is maybe something
you can answer for me, Derek, like, it was so ingrained in the warp and whoop, it would completely
like the whole economy would just was was based on it. And so I think it'd be difficult to just get
up and say, I don't know. But I mean, here's Eric, here's here's my problem with it, brother. And
just being frank, you're dealing with people who are literally part of a new kingdom. They don't
care about the empire. The end is near. They are a part of a new kingdom. They are part of a new
family. They are willing, like, if we go read some of these early church martyrs, they want to get
ground in the teeth of the lions, they are looking to die, they want this. And and so this gets into
a whole different thing about persecution, like as if people were after them, some of them were
wanting to die for the faith. And so there's all sorts of things that I would say, if they're willing
to buck against the world like that, then slavery is just one more tab on the shoulder. I just can't
imagine that they thought of it in that way that the Christian community cared about slavery as a
model because they worked with it. And she goes into this part of the morality of Christianity
is built through slavery. And that's what she actually goes into in the book. But Frederick
Nietzsche highlighted this as well. And I think that the grassroots movement of Christianity
depended on kind of the slaves in the community. And that the last the whole ethic of Jesus is
the last, the least, the poor, they will be rich, they will be first, they will be the greatest.
And that is the ethic. So it wouldn't have worked for the guy at the top. The rich young man had to
go sell everything, probably didn't. I mean, in that particular gospel, the point is, is like,
it's that kind of philosophy. And if this was an all time morally apric, like horrible thing that
we know it is today, I think they would have said something about it, if they knew that it was bad.
Yeah, I don't know. I mean, that's kind of a Gandhi view of Jesus a little bit. But
that's a whole different discussion. And one that I honestly would like to be more studied in
so I what's what's the name of the author again? Jennifer Glancy. Okay, thank you. And it's okay,
I'll check that out. Humanist Reformation. It's only a tape recorder when Christianity wants to
legislate their beliefs. It's unreliable when it's scrutinized. It's only tape recorder when Christianity
Yeah, I don't know. I don't think this I assume this is in reference to when
Eric at one point mentioned he was weighing whether or not what the words of Jesus
Oh, the apocalyptic thing. Yeah, that was whether they are a tape recorder version or is it the gist?
I think I'm guessing that that's yeah, I wasn't saying that it was unreliable. I'm just saying
that they could be narrating things in a different way. They could be chunking things in. They could
be organizing what Jesus said in different ways. That's all that I was saying.
To me, this is just like, I'm not looking to legislate the Bible on people. So I don't know.
I'm not a Christian nationalist. I think Christian nationalism is bad. I was just gonna say
I don't think Eric and I would I think Eric and I would both kind of argue against Christian
nationalism and legislating things based off of what the Bible says. Yeah.
If I can't justify it apart from the Bible, I'm not gonna force it.
I was just about to say I think me and Paul would both say that the biblical option is
not the government. Yeah. You know, Christ is not of this world. So let's
Kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom was my servants would fight.
If you don't like Christian nationalism, look at Greg Boyd myth of the Christian nation myth of
it. It's an interesting book. Mennonites. I mean, Paul didn't grow up and if you're a
Mennonite, Paul, you didn't you didn't even enroll to to be. That's correct. No, my whole family
lineages is running from being forced to be in armies and things. Yeah. Yeah. I am putting
in the chat and I'm making this vocal. Please no more super chat questions. If you feel like
supporting the channel, you can. I want to make sure Paul doesn't hate me. I mean,
he already does, but he won't tell me. But we want him to be willing to come back and join
me on these and not be like, Oh, another three hour adventure with Chris Haynes. Derek, are you
planning on interviewing an expert in Jainism, Sikhism, any time in the future? I probably will.
I mean, look, this is the beginning of the channel. And eventually I will expand my knowledge into
other religions and spend more time going in, diving into the mythos and and doing all that
fun stuff. So I imagine that will happen at some point. And I'm just having fun right now. So
I'm thankful for those who are journeying with me and bearing with me. I have, I have some
connections with some scholars that are specialist in Jainism and Sikhism. So if you ever, if you're
ever going to go down that route, just let me know and I'll get you in touch. Okay. Thank you.
Appreciate that. Let me see something. There we go. Please no more super tech questions. Okay.
Super chat is hidden gnosis. Thank you for that. I like the name, by the way.
Christians, how do you separate allegory from history? Paul and Galatians 4 says part of
Abraham's story is allegory and Philo basically thinks all of Genesis is allegory and symbolic.
It seems the first century writers were very loose with history.
Thank you. I mean, I think Paul is kind of clear when he when he's trying to make an allegory,
I don't think that he thinks that Abraham didn't exist or Sarah didn't exist, because he talks
about himself being a descendant of Abraham and other places. And so I don't think that he thinks
that the Genesis story is allegory. I think he's taking people who he believes are real people.
And he's saying he's using them as an allegory. Just like I could talk about, I don't know,
anybody from real history, Abraham Lincoln or something and come up with some kind of allegory
to talk about them. And so when it comes to like reading Genesis, like the first few chapters,
I mean, you have to look at the kind of genre and different stuff like that. I think when the
Gospels are being written, I think that they're pretty clear that they're trying to relate that
their history, just judging from Luke's prologue, I know Derek will push back and we could argue for
two hours on this. But I think that they're trying to say that they're reporting the facts. I think
John is saying, hey, I'm giving you testimony here. And I think that we have a number of ways to
confirm that is what they're doing. And I think there's a number of ways that I think the early
church received these documents is that's that's the way they were written. And so you can see
that in a number of the fathers. And so, yeah, I don't think that it's that difficult to tell.
Obviously, I'm not reading something like the Psalms or the first few chapters of Genesis or
certain other things, the way that I would read the Gospels, there's just different,
it's a library of books. And they all are writing in different styles and different genres.
Thank you so much. Thank you, Hidden Gnosis for that 50. I really appreciate it. Here is his
YouTube channel, actually, I went and double checked to make sure. So if you're interested,
subscribe to Hidden Gnosis, catchy name, especially since I'm friends with Neil from Gnostic
Informant. Robert Hollander became a member. You are now totally saved. I really appreciate it.
We have a salvation plan as well. It just costs money to be saved here. It's a monthly salvation
subscription. Yes, subscribe. That's how the Reformation got kicked off.
Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Getting to our next one here is Blake again.
Blake's back. Thoughts on claim God doesn't send anyone to hell. We send ourselves. Hell is locked
from inside. Doesn't parable of 10 versions in Matthew 10, 28 contradict that.
I guess the idea that people send themselves to hell.
Sure. I don't think anybody's going to hell just based on ignorance. Just like, oh, I didn't know.
Sorry, God. Oh, too bad. I'm going to hell. I mean, I do agree that if you look at the
parable of the 10 virgins, it seems like there was certainly remorse and they were like, let us in
and all that other stuff. Then I also look at the rich man at Lazarus. Again, these are parables.
These are stories. He's not necessarily like, how literal, do you stretch these out and take them
where you have the rich man who's basically like, send Lazarus to just relieve me, but he
doesn't want to leave. Those are just two different parables that seem to be giving semi-different
messages. If there are people in hell, I'm sure there are some that don't want to be there. I don't
know. It gets us into a whole other topic too for forever. Dan's an annihilationist. He's going to
say eventually they're just going to get turned to an ash anyways. When I say I'm an annihilationist,
I think that term gets misunderstood a little bit sometimes. I think the more accurate term would
be conditional immortality, meaning that dead people just stay dead. They just cease to exist,
that's all. But I think that parable of the 10 virgins too, some people might interpret that more
about the eschaton versus like heaven and hell. Can you guys hear drilling in the background?
I can. I'm so sorry. I'm going to mute for now then.
I was like, am I at the dentist for a minute? That's all right. This is a Frank Turrick talking
point that basically the idea is that we go to hell, that we could leave if we want to,
but that we keep getting our sentence extended because we keep sinning while we're there.
Does that fit with your view of me? No. I don't know if I would go there with that.
Just you keep sinning and so God's just going to keep punishing you. And so to be honest,
I'm just going to say I don't really know. This is just something where I've studied it
several years ago. I've read different views. Persuaded universalism is probably not a biblical
option on the table. I think annihilationism is. I'm just hesitant because I tend to just
consult church history as well. Yeah, it's a heavy doctrine. I mean, if there was something I could
erase and change a little bit, then sure. And so I don't think that it's just like you just
keep sinning. I mean, I would imagine if you are in hell, you're probably angry at God. You were
probably angry at your situation. You may not want to change. You may. So maybe there's a little
bit of truth to that, but I don't know. I just don't like the blunt way that he puts it, I guess.
I'm sure there's a better nuanced way to put it. And it's just something now I got people pounding
on things in the background that I just need to look into more. And I don't want to give a crappy,
cheesy Christian answer. I just say, Hey, this is a topic I need to explore more. I'm far more
interested in historicity, reliability and things like that. It's more of a theological issue.
It's important. But yeah, I'm just asking a question about something you said on this question.
So you, you, you said that you don't think anyone goes to hell because of a lack of knowledge.
I guess I'm wondering, do you think that salvation is a two step process? Do you think that the first
step is some some sort of however you want to describe it, intellectual ascent. And then a
second step is to like welcome and embrace lordship or well to like to, to take that intellectual
ascent and then take it to another level. Do you, is your view of salvation that two step process?
Well, I mean, I think, I don't know. It's, it's hard to put into, to probably the right words.
I'm probably not being the most articulate here. I think salvation is ultimately to use a Greek
word. Maybe Than will get excited here, but the, it's theosis. I think it's, it's coming.
Salvation is becoming more like God. I think it's becoming letting his life inside of you
and letting that life have its way and more fortifying your sin, growing and in, in the,
the nature of God living, letting him live through you. I don't think it's, I'm not,
I don't have, I don't hold like a real super protestant view of like, you just believe and
you're justified and that's the end of it. I think.
No, and that's why I started to put it as a two step thing. Like there's got to be an intellectual
ascent and then there's whatever. You need, you need the intellectual ascent in order.
Okay. So that's the question. So all the stuff that the Odyssey you described,
that a prerequisite to that is some level of intellectual ascent, right?
Yeah. I mean, you need to hear the, the message to receive and to, to grow in that.
Yeah. Paul, I'm assuming you're just kind of taking this with the problem of divine head in this.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so, I forgot the guy's name because I believe in post-mortem opportunity
for people that cannot be held epistemically culpable or morally culpable.
Is that biblical though? I mean.
Yeah. So, so I, so I always have an issue when the question is that biblical is asked.
Well, I ask because I could see why someone would make that excuse up if they are trying to
rationalize why people haven't heard the gospel. You know what I mean?
Yeah. So I'm going to push back on your word of like excuse there too, because.
Well, I'm, I, I'm saying that because I could imagine if I were saying, what about the guys
over here on an island that never got the gospel? You'd be motivated to say that.
Yeah. Yeah. I know. I totally get where you're coming from.
I'm, I'm, I'm, it's not an ad hoc supposition.
An Eric might disagree with me here, but I don't think it's like an ad hoc thing to add on,
especially like if our base theory of theism would entail that, that be the case, if that makes sense.
But if that is the case, then by staying completely neutral in this life,
do I not have the advantage of having making a choice based on perfect knowledge after I die?
As opposed to trying to make a choice based on imperfect knowledge now.
See, this is, go ahead. No, no, you go ahead.
Okay. Yeah. So this is where I'm going to make a distinction between
a few different things. Cause one, I'm not saying I know where the line is between
like epistemic and moral culpability and not culpability. I don't know where that line would
be. Right. And I'm not, I'm not going to sit here and pretend I do. Cause I don't have access to
your inner thoughts and I'm not going to psychologize you because I hate when people do that to me.
So that's, no, but we could, we could use rather as an example, like someone,
someone who was born before they died, like a stillbirth, right?
Yeah. So like they're, they can't, they can't be, they can't be held morally responsible.
I think some young creationists might take like Romans five, 12,
and they'll misinterpret that as inherited guilt. I don't think that's what that's actually
saying them. It's inherited death. And so that's probably a bad example because God probably doesn't
have that person. There's no way they could have been held. Right. They're, they're probably not,
they're probably no hell option for that. So one of the, one of the examples I use for instance,
there's two different ones. One is going to be just people that have no access to the gospel
whatsoever. I'm just completely separated and there's people groups that we know that are like
that. Right. And the other example I would just use is people that are like mentally handicapped
to the point that like, there's no way that they could be held epistemically culpable. Right.
Those two types of people I think will be granted post-mortem opportunity.
And the rest of us, but the rest of us fall under Romans 20.
Well, I don't know. So like, again, I don't know, I don't have access to your inner thoughts, Paul.
Right. So like, so like, I, I'd like to, I would like to take you on your word. I have no reason
to doubt your word that you're not, you know, that you're a non-resistant non-believer. Right.
And so if that's actually the case, I think you're doing your due diligence by investigating
things. And if it, if you died today or something like that or whatever, I hope you don't. But
if you died today, I think that you would be facing God and given an opportunity.
I don't really have a big problem with that at all. In the sense that I,
like, I don't like the whole Pascal's wager thing. And I guess this is where I would throw in
a different person's wager. This is Joseph Butler, where he just basically says if Christianity is
possibly true, then like, do your best to fully understand it. I'm not saying you have to pretend
you believe like Pascal and just live the Christian life, even though you don't, because I don't think
that we can do that kind of like, volunteerism and just, just will what we believe. And so I think
if you're doing your due diligence, I don't think somebody who's like really trying to study Christianity
that is really trying to understand Christianity and the
is going to just be like, no, that's too bad. Like if they're in the process. And so I think
Butler's wager is more defensible because it's like, just take the time, really get to be able
to steal man the argument for Christianity. And at worst, what are you going to do? You're going
to be a very effective counter apologist, I guess. And so I would just say, like, if I was in your
shoes, Paul, is just, just do your intellectually, honestly, best. And I'm not saying that you are
not because I can't psychologize you. Just do your intellectually. No, Paul is evil. That's right.
Paul is evil. No, I'm just kidding. I get those in my comments. But I'm just kidding. But yeah,
if you're doing your intellectually best, then I think that I think that I don't see why God is
going to punish you forever or for temporarily, I think he wants as many people to be saved as
possible. And so now what I will say is just like, I would like, I think that's where our job as
Christian apologists comes in is we should be trying to give our best arguments so that that
information is even available to you in the first place. And in some ways, I think apologetics has
failed a lot of people. I'll put it that way. And so, but this is why I don't like the
psychologizing on any side. And I don't like when I see it in my own comments, because I'm like,
I don't, I don't really know what these people are thinking unless I have good reasons to.
If there's other reasons to think something, then sure, I might bring it up, but I try and
stay away from that. Anyway, Paul, was that was that? Did I answer your question? Are you good?
You actually did. Yeah. So we're gonna try and get through these supers. Like I said, Paul's not
only evil, but he'll hate me if we don't try to make this. I also do real bad. He'll hate you more
than he hates. I'm living an inconsistent life here, Derek. I've written lots of stories by one
black friend. Thank you for the super chat. It is remarkably easy to keep characters consistent.
Anyone trying should make a bullet point list of the philosophies and actions or actions, reactions
of their characters. So this is, I think, a point back where you were saying like having the apostles
having a consistent character throughout the gospels as like implausible, unless this is real.
Yeah. No. So Eric, I was when he, somebody asked a question about why we should think like the
gospels aren't plays instead of the reportage models or something like that. One of the data
points I brought up is the consistent characters throughout the gospels in the New Testament.
Yeah. Yeah. That's the context here. So one of my pushbacks there would just be the fact that one,
we don't have just one person with the gospels in the New Testament in general
having a consistent status character. So we actually have multiple authors keeping a consistent
character set to alter out the way. That's one of my pushbacks. But Eric, if you have anything
else, go ahead. It's subtle. It's a tease. Apology is favorite word, casual, because that's,
I'm just messing with them a little bit there. The way that they do that. But also, it's, yeah,
it's the consistency. It's also the fact that like, and this is where you guys were probably
pushed back is the whole modern realistic genre of historical fiction just wasn't really a thing
until later. So it's a little anachronistic to say that. And then if you just want to look at
lack of consistency, just read some of the other apocryphal gospels or apocryphal acts
and just compare apples with apples or I would say apples with oranges.
Thank you so much. Thoughts on near death experience research. Was it WRT afterlife hypothesis? I
don't know. I'm a little skeptical of it, to be honest with you. I don't find I don't I don't
think there's a really good criteria to assess these things. And yeah, let's kind of keep it at
that. I'm just skeptical. And I don't think it's methodologically sound enough yet to for me to
say anything. So I would probably veer on the side of just saying like, this isn't really a good
talking point. But yeah, I would say too, I just think there's better arguments to use than your
death experiences. And it's not something I'm that really interested in.
I heard that death had a near death experience of Chuck Norris. That's for sure. I want to
plug my video case for heaven on that one on my whole expose. Oh, you do have that on? Was that
on the big channel? Yeah, I have a whole I took I took the whole movie every NDE in the movie and
went through them. And yeah, it's not biggie. Okay, I'm you're pulling it up. The case for heaven
is dismissed. Lee Strobel response that one. Yarp. She's Yarp. Yeah, I did. And I also
I also actually hired the movie trailer guy in that movie and that this is a fun little
there's a fun little snippet in that video. This is it here. Case for heaven. Yeah. So I just posted
it in the one actually. Oh, yeah, yeah, that's the right one. Yeah, that was right one. Okay,
making sure. Well, you got to hear that. Well, I pulled up the one little trailer that I made
and made a separate video, which is just more silly fun. Got it. Got it. That's like 30 some
seconds. Awesome. I posted it in the chat. Go check it out. M nag in the house. There is something
to be said about the illiteracy rate in the ancient world. It would have been much easier to
convince the masses of miracles and gods. I mean, I think that people in the ancient world know that
dead people stay dead and virgins typically don't get pregnant. Although I know that I could see
Derek's eyes. Yeah, they're shut. We don't agree. Yeah. So I think that they do know that. I mean,
look, even Revelation tells you about, so you look at Revelation and its use of the
civilian oracles, there's Nero Redivivus, like people believe Nero, like died and came back.
People were thinking all sorts of stuff. There are several cults, even this isn't a video coming
up with me and Matthew Hartke. There's a cult, and I hope to eventually end up on apology as Wall
of Fame, the Hall of Fame of cartoons one day. But in Gospel of John chapter four in the commentary
of origin, he brings up these, the Diocletians. I can't remember the name. They're a Samaritan
group that had a guy named Dysetheus or something. I don't even know his actual name. They believed
he was the Messiah and that he's still alive after his death to this very day. So, and this is
something N.T. Wright completely misses, but I would totally disagree on the idea of virgin births
even. Plutarch talks about Plato's birth through the Pneuma and Denimus of the God. Like there's
so many examples and accounts of various things like this that that's why when I use the whole
walk like a duck thing and Michael just like, I don't understand. I'm like, at least understand
what I'm trying to say, even if you disagree with me. That's the frustration is that I'm looking at
all these other various, I'll use the term superstitions for people who believe in these
different legends and myths and accounts. So that's the one. Yeah. And that's that's where
we went back to our discussion, you know, that people can check out. I guess we can plug for
the sake of time where we just kind of went back and forth on that for a good while. To me, it's like
how else is God going to communicate a revelation unless he just is like going to appear to everybody
but by miracles. And so if there is going to be some way that he communicates revelation,
it will be by that. And it's going to look maybe to people later, like, oh, that's a that's a myth,
obviously, because there's something supernatural. But I don't also make my whole case for Christianity
just based on the text either. I'm kind of a maximalist, maximalist, where I will want to
bring in some of the modern miracles as well as like a tiebreaker, because I think that's
even what the apostles did is they they didn't just say we were witnesses to the resurrection.
They they demonstrated it or they pointed to things that demonstrated it. So so yeah,
I'll just leave it at that. Well, to that super chat, I don't think literacy is an inoculation
against bad epistemology, right? Yeah, I was just going to say, yeah, you can, you people believe
some really wrong or really non justified things and can read like that. Yeah, they're scholars.
Yeah. And sir, people would say that about our Christian scholars. Of course,
that's no guarantee of anything. So I don't even know how to read. So
I think it's yeah, there's so much we can. Yeah, I'm with you guys on that. David Aaron Hill,
thank you for the super chat. Do you believe origin unit himself?
I've heard different things about that. Like, I heard that he did. And then I don't know. It's
not something I really looked into. That's definitely taking Matthew five very literally,
which I don't think that's what Jesus had in mind. But yeah, anyway, I think he probably did.
Yeah, I just haven't looked into it enough to have an opinion. So yeah.
Thank you so much, David. I really appreciate it. Paul, Paul, did you
I spent very little time thinking about who did or did
Vesper, thank you. What makes the internal state of someone's belief or non belief a moral principle
worthy of sending someone to heaven or hell over? Isn't that cultish?
My answer would be that it doesn't that there is no like moral principle worthy of sending someone
heaven or hell over based off of your intellectual scent to any proposition.
So that's why I believe in postmodern opportunity.
But also it's just clear that like demons, if you if you're going to accept Christianity and
space value, like demons believed and shot and they shuttered and they don't go to like there
there are people who had perfect knowledge and were still able to say no. So clearly intellectual
scent is not. Oh, and there's the sheep and the separating the sheep and the goats. So there's
there's a second step beyond that. Yeah.
Thank you so much. Arez, Aurelian, if thou couldest ask of the living Jesus a question,
what would it be?
Well, oh man.
So we're going to have totally different questions. I can't wait to see what the
differences look like.
Yeah. Okay, look, this is this is about as unacademic as it gets. But I'd probably ask
him if I could have like Saiyan powers from Dragon Ball Z.
That's the first thing that came to my head. I'm sorry.
Yeah, I don't even know how to answer that one. Honestly. I don't know. We'll ask him a question.
I don't know. I mean, how's my mom doing? I don't know.
Like, not to not to make that hard. Well, it was a long time ago. It was like 16 years ago.
So I'm not I'm not upset about it now. I've come to terms with it. But I don't know.
I have to think about that one.
I if I felt like I was in a conversation with the living Jesus, then I would ask for
him to tell me something that I don't have knowledge of and possibly that no one else
has knowledge of like perhaps the solution to one of the unsolved math problems that I don't
even understand what the problem is. If you know, give me that solution, because I would assume that
if I am having a conversation with whom I think is living Jesus, that I'm hallucinating. And
therefore, what I would really want is some something I could externally verify so that I
can later say, Oh, I wasn't hallucinating that I was really talking to the risen Jesus and that
affirms a whole lot of stuff. So I'm going to jump in as a Christian here and say that Paul is not
necessarily wrong for thinking that, right? Because a lot of Christians are going to go,
Ah, see, even if Jesus appeared to you, Paul, you wouldn't believe. I don't think that there's
anything wrong with wanting some kind of like an epistemic tie down to know that you're not
hallucinating if the Virgin Mary appeared to me. If my buddy called me and said,
230, did you have something unusual happen to you? And did this person say this? And then they said,
Okay, yeah, it was the Virgin Mary. Then I'd be like, Oh, okay, yeah, wow, okay, I might need to
reconsider Catholicism or something. So I just want to head off any Christians being like,
Oh, God, let's let's clip this and upload it. He wouldn't believe. I don't think there's anything
wrong with wanting some kind of an epistemic tie down to a real life situation. Just like,
if somebody says that they heard a voice and God spoke to them. Well, what did that voice tell you
and how did it actually like pertain to reality with something that like, if the boy said, Hey,
take a step over to the left. And then all of a sudden a bullet went whizzing by you. Well,
that would be a different story than just, you know, said you heard a voice and it made you
feel good or something like that. Yeah, those are all in categories of things that I would take.
Okay, I think I was, I hope I was getting to the point clearly that if I was able to verify that,
then I would actually accept that what happened to me had been real and vertical. I wouldn't
continue to doubt it. I would ask a question that kind of getting behind the theological baggage
that we usually debate with Christians on and stuff. Assuming here's an apocalyptic Jew
who has a small following. And I was able to ask him, I would probably act to ask him a specific
apocalyptic question. And it would kind of be the falsifying one rather than like, Hey, prove to me
by telling me the lottery tickets for 2024. And like, it's more like, so when is the end of human
history going to happen again? And if he just kind of like, along with what I already think
is assumed in the gospels goes, it's going to happen here soon. One could probably rationalize
beyond this and go, Well, that was his human body. So he really didn't know. And so once you have the,
the, you know, full 100% God 100% man scenario here in heaven, he's revealed all things. So he
could be wrong about things on earth. For me, it would be enough to low. He's, he's in the vein of
a felt apocalyptic prophet type thing. And I would be able to know it. And then we could tell the Jesus
seminar, stop guessing whether or not the guy was an apocalyptic prophet or not. He was. And that
would be my question. So there you go. The American, he might just answer you with a parable, though,
is the thing. If he answers me with a parable, I just wasted my one question.
Because I feel like he would create a loop contradiction because no one knows the days of
the hour. So if he tells you, then he creates a problem. So we can't tell you. It's, yeah, I don't
know. I don't know where you're going. Thank you so much. I think your criteria was better, Paul.
If Jesus woke up in 63 AD and met Paul and his churches, would he have gone into a fist fight
with Paul for straying from original Christianity? Dr. Tabor? No, I don't think so, because I think
Paul was given the right hand of fellowship by the apostles. And I don't think that he was lying
when he said that. I think that you can look at the Gospels and you could look at Paul's teaching
and you could exaggerate the differences. And I think the differences often are by scholars
exaggerated. I haven't read all of Tabor's stuff. I would like to. I've read him a little bit.
I've been enjoying his video series with you talking about Mark and different things like that,
Derek. But yeah, I don't, I see a lot of more similarities than differences with Paul in Jesus.
I get the Paul was a false apostle cult in my comments a lot. And they tell me I'm going to
hell because I'm following Paul. And I don't think that nobody in the early church thought that.
It makes me laugh, man. I'm sorry. I'm just so like, it's your skin gets so thick. After a while,
you're just like, oh, here goes another one. More crazy. Yeah.
I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I can't answer that question. Honestly, what would what would
Jesus think about what Paul's doing with his message? It's so hard to get behind the Gospels
in my view of what Jesus really thought about things. So part of me thinks he was kind of liberal
and part of me think he was kind of conservative in his religious respects. So
I don't know. I don't know what he would have thought about the Gentile mission.
I mean, obviously a Christian will read the words of Matthew and he said to go and all the nations
and such. So but there are others who think no, this was a Jewish movement, depending on the scholar.
So this would be a question to ask Jesus, right? What do you think about that guy, Paul?
That might get me a more succinct answer. Skeptics and scoundrels, it's safe to say
some even many scriptures are contentious, even solely among Christians. What's one scripture you
wish God or the inspired writers had written better? How would you improve it? How would you
improve God's word? You're asking Christians this. So I think, okay, this is going to be,
this could have one of a whole can of worms, but I think one of the things that people mistake
when it comes to the Christian doctrine of inspiration is that we're not Muslims. In other
words, we're not dictationalists. So for instance, I just think God inspired means that God
oversaw and supervised the writing, compilation and editing of the biblical corpus, right?
And so to say something like, well, what could have been written better? I'd actually, for the most
part, at least from where I stand in Western America, I don't think it's really the fault of the
authors that we have so much confusion. I think it's the loss of ancient Near Eastern and Greco-Roman
context that is the issue. And in Western America, I think we have a lot of Christian anti-intellectualism
and a lot of people that use the Holy Spirit as their Bible commentary rather than scholarship.
That is the issue. So now to answer the question, I think I wish that some, maybe a writer like,
for instance, Paul, for instance, I forget the verses, uses a word twice throughout the New
Testament. And it's the word formed in English, but it's in one sense, it's talking about how
Adam and Eve were formed, but in the other sense, it's talking about how somebody was spiritually
formed. And that word only comes up twice in the New Testament. And it's just like, okay, Paul,
why couldn't you have just used a word that was already around, that people knew what was going
on instead of making up something new and been a little bit more clear? Like little things like
that, I wish would have been different, but that's just more for didactic purposes than
anything else. Did what I said make sense? Yeah, no, it made sense. I mean, I was just going to say,
I agree, and I don't have much to add to that. I think Revelation is an extremely mysterious and
weird book. I kind of wish I could understand it a little bit better. But
at the same time, I think that's kind of the cool part of it.
Oh, what do you wish God's word said differently, Paul?
Well, this is where it's pragmatically, do I think it was God's word or can I change it?
Because honestly, my answer is like, the Bible has had so much influence on culture that there
are things that I could wish were different. Even if I view it entirely as a secular book,
like I wish the Bible was more explicit and clear on how to treat women, how to treat
gay and lesbian people, and slave or slave. And a lot of these marginalized categories,
because I feel like the Bible has been used in history to support
positions of power over those kind of marginalized people. And I could wish that
the Bible was more clear in a way that would be less likely to be misinterpreted and used
in ways to harm others. So as a pure secularist, I do kind of wish the Bible was more explicit
in affirming people's humanity across the board. So that's pragmatically. The other side of me,
like the guy who's worried that maybe I'm going to go to hell and I don't know how to choose that
right now. There's no way to get around, like the testimony is problematic if I'm just going to
accept to somebody. So I mean, I would love for it to say something that I could more
great or hang my hat on. I don't know. Those are my two answers. Thank you. Thank you.
Christine Elise. Happy B-day soon to Dr. Kip, half a century. By the way, Paul and me are going to
be doing some recordings hopefully at some point here soon with Kip. His course, the real
ancient Israelite religion and propaganda throughout the Bible. I can't remember the exact
title of the course, but anyway, it's in there and there's gonna be a lot of good stuff. So
be on the lookout for Dr. Kill. He's getting old. He's getting really, really old.
Space Lord of 75. About the minimal facts, it feels strange to me that the minimal facts
approach doesn't ever seem to be used in history except for Christianity. I can't find it elsewhere.
Do you want me to defend minimal facts? I mean,
yeah, I mean, like, no, I mean, I don't think the criteria for minimal facts is necessarily wrong.
I mean, it's just looking for facts that are accepted among the majority of scholars and
trying to make an inference to the best explanation, which is what historians do all the time. I don't
think that they're using unhistorical methods. I think their methods are historical. I just think
they lead to an unspectacular conclusion. And I think they limit themselves to a certain dataset
when you could still use good historical methods to come to a stronger conclusion.
And so inference to the best explanation is something that historians do all the time. And
I don't think like we should confuse sociology with epistemology. So like,
if the majority of scholars don't accept this, then maybe it's not a fact.
Because we know things have changed, like views have changed over time. And so
yeah, I don't know. I don't think it's completely, I think that part of it's faulty. I think I froze
again. But anyway, inference to the best explanation isn't bad. I might have to jump out again and
I don't know what's going on with my internet. Yeah, inference, I guess, as a method,
a group of people agreeing to the facts, to a number of facts before they attempt to decide
what explains those facts, isn't even necessarily limited to history, right? I think that's a
scientific endeavor. And that's a political endeavor. And that's like, you know, a lot of times
people will come agree on a set of facts before they, I don't know, it's not uncommon methodologically.
I think that's just how we do any kind of inquiry at all, right? I mean,
we have data we want to explain. And then we come up with the right policies to try to explain it.
That's how we do things. Right. And, you know, social policy, there's lots of things that are
handled that way. So, yeah. Robert says, I was thinking about selling salvation insurance. If,
for any reason, your insurance doesn't work, double your money back. Sounds like a pyramid scheme.
I mean, you can buy alien abduction insurance. So, why not? I guess if someone's willing to pay for
it. Oh, Nitty's in the house saying, here's a Holy Spirit bomb for Than. I'm just saying.
Nice. I love it. Oh snap. All right. I'm trying to get to the next one. StreamYard,
they could do better by setting up a second category for just super chats.
I agree. They should. Yeah, I agree. Okay. No, we're caught up. I think that's it. Okay. Thank you
for everybody stopping that. Now, I know, I want to wrap the ribbon here by letting Paul,
I invited him on. He got to hang out with me and deal with my super chats. Paul,
what should we discuss before you go? Like, is there anything you want to address or ask or
something? So, you know, Elfin in the room for me, I guess is, so I would encourage everyone in
the audience to go watch Eric's most recent video on his channel that has my name in the title.
I would love for you to go watch that and for you to evaluate whether or not,
if, whether or not I've misrepresented anyone. And if so, you can, you can let me know.
And honestly, I just want people to hear both sides of everything. So, don't take a video,
don't take any video that I made for face value. I always put the links to my sources in the
description. So, go watch the original thing to make sure that I'm doing that. Anyway,
I just want to throw out there that I encourage, I think everyone should go watch that and, and,
and evaluate for yourselves. We can hear you. We can hear you. And maybe when you get an angry
face, we don't have to see you. I don't know. I don't know if you want to press on that any
further. But, um, no, I think Paul, um, I think it's fine. I know.
Yeah, I'm trying to think of like what I'd want to say is I got the thinking face stroke in my
beard here, but, um, yeah, people can go and evaluate, make their own decision. Um, and so
what was, what was the, well, I'm not even kidding. I didn't even watch the original full, full
day. I was in the chat at a dental office when that debate was happening, joking around like
the Bible tells me so, and I didn't even listen. So what was the issue? I don't even know what the
issue is. Um, I can, I'll try and describe it. And then Paul can, is free to clarify anything,
but basically, um, he had said that Jonathan McClatchy said that he, in the debate, in the
course of the debate, um, he talked about what he, he wasn't so concerned about what historians
should do or what they do do, but what they should do. And what he was talking about was he
doesn't think that they should look at the gospels as like a pericope by pericope kind of thing.
And so it's not like, um, you should just kind of like use the criteria, um, you know, criteria of
like dissimilarity, embarrassment, um, multiple attestation and all that stuff and just go story
by story by story and go, okay, this one probably is something that is accurate. And this one,
you know, we don't really know about, we just got to kind of faint amnesia every time
that we come up to a different story in the gospels. And what it seemed like Paul understood
him as was he's saying that if a document isn't like 100% true or 100% false, like if it's 100%,
this is where you can jump in, Paul, because now I'm not even probably saying it, right?
But what you seem to take him as Paul saying is like, okay, well, either a doctor, a document has
to be 100% accurate or 100% inaccurate. And you just chuck it out. And there's not like this middle
ground. And I saw that as like, wow, like, that's not really what he was trying to say.
And what you and your conversation with Dilla honey was a little bit different.
And I felt like it was just like a huge straw man, because clearly, like, he's not an idiot.
Like, I don't think anybody would really say that. But I appreciate that you're saying, hey,
watch my video, watch Eric's video, let Jonathan speak for himself, defend himself,
and come to your own conclusion. So, you know, I think that's good. And that's a start.
I just thought like, wow, this obviously is a misrepresentation, I feel like we should
try to really steal man each other when we're critiquing each other. But I know as a creator
that doesn't always happen at the same time, either. And I can at least empathize like somewhat
there. I just thought that one was like kind of a big gaffer, though, it's just like, whoa.
So you may you probably are not surprised to know I completely stand by. I watched your video.
I've watched the debate several times. I completely stand by my assessment to this day.
I can explain why if you want, I have consulted dozens of people to see whether or not I was
actually misrepresenting Jonathan in any way, Christian and non-Christian. I've yet to have
anyone tell me that I mischaracterized him other than yourself and Jonathan.
Well, I mean, a lot of the people and it's not I don't think it's like, and I'm not trying to
start like a big argument or anything, because I don't know, maybe I'm too nice. And I just
like getting along with people. And I like you guys. To me, a lot of people that I talk to
were just shocked. Like, what? Like, that's obviously not what he's saying. That's clearly
not what he's saying. Well, he himself. Eric, real quick, real quick. I want to ask something
because we got your side and explaining Jonathan a little in there. And we're getting deeper into
this, but might as well. Paul, what were you trying to say? And get us into it. I want to hear
Jonathan in his opening said that there are three ways to interpret testimony. You can
interpret testimony as it is true that it is a lie or that they are mistaken. And he said,
put on the table, sometimes there's a fourth category of that it's a combination of those
things. But during the debate, and I asked, I pressed him on this several times and allowed him
to change it. He said, I take off of the table the idea that it can be a combination when it comes
to the Gospels. That as far as Jonathan is concerned, and I asked him to repeat this,
he takes off the table, that it can be a combination. When you take off the table,
that it can be a combination, then you are saying it is 100% one of those things.
Yeah, well, first of all, he doesn't forgive me for interrupting and feel free to
he's not an inerrantist. He actually will point to specific places in the Gospels where he does
believe that there are contradictions. What he's saying is that when you look at the document as
a whole, it doesn't seem to be written by somebody who is trying to give you all of these details
and facts about what happened, but then suddenly felt liberties to kind of be sneaky and devious and
like insert fictions and stories and different things like that. So what he's making an argument
is that this isn't the kind of authors that the Gospels writers are.
He's arguing then that if he's saying he's not an inerrantist, then he actually is
putting number four on the table, that there is a combination of things.
If you watch that debate again, because I asked him several times,
if he takes any possibility, so he took an inerrant, he didn't allow for an inerrantist position
when he takes off the table, it can be a combination because an inerrantist
means that there is a combination. Well, yeah, the thing where I push back with that is I almost
called apologia. And so where I push back on that is you don't need an infallible source
to know that what they're giving you is reliable information. But reliable information always can
contain see portions that are mistaken. Well, I think that he's saying that mistaken is taken
off the table because of the kind of experiences that they had and how close up they were,
that they weren't the kind of... Then he's taking things off the table and saying it's
100% one thing. I am doing a reducto here. If he takes that off the table, if you're not
considering that it can be... I asked him, do you consider this document homogenous in a way
that historians don't? And he affirms that he does. He affirms it as a homogenous thing.
He clarifies it in the stream. That's fine, but I've been during the debate and during things.
So this is why I'm kind of like, I stand by if you follow the logic presented in the debate,
that you're treating it homogenously. Yeah, but that's... Again, you don't need a completely
inerrant source to be giving you over... Mostly are even strongly reliable information.
I think I see where the miscommunication is if I can try to... Maybe I'm just misunderstanding
Paul, but Paul, it sounds like what you're saying because I haven't followed this drama,
to be honest with you. So I'm recovering from surgery and I don't need that in my life,
but it sounds like what's happening is the miscommunication is on that 100% thing because
it sounds like what Jonathan and maybe you, Eric, are hearing is when Paul is saying 100% true,
you're thinking possibly that Paul is talking about, and Paul, correct me if I'm wrong,
the gospel story is being 100% true, but what Paul is actually saying is, no,
here are the four options. The fourth option is it's a combination of lie, it could be a combination
of lie, mistaken or truth, and by Jonathan eliminating that fourth option, Paul's then
saying, okay, so either one of those three options has to be the 100% truth. So it's not about whether
or not the gospels are 100% true or not, it's about whether or not one of those options are 100%
true. Am I understanding the situation correctly?
That's Stan Steeleman spanning you there, Paul?
That is correct, and that's why when I've had so many people listen to it, it's like, Paul, the
way you're characterizing this seems to make full sense, and maybe it's on Jonathan actually
believes, though, like, do you think that's what he actually believes?
Yes, I do. I do think that he wants to tell me that it's in one of those categories and there's
no competition because I'm thinking of his word. I don't think that's what he was communicating.
So, I mean, if you want to say like it was in the debate, like a failure for him to communicate
that accurately? I think he is still mis, like, I do not think I'm mischaracterizing what was said,
and I have, I do not think that if there is something other than what I've said,
that it has been well articulated yet, and I, like, maybe I'm not smart enough, maybe I am
one of these believers who, you know, the scriptures talked about that I just can't
understand, you know, that I- No, I don't think we're saying that about you, Paul.
What I would say is- No, but no, sure. But I still, like, I need this to be better articulated,
if it's, if I'm wrong about mischaracterization. I think, again, what he was saying was, is this
particular approach that's used by scholars is not a good approach epistemologically,
and that we should be looking at the documents as holes. And if somebody is, like, way more often
reliable than not, then that's, that's what we're taking. So, it's more of a- No, then-
But if you feel like there is something weird with the way he was phrasing- Go ahead,
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. But I pressed back on that. Like, I asked, I allowed
for that to be a thing, and Jonathan kept saying that he wanted to treat these things homogenously
when I specifically used that phrase. Well, yeah, but homogenously, again, I just would push back,
and we're probably just going in circles at this point. Yeah, that's okay. So, this is why I say,
go, go, go listen for yourselves, because I completely stand by my characterization, and as
was, well, reasonably steelmaned here. I think Jonathan doesn't feel that way. I'm also very
confused as to motivation for asking for apologies. Yeah, I might let you, let you, you'd have to
talk to him. Yeah, so I can't really adjudicate that. Isn't that a bit far though? Like, you need
to go, you stained my record, or I don't understand, because it's like, maybe it's a misunderstanding,
but like putting it all on Paul, he's not owning any responsibility for miscommunication. And I
haven't even watched it, but it sounds like there's some miscommunication here in some way. Paul
understood him as this. If you were so upset about it, then, you know, I don't know, it's just kind
of weird to stream on social media about it. Here's what I would recommend. Okay. I'm trying to like
work. It's like, I feel like I'm in a, that scene in our brother, we're out though, he's like, you
know, I'm vote for Gears truly. And you know, the other guy is like, no, you know, you got to follow
me. And he's like, well, I'm with you fellas, you know, but obviously, I'm in the middle of this
and friends with Jonathan. I think that to me, when I heard it, I was like, wow, how did he get
that out of that? But then standing here, he's saying, this is what I hear you saying. So I'm
willing to give some benefit there. But I don't think that's what he meant at all. And I think
just out of charity, when you're making a video, and you know, this is something that we all could
do. It's myself included is just try and clarify the other person's position before you kind of
put them on blast. But I don't want to tell you like how to run your channel. And so I just think
it's Paul saying he did clarify it during the debate during the debate. Yeah, I get that. But to
me, if there is a change after and Paul's already done this, then then instead of like being like,
oh, I like he did me dirty and wrong and things like that, there's a different way I personally
would approach like if someone if you misunderstood me in my last dialogue with you and Michael Jones,
right? I'd be like, Hey, bro, that's not what I meant or not what I said. And there's sometimes I
feel like we're talking past each other, but I'm not going to go out and go, Eric Manning, how dare you?
Like, that's a little weird to me. It's like such a ridiculous kind of straw man because it's not
what he believes. But you've explained yourself, Paul. I do. I still hold by it. So yeah, so you've
explained yourself. I would just say the best thing for people to do because I don't want to
take 20 minutes going back and forth like this. Just watch, watch our response. Watch Paul's video.
Decide for yourself. I'm not, you know, going to sit here and break you over the coals and
say that you're a horrible human being. I think I want, if anything, I would like
for, for to come out of this is that we just try and represent each other as best we can. Maybe
you felt like you did that. If you feel like I do you dirty, I want, I want you to know me about it
because I want you to tell me about it. And, and Derek, I want you to tell me about it because
if I, if I say something in one of my videos responding to you guys that you're like, well,
that ain't right. I want to know about it. I want to get it right. Look, I try. I try when I do a
response video, but I also do so much that 90% of the time people who do videos and they are
talking about me or they do and they're wrong, it doesn't bother. I seriously, it doesn't even
matter to me to be honest. Yeah, like I can't imagine, I just, I can't imagine asking for an
apology if someone did that, right? Yeah, that would, is that permission to just make a bunch of
response videos to you, Derek, just calling you dumb. Yes, you may, you may.
You know what they say, any publicity is good. Don't listen to this evil satanic atheist. That's
going to be the title. There are plenty of those out there too. I'm sure there are. Last super chat
by Vesper just asked, and I did have the thing up there saying no more super chat questions,
but it's, is faith not required to enter heaven, John 316? I suspect you guys would say, yeah,
faith is required. Faith is just not an intellectual scent. Awesome. Awesome. Well,
Paul, thank you for bringing that up. I didn't even expect you to bring that up,
but you did. And I guess we, well, it was up to Eric's whether he wanted to or not. So we,
I hope that people really just see my heart and that is like, I don't want this to be like
Bloods and Crips, gang war, and this that or the other. And I'm, I'm put in these situations. I
just want us all to like do as best as we can. I appreciate that you're willing to bring it up
and speak about it. Now it's, you know, it's stuff that you guys can work out amongst yourselves.
Maybe it won't happen. Maybe it will. I don't know. I just hope I'm also, I want to know if I
wrong. Like I definitely do. That's why I'm asking people to watch the video. Go watch his video
and come back me and tell me that I'm wrong. I'd love that. Now he'll only talk to him if
Jonathan publicly appalled. I'm just kidding. No, let's, let's, let's not do that. It just sounds
to me like there's some talking past each other going on and, but again, I haven't really watched
everything. I'm just going based off what I'm hearing right now. Yeah, I did ask him yesterday
like kind of a question in that vein, but I haven't read anything. He sent me some articles or
something about this. It's just saying like, what, how did I phrase it? He's in the chat.
Messenger. Here it is. So I asked him, I said, where would you point me for once a one-stop
shop of the incredibly historically reliability of the gospels and acts? When you say historically
reliable, putting miracles aside, are you suggesting everything about them is historically accurate?
If not everything, what in them isn't historically accurate? And he said on internal evidence, he
gave me this list of stuff I haven't even been able to look at, but what do you do? What do you do?
So I say we just flame each other to death and just, you know, maybe shanks.
We also just should be, instead of going through the data and reasoning through it,
we should just try to reenact that debate seen from God's not dead.
That's right.
Well, let me plug you guys here for coming and hanging out with me today.
Apologia, you know, I really appreciate you and what you do and the way you carry yourself too.
You know, there's plenty of new atheists out there that kind of come out strong and heavy and
dismiss out of hand sometimes things rather than trying to get in the sandbox.
And you're pretty good at jumping in the sandbox and trying to have that conversation.
Tell us a little bit about your channel as well.
Well, I would say, you know, my main channel, a lot of people know about, but I love to grow
Apology Alive where I do more live things like this. Eric's been on my channel before.
So if you, if you're going to check out a new thing, Apology Alive, I'd love for you to
subscribe there so I can slowly climb up and make that a thing too.
And that's your, so these are both part of your business and what you do.
So they're helping you out by subscribing and hanging out.
You do take questions and talk.
I do. Yes, I would. Yes. Absolutely. Appreciate.
Yeah. And yeah, Patreon and all those kind of things, if you like what I do, I appreciate that.
But hanging out with me is the best thing.
Absolutely. Awesome. Now we're on to testify. We're talking to Eric here.
Eric, tell us about your channel and posting it in the chat, letting everybody know where
they can subscribe.
Sure. I mean, it's just videos responding to just defending the claims of the historicity
of the Gospels, acts, argument for miracles. I do response videos to people here and there.
If you want to know why I'm wrong, you should go to testify.
Yeah, that's exactly right. I'm basically just Paul and Derek here just keeping me in business.
And so, but yeah, so there's a Paul response video there.
What's he's, what he's missing?
Yeah, he asked what he was missing. So I tried to explain casualness.
So that's, there's casualness.
There's a job at Mid Vision right here, Paula.
Yep. Yeah. Go check out the Jabs by Eric. I put it in the chat.
And then we got Exploring Reality. What's going on with this channel here, Than?
What's up? Yeah, so that's, that's my channel. I'm more of a generalist than anything else.
If I specialize in anything, it's more philosophy.
It's a smaller channel and it's more of an extension just of like a ministry that I operate called
Exploring Reality. And really the main mission for my channel and the ministry that I operate is
just to try to combat Christianity, Christian intellectual intellectualism and trying to get
be a bridge pretty much between the scholarship and the church and trying to change church culture
to kind of do these things. So yeah, I also have a Patreon.
So if you guys want to support what I do, please, that helps a lot because everything is donation
based. I don't charge for anything that I do. So like I have three speaking events next next
month and I have a debate coming up and I don't take payment for anything
just because I have a really strong conviction for that.
Well, we got MVP courses and you can stay tuned. I know that Paul will have some courses he's going
to launch and he's going to be doing. Kip Davis is coming up and that's our next course we're
launching right now. We've got the Dennis McDonald reading the Gospels with one eye on Greek poetry.
We've got several other scholar courses and then I'm working on two right now with Robin
Faith Walsh. One is on Paul, the other is on the Gospels. But yeah, check out our description.
I really appreciate you guys. Seriously appreciate you hanging out with me today.
Thanks for having me. It was fun. Thanks. It's an honor.
Thanks for everything. Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, if you forget who you are,
never forget we are MythVision. Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and
believe whatever you want to. You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
