I've been watching Neal since he was at day one with very few subscribers, and look at
how he's grown now.
Make sure you subscribe.
But he had Del C. Allison Jr. on one of my favorite theologians on New Testament studies.
And I asked Del some of these questions pertaining to Jesus' historicity, but also apocalyptic
thought.
Was Jesus a felled prophet?
Did he predict certain things that did not come to pass?
And is cognitive dissonance something that explains the criteria?
If we look closely at what's going on in the New Testament, we see a gradual tendency
to veer toward a vertical interpretation of the kingdom of God and some of the expectations
of fulfillment.
Is this how full preterism was birthed?
These ideas that we're learning about came from the idea that it felled?
These are things to consider as we enter this entire episode.
Make sure you subscribe to Neal.
Derek from MythVision has a great question, and it's, would you say the purpose of Revelation
is the hopeful, soon-end of the Roman Empire, of the Jewish people?
And is it safe to say this book failed?
Well, look, I think the book of Revelation hopes for a near-end, and it certainly looks
for the end of the Roman Empire, because it thinks of the Roman Empire as in a league
with the dragon, as in league with Satan.
So it's very anti-Roman, and the end of the book is the end of Rome.
Is it safe to say that this book failed?
Well, it depends on what you're doing.
If you're looking at the book of Revelation as a sort of blueprint as to what would happen
later and that the end would come soon, then I think you have to be honest and say, yeah,
it failed.
On the other hand, I'm not sure that the book is primarily about predicting exactly what
the future is.
The way this works, it seems to me, is that the book of Revelation goes up and down between
heaven and earth.
There are these ascents to heaven where you see what's really going on behind the scenes,
where you see what's going on at the throne of God and so on.
I think that this is a book for people in difficult times.
I'm one who thinks that some Christians have been killed.
There are a few martyrs at this point.
Maybe this is the last decade of the first century and the reign of Domitian and the
author and the community's address.
No, some people who have been arrested and even a few people who've been killed.
It's not a great time.
Of course, the world is always difficult for some people.
So, it's looking at the world, it's admitting that it's terrible and it's horrible, but
it's hoping that it will soon end.
But in the middle of that, it's not just waiting for the end.
You have these glimpses of some sort of transcendent reality, which is above all this.
I think those would function as encouragement.
I think, if you want to say that this book literally fails in terms of predicting the
day, yeah, everybody who's done that or hoped for that has failed.
But I think the book would have made people feel better, maybe some sort of theological
therapy or therapeutic theology, however you want to put this, or therapeutic, apocalyptic.
It's healthy to think these evils that I see aren't going on forever and they're ultimately
not the foundation of reality.
That's something more.
That's something beyond that.
So, that's how I would answer that, I think.
Good question.
Great answer.
And his follow-up with this, once again, subscribe to MythVision Podcast, Derek, once again.
How does the failed apocalyptic fervor of the New Testament help with the historical Jesus?
Does the failed apocalyptic expectations help us see Jesus?
Well, I'm somebody who's famous or infamous for arguing that Jesus himself hoped for
a near end, which did not come to pass.
So for me, being honest with that question helps me as an historian and helps me understand
the records.
And I would say that early Christianity inherited its hope for a near end from Jesus.
So from that point of view, yeah, this certainly helps.
If you're looking at the text in my judgment, if you're looking at the text and trying to
explain away eminent eschatology or explain everything that looks like a disappointed
hope, I don't think you're going to find the historical truth.
So I guess from that point, if that's what the question is about, this helps me understand
the historical Jesus.
Interesting.
Very, very good answer.
Thank you for that.
He's back for another one, though.
He's not done.
Okay.
He's trying to get you.
No, I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
The Kingdom of God.
What did it mean by Jesus?
And how does it reinterpreting this in the New Testament show us the apocalyptic, apocalyptic
Jesus failed?
Cognitive dissidents?
He's going hard on this failed thing.
Okay.
Kingdom of God.
What did it mean by Jesus?
What did it mean to Jesus, maybe, is what he meant, means, and I would revert back to
what I said earlier.
I think this is the kingdom of God on earth.
This is a transformed world.
I think it involves judgment, resurrection, and punishment of the wicked and those sorts
of things, the fulfillment of traditional eschatological expectations.
Again, did the apocalyptic Jesus fail?
Yes, he failed if you're going to insist on saying that what he was all about is predicting
a near end.
I think, I hope I'm not being defensive here, but I think you'd have to say, from another
point of view, this guy did not fail.
He somehow gave birth to a tradition that ended up giving us Paul and the four gospels,
and ultimately, I suppose, the Christian religion.
There has to be more to him than just an expectation that failed.
He was also a healer.
He was also a chrismatic.
He's also a very interesting moral teacher.
There are many things to him besides this one eschatological expectation.
There's also the conviction of the early Christians that somehow this guy didn't stay
dead, but he turned up again after he had gone.
There are a number of things that seem to me to overcome what would have been cognitive
dissonance.
That is, the delay of the end would have created problems.
I think they're visible in the New Testament.
I think they're visible, for example, in John 21.
I actually think they're visible throughout the entire Gospel of John, which seems to
me to be a sort of reinterpretation of the tradition.
That is, the tradition is looking for the transcendent in the future.
While the Gospel of John doesn't give up on that, I think it focuses on the transcendent
in the present.
That's a way of dealing with disappointment or, if you will, cognitive dissonance.
MythVision Podcast is back.
What is the end expected in the New Testament cosmic?
In New Testament circles, I suppose this question is associated very much with N.T. Wright or
Tom Wright, who says that mainstream German scholarship and people like me have gone astray
because we've talked about the end.
For us, that means the end of the space-time universe.
He says that's not in the New Testament, it's not in the Hebrew Bible, and so on.
I agree with them, and I've never thought that the New Testament authors were looking
for the end of the space-time universe, but they might have been looking for something
like a cosmic catastrophe.
I think they are looking at the remaking of nature, and I think they are looking for something
like the Rabbi in my earlier story, that is, they are looking for something that is so
radical, so transformative, that it will be obvious to everyone.
It won't be like Pentecost or the Church or AD 70 or the resurrection of Jesus, all of
which are ambiguous things which can be interpreted in multiple ways.
I think for the early Christians, the coming of this kingdom is the solution to the problem
of evil, and that means the end of the sort of ambiguities and miseries that we've had
ever since the first century and that humanity has always had.
I think that, you know, is it cosmic?
Maybe, I'm not sure that's the important question.
The question is, is it radical transformation of the world as it is, and the answer to that
is yes.
Now, let me add a sort of footnote to that, which is that in Mark 13, Matthew
24, it says that the stars will fall from the sky and right thinks that this is obvious
symbolism.
To me, it's not obvious symbolism.
You have to remember that in the first century, stars weren't what they are for us.
Stars are these gigantic balls of gas and energy that are light years away from us,
right?
And they can't fall down from the heavens.
But if you're a first century person and you don't have modern lighting, you actually
see stars fall from the sky all the time, because actually today we still call them
falling stars, right?
Because it looks like a star that is falling.
If you are talking about first century knowledge, these people think, because they see it, that
stars can fall from the sky.
They even see meteor showers occasionally, where a bunch of them fall, and they don't
know that there's a distinction between the lights they're seeing fall and the lights
that are staying up there in the firmament.
And it doesn't stretch my credulity at all to think that a first century person could
think, yeah, when the end comes, they're all going to fall down, right?
Because I see it happen in part all the time.
So I don't think that has to be a symbol.
Just as I don't think the sun going dark at the crucifixion of Jesus was intended to be
purely symbolic.
It is a symbol, but I also think the authors thought it happened.
I think that's the way they narrated it, not as a haggotic legend, but as something that
really did happen.
Interesting.
Thank you for that answer.
Derek has another question.
He's just all over you today.
You better go back on his channel soon, because he's got a lot of questions for you.
I'm just kidding.
Criticisms of full-predatorism, Dr. Allison.
Well, that just goes against everything I've been saying so far.
It's a way to save the text so that they're all fulfilled in the first century.
This view, I think, is right in that the text is about or originally intended to be about
the first century, but I don't see how you can read 8070 and other first century events
into it and say that it has been fulfilled.
For me, these people are looking for something that transcends anything that has ever happened.
If you view revelation as though it's fulfilled in the first century, then that means that
the hopes and dreams of this author have been fulfilled.
That doesn't make sense to me.
If I, again, to go back to the genre question, nobody reads forth, nobody.
He reads forth, Ezra, along the lines of fulfillment in the first century, or second
Baruch, or first Enoch.
They just don't do that.
Revelation belongs to the same group of documents, and these are all people who are hoping for
something that has not come, has never come.
Interesting.
And also, did Revelation imagine the literal thousand-year reign?
Oh, okay.
That's possible.
That's quite possible.
I think it does envisage a literal period of a messianic reign, and I think that it's
already representing a view that you find in the rabbis.
So the rabbis, or some of them anyway, in some places, distinguish between the messianic
age and the world to come.
So the messianic age is a period on earth when the messiah reigns, and then after that,
and the periods or length of time for that differ, then you have this completely transcendent
world.
I think Revelation already shows you that sort of thinking.
By the way, that sort of thinking, I believe, comes from a reflection on the Hebrew Bible,
on the Old Testament, because some of the prophecies seem kind of mundane, and others
of them seem cosmic and transcendent.
And trying to put all this together, I think you end up with two slightly different views.
I think they're all mashed together in the New Testament, and for Jesus, I don't think
they're sorted out.
But people in the first century are already trying to sort them out.
I think Revelation in part testifies to that, and certainly the rabbis testified to that.
And by the way, I should add that the idea of a millenarian kingdom or a millennium becomes
a heresy later on in early Christianity, and people like Origen reject it completely.
But I think the dominant view in the second century is still for a sort of earthly reign
of the messiah.
It's in Justin Martyr, it's in Aaronnaeus, and I think that's more in accord with first
century expectation.
Wow, thank you for that answer.
And by the way, I just want to say, for such an intense, difficult topic, these answers
are awesome.
So I just want to throw that at you here real quick.
Thank you for this.
This is good content right here.
MythVision podcast.
Derek, what's going on?
Subscribe back.
Subscribe to the MythVision.
You're living under a rock.
Anyways, do you think Christian Nazism was birthed by the fell of the apocalypse?
John's Gospel likes realized eschatology as does Gospel of Thomas.
Thoughts?
Okay, so I guess I'd give a qualified yes to this.
Wow.
So as I said earlier, I think that what you're seeing in the Gospel of John is not the rejection
of transcendence in the future, but a shift so that the emphasis is on what is obtainable
now, the Kingdom of God in the present, and so on.
And I think that the potential for that is always there.
I think the potential for that is there with Jesus because he has a sort of realized eschatology.
But the longer the end does not come, the more certain people are motivated to find
their solutions in a vertical reality rather than waiting for the future, which doesn't
arrive.
So one of the things I have hoped to do, I haven't been able to do it yet, I really
would like to look at what happens to movements that have a near end expectation and it's
important for them.
And then there's a sense that the end didn't come.
Does what you see in the Gospel of John also occur in part in Gnosticism?
I think that's probably part of the answer.
Is this what you see in maybe the early shakers, which start off with a very strong idea of
a second coming, but then become mystics in short order after the end doesn't arrive?
I would like to look at a bunch of cross cultural movements.
I would like to do this comparative thing.
I've also wondered about the ghost dance and then the peyote cult.
The ghost dance is imminent expectation.
We're going to have the ancestors, they're going to come back.
These white jerks are going to leave, they're going to be driven out.
Things are going to come back to the way they should be.
And then it doesn't happen and everything is miserable.
And then you get the mysticism of the peyote cult.
At least I think that might be what's going on.
So I have these suspicions, but I've never tried to put it all together in an academic
way.
Maybe I'm too old to do that.
I still like to think I'm not and I might try this down the road.
But yeah, I do think the Gospel of John is in an important sense, an attempt to reinterpret
the tradition so that the focus is on a sort of present mysticism rather than an eschatological
hope which has not come as people had hoped.
Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard
in high quality content that are not in public domain.
They're only on the Patreon.
You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just want
a private chat.
You have that access with me?
Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more academics and expand
what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full-time gig and you're helping the community by joining.
I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices
or ways in which they're harming society, we are educating them from MythVision on better
understanding these ancient texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do.
So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining
as a member.
