Drs. Richard Carrier, Dennis R. McDonald, I'm going to be talking about on the historicity
and we could definitely have Dennis chime in having a lot of fun. So I'm just going to read the
question and take out of it and do what you will. This is the way I typed it. But you mentioned in
your book on Zechariah chapter three and six and other chapters that are talking about a rising
Messiah named Jesus and Isaiah chapter 53 are potentially speaking about a legendary first
temple figure. And how first century Christians would have easily seen this and possibly applied
it to their Messiah suffering, dying and rising Messiah. Michael the angel named rising that word
keeps coming up. Can you elaborate on what? Yeah, okay, there's a bunch of things in there. Let me
go backwards. So the Michael thing that's that's separate from the other things in Daniel nine
or actually Daniel 12. It talks about the principle rise and begin the apocalypse. And I think it
I think it says Michael I think it names it as Michael identifies as this figure as Michael.
So there's two two levels of understanding here. There's there's the the intention of the original
authors, right, which is one reading of the Bible. But when you look at the pashers that are being
instructed at the Dead Sea Scrolls, the logic of pashers is to not think of what the original
meaning was, but to think of what is the hidden meaning that God put in there that speaks to us
today. So they're reinterpreting every verse. So what their interpretations are never going to be
the original intention of the author. So so that I think people get confused between those two things.
Christianity is definitely built out of a peshary. Paul frequently talks about like a
scripture is this the scriptures that like when he says in 1 Corinthians 15 he says this
according to the scriptures Jesus died to atone for sins and and all this other stuff. Obviously,
there's no passage in the Bible whose author intended to say any of that, right? So so what
they're and what they're doing is not unusual in in pashar logic, they have the exact same kind of
sectarian thinking that the Christians are engaging in here, which we see at the Dead Sea. So we know
this was a Jewish thing. I have a whole article or a whole section in my book where I talk about
this was a normal thing that they're doing. They're finding different meanings that they believe God
is hidden in the text that were not the original author's intention. And their logic is probably
even that when God spoke this to the original prophet, he intended it to mean both things,
right? So he's expecting that prophet to not know what the secret meaning is, but it's also
still an applicable meaning for the context. So they can even they could even say if you were to
argue with them, they would say, oh, yeah, he meant both. That's the point, right? So so then
there's oh, but there's a secret meaning that's meant for hundreds of years later that applies to
a different context. And so that's where they're getting all of this like Christians do today.
Right. And so the question and this is really important that we're talking about material
that is in chapters four and five of my book on the history of Jesus, which is only the background
evidence. It doesn't have anything to do with evidence for the historicity or against the
historicity of Jesus. It's only stuff that is true regardless of whether Jesus existed or not.
That's the key thing. This is stuff that just is true. And some of those statements are possibility
statements, not probability statements, where I'm saying it is a fact that it is possible that this
occurred. So you can't argue in response that it is impossible. And then the question of whether
it's probable relates to evidence later, right? So the argument that I point out there is that
we know Peshir is a thing. We know Christians are doing Peshir. So therefore we can go at the text
and think, well, if we're thinking like the Christians and we're looking for a Peshir in
the text, what could we find there? And remember, we don't have the Christian Peshir. So we don't
have the complete Peshir that they put together. Paul occasionally drops a line in referencing
scripture, like even in 1st Corinthians 15, we don't know what verse he means when he says,
according to scripture this, according to scripture that, but he thinks some verse, right?
So they have some Peshir that they've got either orally or physically, where they've worked out
all these perverses that they're putting together, like we see like the Melchizedek scroll that we
see in Dead Sea, where you have a verse and then an interpretation. And then you have a verse from
a completely different book and a completely different place about a completely different
subject that they're linking to the other verse with a little commentary. And they just go and go
and go. And so they build this whole Melchizedek scroll is the whole prediction that soon this
Melchizedek space alien is going to come down and kick ass and defeat all of the demons and
with his own angelic army. And they come up with this really bizarre stuff that is obviously
in nowhere in the Old Testament, it's not intended. And they're finding verses that they think are
relevant to this narrative in the weirdest places, not just Daniel, but they're finding it in Isaiah
52 and 53 as well. They're actually quoting some of the verses that the Christians were.
And so this is how it's working. So in this context, we want to ask like, can you find the
gospel? Like if we were to use this logic ourselves and they go there, could we do it?
And so I have a few elements in there where I say, well, let's do this. Okay, yeah, look,
look at that stuff we could find and we could put together. It's easy to do. Now that doesn't mean
that that is what they did, right? They could have done any other weird crazy connection of verses,
who knows. But I find some examples of some easy ones to do that would have been obvious to someone
who thinks that this is true, right? And show how easy it is to do to build this pressure out of
here so that you could believe that this has been told you that this is going to happen
before it even happens, right? So you don't need it to actually have happened is the key thing,
right? It isn't necessary for someone to have watched Jesus die to have figured out that there
has to be some dying Messiah, right? And which could also work in historicity's sake too, because
you could think like, well, maybe Jesus figured this out and wants to go get himself killed to
like fulfill the prophecy, right? So you can totally use it in both senses. It does not argue for
mythicism or for historicity. It works for both. And it is a fact where he dies and then they
visualize and look at the script. Absolutely right. Yeah, that's my point. So this is a fact
that is a fact, irregardless. And my point is, and so I do a lot of these are just possibility
arguments are not I'm not intending to argue that it's what happened. We don't know what happened.
We don't have their pressure. I wish we did. That would have been super useful. So when we get to
that, like, like one of the passages I use for this is I say, Well, look, if you look at Zachary,
well, first of all, let's say you think it's you're looking for Jesus, you're looking for a Messiah.
And let's say you've decided you're looking for make it easy. We'll say we're already decided
we're looking for a dying Messiah. Let's say you read Daniel nine and nine, you get to nine verse
25 and through 27, you say, Okay, I think this is predicting a dying Messiah is going to pre sage
the end of the world. The suppose you've decided this, it doesn't matter if that's what the authors
intended or not. That's irrelevant. They were originally writing about onius the third and his
death and so on. But that's not what these authors are thinking. They're thinking this is
something clearly world didn't end after that. So that can't have been it. It must be something else.
And so they're thinking of something else. So you've decided and there's a universal atonement
that's supposed to happen somewhere in Daniel nine that talks about that. And then, and then it goes
on and on and on. And then you get Michael comes and Michael arises. It's a similar word. Michael
comes up. And so if you see you're putting all this together and say, Well, that is that a hidden
reference from God about a resurrecting superhero, right? Is this actually the anointed one that's
being talked about in verse nine, right? So we're not saying that that I can prove that that's
the thinking they engaged in. I'm just showing that this isn't easy. These are dots that are easy
to connect, right? So let's do an easier one. A one that's even more obvious than that is where
you get to Daniel nine, you've got the dying Messiah and then some sort of atonement. You
realize that there has to be an atonement for sin to so that God's promise can be fulfilled. Because
God said if it's only when you stop sinning, only when sin is gone that I'm going to actually,
you know, come help you. So what if there's an universal atonement? What if that's what Daniel
nine is talking about? So if you do that and you go looking around and you think you know that your
guy is named Jesus, Savior of God, right? If you know you're looking for a Savior of God in there,
so you're going to look at all these passages about these Jesuses that you think are kind of
obscure. So like there's in Zechariah six and three, there's a Jesus that appears in heaven.
There's a Satan is arguing over this Jesus guy and God is in Jesus in the presence of God and
Satan's arguing about him in verse six. He has, there will be a man rising and then there's this
same Jesus figure is mentioned in the same context. Now the original meaning of Zechariah,
Zechariah is talking about Jesus, the original, the first priest of the second temple, right? When
the new temple was arised, the first temple priest was a Josh, his name is Joshua Ben-Jahazavak.
So he's like this. Now that's, whether that's historically true or not, but it was what was
believed at the time. So I'm assuming it's historical. So that's what Zechariah, he's talking about
this priest figure who's, you know, having some sort of a holocaque experience and,
and, you know, having a vision of God or coming into the presence of God and learning
secrets and so on, predicting future kings and things like that. So there's like,
there's a context for Zechariah. But in pastoral logic, it can't be about that, right? It's got
to be about something else. And so you're looking at this and you're, okay, look, there's a Jesus
here, there's a Jesus here, and he's going to be a priest and there's going to be some sort of
a universal atonement and then sell the, the king is going to rise and then there's going to be,
you know, salvation. So they're thinking, well, these might be his and messages about our Jesus,
right? So you can start connecting these dots. And if you look at that and then you look at how
Philo looks at this passage, they have a whole separate section on that. Philo looks at this
passage and he sees the rising figure, the one who will rise. He has this whole allegorical
explanation of this being the angel of many names, who is the Logos and the high priest of God,
celestial temple and the creator of the universe. And he's got this whole list of properties that
he ties this figure into, which happen to be all the same properties of Jesus, the image of God,
you know, the son of God, the firstborn son of God, even the creator, God's tasked with creator and
God's guy who's managing the universe. Like all of these, these things that are attributed to Jesus,
this is the same stuff, right? So the angel of many names and Jesus are clearly someone at some
point before Paul had decided Jesus and this angel are the same person. Now, you could argue, and I
do argue in there, that it even looks like Philo thinks that the one that's actually called this
is Jesus, the Jesus figure. In the original Zechariah passage, it looks like he might mean these
three different figures, like it's possible that he's not meaning that. It's convoluted grammar,
so it's kind of hard to tell. But when Philo is talking about it, it seems like Philo is taking
this as Jesus is the one who will be called rising. And then that connects to all the other things.
Now, I don't think that I don't think that's proven. And so I don't put it in the like the
evidence section. I just have it in like, here's, here's an argument for how you could connect
this dot really easy. And it looks like Philo's already doing it. So anyway, this is all about
like what's possible and how you could connect these dots. And that's the key point of this. And
it's not like I have discovered the Peshir of the Christians. I don't know, like this is just one
possible way. And just showing how easy it is to do. And if I can do this with these verses,
there could be any number of verses that would do the same thing.
And you're saying they did do this stuff. So the fact that they did, right, they did do some
Peshir that they did, right? So I'm just showing proof of concept that how easy this is to do.
And so that's, that's how I use this material. If that answers your question, I'm not sure,
because there are many elements to your question.
Actually, I'd like to hand it to Dennis to have his thoughts. I love getting his thoughts. It's
so cool when someone doesn't agree even on the conclusions, but can come so close in so many
ways to what you're saying. When I was a Christian, I used to, when I read the Bible in high school,
it took my second semester because I was flunking, smoking pot, skipping class. And I was like,
I got to come back and I was really getting right with the Lord. So I was reading Genesis,
I started in Genesis, King James only asked at the time, and I was getting through the Old Testament.
I saw Jesus all over the place, places that the New Testament even mentioned. I mean,
like, because I'm already in my mind, working with, he's coming. And I read this in my King
James Version, some of the notes, the translators back in these days said, they had this famous
phrase and it was so poetic and it meant something to me. The Old Testament is the New Testament
concealed. The New Testament is the Old Testament revealed. And I believed in that mantra. So when
I went into the Old Testament, all over the Psalms, the suffering of David is really Jesus,
by his suffering and like everything I'm hearing, I'm hearing Jesus. And I'm like,
oh my gosh, so it's so anachronistic, of course, but it was like, it was coming to life for me.
That's your logic. And you think it's inspired, right? When we were in high school, was your name
Origen? No, and I'm not kidding, because Origen makes that a part of his hermeneutics.
And when he reads the book of Joshua in Greek, the name Joshua is Jesus. And he reads the book
of Joshua as a Jesus book. Interesting. Yeah, this is my point. But yeah, so that's hopefully
summarized a brief answer here. Dennis, please tell us some things that have come to your thinking.
Okay, I'm going to start out with something that really is facetious. And it's not intended to
be cruel. But you know, you want us to fight. I don't want you to fight, but I do want to hear
differences. Yeah, let's hear that. Yeah. I wish Paul was as smart as Richard Carrier.
So that's a backhanded compliment, I suppose. The other is that I wish Paul had access to the
Septuagint, the way that Richard has absorbed the Septuagint. And Richard has to be cautious.
To be clear, I don't necessarily think Paul is the one who did this. I think Paul is inheriting
a pressure that was already built by this point. Well, then they should have been as smart as you
are. Because I'm convinced, and I think at some points Richard would agree with this, that
often New Testament scholars oversell the influence of Jewish scriptures and see
connections where they are not. Now, Richard was very careful to say, I want to show you how easy
it is to make these associations. I could agree with that. The question is whether the ease of
arm-making these associations would have been so easy for early Christians, or if they did so.
Is that sufficient explanation? Well, that's why you appeal to the Dead Sea Scrolls, where we see
exactly the same kind of people doing exactly the same kind of thing, and they're making even more
species connections than I am. No, I can grant you that. I think the intellectual climate,
even for Paul, is much more Hellenized than it is Judiized, if I could say that way.
And I'm going to give us this statistic that Richard would agree with, but probably we'd want
to assess in a different way. In lists of literary papyri from Egypt from 200 BCE to 200 AD, which
certainly includes the period of the Septuagint, we have five small fragments of the Septuagint.
We have over 600 of Homer. So the early Christians are going to know their Homer out of school
better than they know their Moses. And their Moses is what they're going to get in their synagogues.
And now Richard is going to agree, surely, that Christian origins is a sociological hybrid.
It comes out of Jewish scriptures, and it comes out of Greco-Roman culture and its
literatures. We agree on that piece. I think we differ on how much weight we play on one
corpus over the other, and on a particular issue, how that plays out. So it's more like a teeter
totter or a tug of war than it is a bombshell. So we have a tug of war on some things.
So I think early Christianity, we've got to distinguish gospel Christianity from early
Christianity, because gospels don't exist yet. The religion that Paul is buying into,
basically. We're already talking about a fringe community, so we're not talking about the average
community. And they themselves are already going around saying they have two sources. If you look
at Romans 16, 25, 26, they have two sources for all of this teachings, and the gospel of Jesus,
they say Revelation and Scripture. And Paul is constantly saying,
repeating a creed, he's saying the first Corinthians according to the scriptures according.
So Christianity is definitely built out, built out of the scriptures. It might not have built
out of the Septuagint originally. I think that might be Paul's transfer. But it's certainly the
same pressure, right? And I think Paul might have built on it, but it's certainly he's inheriting
one already. So definitely the idea is that Christianity, and this is true even if Jesus
existed, right? So this is not even relevant. So it's like, let's say, let's do one historicity
scenario. Jesus dies, cognitive dissonance, they have to, reading the scriptures, looking for some
explanation of what happened. And it dawns on them, they can explain it. If they find this one
pattern in there, they can explain it. And to them, it's like a revelation. And so they go around,
even claiming it's a revelation. Maybe they have a dream that Jesus comes to them and confirms this
to them. And so now they're really reassured. But it all comes out of the scriptures, right? So
that's the kernel of Christianity. Now, what happens to it after that when Paul gets his hands
on it? Now he's like interjecting like Greek philosophy and other things. He's transforming
it. He's growing it and nurturing it into a tree from a bush, right? But the core of it,
the gospel and the primary teachings of Jesus, they definitely were looking at the,
in Paul's case, looking at the Septuagint and his congregations.
Let me respond to that. I agree with that. That what we have with the Septuagint at some point,
and our Jewish scriptures generally, is a contested authority among two agonistic subcultures
that have a lot in common. In other words, it's a contested authority. And so it's not
impossible that you have this kind of imaginative exegesis to account either for the
tragedy of Jesus's death or the vision of a heavenly character and to say what the hell
does this mean? So that's a possibility. Wow. Well, it sounds to me regardless. I mean,
you guys would agree with that. I think your point was simply saying how much, I mean, how much
scripture do they really have? They didn't have their whole Bible like we do technically, so to
speak. But I think it is interesting when you look at these passages and wondering, all right,
historicity or mythicism, it doesn't matter. It can be explained any of these ways. However,
if you do start going down a mythicist road like you do, I see how this could be easily an
explanation for the development of the revelation of Jesus. If it's historicity, you can still do
the same thing. So at the end of the day, this is just a cool piece of evidence. No matter what
you take, in both of you, in using this data, it kind of explains where, like Christians always
like to act like, oh, is it real? Do you know how many prophecies Jesus fulfilled? Three hundred or
more. And what are the statistics? You remember that dumb statistic where they said, if you took
a red coin and you went into the state of Texas and you filled it up with gold coins, about a foot
thick, and you like took a person blindfolded them, ran across the state of Texas, chipped this
red coin out there, and then like took some other person who was blindfolded and didn't know what
they were looking at, had them walk across the state of Texas and bend down and pick up one coin,
the statistics are that they picked up the red coin. That's Jesus. Have you ever heard this?
That is the most elaborate weird analogy I've ever heard. No, I've never heard this before. They did
like this measurement calculation of statistics to act. It's the same thing with like fine-tuning
arguments. Yeah, yeah. Okay. What's an analogy to though? Like, what is the improbability? The point
is Jesus fulfilled so many prophecies. I get it. Okay. The impossibility that he actually
fulfilled all of these prophecies that Christians are looking at. Right, right. It's a good example
of a valid but unsound argument. Right. It's like, if that actually happened, yes, you have a logic
there that the probability of it happening other than my design would be low. Yeah, see,
and I want to say that would be in a way my criticism of you, that you're smarter than the
tradition is, but that's a criticism of my work too. Right. That I'm, I know Homer better than
early Christians did, and I see connections that just aren't there. And so in both cases,
we need to be more disciplined and modest. Yeah, that's when you get beyond possibility and
interprobability, then you need to start presenting evidence that this actually happened. And that's
why like when I'm talking about the possibility, I'm talking about, you know, you've got the context
of Philo, you've got the context of the intellectuals at Comron, and you've got the context of
Paul himself referring to, they're getting all these weird things out of scripture,
just like the Comron people did, just like Philo does. So I'm putting them, I'm showing that they
would easily fit into this context of this kind of thinking. And so that you can't say that they
didn't. Right. I'm not saying, yeah. If I might, like what you said, I thought was interesting
as we wrap this up. You just said, you know, sometimes people criticize your work because
they think you're too smart, smarter than what the early Christians were. Justin Marder, all these
guys, why didn't they see all of the Homeric stuff? I mean, we get brief references, you can use and
pull out and go, they noticed something though, they noticed something. And that's true. But like,
how much did they notice? And that's, that's the interesting problem I see is like,
if they understood all that you now see being critical, why aren't they bashing Matthew, for
example? Why aren't they going, look, Matthew is clearly, and we all see this, like, there's no one
too smart. It's funny that you frame it that way, because that really captures the modern
fundamentalist mindset is that they would think that that's the response that you would have.
Right. Whereas like back then, this would be, oh, well, it's clearly of God then, right? To them,
to them, it would be, this would be reinforcing of their belief in the beauty and perfection of
these documents, that it has these perfect illusions and these perfect lessons constructed in this
perfect way. Like they wouldn't see that as proof that their religion is false. They would see it
as proof their religion is true. Or that their religion is better than the culture. Correct.
Than the religion of their neighbors. That's right. Yeah.
It's like me, I guess it's a different world, different software and the thinking, but like
we all look at the Gospels and we all see problems, right? Papius points out those problems, but he
talks about chronology. He doesn't really go into it and say, look, this is contradicting all of these
others in that respect, right? But he does say Judas Iscariot did not die when he hung himself.
Okay. So he survived and then God had to kick the shit out of him, almost literally. So in that
case, there is an internal critique in the tradition that it's not just, it's just not sequence,
but the translators in his view botched it up in other ways too.
Okay. I just think it's interesting, like we, if we use that same critique you're pointing out
to all scholarship that sees synoptic problems and really likes pointing out all these problems,
the early church obviously didn't see all of these problems that we all see. And so if we,
if they're blind to all that, what else are they potentially blind on what you're talking about?
There's a number of things though that assumptions there though, because we're talking about,
you're talking about like Justin and these later Christians. Yeah. But by that time,
they've lost almost all the actual tradition from the beginning. So like, like they probably,
Christianity of their conception would might be indistinguishable or like, you know,
unknowable to the original Christians are like, what on earth are you, what are you doing here?
They would see some similarities, but these are different people doing different things by that
point because Christianity changes, especially the secret oral law that's going to change faster
than anything because there's no way to control it. You have public documents, you can, you can
check it, but if it's oral secrets, well, that's easy to change, right? And so it's going to evolve
and that's how you have all these sex with all these bizarre sub doctrines that you get.
Here's theologists exposing all these bizarre so-called bizarre teachings that actually are
probably no more bizarre than the actual teachings of the orthodoxists because they have their own
secrets. You know, Clement of Alexandria talks about the levels of secret teachings in the
Christian church and he can't talk about them all and things like that. But I also find like,
you can't just immediately assume that all church fathers are the most brightest bulbs. I think
Justin is not a bright bulb, whereas I think Origen is. You can tell the difference in their
insights and their ability to like work with scripture and logic, very distinctively different.
And so when you're looking at the, obviously the origins of Christianity had to have been
in the hands of someone who was a genius. That's how religions, I mean, I would even say that
of Joseph Smith, like for all his mistakes and so forth, like he was definitely, compared to
other people of his time, he was a genius. Like he did things that the average person of his time
could not have done. And, but that doesn't mean that he's right, right? It doesn't mean that,
but so it's the same thing as if you're going to go say, well, are you saying that why doesn't
Justin know this? Well, maybe Justin was never taught this and maybe Justin's not as smart as
the people who invented it, right? So, and then Origen goes in and talking about the levels of
knowledge based on how smart and knowledgeable you are. And he's saying that there are most
Christians are not going to understand these things. They're not educated enough to understand them.
And so it's, it's the people who are capable of going deeper, the hedgehogs,
that can figure out the deeper meaning of the scriptures. Those are the ones that Origen
thinks are on his level, but everybody else maybe only takes from the superficial part of the
scripture. So even Origen is aware that most Christians don't get this stuff. But then it's,
in some moments, Origen like reveals it, like when he gets the Brabus parable, like he totally
gets the Brabus narrative is the Yom Kippur, and correctly even expands on, he notices things in
it that like other scholars, that modern scholars didn't notice. But so you can see this kind of
stuff. So you got to go looking, you just can't just assume like Justin is your model of the
smartest Christian or assume that he's going to know all the secrets that were being taught
a hundred years earlier, he won't necessarily. I just, do we have what, three minutes? Yeah.
The end of the Acts of Andrew written at the end of the second century has a colophon by an author.
And there are relatively few early Christian colophon in which you have this declaration
of what he did. And I think I can recall it almost by memory. Here, let this stroke of the pen end
my narrative. I trust that I wrote things down as I heard them, both the obvious and also those
things that are hidden available only to the intellect. And I pray for all of my readers
that they understand not only the things that are obvious, funny, but also the things that are hidden.
And I pray that God will open the ears of the reader, which is strange, the ears of the reader,
to enjoy all his gifts in Christ Jesus. And then you have a benediction coming at the end.
Here, we have an author that says that he's writing a narrative that has two levels. And one
is available to those who have the Dianoya, the intellect, and these things who are the ones that
are hidden. The ones that are obvious are the ones that are available to everybody. And I think
this two pronged level of composition is more characteristic of literature than we usually
know. And we know, in fact, in Greek literature that people wrote both for the smart money and for
the populace. Spot on. That's a really good example. It really nails it. And so we do have,
by the way, I would say that our field tends to dumb down the reader instead of granting their
sophistication. And I think we do it in a way because we want to feel superior to them. I'll end with that.
