Dr. Carrier, I appreciate your time and what are you drinking over there?
Oh, I'm drinking Glen Mourangie at the present. Yeah. So that is the blood of the gods.
I finished off the last of your wine and so I'm now on your Scotch.
Don't worry, we'll get more of it before you're gone. I have more Patreon questions
and I really appreciate the support from those who help MythVision do what we do,
growing this empire, to give education to the general public. I think it's very important
that the world starts to see what's going on and understand what has happened
so that we can know where we're going. So a question from our friend, Margaret DeVeldin.
Yeah, I love Margaret. Hi, Margaret. It's so great to hear from you again.
Absolutely. Margaret has three. So I probably have one at a time and let's see. Question one
for Dr. Carrier. In a discussion, I said Paul introduces or it said Paul introduces a Eucharist
meal because the early original Christians did not have one. Jesus gives instructions
to Paul in a vision. There was no historical last supper with the 12, no Judas, no betrayal.
I'm not sure what night Paul means. Does he mean Seder? Paul thinks God is the betrayer.
If it was Judas, then there would already be a Christian Eucharist ritual. Peter and James
target Jews for conversation, but Paul targets pagans who participate in pagan meal rituals.
So Paul needed one for the Christians too. Is this a valid argument?
It's very close to what's already argued by Gerd Ludemann. So Gerd Ludemann is a
famous renowned biblical scholar. He's written a lot of literature. He's an expert on Paul,
by the way. So he's written a lot of literature on this. And his position is very much this,
yeah, there was no last supper, there was no Eucharist, that this is something probably
invented by Paul. I think that's possible, but I myself don't really have a position on this.
So it's entirely possible the Eucharist already existed. And when Paul says that he got it in
a vision from Jesus, he's doing what he usually does is claiming Jesus came to him and told them
this stuff when really he learned about it somewhere else, right? Because he had to claim
that Jesus was revealing it to him, otherwise he would be a fraud, right? So there's that problem
there is we can't really parse what's going on here is Paul actually inventing new tradition,
or is he kind of like pretending to be a part of a tradition that already exists, right?
That's unresolvable. We don't have so we don't have like reliable texts from his competitors,
like Peter and so forth, from the same time. We don't know. The other question though is
what night is he talking about, right? So what he says is that Jesus basically revealed to him
that in the night that he was handed over now, handed over very clearly, there's several other
verses in Paul where he does not mean betray, he means literally just hand over where it was part
of the plan, right? As the basic plan is to hand Jesus over to be executed without the person's
executing him, knowing that they're going to be disempowered by executing him, right? As the whole
this is in Paul 1 Corinthians 2, right? So it's all part of God's plan and as God actually Paul says
who hands Jesus over, right? So I think that's what they're referring to. So the question is,
what do they mean by the night? So there must have been some sort of like mythic story being told
about a specific time that this happened, right? You know, like particular hour of the evening
or something like that. Absolutely could be a reference to the Passover Seder, for instance,
because this is definitely an intentional replacement of Passover Seder. And we have that,
gosh, I just did the course on the mythology of Mark for you, that you're going to be,
it'll be coming out in maybe six months, we know, hopefully sooner, but where I talk about this,
that the whole replacing the Passover and making the story of Jesus about the story of Passover
is a thorough theme that goes all the way through the gospel of Mark. And Mark is very much a Paul
line gospel, like Mark knows Paul, he's using Paul's letters, might know more information
from the Paul line sect than we have, right? So that's entirely plausible that this is an
intentional replacement of Passover and an intentional emulation of the Lord's meals of
other mystery cults, because that's Paul's other competitor, right, is not just fellow Jews and
fellow Christians, but also other mystery cults that have savior gods and salvation and so on.
Personal salvation, right, is what they're offering. So any of these things are possible.
And the only thing I can say is like, is the argument plausible? Yeah, it's so plausible,
it's like already been published under peer review by Gerd Ludemann. So, yeah, I think,
I think so. I just don't, I just don't personally think we have enough evidence to really know for
sure on that. Yeah, Bart Ehrman actually recently wrote a blog where he makes the case. I don't think
he is even thinking Judas at all. And he doesn't have anything, he says the Greek
there is used elsewhere when it's talking about God doing the action. Right, that's, yeah, exactly,
that's so right. So he, of course, you know, takes time, but when he comes to a conclusion,
when he's pretty solid. When he does the work, yeah, right, exactly. And the empty tomb legend,
all that. Yeah, there's so much that makes me wonder, I mean, the other hypotheses would be
that there's a tradition that Jesus died at night at some point. Yeah, it could also, right,
it could be like even if there's a historical Jesus, right, it could still be the night in
which he was executed and yet still made up, right, at the same time, right. So like Peter
could have made it up. And then it became tradition. But it also could be like Jesus
actually was killed at a particular time. And then when Paul is having the vision,
he's of course like incorporating that historical information in the construction of his vision.
No way to tell. You're right. There's no way to tell we can't answer this. We would love to have
access to way more documentation than we have to try and parse these kinds of questions. And
unfortunately, as we mentioned in another one of these little vignettes, we just have to be
comfortable not knowing a lot of the time. It's sad, but that's the case. Well, Margaret has
another question. She says, Paul never says Jesus will return, but only that he will come.
This implies that Jesus has yet to come even a first time. I have heard other scholars say
Paul says Jesus will come again or return. It seems an important point that needs to be cleared
up. Are there any passages where Paul says or implies that Jesus will come again? Yeah, the
answer is no for Paul. And yeah, this is one of those things. You and I were talking about this,
how there's like guild knowledge that gets passed down, and people don't question it,
and they just keep repeating it, and they don't check it and realize that it's actually false.
And this is one of those things where it says, Oh, yeah, of course, Paul says Jesus comes again.
And then until you actually go and check, and you find out, Damn, he freaking doesn't like that's
weird. Why was I told that he was because that's kind of like the sort of lore that exists in the
guild of New Testament studies, that people just don't stop and question like, maybe what I was
told isn't actually true. Maybe I should check first. And when you check, yeah, there's no, yeah,
absolutely what she says is absolutely right. But he says in even in the Eucharist example,
where he has the vision of Jesus telling me about the Eucharist, he says to pray until he comes,
it doesn't say until he comes again. That's quite plain, right? It's quite serious that he hasn't
come yet, right? He's given us visions, he's given us revelations, but he hasn't arrived,
right? He hasn't physically been here yet. That is true. I think that's a decent argument from Paul.
Now there is a passage in Hebrews. And this is another thing I think might be where some of this
gets overlapped. Yeah, because there's a passage in Hebrews that could say could be interpreted
as saying this. Hebrews is not written by Paul, right? So that but some people there was a tradition
that it was. So this it's easy to get this confused like the telephone game. Oh, it's in
Hebrews. All right, it's in Hebrews, not really in Paul, right? That can happen if people aren't
really like specifically digging down or looking for this. But yes, there's a passage in Hebrews
where it talks about him appearing a second time. But the problem is, of course, it means appearing
second time, not like coming second time, because he definitely has already appeared, right? He's
in a revelation. So Paul has revelations, Peter has revelations. So Jesus has appeared already,
right? In any case, in the revelation. So to say that he's going to appear a second time
is in reference to the first time being the revelations. And the second time would be,
well, for good and all, right? So he's really going to come down physically and do stuff.
The problem with the it's easy to interpret Hebrews is saying it that way.
But it is ambiguous, right? So so there's at least that passage where you could debate about it.
But the ambiguity is undeniable, because it's talking about appearing rather than coming. And
that's the key difference. So let me hypothesize with you on another way of looking at this from
the historic point of view, and to see if this is a valid argument, even though there's no technically
concrete way to prove it. You know, this is the thing you've talked about. Yeah, I think there
might be a guy, you think there might not be a guy, and you have a different. Yeah, I still give
it one in three odds that that's right. So right. And so with me, I don't have a number, I wouldn't
put it on, you know, but I definitely think there was probably a guy. And if I were to hypothesize
the way I would try to understand it is, if we take and if the way we approach this, if we take
Jesus dies, or he's born of a woman, if you take that to mean not in Galatians to be allegory or
something, or like he's literally born of a woman of the seed of David, you take that approach,
the standard for when everybody else has already jumped on. And I take that approach and that he
was here, but he gets killed and then he ascends, he has an apotheosis and boom,
he's deified, he's some God now and Paul's idea. And that he comes like, I don't even need it to
say come again, but like that he's gonna come. So yeah, I think what you're getting at is the
idea that when Paul says to pray that he comes, is that a conclusive example of saying that he
didn't come before? And that the answer is no, yeah, it's not conclusive because it has that
ambiguity, but it has less ambiguity than the Hebrews passage, right? Right. Because it is
kind of strange to say come and not come again, right? So there is something odd about that,
but it's not impossible that he just forgot to add that point or the way they talk about it is just
to mention that detail. Like that is entirely possible. And that's why, you know, that's why
I give like one in three odds or something like that, rather than like, you know, one in a million.
I do think it's interesting when you're describing this, because I was reading
Render in the Caesar dot John Dominic Crossman was going back to Alexander the Great and pointing
out that term paracea. He wanted to get people acquainted when he's looking at the book of
Revelation to say, listen, I triumphal coming of the king, this kind of thing, like he's going to
come. It's like, get ready, the king's on his way. It's in full force. It's a, you know, glorious
everybody's going to tremble kind of thing. Yeah. In my point, and like that term is like,
you're right about being ambiguous because it doesn't say he has come before, but it also
doesn't say he hasn't, but it is one of those things, right? So it's like, is Alexander the Great
coming again? Or is this the first time his gospel, by the way? That even is another thing,
like they have gospels that they have. And it's like, okay, what's going on? So I love your response
to her. And like, I think it's good to practice that open-mindedness and to like approach this and
be like, dude, the evidence isn't very great. No, it's terrible. It's very frustrating. Yeah.
Yeah, especially for you when you're looking at the Greek, I'm sure you're going, oh man,
because we have so much thrust with the consensus of scholarship on how to view these things,
that you, I imagine you spend a lot of time trying to defend yourself because it's like,
well, what happens to me is like, I get told things and believe them, and then I check them and
find that, no, it doesn't hold up. And then I just point this out, you know, like, hey, by the way,
emperor has no clothes, and then that pisses off a bunch of people. And then I've got, okay, so now
I have to like go into more detail about why the emperor doesn't have clothes. And when people who
are listening, you're like, okay, okay, you're right, the emperor doesn't have any clothes. But
but yeah, I do have to deal with a lot of people who won't listen to the first point, right? So
they have to be told again, or they won't listen at all, right? Right. So the whole point.
Last question, Margaret, I love you. Thank you so much for the support. Does Paul think Satan
and his angels, the archons of the aeons only work in a celestial earth? Or does Paul also think,
and maybe this is miswritten, but celestial earth, or does Paul also think Satan and his demons
work on this earth? Yeah. So the view, and this is demonology, right? So Jewish demonology. I have
a lot of literature on that and on the history of Jesus when I do the section on Jewish demonology
and their belief in how the world worked. Philo wrote a lot about this. The idea is, of course,
that they do live in the sky. So the idea of the demons and Satan living in hell underground
is a late development that actually was did not exist in Paul's day. The common view at the time
was that they existed in the air. They were in the sky. But yes, they could, as you see in the
Gospel of Mark, where they could come down and inhabit bodies and possess people, possess animals
and things like that. And also, a lot of Christian writers write as though they could do things like
whisper in the ear. Invisible demons could whisper in the ear of people and tempt them or make them
do things and so forth. Or even physically inhabit the idols that receive the tribute and
things like that. So there's this idea that, yeah, they live in the air. They're invisible,
at least invisible to human eyes. But yeah, they can fly down to earth and do things,
but they're doing things invisibly, right? There's not like a perusia of Satan, essentially.
If there is, he's going to inhabit somebody and it's going to be like Nero or something like that,
where you have like a possessed, like the Antichrist is someone who's possessed by the spirit of
Satan. Totally possible for them to believe that that's the case. So you'd have to just look for
evidence of what they're talking about at the time. So yeah, it's their idea of living in the air
is everything from the dirt all the way to the moon, right? That's the whole space that they
occupy, which they knew was like 200,000 miles already, which is a vast space, right? So for
them, yeah, it was like this huge, scary void of stuff, of air and stuff in which things can hide
and live and so on. And that's the demonology of the time. And that actually goes all the way back
to Zoroastrianism, right? The Jews got this from Zoroastrianism, became a normal Jewish lore.
And then the Jews use this to interpret paganism. So pagan belief in gods, they're saying, oh,
you mean demons, right? And that's because the word demon is Daimon, right? So that actually just
means divinity. So among pagans, Daimon is not a negative thing. It could be like you can have
bad Daimons and good Daimons. It just means a divinity, any kind of God. Typically, it meant
any kind of God that was subordinate to like the supreme gods, like gobbets, like a
multiply descended or created or whatever, whereas supreme gods were usually called Theo,
right? Like they were called Theos. But sub gods, like demigods and stuff, were Daimons. So in
paganism, the word demon didn't necessarily mean bad. It just, it could mean either. But to Judaism,
of course, they're monotheists or at least monolatrists. And so they hold like, oh, well,
what you're calling Daimons, that's, we're going to take that as negative like this. They're only
like at war with God. They're not the true gods. They're all these false, false gods. So there's
these, these, you know, demonic entities that inhabit the world and are confusing you and
corrupting you and things like that. That view gets inherited by Christianity and become standard.
And this still exists today. I am astonished that there are still major scholars who genuinely
believe that there are actual demons who inhabit people like that. That is actually the case.
It's kind of scary that people actually are listening. I mean,
I don't know if they're in the right field. It's like, we need to be a little bit more
scrutinizing about how people who are writing about the stuff, like, if they're careful and they're
being like checked by others who aren't like thinking in that magical sense, then I think it's
okay. I mean, to really make sure that they know how to separate their, their belief from,
but it's very difficult to imagine them being able to do that without some type of,
some type of influence. Yeah. I mean, they, they're smart enough to know to pass peer review,
you can't say these things, right? So the reason I mentioned this is that you won't know this about
most scholars because they know to clean up the way they argue things for official publications.
But then you like hear them on a podcast or on a blog or something where they just start
talking about like their actual beliefs and you go, and then you're surprised or like,
because you didn't see any of that in, in their scholarship, right? So oftentimes they do hide it
at least in their scholarship because they know they have to for the scholarship to pass. But
the question still is, like you said, like, does this still influence them? Does it create a bias
that is a problem? It would have to be a bias that's not detectable by peer review. But we know
that can happen. So. And one thing on the, the demons, devils, archons, all of that,
I know your stance. And I don't know if everybody who's watching knows, but
I take like this Elaine Pagels, kind of like it could be both, both human and divine as you
talked about. It's often said, yeah. But I don't say that in every case. I'm saying Paul lives in
a world full of gods. Certainly the word archon can mean both, right? Right. But the thing is,
is like, that's not how Paul writes about it, right? So for instance, first Corinthians two,
he talks about the archons, if basically his, he says, if the archons knew that killing Jesus
would end the power of death in the cosmos, they wouldn't have done it. And that infers magical
knowledge of the universe, right? Like some sort of secret cosmic knowledge, not just knowledge,
but belief. Like you'd have to actually believe that killing Jesus would end death, like and so
forth. And so that's, that can't describe the Jews or the Romans, because they don't actually believe
this. And even if they did believe it, you know, like they would be like, Oh, yeah, well, fuck,
we better kill Jesus then because we want this to happen. The only entities in the world understood
by Paul that would want this to be prevented and say like, we don't want the power of death and
Satan and stuff to be ended is Satan and his demons, right? So that's why the way he's writing
about it. It can't be both. It doesn't make sense. But you can, you can overlay the possibility of it,
right? Like that the the deem, this is the demon's attitudes. And somehow Paul is inferring or implying
even though he doesn't say it, that they're whispering in the ears of they're using human
agents to affect their will. He doesn't say that. But you can lay that in there. Like that is kind
an added epicycle that you could attach to the statement to get the result that you want.
It's just that we don't have any evidence for that epicycle being there, which is usually the
reason why I'm very much against things we don't have evidence for. I'm with you. That's why I'm
specifically talking to the historicist in the chat here to make the point that if you're trying
to make the argument that our cons are always human entities, in this case, where Paul only
refers to him as that, I recommend, as a historicist, read Paula Fredrickson, read Lane Pagels,
get your reading on because they admit they clearly. So does David Litwos. So David Litwos
says the same thing. Like he admits that the archons means demonic forces. He allows the
possibility that it could mean both. Right. Because that is that is in the field as a sort of a
mainstream assumption. But for me, I would need evidence that that's what Paul means. But I do
acknowledge that it's a possibility, but possible doesn't get you to probably. That's that's my
problem with the methodology. Gotcha. I really appreciate that. Margaret, I hope you enjoyed
this wonderful conversation in 4k. And you know, I'm bragging, man. I've got to hang up a camera
now. Yeah, no, it's great. It's beautiful stuff. It really is. Join the Patreons. Go support us
in the description and thank you so much.
