The myths surrounding the Alexandrian library being burned by maybe Christians.
You guys don't want to miss this episode.
Consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcast.
I release hundreds of videos on there, all early access, everything I put on YouTube,
you'll get early access to on Patreon.
And also, you help me continue my endeavors in educating the general public.
If you want to do a one-time donation, you can do it on my PayPal or my Cash App.
It's all down in the description.
Love you guys.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Have you guys ever heard about the myth of the burning of the Alexandrian library
or myths surrounding the Alexandrian library?
This is a show you want to check out.
We have author and blog, if you will, blog author, Tim O'Neill.
I am an atheist, he says, so this is his excerpt.
And you got to go to the site, historyforatheist.com.
I am an atheist for those who think he's a theist, a skeptic and rationalist,
who is a subscribing member of the Atheist Foundation of Australia
and a former state president of the Australian skeptics.
I have contributed to many atheism and skepticism,
I think he's forum or whatever, for over the years
and have a posting record as a rationalist that goes back to at least 1992.
I have a bachelor's degree with honors in English and history
and a research master's degree from the University of Tasmania
with a specialization in historicist analysis of medieval literature.
Welcome to the channel.
Hey, thanks, Derek.
Good to be back.
Yeah.
Yeah, as we've discussed before, we have to do that disclaimer
because some people don't like some of the stuff I say.
Because what I'm doing is debunking.
I mean, a lot of people know that I debunk Christian bad history
but my blog, historyforatheists, is really focused on debunking atheist bad history
because I think we should get history right.
Christians, obviously, that's what they do is their problem.
But as an atheist, I think we should make sure that we avoid
spreading misinformation.
Even if it's misinformation that we might be inclined to want to believe,
we need to go out against that.
So that's really what we're all about.
But yeah, thanks for asking me back on.
Hopefully, this one won't be quite as controversial as my last couple.
Dude, everything you do is controversial.
Yeah, that's true.
You literally just said you attack, obviously, if you will, or not attack.
Maybe that's a bad word.
You like to diffuse bad information on the Christian side.
You like to diffuse bad information on the atheistic side.
You're just asking for it, aren't you, from everybody?
The funny thing is, I was looking the other day and I won't mention his name,
but there's quite a prominent YouTuber.
He's an atheist YouTuber and he's got something like 500,000 followers.
And I've got like 2,500 followers on Twitter.
And I was thinking about that.
I was also looking at some of these really good historians who are quite active on Twitter
and they've got maybe 2,000, 3,000 followers.
I was thinking, how does this kid got half a million followers?
And the answer is because he's telling people stuff they want to hear.
And anyone, lots of people like to be told stuff they want to hear.
I tell people stuff they don't want to hear.
But yeah, that's me.
I don't mind.
I don't care.
I don't care.
So long as some people are paying attention.
But today, you mentioned the Alexandria Library.
So what I want to talk about is a pretty common story that I think many people would have heard.
And that's the story of how Christians destroyed the Great Library of Alexandria.
Now, you get various versions of it and some versions have different elements to others.
But most of them are about how there was this great repository of ancient learning
and reason and science and rationality called the Great Library of Alexandria.
It was the biggest library in the ancient world.
And it contained the sum total of ancient learning.
But Christians came along and burned it down and destroyed that learning
and plunged us into a dark age.
And if it wasn't for that, we would have all this advanced knowledge.
We'd be 1,000 years ahead of where we are now.
And Christians held us back.
And so we have to make sure that Christians don't do that again.
Didn't Carl Sagan fall for this exact thing?
He did.
In fact, a lot of the online versions of this story can be traced back to Carl Sagan's
1980 television series, TV documentary series, Cosmos.
And it's interesting how popular culture tends to shape a lot of historical myths.
And so Sagan was an astronomer.
He was a very, very good astronomer.
He was a great public educator when it came to science.
And I remember watching Cosmos as a teenager and thinking it was fantastic.
And watched it many times and read the book and loved it.
It was only later I found that he wasn't very good at history.
He's good at science.
He was pretty bad at history.
And this is because scientists tend to study history in high school
and then don't study it beyond that.
And so they kind of stunted it about a kind of a high school level.
And Sagan went to high school, would have gone to high school back in the 1950s.
And so a lot of stuff that he thought was correct
is sort of based on the fact that he's never actually studied history in any detail beyond that.
So while Sagan's documentary is still great stuff
and was a really good series on the science, on history, I say, treating with care,
towards the end of the documentary and towards the end of the book,
he made a plea for the preservation of science education
and a plea for the preservation of knowledge.
He was writing the series in 1979 and he was rightly very fearful of two things.
One was the rise of fundamentalist Christianity in America.
And the other was the Cold War and the danger of nuclear annihilation.
And so he was making this plea for the future.
And that was what the final chapter of his book
and the final program in his series was about.
He used a story, I won't say the story,
a story of the Great Library of Alexandria to illustrate that point.
And so he said, you know, this is what we need to preserve
because we had it once, it was destroyed by the forces of ignorance and mysticism
and we suffered the consequences and we can't allow that to happen again.
There's a great myth.
It's a great moral, but what he's done is he's taken a kind of a pseudo-historical story
and used it as a moral fable.
The problem is the history that he gave in that was largely wrong.
I might come back to some of the stuff that's saying got wrong.
But what happens then as a result is that that becomes the story that most people know.
And so as a result, whenever I see any time,
I see any reference to the Great Library of Alexandria online,
if you look at the comments section on an online article that mentions the Great Library,
you can guarantee there will be someone saying,
those fucking Christians destroyed the Great Library.
It's every time, absolutely every time.
So what I'd like to do today in this show is sort of tell the real story of what the Great Library was.
Talk about what the Great Library wasn't because a lot of the Sagan version,
if we call it that, actually makes claims that aren't correct about the Great Library.
And then talk about what actually happened to the Great Library.
And then we'll get to the bit about Christians burning it down towards the end.
I don't want to give away the ending.
We'll get there.
Okay, we'll get there.
I want to ask everybody who's watching this, by the way, Tim,
if you have an idea or you have an assumption about this,
I asked to put it on the shelf for right now.
I always ask this on Mythision, please, because you can learn from everyone.
I was just telling this to Tim before.
Even if someone, and I'm not saying you, I'm saying in general,
if someone has misinformation, if you continue to research,
you'll know the ins and outs of various viewpoints and different ideas.
Test what he's saying now, if you're skeptic.
And you, let me make sure, go and check it out.
In fact, that's what Tim's all about, saying, go and check it for yourself.
You'll see what he's saying.
So I just want to encourage everybody to open up their mind and be interested
in this information to learn, not just to, you know,
how can I try and poke holes at some of my guests?
No, this is real important stuff, you guys.
And I really do appreciate you, dude.
I'm serious.
Cool.
Cool.
Okay.
So maybe we should start right at the beginning about what the great library of Alexandria was.
So Alexandria was an ancient city in the north of Egypt.
It was established by Alexander the Great, who thought he was pretty great.
And so established lots of cities across his empire named after himself.
So this was one of a number of cities called Alexandria, which were established
across the empire all the way over to India.
This was the first one.
And he established it on the Mediterranean coast on the north of Egypt.
He died fairly young and his empire then got broken up and shared amongst his generals,
who then, they and their successors, then probably spent the next sort of 150 to 200 years
going to war with each other.
The general who got this bit, who got Egypt, was pretty lucky because he got probably one
of the richest parts of Alexander's former empire.
Egypt was immensely wealthy because it was very much the bread basket of the Mediterranean world.
And Alexandria became a great city because it was a port city.
And it was a link between the Mediterranean world and via the Red Sea the rest of the world.
So through to the Indian Ocean.
So it was a trading hub and it became immensely wealthy.
The Ptolemaic kings, his name was Ptolemy.
And he's referred to as the first king of the Ptolemaic kingdom.
So he was called Ptolemy the First called Sotr.
So Ptolemy the First Sotr established a dynasty of the extended for many hundreds of years.
He may have been the guy who founded the Great Library of Alexandria,
or it may have been his son.
So it could have been his son, Ptolemy the Second, Philadelphos.
We don't really know.
I won't go into the details, but there's conflicting stories.
Whoever it was, what happened was he built a royal palace in the upper city.
So the part down near the harbor.
And this was a palace complex, extremely elaborate, extremely rich.
And part of it was a shrine to the Nine Muses called the Museon or Museum,
which is where we get the modern word museum.
This is a temple to the nine goddesses who were the goddesses of the arts and sciences,
the goddesses of learning.
And museum museums tended around the ancient world,
tended to be centers of learning as a result.
So they tended to be not just temples, though it was a temple,
but also centers of scholarship.
And they tended to sponsor scholars.
And so of course, where you have scholarship books.
So when we talk about the Great Library of Alexandria,
what we're actually talking about is the book collection associated with the royal museum
in Alexandria.
This was in the royal quarter.
It was part of the royal palace, and it was very much a private institution
owned and sponsored by the kings of the Ptolemaic Kingdom of Egypt.
May I just kind of poke something that I think is interesting about what you just presented?
What I like about you, Tim, is that you'll give credit wherever credit is due, regardless.
You are an atheist, rationalist, skeptic, you know, you're like me, man.
We're not drinking the Kool-Aid.
At the same time, I want to ask this question.
It sounds like this temple, which is this museum, of course, for learning,
sounds like out of religious movements and out of religious thought comes education initially.
It seems like education may come out of these schools of thought, so to speak,
encouraging people to learn.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'll come back to that, because I think that's a really good point.
Yes, they believe that you could get an understanding of the world
through both rational analysis and also through revelation.
And so the idea that religion is something that's anti-intellectual and intellectual
pursuits have to be anti-religious is a very modern idea.
The ancients didn't see it that way.
So Carl Sagan in the part of his TV series where he's talking about the Great Library,
he talks about how he's standing in a ruin of one of the adjuncts.
It was a daughter library, which I'll talk about towards the end,
of the Great Library called the Serapium.
And he said it was originally a temple, but it was later reconsecrated to knowledge.
Well, that's nonsense.
It was never reconsecrated to anything.
It was always a temple.
Temples often had libraries in them.
And this particular temple, the museum, was a temple that was associated with,
in fact, fundamental to it.
It was knowledge, learning, and study, and therefore books.
So what happened was because it was a very large and well-established
and well-funded museum because the kings of Ptolemaic Egypt were immensely rich,
it attracted some excellent scholars.
Because if you were a scholar, you really needed, in the ancient world,
you needed a patron.
And this guy was one of the richest in the world.
So some of the best scholars in the world came to Alexandria.
And that meant that they attracted students and they attracted,
of course, they attracted books.
They bought books with them.
But the other thing that happened was that the kings of Ptolemaic Egypt
really wanted to build up the book collection associated with their museum
to make it even better.
And so they actively sought out bringing books into this institution.
One story that's probably not true, people often repeat it, but it's a good story,
was that any ship coming into Alexandria was searched.
And any book found on that ship was taken to the library of the museum.
And if they didn't have a copy of that book, they made a copy.
And they held the ship there until the copy had been made.
Then they gave the ship back the copy.
They kept the original.
Great story.
It's a terrific story.
It's probably not true because the idea that they would,
these guys were merchants, the idea that they would be holding up a ship
for as long as it takes to copy a whole book, which was a long time,
could be weeks, months, or even years.
That doesn't make a lot of sense.
But what it tells us is how much they value books
and how much they were building up this huge library.
So I think, yeah, probably the first thing to keep in mind is
what the Great Library was.
It was very much the book collection of the museum.
When you see pictures of the Great Library,
or you get reproductions of them in Carl Sagan's documentary,
but also you see them in video games.
So the Assassin's Creed had recently had a video game
set in the ancient Greek and Roman world.
And they had this great reproductive, looks beautiful, of the Great Library.
Unfortunately, it didn't look like that.
So I know I'm always doing this.
So the idea of a great sort of echoing hall
with these huge stacks of shelves with scrolls piled up in them
and learned looking bearded men in robes sitting around tables,
opening up scrolls and studying, that's not what it looked like.
That kind of library, which is very much one of the style that's familiar to us,
was actually something developed later by the Romans.
The Romans sort of came up with that style of library.
But because the museum was very much fundamentally a research institution
associated with this temple, the layout from what we can gather
from the one account that we do have by Strabo seems to be
that it was a complex of buildings.
It included a lecture halls because it held lectures.
It included dormitories and sleeping accommodation,
a kind of a dining hall and kitchens.
And sleeping accommodation for its small army of slaves.
There were hundreds of slaves who were part of the staff of the institution.
But the library bit seems to have been arranged around colonnades.
So they had kind of courtyards with covered walkways around them,
gardens in the middle.
And that's where the scholars sat at desks around these colonnades.
And the books were held in rooms off from those colonnades.
And so a scholar would sit and do their work at a desk,
sun coming in from the courtyard, because that meant they had natural light.
And then, well, before electricity, natural light was pretty important.
But also they were in the shade, and so it was nice and cool.
And in Egypt, that's pretty important.
So this arrangement actually made a lot of sense.
Whereas if you had them inside in a great big hall,
in a period where windows were either very, very small
or had no glass in them, it would be really dark.
And you would have to have artificial light.
And artificial light and papyrus scrolls don't mix.
Yeah.
This is why libraries did burn down because scrolls are pretty flammable.
So this arrangement actually made a lot of sense.
Initially, all of the library was held in these rooms around the colonnades.
Later on, as the library got bigger, it got held,
more and more of it got held in other parts of the royal quarter.
So we know that at least some of them, by the 1st century BC,
were being held in warehouses down on the docks.
That was because they really had the storage space.
And we know that there were overflow libraries, so door to libraries,
about three or four of those around the city.
One of those was in the Temple of Julius Caesar, the Caesarean.
And another later on was held in the Temple of Serapium.
We'll get back to the Serapium.
That's an important part of the story.
So in the heyday of the Great Library, this was the arrangement.
You had these scholars coming from all over the world.
You had the royal quarter as the center of the center of learning.
And you had the Tolomei kings sponsoring the whole thing.
And of course, buying and copying books.
They had an old staff of slaves.
And three quarters of what they would have been doing
would have been copying books.
Because the scrolls wore out.
Papyrus is quite fragile stuff.
So they were constantly having to restock what was going on,
as well as bringing in new copies.
You know, I just have to say that that becomes a problem
for some of the people I talk to who are super skeptics
on the history of things.
I think I sent it to you about new chronology.
And I don't want to go sideways with that.
But just the point is, one of the things I've heard is,
and I get like being skeptical about certain things,
but like when things have to be copied and copied and copied,
are you now like saying,
I just don't trust that that comes from that period
because I don't have the original scroll from three centuries BC.
You see what I'm saying?
So it's easy to be hyper skeptical about those stuff.
I mean, I've had some people saying to me,
well, there's no copies of the gospels prior to the fourth century.
Therefore, how do we know that they actually date to the first century?
And the answer is we've got no complete copies prior to the fourth century,
but we have fragmentary copies that date right into the second century.
And therefore, there must have been,
those copies are kind of like a tip of an iceberg.
So there must have been earlier copies.
And there's all sorts of internal reasons why we conclude
that they were written in the second half of the first century.
I just thought I'd make that note because if they're copying, you know how it goes.
Look, exactly right.
But yeah, it's an important thing to understand
as to how books were produced in the ancient world.
So speaking of books, so that's what the Great Library was.
As far as what it wasn't, one of the things it wasn't
was a library that you could just wander into off the street.
So I've seen some people say anyone could study there.
Well, that's total crap.
If you tried to walk into the museum off the street,
they had a whole squadron of Royal Guards
that would be very quickly throwing you back into the street.
This was in the Royal Quarter, it was part of the Royal Palace.
So you couldn't just wander in and start browsing the shelves.
The only people who used the books in the Great Library
were the scholars who were sponsored by,
invited by and sponsored by the King.
So it was actually a very small group of people who used the ones in the Museum.
The ones in the Daughter Libraries were a bit more open
because they were open to the public.
So the Caesarean Library and the Hexara Payam Library
were both open to the public as libraries in a temple compounds usually were.
But the Museum was a bit different, that was a private affair.
The number of books is something else that people talk about.
So there's two numbers that you often hear.
Because we're told the library was huge.
Now, if you're thinking about this story as a moral fable,
the bigger the library is, the more tragic its destruction is.
So the moral fable version talks about it being this immense collection of books,
500,000 books, 700,000 books.
These are the numbers that are thrown around.
Anyone who has studied any historian of the ancient world will tell you
that any numbers on anything that you find in ancient sources
have to be taken with an enormous grain of salt.
Because numbers were usually used in ancient sources
as kind of rhetorical effect.
So if I want to say that two of the Hum invaded with a really big army,
I'll say you had half a million warriors.
That doesn't mean you actually had half a million warriors.
It's just a way of saying it was a big army.
So we have to be fairly skeptical about any numbers.
The other reason we have to be skeptical about the numbers that are given for
the Great Library's collection is that we've got about six or seven different sources
that give us figures for the size of the library.
And the figures that they give are all completely different.
And they range very widely in terms of the size.
So there's one that gives a rather precise figure of 54,800 books,
which is suspiciously precise.
There's another that gives us 40,000.
There's one that says 400,000.
There's one that says 490,000.
Then we've got 500,000.
Then we've got 700,000.
And the other thing is it's not as though the smaller numbers
from early sources and the larger numbers are later ones.
So we're talking about the growth of the library.
They're all over the place.
We get big numbers from early sources, small numbers from later ones.
I think what we can say is that we don't know and that no one knew.
I don't think anyone in the museum itself would have had a clear idea
of how large the collection was.
Hey, Bob, go count those scrolls again.
Exactly.
And particularly since it wasn't held in one place,
you've got the library sort of distributed over various storage facilities.
So no one really knew.
It's very difficult for us to get an estimate.
But what we can do is we can look at other libraries in the ancient world
where we can get an idea of the size.
So there was a library of Trajan in the forum of Trajan in the middle of Rome.
And because we can actually excavate that building,
we've got an idea of how big it is.
Therefore, we've got an idea of how many books it probably would have held.
And we can estimate that it would have held around about 20,000 scrolls.
Now, that's 20,000 scrolls.
That doesn't mean 20,000 books to 20,000 works.
So a scroll could contain several small shortworks.
Or a long work could be split up over about 30 or 40 scrolls.
So one of Livy's histories was written over in 30 books.
So that's 30 scrolls.
So a scroll doesn't mean a book and a book doesn't mean a scroll.
So the library of Trajan seems to have been about 20...
We estimate about 20,000 scrolls.
There was also the Great Library of Pergamon in what's now Turkey.
And again, we can actually excavate the footprint of what we think.
It's not certain.
But we think it was the actual building in which that was held.
And again, we can make an estimate.
There, the estimate seems to be about 30,000 scrolls.
The interesting thing here is that the Great Library of Alexandria
and the Great Library of Pergamon were rivals.
The scholars at Pergamon and the scholars at Alexandria hated each other.
And there was the enormous rivalry between the two.
So again, there's a great story.
It's again, it's probably not true, but it tells us something.
That in order to strangle the book collection at the Great Library of Pergamon,
the kings of Ptolemaic Egypt banned the export of papyrus from Egypt to Pergamon.
Because papyrus is a reed that grows in the Nile Delta.
And they thought this will fix them.
They won't be able to copy any more books.
And so the scholars in Pergamon responded by inventing parchment,
which is made from animal skins.
And so they were able to copy their books after all.
Again, nice little story, probably not true.
But what it tells us is that there was a genuine rivalry between these two institutions.
So if the Great Library of Pergamon is around about 30,000 scrolls,
and if that seems to be the size of a really big library,
sort of 320 to 30 to 40,000 scrolls in the ancient world,
then it kind of makes sense that it's more likely
that the collection of the museum, the Great Library of Alexandria,
probably wouldn't have been much above about 40, maybe 50,000 scrolls.
And that's still pretty big.
But it's one tenth of the size of some of the estimates.
There's a really interesting sort of article by a historian called Bagnall,
who looks at the output of the number of scholars that we know about.
In the ancient world, and what their likely output would have been
in terms of the number of books they wrote,
and therefore factoring in the fact that we might not know,
we probably don't know about all of them,
even if they were only a fraction,
how many books would there have been at any given time?
And you still don't get much above maybe 60 or 70,000 books works.
So the idea that it held 500,000 or 700,000 books, that's fantasy.
So anyone who says the Great Library of Alexandria was as big as that,
that's almost certainly not true.
I also like how you said, just for anyone who's going to
peep the conclusion of this episode, you point out, we're talking about one library.
It's not like there was this conspiracy to go burn every library in history.
You know what I'm saying?
Exactly. So this is another part of the moral fable, which really actually,
you just hit the nail on the head, it doesn't make any sense.
The idea that Christians came along and burned down this one library,
and so that destroyed all the knowledge of the ancient world,
just makes no sense at all.
Of course, we know that there were many other libraries.
There were thousands of them.
There were other big libraries.
I just mentioned a couple of them, Library of Trajan,
the Library of Pergamon.
There was the Great Library of Celsus in the city of Ephesus.
And there were, we know in Rome itself, there were hundreds of libraries.
So the libraries established by the Emperor Augustus,
most forums, so the Centers of Roman Power, had a library.
I've already mentioned that there were libraries in many temples.
These libraries varied in the type of book they would have held.
So we know, for example, that a rich citizen might have a library in his house,
probably a few hundred books.
And that would tend to be on topics that he was interested in.
So a rich citizen who was interested in history
would have a lot more books on history than, say, books on technical subjects.
These great libraries, though, tended to have books on a whole range of subjects.
But the idea that Christians could come along,
burn down one library and destroy the knowledge of the entire ancient world,
is just patently stupid.
That doesn't make any sense.
I've had people say to me, well, that was just a representation.
They burned down a whole lot of libraries,
to which I say, okay, one, evidence, please.
Two, actually, we know that Christianity, while it did have an early debate
about whether or not there was any worth to ancient Greek philosophy and learning.
And so there were certainly were some hard-line Christians who said,
we've got the books of Holy Scripture.
That's all we need.
They lost the debate.
So guys like Clement of Alexandria, who was working in Alexandria in the second century AD,
argued that all knowledge came from God, and therefore it should all be accepted
as a gift from God.
Just as the books of the Old Testament, so the Jewish Scriptures,
were a gift from God via the Jews to Christianity.
So the knowledge of the natural world and philosophy,
it was a gift of God through the Greeks to Christianity.
I actually appreciate that, too, though.
You know what I mean?
Even though I don't believe that, I'm glad guys like him do exist that try to
keep the knowledge around to some degree, you know?
We probably wouldn't have what we've got from the ancient world if they didn't,
because if they'd lost that argument, then there's a very good chance that a lot of this
stuff would have been completely lost.
Now, obviously, we have lost a hell of a lot of it.
But people say, well, that's because Christianity destroyed it.
Well, actually, no.
And I've actually got an article on my blog where I compare,
I take a list of the contents of a particular guy's library,
the Christian Bishop's Library.
And I compare which of the books that he had in his library that a Christian books survive,
compared to the ones that he had in his library that are pagan books or books by pagan authors.
And I found that the survival rate of both is exactly the same.
In fact, if anything, the pagan survival rate is slightly higher.
Now, that doesn't mean that that's one sample, but it's a pretty big sample.
It's a sample of several hundred books.
So it looks like what actually happened was that if we did lose any sort of pre-Christian works,
it's because the odds were stacked against the survival of any book in the ancient world,
because they survived, they existed in so few copies.
I don't know if you've ever sat and copied something out by hand.
It's really serious.
Nothing like a book, though.
Nothing like a book.
Yeah.
Well, I have.
I do a bit of calligraphy.
And so I actually, years ago, sat down and did a hand copy of a medieval text
in a medieval hand using medieval techniques.
And it's really hard work.
So you can sort of see why there were so few books.
And therefore, if you've got so few books, the survival rate for any book is extremely small.
So that's, I suppose, one thing that a lot of people get wrong about the Great Library.
And that's that it had half a million books it didn't.
It probably had about 50,000.
Still, that's quite a few.
I think another thing that a lot of people do get a little bit wrong is that it was
a very much a center of science.
And this is part of what Sagan's version of the story emphasizes.
He talks about Eratosthenes working there, which is true.
He talks about Archimedes working there, which isn't true.
He rattles off a whole list of scientists who he says were scholars at the Great Library
or scholars at the Museum.
And most of them, apart from maybe three, probably weren't.
But he puts a lot of emphasis on that because that's, again, that's the tragedy of the loss
of the Great Library.
We lost all this science.
So what were they doing?
What were they studying at the Great Library?
If the first thing we need to keep in mind is that, unlike a modern university,
any ancient center of learning was generally not divided up into specialties and specializations
and kind of faculties.
So you didn't have some people sitting over there who were doing physics and some people
over here who were studying politics and some people over here who were doing geometry and
mathematics.
All ancient scholars tended to be polymaths.
So they tended to study everything.
And there's a reason for that.
And that's because they were studying this stuff for a very different reason to modern scholars.
Modern scholars are really studying stuff for its own sake because they have an interest
and because it might have a practical application in the outside world.
But in the ancient world, what philosophers were doing was they were trying to answer what
was fundamentally an ethical question, which was, what's the best way for me to live?
So this is what all ancient Greek philosophy was all about.
What's the best way to live?
How do I live a good life?
Now, living a good life for an ancient Greek philosopher was living a life that's fulfilling
to me, but also is good for me.
So I might live a life where I'm having a great time, but is that good for me?
If I'm getting drunk all the time and eating lots of food, I might be having a good time
in the short term and in the long term, the time that's probably not a good life.
And this is why a lot of ancient Greek philosophers, the Epicureans, for example,
and some others, the cynics and so on, were actually quite frugal and aesthetic in the way in
which they lived, because they said, this is a better life.
It's better to live simply rather than sort of living to excess.
But the other thing they were looking at was how do I live as part of the wider world?
So they studied politics.
They studied how we relate to each other.
They studied ethics.
And they also studied the natural world, because one of the questions was,
how do I live in the world?
Well, first I have to understand what the world is.
So I have to get a fundamental understanding of the world.
So this is why they studied what they called natural philosophy.
We use the shorthand word science to describe that.
So you often hear about ancient Greek science.
The ancient Greeks were doing science.
And a lot of people, Carl Sagan as one, your dear friend, Richard Carrio,
is another, really emphasizes the similarities between ancient Greek science,
what I call proto-scientific natural philosophy.
But I use science for short.
And modern science.
The problem with that is that the ancient Greeks were not, first of all,
were not doing this scientific-ish stuff for the same reason that modern scientists were.
They were answering different questions, largely philosophical questions about,
how do I live a good life?
And secondly, they weren't using the same techniques.
So they weren't using the modern scientific method.
They had bits of the modern scientific method.
They did do some experiments.
They did use measurement sometimes.
They did check information.
They did use observation.
They did form hypotheses and all of that stuff.
But they didn't bring it all together in the modern scientific method
that didn't really coalesce until the 16th century AD.
So they weren't doing science in the modern sense of the word.
We have to be very careful about that.
This is interesting because I'm actually reading a book right now,
Tim Whitmar, Spaddling the Gods, Atheists of the Ancient World.
Man, he is a load of information as well.
He knows quite a bit.
And I love what you're saying here because it comes down to that natural science of philosophy.
What's the point of living like?
And I love what he does to point out Atheists in the ancient world.
It's more difficult to do that because most people wrote from some worldview that the gods were real.
But he shows some of these people that actually are trying to explain
how to live but not needing to invoke the deities and touch it on that kind of...
I mean, you're not touched on the atheistic side,
but you're pointing out the philosophers were doing this for a while.
Yeah, and that's a great book.
And I've discussed it with Tim.
And he actually has an endorsement of my blog that I've put on my blog.
He's a great guy.
We disagree on a couple of things.
I think he kind of overemphasizes the atheism of some of those philosophers.
Many of them, yeah, we don't need the gods, but they still believed in them.
Or they believed in a divine principle, even if they didn't believe
that there was a guy sitting on Mount Olympus, you know, chucking thunderbolts.
So they were atheists in one sense or another.
But Tim Wittmarsh is a very learned and excellent historian.
And I'm glad you're enjoying his book.
I recommend it very highly.
But he obviously does get across extremely well in that book
that that ancient philosophy was quite different to what we think of as philosophy.
And it was an ancient natural philosophy was not modern science.
So he definitely makes that quite clear.
One of the issues that's involved in that is...
What it means is that the ancient Greek philosophers,
ancient Greek and Roman philosophers were often approaching questions of the natural world
with a lot of philosophical assumptions that were wrong.
And that's because they weren't doing science in the modern sense,
where you were trying to approach it as objectively as possible.
They were approaching it through a philosophical and moral and ethical framework.
So they assumed a lot of stuff that was actually fundamentally wrong.
So as a result, there was a fundamental idea in ancient Greek and Roman geometry
and therefore astronomy that the circle was the perfect figure and perfect form.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, to us, it doesn't make any sense at all.
But they thought in terms, they thought in moral terms about the universe.
So a circle was a good shape and something that wasn't quite a circle wasn't a good shape.
So as a result, they had to come up with a system of astronomy
where everything moved in circles.
The only problem is, they don't.
The planets and so on move in ellipses.
They didn't like ellipses.
Ellipses were not morally good.
If we can put it that way, they were not perfect forms.
So you've got the whole Ptolemaic system,
which is this bizarre mathematical clutch of circles within circles,
epicycles and epicenters and various other bits and pieces
to try and explain what's going on in the sky in terms of circles,
despite the fact that that's not what's going on in the sky.
So this is what I mean about them often approaching things with presuppositions
that were completely wrong.
Another example is, we often hear about the ancient Greeks believe that the earth was round
and that's true and demonstrated through reason that it was and that's true
and measured the size of the earth and that's true.
But what we don't hear is that there were other Greek philosophers
at the same time who thought the earth was flat.
So you never actually hear about that,
but the Epicureans, quite a large philosophical school,
well into the Roman period were still thinking in terms of a flat earth universe.
You never hear about that.
So we hear a lot about the stuff that these
natural ancient Greek and Roman natural philosophers got right.
We tend not to hear about the stuff that they got wrong.
And that gives us, again, another warped view of how rational and scientific they actually were.
And it gives us an impression that they were doing modern style science when they actually weren't.
And again, I mentioned there were Tostanese.
I mentioned him a couple of times.
He did study at the Museum.
And he's the guy who famously used geometry to measure the size of the earth.
And we often hear about how he got it almost right.
His measurement was very accurate.
What we don't hear about are the other Greek scientists who disagree with him.
So we don't hear as much about Ptolemy and his measurement of the earth,
which was actually a lot more influential than their Tostanese one.
But he got him wildly wrong.
So we never hear about that.
We only hear about the guy who got it right.
So we've got this very sort of rosy view of ancient Greek and Roman science.
Now, this is not me denigrating ancient Greek and Roman philosophers.
No, you're just pointing out the fact.
They were very smart guys.
But we have to be careful of that word science.
When we're talking about this,
we have to remember it's a shorthand for induction-based
proto-scientific natural philosophy,
which was largely a metaphysical analysis of the physical world,
which is a bit long and complicated.
So we just say science, but it doesn't mean they were doing science.
So the idea that the Great Library or the Museum
was a whole lot of guys sitting around doing science.
And they would have been inventing flying machines
and maybe coming up with nuclear physics
until Christians came along and burned the place down.
That's fantasy.
Nothing like that was going on.
So what was going on in the Museum?
Well, remember what I was saying before about these guys being polymaths?
So they studied a whole lot of stuff.
So no one was studying just one thing.
That's important to remember.
But when we look at the output of the people that we do know
were scholars there,
when we look at the books they wrote and the books that they were famous for,
what we find is that one of the major things
they were studying in the Museum was poetry, not science.
Now, for a modern person, that sounds really weird.
Why were these great scholars who on one hand
were doing things like measuring the size of the earth
and estimating the distance to the sun and all this stuff?
Why the hell would they be studying poetry?
Well, first of all, it was a temple to the Nine Muses.
And six of the Nine Muses are actually muses of various forms of poetry,
song and dance.
Only one of them, Urantia,
is the goddess of what we were considered to be a scientific discipline, astronomy,
which was actually them, was considered a bit more mystical than our astronomy.
So why were they studying poetry?
This gets back to what you were talking about before.
You were saying that sometimes stuff that we consider to be scientific and useful
can actually come out of religion.
They believed that you could understand the world through reason,
quite famously, and they did so.
They examined the world rationally,
but they also believed in revelation.
And so they believed that certain poetry,
particularly poetry that had stood the test of time,
was literally an insight into the world given to us by the divine.
And so the poems of Homer, the Iliad and the Odyssey,
but also the poems of Hesiod, the Odes of Pinda,
and various other poems which were considered to be sort of wholly ancient,
and therefore pretty much sacred,
they were regarded as more than just poems.
These were insights into the world.
These were some mirror into the world.
And so a single line or a couple of lines of Homer
could have a whole book written about it, about what it means.
That's what Tim was going through in his book.
He's like, they're trying to allegorize everything.
Everything, yeah.
And it didn't mean any of that, and it's initial.
So they're doing the same thing Christians love to do with...
Exactly.
Where do you think Christians got it from?
People think that Christians arrived in the ancient world from an alien planet
or something. They didn't.
They were products of this.
And so they were just doing what people had been doing for centuries.
They were doing with their ancient texts,
what Jews have been doing with their ancient texts,
but also what the Greeks have been doing with Homer
and these other great works of literature.
So there's one of the two lines in Homer,
I think I'm pretty sure it's in the Odyssey,
where Homer in passing talks about the Ethiopians,
so the people of Northern Africa,
and how they were divided into by a sundering ocean.
Throwaway line doesn't...
It's just mentioned in passing.
Whole books were written about what that means for geography.
So they said, well, if there are Ethiopians,
and we know there are Ethiopians here in what they call the Okimene,
the known world,
we know that there are Ethiopians in North Africa.
If there are other Ethiopians who are divided from those ones
that we know about by the sundering ocean,
then that must mean they live on the other side of the world.
So that means the world must have other continents
on the other side of the equator.
And therefore, the whole books were written
about how many of these continents there were,
and these were referred to as the Antipodes,
but they were given various other names as well.
Whole books were written all because Homer put this one line in.
This was what was going on.
So when I say they were studying poetry,
part of what they were doing was studying this.
They were also studying the structural poetry
and the stuff that universities do with poetry to this day.
But they're also developing a whole lot of apparatus
for the study of poetry and other texts.
So when they started gathering together various copies
and manuscripts of the works of Homer,
one of the things they found when they compared them
was that there were differences.
And some of those differences might be a word here or there,
others might be half a line or a line or a few sentences.
In some places, though, there was whole pages of text
that were in some manuscripts but not in others.
So then the question became, well,
these are kind of like pretty much sacred texts.
What was the original?
We've got to get back to the original.
So they started doing what Christians then did
with the books of the Bible,
of trying to work out what the true word actually was.
And Christians are doing this to this day.
Everyone was doing this.
The Jews were doing this with their sacred...
They're just doing it to this day.
Absolutely.
So again, Christians were just part of this ancient intellectual world.
They weren't doing something new.
They were part of a continuum.
So that was another thing that they came up with,
was textual analysis.
And scholars to this day still do that
with, say, the works of Shakespeare
or the works of, say, Chaucer
or any other early, pre-modern or early modern writer
where the original texts might be a little bit uncertain
and we're trying to come up with a definitive edition.
So this stuff is still done to this day.
Another thing that they came up with
at the Great Library of Alexandria
was how to classify words.
Now, if you and I come across a word that we don't know,
we can go to a dictionary and look it up.
Those guys had to invent the concept of a dictionary.
And they did it because they were coming across old words
in some of these ancient poems
and were having to go and research what they meant.
And then they were cataloging these words.
They came up with the apparatus of a dictionary.
So when we pick up a dictionary today
or get online and look at one,
you have the word, you have some grammatical information
about whether it's a noun, verb, adverb or whatever.
You then have a definition.
And then you have some quotes
which put the word in context
and show you how it works in context.
That was all invented at the Museum.
So the scholars of the Museum came up with that.
They also came up with a way of classifying,
ordering those dictionaries or those lexicans
using alphabetical order.
Now, if you and I, I was using an Excel spreadsheet,
worked the other day and I had to order some stuff.
So the first thing I did was I put it into alphabetical order.
We just think naturally along those lines.
They invented alphabetical order.
So there was a lot of stuff going on at the Great Library
which was not science.
A hell of a lot of it was to study a poetry
which probably goes far away from science
as you could possibly get.
And the idea that it was like some kind of ancient MIT
or Google campus where everyone was sitting
tinkering with machines.
It wasn't like that.
And just thinking about, for example,
I remember studying chemistry
or studying the beginnings of atomic theory at school.
And the very first thing my science teacher said to us
was the Greeks invented the concept of the atom.
And so for years I thought the Greeks came up
with the concept of the atom
and the whole of atomic theory goes back to the Greeks.
It doesn't.
What the Greeks have given us is the word atom.
But the actual beginnings of atomic theory
actually began in the 18th century
with the study of chemistry
when they did have a scientific method
and they were looking at some chemical reactions
thinking how does this work?
And eventually they thought there must be
fundamental particles that are happening in this way.
They gave it an ancient Greek name.
What were the Greeks doing?
Well, the Greeks were doing metaphysical philosophy.
So they were sitting around in maybe
even one of those colonnades gardens
sipping a cup of wine and talking.
And someone would say, well, if I take a block of marble
and I cut it in half, I've got two pieces of marble.
I cut those in half.
I've got four.
Cut those in half.
I've got eight.
How long can I keep cutting?
So it was a philosophical question about
which could you cut forever?
Or do you get to a point
where you get to something that is uncuttable?
Which is what the word atom, atomos, uncuttable means.
But the important thing is that no one walked away
from that conversation in the ancient world and thought,
I'm going to go and do an experiment on some stuff
to work out how atoms work.
No one did that.
Is this how you started Plato's philosophy as well?
I mean, I'm sure he didn't get it.
Plato didn't invent this idea.
I mean, but the idea of spheres,
it plays into the spheres,
smaller, lesser, and larger spheres and stuff.
They were very good at coming up with
positing possible ways in which the universe could be structured.
But because they didn't have the scientific method,
they weren't anywhere near as good as we are, obviously.
Then being able to test that,
they just didn't have the equipment,
the intellectual equipment to be able to do it.
Doesn't mean they weren't smart.
They just didn't have the stuff,
the other tools that we have,
such as the scientific method.
So they quite often thought about stuff such as,
well, if I drop two weights and one weight is heavier
than the other, then the heavier weight will fall faster than the other.
That intuitively makes sense.
But if you actually do the experiment and do it properly,
actually, they fall at the same rate.
So they often thought things through inductively,
but they quite often came to the wrong conclusions.
So what we need to remember is,
when they're doing things like sitting around talking about atoms,
they're not doing atomic theory.
They're really doing metaphysics.
And so there was very little, not none,
but very little connection between the natural philosophy
that they were doing and making stuff.
Now, I've got friends who are scientists who are working theoretical
areas of science, physics, and so on.
And when they describe it,
dinner parties or cocktail parties, what they do,
and quite often someone will say,
but what does that do?
And what do you do with that?
And they go, nothing.
Maybe we just study it because it's interesting to study.
In the modern world, we have this very 19th century connection
between science and technology.
But in the ancient world, that was nowhere near as strong.
They occasionally did take the concepts that they came up with,
say geometry and so on, kinetics to solve real world problems.
Like how do we make better catapults to knock down walls?
They did sometimes actually apply this stuff,
but there wasn't the same level of connection between science and technology.
In fact, most of these guys, particularly the ones who
would have been working at the museum,
who were once satirically described as birds in a gilded cage,
removed from the real world, a bit like the ivory tower.
If you said to them,
well, how about you take this stuff that you're thinking about
and use it to make things, they would be insulted.
These guys were aristocratic, lofty-minded thinkers,
slaves made shit, mechanics, the lower classes made stuff.
So the idea that they would be applying it to technology
just is something that generally didn't actually occur to them.
There were a couple of exceptions to that.
One actually is from Alexandria, a guy called Hero or Heron of Alexandria.
But he really just kind of tinkered with stuff.
He didn't really make anything that will come up with any technology
that was really useful in the real world.
He was interested in physically applying some of the stuff
he was coming up with.
But he did things like he made doors of temples open automatically,
or seemed to, using weights or using pneumatics and using steam.
Why did you do that?
You don't mind me asking why?
Well, because it was cool.
Probably because someone paid him.
Very, very impressive way to attract people to your temple.
Oh, the dots were automatically.
Exactly. Talking statues was another big thing.
They were really keen on those.
Moving statues as well, or automata.
So they had these sort of clockwork and pneumatic structures inside statues
that had them sort of raise their hand and seemed to talk.
It was actually a priest out the back talking through a funnel.
So he did a bit of that, right?
But the one thing a lot of people raise with me and say,
well, they were on the brink of becoming a proper sort of
scientifically based technological industrial revolution style of culture.
They say he invented a steam engine.
What he actually invented was a little toy,
which was basically a sphere of metal that had some spout sticking out of it.
You filled it with water and suspended it over a flame.
And as the steam came out of these little nozzles, it would spin around.
That was great as something to entertain your guests at a dinner party.
You put it in the middle of the table and everyone would clap.
And so that's very, very clever here and well done.
What you couldn't do with that was actually make it do any actual mechanical work.
You couldn't scale it up, so to have it maybe drive a train or something along those lines.
The Romans, the Greeks and Romans didn't have...
They kind of understood the principle of steam moving stuff.
They didn't understand why.
They certainly didn't have the mathematics, the metallurgy,
all the machine precision tooling to be able to make a steam engine.
So the idea that that meant that the ancient Greeks were on the brink of
coming up with steam engines is total nonsense.
The other problem is people have got this idea that all you need
for technological advancement is for someone to come up with the idea.
And then it magically just kind of happens.
It spreads throughout the society.
I call this the civilization tech tree vision of history.
It's like computer games where you're building a world
and if you unlock this particular technology,
that allows you to unlock the next two and unlock the next four and so on.
History didn't actually work like that.
What tends to happen is that various elements come together in exactly the right way,
usually when there's a economic imperative.
So steam engines were invented.
They had the technology, they had the concept,
but it wasn't invented until there was an actual economic need
to be pumping a lot of water out of coal mines in 18th century England.
That's when they invented steam engines
because they had an economic driver to do it.
And then they discovered, well, these things actually work really well
and now we've perfected them.
We'll now use them to do other things like hauling coal and driving ships and so on.
So the idea that you just come up with the idea of steam making stuff move
and therefore you're on the brink of an industrial revolution,
that's just not how technology works.
So the idea that they were doing a whole lot of science
in the modern sense at the great library in the museum is largely wrong.
They were doing sciencey natural philosophy stuff,
not much of it as well as a whole lot of poetry study.
Not much of it was actually being applied, if any at all,
to anything technological.
So the idea of the great library of Alexandria
is this sort of hot bit of great furnace of innovation
because that's just what happens
and where you gather enough books is largely nonsense.
And so the idea that we were on the brink of an industrial revolution
before the Christians came along
and destroyed the great library is fantasy.
There's no evidence for that, right?
No, not whatsoever.
Yeah, I mean, and we can play games in our head all day, but it's not, you know...
Hypotheticals are fun, but they've got to be grounded in reality.
So one of the reasons why there wasn't as much technological...
It wasn't as much of a driver for technological innovation
of mechanizing kind is that they had a labor surplus.
They had literally millions of slaves.
That's what their whole economy was based on.
And to take some of the work away from those slaves and give it to machines,
there was just no reason to.
And there's even a story about the Roman emperor Vespasian
who had a guy come to him with some kind of mechanical way
of hauling stone columns for building temples.
And this guy showed it to the emperor and said,
would you sponsor this?
And the emperor was very impressed.
You don't know what the machine was,
but there was some kind of mechanical way of doing it.
The emperor was very impressed, gave the guy some money as a reward,
but wouldn't encourage him to actually use the invention.
Because he said, if the workers don't have any work, what will we do?
The Roman Empire had a problem of not just lots of slaves,
but also lots of unemployed or underemployed people.
It had a big population.
And Rome in particular had a massive proportion of its population
that basically did fuck all day and lived off the grain doll
that was provided by the emperors.
And if they didn't get their grain, they rioted.
And this is something that happened pretty regularly.
So you wanted to keep them as busy as possible.
And you sure as hell didn't want to be having people inventing machines
that made unemployment even more.
What we see later is that we get a pandemic hit in the sixth century,
just around about the time of the collapse of the Western Roman Empire.
We also get some massive climate change
thanks to some major volcanic eruptions.
Population dropped dramatically, particularly in Western Europe.
And so you went to the opposite problem that went from a labor surplus to a labor shortage.
And what you see then is in the early medieval period
is people really starting to harness and develop technology
to really sort of harness machines.
So we get lots and lots of water mills.
The Romans had them, but we get far more of them all across medieval Europe.
And we get them being used for a wider range of things.
We get the invention of wind mills.
We get the invention of tidal mills.
So there's a series of a number of very good books
on what's effectively a kind of a mini industrial revolution in medieval Europe,
which is not what you think of when you think of medieval Europe.
You think of medieval Europe as this backward place in the Romans as advanced.
It was kind of the other way around.
It's just kind of interesting.
But it's all about economics.
It's not about people just coming up with ideas.
Wow.
I mean, I never knew that.
That's quite interesting to think about.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
The older empire probably had far more people.
They did.
They did.
They did.
And that's why they didn't need to harness mechanical power in the same way.
Whereas a small village had a big incentive to build a mill
that actually freed them up to do other things.
And it kind of escalated from there.
And a lot of other things that came out of that mechanization
then led to the real industrial revolution,
things like the creation of mechanical clocks, for example,
which revolutionized the mechanization of things generally.
A bit of a tangent.
That was a fun tangent.
Thank you.
Maybe we'll talk about this in the library.
You should talk about this in the technology.
You hear me?
So the question burned the library, right?
Yes.
Yes.
Let's get to that bit.
So what happened to the Great Library of Alexandria?
Well, the story is that Christians burned it.
Short version, they didn't.
So anyone who talks about the Great Library of Alexandria being burned by Christians
is perpetuating a myth.
That's not what happened.
What actually happened was a series of events
that led to the slow degradation and eventual end of the museum
and its associated library collections.
So remember, the museum was established by the Ptolemaic kings
and the Ptolemaic kings, it was basically, it was their little plaything.
So the last king of Ptolemaic Egypt or last ruler was Cleopatra.
Yep, that Cleopatra.
And she was in a civil war with her younger brother
over the throne.
He was a 14-year-old kid and she was in this basically in conflict with him.
That got caught up in a civil war that was happening in the Roman world
where Julius Caesar was mopping up the end of a civil war
with his main rival Pompey the Great.
Pompey the Great was defeated in a battle in Greece.
He fled to Egypt and Cleopatra's little brother Ptolemy
thought a good way to curry favour with Caesar would be to cut Pompey's head off.
So he then presented Julius Caesar with the severed head of Pompey the Great.
This actually didn't go down very well with Caesar
who actually was quite an old friend of Pompey's even though they were rivals
and he didn't like the idea of some teenage barbarian
cutting off a noble Roman senator's head.
So Pompey basically angered the wrong guy.
Cleopatra knew that the best way to Caesar's heart was through his penis
and proceeded to then have an affair with Caesar
which was quite a passionate affair.
Caesar then intervened in the civil war on her side
and as a result she won.
Women have that you know that thing man.
She was good at it because she had an affair with Caesar
and then after Caesar was assassinated she had an affair with his
almost successor Mark Anthony but she picked the wrong side there.
She and he ended up coming to a sticky end.
But what happened then was in the course of that war
on behalf of Cleopatra, Caesar lay siege to Alexandria
and at one point his troops were storming the docks in the upper city.
So down on the waterfront they came under fire by archers and possibly some artillery
and so his soldiers set fire to the buildings that these archers were firing from
which were these storehouses down on the docks.
And unfortunately those storehouses seem to have held a large part
of the collection of the Great Library of Alexandria which then went up in smoke.
Now can I say one thing that I just feel like I got to say about that though.
I do wish that it burned down because part of me we do have trouble like you said we have various sources.
For me right now Manito and Borosis and like early trying to figure out some of the early
Jewish literature and how we have these strange like mythology tales about Moses that come from
Borosis from Manito and things like he had more of that stuff.
But the advancement of science and stuff like people want to create the myth about.
I'm talking like history.
What I'd say to you is welcome to the study of ancient history.
The number it says like you're constantly reading and thinking well if we had more
source material then this would be so much easier.
Or I wish we had I wish we had this work particularly bad when you know a work once
existed and now it doesn't.
So I mentioned that 30 volume history that Livy wrote.
One of my areas of specialization is the study of the early Germanic tribes.
The ones that later invaded the Roman Empire.
We had very very few sources about their early history.
We got very few sources about them at all.
There was a 30 book or 30 scroll history of the Roman Germanic wars by Livy gone.
We just have it and this happens all the time.
You constantly come across these references to these sources which if we had them it would be
fantastic.
I don't know if you know that show Barbarian or whatever it came out.
There's I know it's probably not it's Hollywood but she's not a blonde with a freaking stripe
you know or whatever you know.
That's that's the story of Arminius and Quintilius Varus.
That's a great story.
That TV series is pretty it's a bit it's a bit yeah it's a bit game of thrones but
yeah it's a terrific story.
So that's that's basically what seems to have happened.
Now the only thing here is that we don't get any clear references to Caesar doing this
until about a century later and that seems to be because Caesar and his
successes were very sensitive about this.
And so none of the sources about the Alexandrian war refer to this directly.
It's not until the Julio-Claudian dynasty so him and his family and its successes
ended with the assassination of Nero and the next dynasty got into control which was the
Flavian dynasty dynasty that people started to actually speak openly about this.
But even though there's some people who are a little skeptical about whether it ever happened
it does seem to have.
There's a lot of multiple references to it and a hell of a lot of writers as a result
when they refer to the library after that point they use the past tense.
So it seems like for many people that was effectively the end.
But we do know that the Muzan continued after that because the Muzan wasn't burnt down.
It was the collection.
So we do know the Muzan continued.
We know that when Mark Anthony became briefly became ruler of Egypt.
When he started having his affair with Cleopatra there's one story about how he allegedly annexed
the collection of the Great Library of Pergamon, the rival to the Great Library of Alexandria,
and took it back to Alexandria to replace the books that Caesar's fire had burned.
That's probably not true but it certainly does indicate that there was a loss and that
they were trying to recoup that loss.
What we do know is that after Egypt effectively with the death of Cleopatra became annexed by
the Roman Empire the Muzan was now sponsored by the Roman Emperors.
The only problem was the Roman Emperors were way off in Rome on the other side of the Mediterranean
not sitting in the building next door in the temple complex in the palace complex in Alexandria.
So they weren't probably as invested in keeping the Great Library and the Muzan funded.
So it does seem to have struggled.
So we're getting indications in the references that we have that we're formally the directors
of the Great Library or the directors of the Muzan had been great scholars.
Now they tended to be kind of political flunkies.
In one case the commander of the royal palace guard.
It seems to have been a kind of a a signature something that was kind of given it.
Okay you're now that whereas before it had been a very high status
high status scholarly position.
Now it doesn't seem to have been quite as much.
Yeah I was going to say some famous philosophers and stuff that we talked about.
Earlier earlier but not later not later.
There are exceptions to that.
So the emperor Claudius who was the the fourth emperor of Rome was a scholar himself.
He was an author and a historian and a grammarian.
And he really did sponsor the Great Library.
He built a new wing to the Muzan which was dedicated to him.
And he he stocked it with his books.
You can do this shit when you're an emperor right?
And he mandated that at least once, possibly twice a year,
there would be a grand public reading of all of his works
that everyone had in the library in the Muzan had to attend.
Again you can do this when you're an emperor.
Look you know if if I became emperor I'd probably end up doing something the same
sort of shit so yeah why not.
So there were so there were ups and downs.
On the whole though we know that the Muzan continued and therefore the Great Library
probably in diminished form continued into the third century.
What happened in the third century though was the Roman Empire almost fell apart.
So we're beforehand in the first and second century there've been some
some political upheavals but on the whole there've been a fairly sort of straight
transition of power from one emperor to another generally.
In the third century that collapsed the the army realized that they were the kingmakers.
And the army also realized that when you made a new emperor you got a big cash bonus.
So there was a big incentive to make new emperors pretty regularly.
And so what happened in the third century is the middle of the third century in about
over the course of about 50 years there were there were about as many emperors.
There were about 50 emperors in 50 years.
Some of them lasted a couple of years some of them lasted a few months.
A couple lasted no more than a week.
At some point there were emperors two or three emperors at any given time.
Towards the end of the third century the Roman Empire basically split into three
parts. There was the bit that had Rome.
There was another bit that was called the Empire of Gaul which was Gaul parts of Spain and in
Britain. And then there was an eastern bit called the Kingdom of Palmyra which was ruled by a
non-Roman queen called Zanobia.
And so the empire was on the and barbarians were invading the whole thing was really going to
shit. So the empire was in grave danger of collapsing in the third century.
The Roman emperor Aurelian pulled it back together.
So he fought a series of wars that reunited the empire.
He went and fought the Kingdom of Palmyra defeated it defeated Zanobia.
In the course of that he laid siege to Alexandria and as part of that siege he burnt
the entire royal quarter of the lower city and that included the museum and therefore the library.
We don't get any references to the library in any kind of present tense form or to the museum
after that. There's one exception which I won't go into but on the whole I think everyone pretty
much agrees that that was the end. If it hadn't been the end then not very long after that there
was a major earthquake which destroyed large parts of Alexandria and then the earthquake
triggered a tsunami which swamped the lower city and deposited ships on buildings that were six
stories high. So it was a huge tidal wave which completely inundated the lower part of the city.
So if the great library had somehow survived the fire of Aurelian and an earlier fire by
Caracola then it would have been destroyed in either the earthquake or the subsequent tidal
wave. That's it. That's the end. So no Christians. No Christians. Infernalizing.
So where does the story come from? Yeah that's a good question. Yeah well when people talk about
I sometimes give people when I talk about this stuff I say on Twitter and they say you know
check your fax Christians burn down the Great Library and I say okay where can I find that in
the sources? Silence because it doesn't exist. There is no source that talks about Christians
burning down the Great Library of Alexandria. So where does it come from? It comes from Edward Gibbon
who was an 18th century English historian who wrote a very famous monumental book called
The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire which has actually shaped a lot of attitudes ever since
about history, Roman history in particular and the end of the empire in general. The thing about
Gibbon was that he was very anti-Christian so he was heavily influenced by daest philosophers in
France such as Voltaire Diderot and he and Rousseau and he was very anti-Christian. He'd gone through
a bit of a Christian phase at university. He became a Catholic actually much to his family,
his Protestant family's dismay. He then went the other way. He was he wasn't an atheist,
he was a daest but he saw Christianity as a major force for evil in the world. So he never
hesitated about getting a little jab against Christianity in his book. In fact in The Decline
and Fall one of the main reasons he said that the Roman Empire fell was it was sacked of its
manly vigor and strength by Christian philosophy. No modern historian takes that very seriously
but that was that was part of his thesis. So Gibbon was a pushover, you know what I mean?
Yeah exactly there's all kinds of problems with that with that idea but he there's certainly a
lot of stories that he tells in The Decline and Fall where he's really getting a kick in against
Christianity. He was writing in a period before the discipline of history that we have today
as being a discipline of based on objective as much as we can objective analysis of trying to
leave value judgments and trying to leave you know political bias and so on out of it that hadn't
even developed. So he was writing in a period of antiquarian history where basically the main
reason he wrote history was to make political points and was to to make points about morality
and so on. So one of the points he was making was Christianity is bad. So he tells the story
of the destruction of the Serapium or the Serapium. Remember I mentioned how there were overflow
libraries in other parts of the city. So the the Great Library in the Museum itself was down in the
royal quarter next to the palace that was in the lower city down near the docks. The upper city
was on a higher ground including a hill that had a major major temple to the god Serapus. Serapus
was kind of a hybrid of Zeus or Jupiter the the Greco-Roman god and and an Egyptian a form of the
Egyptian god Horus. So Serapus was a major Egyptian cult. This temple was one of the biggest and
apparently most beautiful temples in the ancient world and it was a major feature in in the ancient
city and it had a daughter library so it had a smaller library that was part of the overflow
from the original Museum collection. So when the when the Museum was destroyed the temple
of Serapus still had its library well into the 5th century sorry sorry 4th century. What happened
in the beginning of the 4th century though is that the the Roman emperor Constantine became a
Christian and brought to an end the the persecution of Christianity that had that had been in place
for the previous few decades and he passed a kind of an edict saying that everyone could worship
whatever way they liked which kind of lifted lifted a lot of restrictions on Christianity.
Partly as a result of that partly as a result of Constantine sponsoring Christianity partly
for demographic reasons Christianity then really began to become a major religion that had been
quite a small sect before by the end of the 4th century it was well on the way to becoming the
dominant it was the dominant religion in the empire and in the eastern part of the empire the
majority of people were Christians there were still many pagans but certainly in cities and
particularly in Alexandria it was very much a Christian city by the 4th century. The Christians
tended to be among the lower classes the upper class tended to be more conservative and they
clung onto paganism for a lot longer so there was quite a bit of conflict in Alexandria over
religion. Alexandria had always been hotbed it was renowned for being a hotbed of street politics
brawling riots people being you know assassinated in the streets all this sort of stuff so this
was nothing new but what happened at one point was the Patriarchs or the Bishop of Alexandria
Theophilus was in the process of renovating some temples that had been abandoned and fallen derelict
and he was renovating them to turn them into churches and apparently while they were doing
this with one of these temples they found some cult objects from the the form of pagan days of
the temple including an enormous penis so they had to get this gigantic phallus which they then
started parading through the street in mockery and all the Christians were laughing at this huge
this huge you know cock that they were carrying down the street saying look at these this pagan
penis isn't this funny ancient history is often quite amusing so anyway look penises are always
funny so here they were mocking this huge cock the pagans weren't very happy about this and a group
of fairly militant pagan philosophers who were part of the neoplatonic school of of iamblichus
were very unhappy and they decided to get revenge so they holed up in the temple of Serapis which
was possibly itself derelict at this stage and used to venture out at night kidnap Christians
drag them into the temple torture them crucify them and kill them we'll just throw them down
torture them and throw them down wells yeah ancient the ancient world was also very violent
so not surprisingly the Christians weren't very happy about this and the prefect of the city the
ruler of the city called out the the troops and there was a siege they they the the pagans held
up in the temple held off the army and there was a there was a standoff both sides then sent
petitions to the emperor in Constantinople so the siege must have gone on for quite a while
because that would have taken weeks and then the emperor came sent back an answer with a kind of a
compromise he said that the pagan the pagan gang could go free so they weren't going to be punished
which didn't go down very well with the majority of the crowd who were Christians but also that the
temple had to be torn down so that it wouldn't be a center of of pagan resistance again so this was
his compromise ruling so the the philosophers who'd been crucifying and torturing people
they got away and then the the troops started to carry out the emperor's orders and start to tear
down the temple the crowd weren't very happy at the the philosophers getting away and so they joined
in so it wasn't just troops it was also like this this mob that tore down the temple yeah that was
what the emperor ruled and and the people of Alexandria who were mainly as I said mainly
Christian weren't very happy and so the the emperor said well you guys can can can go free
but we're going to tear down the temple so that it won't be a center of any kind of future
you know pagan activity against against the population so the the troops then started to tear
the temple down the crowd who weren't very happy about the emperor's ruling decided to join in
so it became this sort of like this kind of orgy of destruction and it was considered a great
tragedy because the temple was was considered a very beautiful building even even by Christian
standards even by Christians um what's missing from this story is a library so we we actually have
five accounts of of the destruction of the temple and none of them mentioned a library
being destroyed in the process two of them are ones that we would expect to actually mention that
I mean three of them are Christian accounts and maybe they might they might sort of think oh well
that's a bit embarrassing um but two of them were a hostile accounts one by Socrates Galasticus who
was a Christian but was actually hostile to the the bishop he was from another faction from another
another sect of Christianity um he doesn't mention a library being destroyed and he was a he was a
scholar so he probably would he was also a pretty good historian so I think he probably
would have mentioned it he doesn't another was Eunapius of Sardis who was a pagan scholar
and he was furious about the temple being destroyed and spends most of his account
talking about what idiots these Christians were how they were barbarians he caused them beasts in
the form of men he really really was not happy so and he was a scholar he was a he was a philosopher
so you'd think if anyone was going to mention and by the way they also happened to destroy
one of the last repositories of the great library of Alexandria you think he would but he doesn't
so what's going on because we know that the Serapium had held great a large collection of books
and and that it was regarded as a daughter library of the collection in the museum which
no longer existed what seems to have happened is um temples generally declined in uh their
upkeep over this period remember I was saying that the awfulness of the bishop was renovating
some temples that have been abandoned we don't know if the Serapium had been abandoned but it
probably wasn't getting the kind of funding that it used to get and temples uh and libraries are
expensive anyone who runs one today will tell you excuse me so um what probably happened was
the library declined over time over the course of the fourth century and and like a lot of libraries
that can no longer be funded rather than being destroyed it probably got broken up and sold
books were precious books were expensive and you had a library that that is short on funds
what would be the first thing you'd probably sell you'd probably sell the books so that's
probably what happened we do have a reference to the Serapium about 20 years before it was destroyed
by the pagan um historian Amianus Marcellanus he seems to have visited Alexandria he was a soldier
uh an officer and he seems to have visited Alexandria at one point while he was campaigning
in in the east and half of the empire and he gives several references to things in Alexandria in
Egypt as things that he saw with his own eyes so he talks about the temple in the in the present
tense but when he references the libraries that it had held he uses the past tense so it seems
that by the time he got there the temple was still there but the libraries weren't 20 years prior to
to the destruction so this is where the story comes from what what happens is Gibbon takes that
story of the destruction of the Serapium ignores the fact that none of the sources actually make
any mention of destruction of a library and and says that the library was was destroyed at that
point and talks about the people lamenting the destruction which is not true there's no source
that talks about the destruction of the library by that Christian mob and then the modern version
of that story which has been perpetuated by people like Sagan is kind of conflates the burning element
from the Julius Caesar story with the destruction element from the Serapium story puts them together
and so we get Christians burning down the Great Library of Alexandria didn't happen so what we
have is technically this pagan temple is getting conflated in a period where we have evidence that
it's 20 years prior when this guy says in a past tense that there was a we don't even know how
how far behind from the past tense and when this pagan soldier is claiming it was so we don't really
know it there are there are some references to this Serapium having a library in the early
fourth century so at some point in the fourth century it seems to have declined to the point where
Amiens Barcelona uses the past tense about the library but the present tense about the temple
and then the temple becomes past tense after it gets torn down but the other interesting thing is
even when people actually tell the story of the destruction of the Serapium they almost certainly
almost always the ones who try and use it as a stick to beat Christianity never talk about the
pagan terrorist gang that were crucifying and torturing people which is the whole reason the
thing got torn down in the first place it's just a mob of Christians turned up and destroyed the
temple that's kind of telling half the story so the whole the problem with using history to tell
moral fairy tales is that it's always about cherry picking bits and putting them together and
combining them which is pretty much what Gibbon did and then it's usually about then just repeating
that stuff without bothering to check which is what Sagan did so Sagan tells the story of
Hypatia of Alexandria which we could probably do another whole episode on you know she apparently
was was killed by Christians because she hated the fact that she was a wise woman who was a
philosopher and an astronomer and scientist again myth that she was killed by a mob and the mob
were made up of Christians but that wasn't why they killed her it was a political thing but in
Sagan's story she was the last librarian of the Great Library of Alexandria and and then she was
killed and then afterwards no one was there to protect the library from this this mob of Christian
fanatics total nonsense she was killed decades after the end of the Serapium and the Great Library
of Alexandria hadn't existed for a century by the time she was killed so it's bits and pieces of
the story of real history being put together to come up with this kind of fantasy version.
If I may if I may I want to obviously you know let people know you really really should
check out his website for sure here it is historyforatheist.com okay you guys can go in here
obviously you can see how he does his hair if you want to take some notes he
he can teach you a few things on on combing and I'm just kidding um so some of the great
myths right here and then there's jesus mythicism so if you're interested in hearing what he has to
say against it obviously uh you're wanting you're going to want to check this out for sure uh but
the the great yeah the great myth section there is yeah there you are there's the destruction of
the great library of alexander is great myths five and the hypatia of alexander is great myths
nine so that's those those two are the ones I touched on there's also that one on the loss of
ancient learning which we touched on today as well there's a much longer article on on on some of
the myths associated with that you know it's not as simple as christians decided to burn all the
books um that that's that's again there's another caricature of history I need to let everybody
know right here this is a tease you know what this means right here this is more episodes to do
with him and I'm not joking I'm dead serious so if you're interested come read this material
you know obviously we can always go back to jesus mythicism that's always something we can always
if we really want to piss some people off yeah that's a really fun one um but here you you go into
this stuff and so I guess I wanted to give a plug obviously history of fratheist.com to come check
him out you guys come leave comments read the you know literature or read the pages and tell me what
you think and also I want to ask you this Tim before we begin we've had wonderful show um
are you still getting people who are dying on this hill about this history today?
yeah almost almost every day on on twitter I come across this stuff but the major opponents of
atheism are coming out with this stuff all the time so I take a series of claims made by ac
grayling just last year on on the christian destruction of ancient learning and I use that
as the basis for my article on that on that issue because it's one thing to simply say well this is
what happened but I think it what I'm trying to do with my blog is say well if you're making claims
like this you need to check them when you've got someone like ac grayling who is a distinguished
academic who has just finished writing a book on the history of philosophy for a major major
imprint is coming out with stuff that I as I go into my article which is just wrong completely
wrong then we have a serious problem so this is not just some random commenters on youtube
saying stuff that's wrong I mean you know if you chase every every uh silly comment on the
internet then you're gonna you're gonna be a dying unhappy man I'm I'm largely focused on
people like you know people like grayling people like Dawkins I've got a recent article and some
stuff that Dawkins has said in his most recent book absolute nonsense um but my problem is
what is happening still way too often with people like these guys is that they are working from a
caricature of history that they've just internalized they've never checked they just repeat it and
unfortunately a lot of of atheists quite innocently think well if Dawkins is saying it if Grayling
saying it if Sam Harris is saying it if Christopher Hitchens said it it must be true and unfortunately
all of those none of those guys are historians um but actual historians have looked at what these
guys are claiming and just saying this is bullshit and I as an atheist I don't think we should be
perpetuating bullshit and as I've actually said before it's not like there's a shortage of stuff
that we can accuse Christianity of they did plenty of you know the Christians do and still do did and
still do plenty of stuff that we can actually give them a good hard kick in the ass for so why make
why make stuff up you know when you've got things like like child sexual abuse in the Catholic
church with the destruction of of Native American and other Native cultures that all happened you
never hear me saying that didn't happen because it did I only pick up the stuff that didn't happen
you know um I like what you're saying here because for me I told this to this group of people that
I've engaged called Israel only uh they think that all the Gentiles are actual Israelites in Paul
right and uh I'm like man you're telling me everyone's wrong but you guys other than um the
Black Hebrew Israelites the British Israeliteism and Christian identity uh so I'm like yeah where
are you coming up with this well they got it from these groups and they added preterism well I just
say that to say you know I told these guys and some of them are really kind they really think
they're on to something and I said look man uh you know if you're gonna argue with Christians I just
don't want the Christians to see through what you're saying because they could easily fact check
some of this stuff and they're not gonna buy you know when you approach these Christians with that
as your argument what are you doing trying to believe in this book uh the Gentiles were Israelites
are you an Israelite and they're looking to go and dude you're telling me the guys in act 17
where he said in Athens Paul's preaching to secret uncircumcised uh Epicurean Israelite you know
like like it just it's kind of it becomes so absurd that Christians can't see if they can prove
what you're saying is ignorant and then therefore they're not actually going to listen what you're
saying and follow what you're suggesting maybe they shouldn't know those guys but you know exactly
exactly it's it's it's highly counterproductive and this I had an encounter with a guy on reddit
I think it was last month who kept saying I keep coming across links to your blog on on Christian
Apologist sites and discussions you know you're helping the Christians and my answer to that is
I can't help who links to my blog but if if you don't want Christians to say ha ha look at atheists
getting history wrong the answer is not for me not to write debunking of atheists bad history
the answer is for atheists to stop getting history wrong just because Christians are wrong about
Jesus rising from the dead and flying off into into the sky doesn't mean they're wrong about
everything and it doesn't mean you have to be your idea about this historical event
is going to affect or impact the reality of there being a god or not being a god or this
being true exactly we we owe it as as people who at least try and certainly claim to be
rationalist we have to be rational about this stuff if if the Christians didn't burn down the
great library of Alexandria then that doesn't change anything about whether Christianity is
right or wrong but but we look stupid if we insist somehow that it that it that did happen either we
look stupid or we look like we have a bad motive and our motives become or both yeah both um so
I just realized that there is another and I'll very quickly there is another um myth about the end
of the great library of Alexandria which I often see and that's that it wasn't burned down by
Christians it was burned down it was burned by Muslims so in this version what actually happened
is it survived right into the seventh century when Egypt got conquered by the by the Arabs
as part of the Muslim expansion and the Mullah Omar who was the the caliph sorry Omar who was
who was the ruler ordered that the Quran was the only book that was needed and so he ordered for
all of the books of the great library to be burned to heat his bathwater so it was to
heat his bath and and and that was the end right but again again it's a great story you know bloody
Muslims and we know that they're anti-intellectual and and here he is like burning these wonderful
books to so he can have a steam bath this is all based on one account which was written
250 300 years later by a Christian who was anti-Muslim and there's no other references to it at all
so it seems to be a bit of a anti-Muslim folk tale that Christians were telling centuries later
there's no historian actually accepts it as being as being accurate so that's another one that you
might come across occasionally now again Muslims have done plenty of bad things particularly recently
we've got plenty of examples of Muslims behaving badly um but so why make why why make that make
up a story like that or accept a story like that which is obviously not true but again I have people
you know insisting that that's accurate and I've come across Dawkins repeating that one as well
we need to get our facts it's very simple folks we need to get our facts straight so
thanks for your endorsement of the site mate I do appreciate your support and you know you've
got a good audience um some of them don't like me because I'm over Jesus anti-Jesus
this is some conversations I've had with you but okay um you know it comes down to once again the
same thing like uh if there was a guy if there wasn't a guy there was a guy it's not going to
change the outcome that religion's false right so that's right that you don't believe it you and
them have that in agreement so I have no and I feel like it's the same thing as what we're kind of
describing here it's like dude I love both I love to entertain all these ideas at the same time
I like to think for me and I've said this on air I like to think and someone asked me in a live
show what do you think that Jesus existed I said to me it seems most likely there was a guy at the
basis and in the development here I don't think there's anything ridiculous about making that
statement I think it would be ridiculous to say that I'm saying that is ridiculous I think that
would be you know to say well I'm sorry I disagree I think it's more likely this okay
but to say that it's ridiculous say there was probably a guy who had probably a brother named
probably James isn't ridiculous so I don't know it's not that hard to conceive and sometimes I
have people sort of saying I want extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence and you
don't have extraordinary evidence okay that's fine I'm not making an extraordinary claim
right it was a Jewish preacher who preached some stuff and people then came to believe
that he was the Messiah and then that and then over a long period he got turned into a god
that's not an extraordinary claim that shit happens all the time there's a guy in Russia
right now called Vissarion who is claiming he's the Messiah I'm trying to interview that guy
I am I just interviewed the one from Australia last night awesome which one from Australia
we got a Messiah too do we the Jesus AJ from Australia if you know um let me share the screen
because I think it's important to show you guys who the real Jesus is if you're if you're really
wondering uh but if he's Australian we we could go and have a coffee yeah the Australian he's
actually a really nice guy you'd be sure he is I'm sure a lot of little lunatics are oh I know
so let me show you here um this is Jesus uh right here right here him and his wife wow
this is yeah um he goes by AJ yeah that's his nickname of course uh but he says he's Jesus
and of course I interviewed him last night I had a very nice conversation with him I I you
know I said look I'm gonna poke a little bit AJ you know or I didn't call him AJ I called him
Jesus for the sake of it and I said uh look I'm gonna poke a little bit you know how how can I know
what's the best evidence you can give me that you're Jesus you know I need to perform miracles
in this go-around uh there's certain things that he goes up front and says look those are myths that
were made about me I've been alive for 2000 years and stuff but um long story short I said uh what is
the best evidence and he's like well um a lot of these people who claim to be me he had to build
this up they have spirits that are like cloaking them and they feel those spirits are telling them
that they're Jesus which is what's coaching them to thinking they are he goes I don't have a spirit
cloaking me and I said well how do how do I know you're not you know being tricked by a spirit too
you know like it did it was it was so funny because in the middle of the interview I got to say it was
you know for me being a skeptic I I think the guy's a great guy I really do I talked to him he's a
nice guy but in the middle of this we we asked about where some of these individuals from history
are at where's Muhammad where is he at in the ranks of hell because um he doesn't believe hell
like Christians do he thinks that there's like journeys where you still grow and develop and
try to become more spiritual in the afterlife anyway um we asked about uh Joseph Smith and he
goes I don't know let me ask and on air he goes he's in the third rank of and I said hold on did you
just ask yes yeah I just I've just found what you've been talking about just pulled up his wiki page
I've got to look okay he's from Queensland that explains a lot Queensland is the Australian
equivalent of Florida okay but it's also it's also Bible Belt so it's kind of like Florida
Cross with I don't know Alabama or something um but oh he's partner Suzanne no Mary Suzanne
she's Mary Magdalene yes yeah it gets deep there's 14 people who've returned
really who've come and I saw um one of the documentaries one of the guys who's panicking
the guy asks him and I've never seen like anyone's be this freaking crazy looking um who is he to you
and he starts to go if you knew like he just dude I can't even tell you this is one of the things
that happens when people sort of say particularly Christians say to me well if it was if he was
just a Jewish preacher then how is it that half the planet worships him as a god I said because
people can convince themselves of all sorts of shit added half the population of the United States
become convinced that Donald Trump was a great bloke right when he quite clearly is a complete
asshole I mean people can convince themselves of all kinds of strange things I'm so glad you put
me uh onto AJ absolutely oh he used to be in the Jehovah's Witnesses yes bro he is an interesting
guy if you wanted to talk to him at some point you can definitely do so I'm actually in a
I don't think so I went through a stage of talking to Cooke's because I thought it was funny but now
I just think it's a bit cruel um I'm not doing anything cruel no you're not you're not you're not
you're not yeah I do want people who are going to observe this to and see my patients of course
because I'm gonna be very patient I had last night two hours of patience to being kind but I want
them to see like any Christian who's you know believing or any religion really who's to say that
this guy isn't who he says he is good point you're wrong you know like so you gotta start using
rational thought you gotta start using your brain guys and stop falling for and the guy when he
talks man he sounds so Christian he makes Christians feel like they really shouldn't consider him
I'm gonna I'm gonna do he's got some YouTube videos I think that's the rest of my morning
oh dude that's a rabbit troll you're gonna get you're gonna get into some rabbit trolls
that's cool look thank you so much man once again ladies and gentlemen I've got to do this
I say this because you know I'd like to see you guys give me your thoughts on him after
reading some of his material if you have some criticism bring it yeah you know yeah and thanks
for saying that because quite often when people comment on my stuff they they they sort of get
they dismiss me because it's something that they think they know and I say I cover that in my
article in some depth and that's wrong so if you're gonna try and dispute what I'm saying fine
and I'm more than happy to actually be corrected if I have actually got any details wrong but
I'm not make this is not my theory right I'm presenting I'm presenting what historians agree
so and my article is pretty long most my articles are about 7 000 to 10 000 words long so you know
make yourself a cup of coffee and get comfortable but please read the article before commenting I
think that would be the best idea and this is that famous video that everybody knows
so thank you so much and let's do this again brother absolutely man more than happy to talk
to you always a pleasure thank you and ladies and gentlemen do not forget we are mcfission
