Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, this is gonna be a
fantastic show dealing with mystery schools, pagan parallels,
dying and rising gods. Don't click off, watch the whole damn
thing, because it's going to get great. We just got the juices
flowing. I got a hit record. Let's get rolling Derek, take us
into this brother.
Alright, so Derek, I've been on your show before we've discussed
pagan parallels, we've discussed dying and rising gods and the
mystery religions. I happen to know quite a bit about this
stuff. But I want to introduce you to someone who knows vastly
more than I do. I was introduced to Neil several years ago
online. And this guy is just he is a beast when it comes to the
whole pagan parallels thing, comparative religion and all that.
If you visit his website, I think it's mythodoxy.wordpress.net,
if I'm not mistaken. You'll just find loads of good stuff,
incredible information.
I'll put it down below in the description.
Yeah, absolutely. So can we go ahead and Neil, have you
introduced yourself first?
Oh, sure. Yeah, names Neil Boswell. As Derek mentioned, I
run the blog mythodoxy.wordpress or alternatively
mythicism.net is a short URL for that website where basically I
share my thoughts about the same subject matter, comparative
mythology. The reason I have such a passion for it is very
similar to you guys, because it was the main catalyst for my
deconversion from Christianity. Basically, born and raised a
Christian, most of my life, a Baptist, Southern Baptist. And
in my early 20s, I converted to Seventh-day Adventism. And they
are very big on comparative mythology, but they only take it
up to a point in so much as it incriminates their arch nemesis
through a Catholic church. But where it starts to incriminate
Jesus himself, that's where they stop short. But in teaching me
those things, they keep my curiosity. And so I took the
research further and learned, oh, wow, there's a whole bunch of
stuff that actually incriminates Jesus in the Gospels as well.
So here I am.
Awesome. Thank you for joining, bro. Derek, read that David
Litwa passage and let's catapult into this thing so
everybody watching can go ahead and say, holy crap, I didn't
know that. Now I do.
Yeah, so in David Litwa is a great scholar of Mediterranean
religions. And I first came across his work in Aiusus deus,
the depiction of Jesus as a Mediterranean God. And just
incredible work, the way he dives in and completely debunks
the apologetics with concern to the influence of Hellenism
in early Christianity. I mean, he just destroys some of the
arguments of N.T. Wright in the resurrection of the Son of God.
Dr. Price calls him N.T.
And also makes these great comparisons to Hercules and
Asclepius and Romulus with regard to their corporeal
immortalizations, or you could possibly call it resurrection as
such, since there is a death element when it comes to both
Hercules and Asclepius. But anyway, just does this
outstanding job. I was thoroughly impressed with him.
And then most recently, this book that he's written, the name
of this again, how the Gospels became history, he goes after
the Methodist camp, including Richard Carrier. And here's what
he writes. And it's just really strange because it seems like
he's doing a total 180 here. But he writes time and time again,
the biblical maxim proves true. There is nothing new under the
Son, Ecclesiastes one nine, no single deed or saying in Jesus
is unique in the sense of being without parallel, because
nothing in human history is without parallel. If the
Mythosist Data Bank is world mythology ranging from 1800 BC
to 100 CE, then any creative mythosist can chalk up a host of
parallels to Jesus. It is simply a matter of blasting Jesus's
life into small enough bits that represent single actions or
motifs stripped out of narrative context. Jesus was born from a
virgin, Addis was born from a virgin. Jesus brought baptism
of fire, Zoroaster brought baptism of fire, Jesus rose from
the dead, Osiris rose from the dead, and so on. Never mind that
the parallels come from radically different times and
cultures. Never mind that they are shorn of their context and
mean almost nothing as individual units. Never mind that
the parallels never add up to a coherent story that looks
anything like the portraits of Jesus and the Gospels, the
parallels and shards are there. Really would like to hear, I've
got a lot to say about this, but would love to get Neal's
response, because again, I'm blown away with how, when Lit
approaches the comparative religion topic in Jesus'
deuce, he does this incredible job exposing this stuff. But
again, it's 180 degrees the other way when he's addressing
Memphis. So Neal, why don't you take it away, buddy?
Yeah, that is a bit strange. I'll have to read this other book
that you're talking about where he addresses, you know, Hercules
and the Sweepiest Romance, because those are areas I'm not
too well studied in, but it does fascinate me. So I'd like to
read his work on that. But yeah, the two things you just
described seems like there's a lot of cognitive distance going
on. I've heard this similar argument before, time and time
again. And my first response is definitely everything he just
listed in that article could be said by a Jew to argue that
Jesus is not the Christ, that everything's taken out of
context, you're just cherry picking parallels from the old
testament that are from disparate, you know, eras and
different cultures and disparate, you know, authors and
trying to hodgepodge them into this character called Jesus.
You know, comparative mythology is at the root of the genesis of
Christianity. It's just that they want to keep it as long as
you keep it isolated within the context of Judaism, then they're
okay with it. But as soon as you extend that out into the world
abroad, that Christianity rose and then we're going too far. But
yeah, we're not essentially we're not doing anything different
than the office of the new testament themselves with the
old testament. So that's my first thought on the matter.
Yeah. And I've noticed that and I know you'll have a lot to say
about this that, you know, you'll see classicists, scholars who,
you know, have a background in the Greco-Roman world. Lit was a
good example. Bart Ehrman is a good example of this. That, you
know, look, if you want to make comparisons with other myths or
or deities or ideas from the from the Greco-Roman world or from
the Hellenistic world, okay, you know, that's acceptable. But if
you go beyond that, you know, if you go into any other culture
like Egypt or Persia, that's just a stretch too far. Now you're
out of bounds. And that stuff is that's off limits. You do an
incredible job on your blog, where you talk about syncretism
between Yahweh and a Horus and other, I think Greek and Jewish
examples, those kinds of syncretisms. You, you really
show how the process of cultural diffusion and syncretism goes
back well before Christianity. And anyway, I'm gonna let you
take it away there and discuss that.
Yeah, yeah, that's that's definitely another key point,
especially at the end, where Litwitz talks about how these
parallels are in shards, and how they're kind of taken out
of stripped of their context. As he said, that's, that's not the
case at all. The, you know, the idea of comparing Jesus with
pagan deities didn't just appear out of the ether, and it
didn't appear from opponents of Christianity. As you mentioned in
that blog, I cover on my article, if we humor the Trinitarian
premise that Jesus is one with Yahweh, or he's some kind of
avatar, or in some way he is synchronized with Yahweh, Elohim,
Adonai, whatever name you want to pick for it. If that's the case,
if we humor that premise, then for centuries before his birth,
Jesus was already being explicitly conflated with these other
gods from these other cultures, and not just by those cultures,
but by Jews in Palestine themselves. Um, yeah, there's
there's lots of archeological and textual evidence to show that
there was worship of Osiris and Morrison Isis being done in
Palestine for us, basically from the Hellenistic period through
to the Roman era. And the same can be said for conflating Adonai
with the Syrian god Adonis, or, you know, most notably in the
Maccabees, it says that they outright and later on, Plutarch
was on to say this as well, that the Jews outright conflated
verbatim, conflated Dionysus or Bacchus of the Greeks and
Romans with Yahweh. And like, especially with the line where
Plutarch says they didn't do this just to obscure hints, they
plainly said, Yes, our God is Bacchus. So it doesn't get much
more, you know, clear and explicit than that. We've had
similar discussions before. It seems that we're torts like this
that Litwah, they just read from Litwah there are kind of how to
put it delicately. He's viewing things in a vacuum is probably
about the best way I could say it.
Yeah, that was my my first impression, Neil. And I'm not
as I'm not as well read as either of you guys or or any of
these scholars. I'm just a student. And but the more I'm
looking into this, the more the Hellenistic world seems to be a
blend to be in a pocket with zero influence on outside sources.
To me is like pretending there were just these ancient Amish
people that had no way they weren't into technology. Now
there were some Jews like that. But is that what we find in the
New Testament? No. In fact, I would go so far as to say maybe
some of these Jews are the reason why the war happened. But
you're not finding that in the New Testament, it seems like
there's a Hellenistic blend going on. And scholars I can list,
you know, tons of them that have been researching will tell you
and these are like, more conservative on the critical
side, you know, like you have, you have like, if you were to
name Bart Ehrman to a Christian, Oh, no, that's definitely not a
conservative. Well, to us, he kind of is. And there's reasons
why. But when you look on that side, these are conservative
scholars that are going, look at Paul stinking, whoever authored
Paul, it permeates with stoicism and platonic thought. And to
act like this guy is purely in the milieu of Judaism only is
really, that's a long stretch. So where do we draw the line? We
want to open up and try and see what mystery stuff found its
way into Paul's thinking. But we don't want to just open the door
full fling and not have evidence to back up what we're saying. So
I guess if we can get into some parallels that you guys find
or different things, that would be awesome for our audience to
see, you know, even litwos said some good stuff there and that
and that quote you had, Derek, it's like, hold on, Osiris
resurrected, and Jesus resurrected. But you know, people
want to get nitpicky. But Jesus resurrected in his physical
body. And he was on earth for 40 days. But not Osiris, where do
you draw the line? So I'll leave it to you guys in terms of
connecting dots.
Yeah, well, since you just mentioned Paul there, and his
influence from you know, Hellenistic and stoic thinking
and mystery school thinking. I mean, I'm not sure that Paul
mentions this in his own writings, but in the book of Acts,
it portrays Paul as explicitly conflating Yahweh or the God of
the Bible with the unknown God on Mars Hill. And for historical
context for any illicitism in I know, Mars Hill was kind of this
metropolis of pagan polytheism. It was this like sanctuary where
there was an altar dedicated to every type of God under the sun,
so to speak. And then if your God happened to not have an altar
with its name explicitly on it, they had a miscellaneous altar
that was to the unknown God, like basically, if you're say, a
Chinaman wandering through town and your particular God doesn't
have to be named on the other altars because you're from so far
away. Well, no to miscellaneous altar of the unknown God. But
the point being, this was a pagan site, Paul was preaching to
the pagans and he was Hey, that unknown God, that's my God. And
you know, right there, he had no problem with conflating his God
with the God of pagans. Again, but that's to be taken with the
greatest hall because that's an ax and whether or not acts gives
us an accurate version of Paul is, you know, means to be seen,
but nevertheless, I mean, it's a canonical book in the New
Testament portraying Paul this way. And then also an ax, it
tells us I forget which city in particular it was, but Paul and
Barnabas were going through the city preaching. And the people of
that town explicitly conflated Paul with Hermes Trismegistus,
and completed Barnabas with Zeus by name. This is in the Bible.
Go look it up. I mean, so you have, you know, you already have
to some degree this like winking nod within the New Testament
itself, like, Hey, hey, get what we're saying, get what we're
doing here. Paul was like, you know, Hermes Trismegistus, you
know, because I'm sure you've even read this from Dr. Robert
Price, there's a lot of material in the Hermetic Corpus that
overlaps with early Christian thinking and theology. So he even
said that Paul quote of kicked against the goats is verbatim
a plagiarized not, you know, and Dr. Price is sensitive. He's
like, Listen, I didn't say it's plagiarism. I said that this is,
you know, borrowing concepts here. No, he tells me and this
is big coming from him because he's careful. He says it's verbatim
taken from Dionysus the Bacchai, the kick against the goats. So
yes, I'm with you 100%. Yeah, absolutely. Um, well, since you
mentioned, um, the Bacchai by I think was Euripides, um, that
reminds me of something I wanted to kind of throw in here
because I listened to one of the previous episodes you've done
with Derek, and you mentioned how the cultural influence between
Jews and pagans goes both ways. And you were interested in
hearing more about like, Okay, how much did Jews influence, you
know, pagan culture? And I actually do think that a lot of
what's in the Bacchai does have some of that reverse influence
while there are some things we find from the Bacchai that made
its way down into the New Testament, especially in acts. I
do also think it has, it took some influence from Judaism and
some Old Testament things like where it talks about how the
servants of Dionysus could strike the ground with their rod
and that will come milk and honey out of the ground and that
you know, so that that definitely I think has some
influence. I think there were a few other examples they escape
me at the moment, but
yeah, yeah, they escaped me at the moment. But that's, I think
that's an example of what you were looking for there.
I'll jump in there, you know, as far as the that excerpt from
Litva's book, it seems like what what some of these scholars
want to do is they want to hermetically seal these cultures
off from one another, so that any kind of comparisons that are
made are invalid or illegitimate. And I'm not so sure you
can do that. One of the problems I think that exists in
scholarship and Neil, I think you can, you can probably back me
on this is that Egyptologists and classicists, they're working in
two completely separate disciplines, and they don't
speak to one another, at least by and large. That's the case.
Would you agree?
Absolutely. Yeah. You know, so if you're reading, if you're
reading, Jan Asman, whom I would marry just to acquire his
surname, because it's amazing. But Jan Asman, or Louis Zach
Barr, or Mark J. Smith, I think it is Eric Hornan, you, you
really open a window into the work of these Egyptologists on
your blog. Can you tell us more about, you know, what's what
you cover regarding the resurrection of Osiris, the
nature of the resurrection body in ancient Egypt and that kind
of thing? Sure, sure. And I'm glad you said that how it seems
like they operate in two different worlds. One of the
examples being the previous dimension, Bart Ehrman, which
I'm not sure that he's a classes of things, just like a New
Testament specialist. But nevertheless, you can tell he's
well studied in the classics, of course, I think that's part of
the requirements for his credentials. But when he says
explicitly in his book, like this is the standard view of
Egyptologists on the matter that there was no bodily
resurrection of Osiris. How many Egyptologists has he read? Like
I can think of 12 at the top of my head right now who state
exactly the opposite. And you name five of them right there.
Yeah, definitely. It's a bizarre type of thing. I think per my
research and readings, the way that Roosevelt is thinking that
Osiris did not have a bodily resurrection, basically, is an
anachronism that developed in the immediate wake of the
translating of the Rosetta stone. Because once the knowledge to
how to decode Egyptian hieroglyphs and knowledge of the
Egyptian language in general kind of faded out in the sphere
that around the fall Roman Empire, all during the medieval
period, we had no knowledge, no firsthand knowledge of what the
indigenous Egyptian text actually said about the matter. So it
was a lot of guesswork. And it was a lot of basically theologians
and scholars of the medieval period, getting gleaning about
the culture through the classics through Greek and Roman
authors who wrote about it when it was still a relevant
culture. But then when we finally got the Rosetta stone, we're
able to translate Egyptian hieroglyphs, kind of the first
scholars who I guess you can say founded the field of
Egyptology. They kind of came at it with that filter on of
their like, Christianized or at the very least like their
Western Romanized kind of thinking maybe they weren't
necessarily Christians, they were still like deist and still
had this like Westernized filter on they kind of read that
back into the Egyptian culture because they were encountering
terms and concepts that had been lost basically for over a
thousand years, and that they didn't really have a parallel
four. So they just kind of read apparently into that. So when
they encountered concepts like the Va and Ka, which you
mentioned before, the Ock, they kind of like, all right, well,
in some cases, in some pictures and in some phrases, it sounds
like it might be counterpart to the function of what we call a
solar ghost or whatever. But as more and more indigenous
Egyptian texts became can be translated. And we got a clearer
picture of how they viewed man in his existence as post human
existence. It's become quite clear. And it's now, based on
what I've read, I say it's the majority of you amongst
Egyptologists that Egyptians were definitely physical
resurrectionists, they believe in a corporate real afterlife,
that maybe not necessarily took place here on this planet, you
know, they believe that to do what the underworld, as we call
it, kind of kind of encompassed both, I guess, a portion of
outer space and the earth beneath us, because they believe
that like the sky was like a circuit, and it ran both over
this world and over the underworld, so to speak. But
nevertheless, as Derek has mentioned before, they definitely
believed that you had to physically resurrect in the
same physical body that you have here on earth. And then that
body has to, through magical incantations, be ascended to
heaven and then travel with those stars into the underworld
through the Western horizon. And that's how you got to Osiris
is King. It wasn't like this. You know, I've heard people
describe the Osirian resurrection as similar to like the Greek
idea of apotheosis that like you just kind of appear here. But
once you die here, your body decomposes and you just kind of
poof up here in heaven as this corporate real spirit. That wasn't
the case at all.
Okay, you touched on something very important, because I want to
shift gears straight to Jesus. I mean, you said that
beautifully, I've never heard it said like that actually, I've
never like that made so much sense. The this, how do I want
to phrase this astrothiology, right? People see celestial
motifs in the New Testament, they think it's all just this
secret code. And not saying there's not an astrothiological
thing there, like a journey through the celestial sky. But
does the corporal the real physical body resurrection, the
same kind of concept play its role here? Was that a Jewish
thing? Did they take that from possibly an Egyptian concept
here, that they had a physical bodily resurrection? And then
when that bodily resurrection happens, did they have the idea
of now they're going to the heavens, they're going to travel
the sky, so to speak, with Jesus, and I go to prepare a place
for you in my father's house, there are many houses or
mansions, sounds like zodiac signs or something's going on
here where you're going to end up in the stars, you're going to
go to heaven. But I asked that in the vein of the church is, you
know, taught as a doctrine, a foundational doctrine, that there
is a physical bodily resurrection that is going to
happen. Paul sounds very like a spiritual body. Orthodox church
said, Hey, no, this is flesh and blood, hint, hint, fill my
wounds, Thomas, you know, where's that play a role? How do you
want to answer that? I don't care how, but this could be really
cool to hear your thoughts on that.
Yeah, well, as we know, from the Gospels and other texts from
that time, there were much like their many denominations of
Christianity today, there were different sex Judaism back then
with eating views about, you know, salvation and eschatology
and things of that nature. And you can find basically
representations of the three major factions within the New
Testament, you know, the Sadducees, the Pharisees and the
Essenes, and each one of them had a view about our life that
corresponds with the views you just elaborated on, like, for
instance, the Gospels, you mentioned that Sadducees did
not believe in a spiritual soul, they didn't believe in a
resurrection, they didn't believe in angels, they believed in
this one life on earth, that's it. And the reason that you
practice their religion is just so that you have a more
comfortable life here on earth, and maybe a longer life here
as well, but you don't get an afterlife. And in the Pharisees,
of course, did believe in a soul, but they believed you had to
have a physical resurrection to have an afterlife. And as far
as I know, while I'm not too well read on the Essenes, but
just kind of being an armchair reader, from when I've gathered
about their views on afterlife, they have one of the views you
just mentioned, which is that you survive in some kind of
incorporate real like, like a spirit resurrection, so to
speak. Like we just said previously, like, similar to
the Greek idea of apotheosis, that, and I guess to kind of
clarify what that means, because I've heard certain
apologists like JP holding on the Tech Comics website kind of
mock that idea, right? Yeah, he's kind of infamous around the
interwebs, but he kind of mocked that idea of like a spiritual
resurrection, because, you know, in his Christian thinking, you
can quite get that, like, how's the spirit resurrecting if it
doesn't have a body, what the hell's the spiritual resurrection?
In those views, spirit, as we might think of it, was just
disembodied consciousness. And, you know, so to use it in
modern terms, you still had to have a vehicle for that
consciousness to interact with its environment. And so you
kind of had to develop or undergo magical rituals or
whatever have you, whatever culture you were dispending in,
you had to do some kind of process to develop this,
ethereal, non-corporeal representation of your earthly
body for your disembodied consciousness to kind of
transfer into and then be able to interact with its
environment. And as far as I understand it, that's sort of
similar to what the Essene belief was, in that they didn't
believe that a physical resurrection was necessary,
that you could achieve some sort of like spiritualized
afterlife. And I think that's what descended down into what we
find in the authentic epistles of Paul, if you talk about like
in Corinthians, where he says like, you know, you're gonna
you're gonna leave this physical body behind, it's gonna
dissolve and you have to reap a spiritual body in the stars.
Nice. You know, that's actually a fascinating area of study is
where was it that the Jews themselves, you know, got the
idea of resurrection? Where did they get this? And I happen to
think that it's, it's kind of an amalgamation of Egyptian
Canaanite and Zoroastrian views, that might run afoul of
Occam's razor, but I don't know, I can't help it. I don't know, I
think we're branching off into philosophy. I think Occam's razor
is better applied to the sciences than it is to history
because human history is just, it's very variegated and
complex. But I think we talked before, Derek, about John Day's
book, Galway and the Gods and Goddesses of Canaan, where he
discusses the impact of the the ball colt on the ancient
Israelites and how that might have served as an inspiration for
the idea of metaphorical resurrection in the Old Testament,
such as in Isaiah 26 and so forth. But I, I tend to see some
Osirian concepts there as well. You discuss on your blog, Neil,
Hosea, I think it's Hosea chapter six, verse two, if I'm not
mistaken, might have something of an Osirian context. And I
happen to think that of Ezekiel 37, too, with the rejoining of
the dry bones in the valley. But I don't know, there seems to be
something in Zoro, or something oral. I think there's
some oral astringent. I'm done. I'm done. I'm done talking. Don't
do crack.
Well, I think I can agree with that. I've got to admit, I know
almost zilch about Zoroastrianism. Again, I just
have an armchair knowledge of that from what you hear from
persons like yourself, Robert Pryor, survivor else. A little
bit more well read on the ball cycle. And I can definitely agree
with that, especially since you can see the heavy influence that
ball had on the Israelites mentioned in the Bible. And I
think that's actually something that's lost in English
translation, the Bible where everything in the Old Testament
either gets labeled God or Lord, when if you've left it in its
original tone, what you find is an assortment of different gods
that are in many linguistic contexts, referred to
distinctively from each other and not just different names for
the same God. One of those names being ball. Now I get it,
because I know some Christians are going to retort ball is just
a generic term, it just means Lord or whatever. But I mean,
when you again, when you read it in context, you can kind of
tell something's going on here. On top of that, these names of
God being a generic title can be said for almost all of them.
Adonai was a generic title. El, of course, was a generic name.
Nevertheless, we all still know who they're talking about in the
Old Testament when you mention these names. So yeah, there's
there's actually a lot of verses when read in their original
Hebrew that refer to what we would call, I guess, Yahweh as
ball. No two ways about it. I definitely do think, yeah,
definitely the Osiris code in Egypt had heavy influence on the
idea of physical resurrection, integrating into Judaism. The
first place I start to see it, and just reading Old Testament
as it's laying out to us is in Genesis, during the story of
Joseph. It's pretty clear that Joseph is mummified. While I
don't think it explicitly says that in our version, when it
talks about how Joseph's body had to be embalmed for 70 days,
that's literally right out of the mummification process, like
all ancient Egyptians who were mummified, it was a 70 day
process. And then also, it was the request of Jacob, I think it
was when he when Joseph brought Jacob and the rest of the
family into Egypt, Jacob said, please, when I die, take my
corpse back to the homeland and bury me there with my ancestors.
That was a very important thing. That is also reflective of
ancient Egyptian thinking that, you know, you had to be buried
with your ancestors and with your descendants and with your
pets and your servants, you all had to be buried in the same
kind of tomb sanctuary so that when you went to the afterlife,
you all went together and you all kind of resumed the same
functions roles we had here in the world of the living. And
that's yeah, so there you can begin to see the the Egyptian
afterlife thinking kind of weaving its way into ancient
Judaism.
Interesting. Yeah, sorry, my kid was coming in here trying to
get the spotlight man, you know, um, no, this this is I love
this stuff and and trying to understand why they would bury
or mummify has always made me think why are they trying to
preserve the body? It wouldn't make any sense to me why you
would preserve a physical body. And then Jews were known for
preserving the physical body. But then the Greeks come on the
scene and they want to, you know, they want to burn the
physical body, they literally we practice this all the time
cremations cheaper than burying a body and the grave. And I don't
think people really ask, you know, many questions, why are we
burying them six feet deep, you know, we don't really ask those
type of things, but not trying to rabbit trail. Um, this this
idea of resurrection, I think is super important, trying to
understand why the church still exists. To me, it's my
opinion. There's an apocalyptic timeframe in which
everything is supposed to happen. I mean, it was all supposed
to end the very beginning. The first I mean, at the New
Testament, there's such an immediate context, something
had to happen. And if they did think it was the physical
resurrection that was supposed to happen, but it didn't. Now you
know why the church is still going. They're waiting for
something that will never happen. And that might be why it's
still alive and running today. Now if they thought it was
spiritual or something, like, I don't think Paul's ideas of
resurrection, ultimately have survived. I think a an orthodoxy
whitewash of Paul's version is what we see. And it was so bad
even in the Protestant times that Wycliffe, if I'm not
mistaken, if it was I think it was Wycliffe, the Roman Catholic
church was so angry by his translation of the Bible, they
took his bones, uncovered him from the grave, burned his bones
into literally they ground his bones down and then burnt the
remainder of the bones to ashes, and then spread them in the
water. And then there's this like little floating saying the
Protestant said is, is it's okay because Wycliffe's bones
covered the entire earth now or something like crazy, you know
what I'm saying? But anyway, I just thought maybe that was
something to touch on. Do you guys have any other areas you
want to touch on?
Well, I just wanted to say, you know, with with what we've been
diving into is this is kind of the the central problem that I
have with critics of these ideas like like Litwan others,
where they do again, they try to seal these cultures off one
another and act as though, you know, ancient Egypt, with
regard to Palestine, would have been this completely just alien
culture, all together different cultural milieu, that the kinds
of things that they practice and believe would have been unheard
of to, to Jews, especially those at the beginning of the
common era. And I, I have a big problem with that. For one thing,
you see the long constancy of these myths in ancient Egypt, and
the, the, the, the, the, the soteriological aspect of the
Ossirian cult, you know, running all the way on up through to
the Greco-Roman period, it didn't go anywhere, as Neil can
surely attest. SGF Brandon does a great job kind of tracking it
down the centuries. You know, it didn't change much really. And,
and then of course, you have the proximity of Palestine to
ancient Egypt. That's kind of a given. You have the fact that
ancient Egypt ruled Canaan from what the 16th to 11th centuries
BC. And of course, you do have all of these archaeological
artifacts and so forth from ancient Egypt. They are in
Palestine. It looks to me as though they had a profound
impact on the wider Mediterranean world. And I think
it's all too easy for the classicists and those who strictly
study the Greco-Roman world to dismiss this other culture
because it's just something that's not under their microscope
that often. I don't know. What do you think about that, Neil?
Yeah, absolutely. It's pretty much an unbroken continuity from,
you know, the Old Kingdom period right on down to the Roman
era. Yeah, and Palestine was at the crossroads of, you know,
several, how would you say it, trading routes throughout the
Europe, North Africa, and the Near East? It seems to me very
naive to try and paint that kind of portrait of Palestine as
being kind of closed off. In fact, one of the very reasons that
in the Old Testament, you constantly find that Jews being
taken into captivity is for that very reason. It's like at the
junction point of other territories, other greater
kingdoms trying to go over with each other and take each other
over. They're kind of literally caught in the crossroads.
Two factors again.
Exactly. Clearly, they weren't sealed off. Otherwise, that
wouldn't have kept happening as even their own Bible says,
like, you guys keep getting taken into captivity and
Yahweh has to keep rescuing you from them. If they were as
sealed off as Christians would like to try and have us
believe, that wouldn't have happened. Of course, with that
conquest of Palestine comes the cultural influence, often
mandatory. Again, as we read in the book of Maccabees, the
reason that the Jews at that time started to incorporate the
worship of Dionysus into their own religion was at first, the
first stage of it, was that it was mandatory. It was
Antiochus Epiphanes was it at the time, who had made it a
decree that the Jews had to participate in that festival.
And worship of both Dionysus and Zeus were taking place and
on the holy grounds where the Temple of Yahweh was.
But, you know, a generation too later, those, you know,
those ruling beliefs were taken out of power. And by the time
we get to the first century, where Jesus and the Apostles,
allegedly did their whole shtick, we find testimony from
Plutarch and other writers of the time that that worship of
Dionysus was still being practiced by Jews in Palestine.
So, you know, the Maccabees were like, what? Second
century BCE, I think. And then we find that they're still
doing that of their own free will, no longer under duress of
the ruling powers, but of their own free will, still
practicing the worship of Dionysus in around 100 CE, I
think was when Plutarch was writing. Then, you know, clearly,
you know, somewhere in the middle there was Jesus and the
Apostles. You can't, you know, you can't tell me there
wasn't some influence there.
Neil, we discussed the mystery religions last week, and we
talked about that, you know, the soteriology involved, whereby
there is this sort of mystic parallelism between the God
and the devotee, that as the God undergoes some kind of
death and resurrection or rebirth or victory, what have
you, so does the initiate into the cult by experiencing, you
know, undergoing a ritual, becoming initiated and
undergoing something, you know, similar to the fate of the
risen God. Do you think that the Osirian cult was more or
less the prototype for all of the Greco-Roman cults to
follow, or do you think that they arose, you know,
organically and kind of flow together, or what's your
thoughts on that?
This is where I have, that's a fascinating question. I'm
actually really glad you asked that, because this is where I
have some conflicting thoughts that I'm still trying to
work out myself. I do think ultimately, yeah, Osiris served
as the prototype for the major cults that we all
often group under that umbrella of mystical religions with a
dying, rising God, where the initiate identifies with the
God in order to achieve, like, fate to the God, you know,
Dionysus and Anastas, the whole, the whole shtick. Yeah, I do
think that perhaps there were some cults that perhaps arose
organically and had some overlapping concepts, and then
when they came into contact with the Osirian religion, or
perhaps the Dionysus religion, whatnot, they're like, oh, this
is so similar to ours. Let's just, you know, blend them. Yeah, I
do think that happened. And what I think is behind, this is
just my personal opinion from this point forward. What I
think is ultimately behind all of that, these cultures that
arise organically having very similar, as you said, like
prototype or template to the Osiris mythos, is what I guess is
often described by anthropologists as shamanic
initiation, which you can still see that reflected in a lot
of third world cultures today, or, you know, cultures that you
might find like way out in the Amazon or way out in the, you
know, the Congo of Africa or whatnot, where they still like
practice, like, where they still have, you know, a tribal kind
of society, and there's still a witch doctor who has to, you
know, act as the go between, between this world and, you
know, the spirit world, the way they describe what they
experienced during their shamanic initiation rituals. And
now that some of those rituals have been open to Westerners,
such as I'm sure you guys have heard about how they do
ayahuasca sessions down in Peru, a lot of Westerners,
Americans, Europeans and stuff, go down there and take the
ayahuasca, they, many of them, not all of them, but many of
them do report experiences that match that same template of
the Osiris mythos. And the reason I'm still on board with
that kind of thinking is an anecdotal experience I myself
have, I haven't taken ayahuasca, but the active chemical in
it, so they say is DMT and I have taken that, and I have
experienced something very, it basically checks all the points
on the list of the Osiris mythos where you experience
merging with this, for lack of a better description, divine
character, or this character that you see, you know, induced
under this, you know, altered state of consciousness, you
experience first merging with it, then you experience being
shattered or broken into pieces or dismembered somehow, and
then you experience being reconstituted, but with a, how
would you say, a transfigured form, so to speak, and then you
kind of undergo this, I guess you could say apotheosis or
divinization or resurrection of some sort, for lack of a
better term, but you kind of, it fits that same pattern, we're
like, okay, you, you merge with this character, you are
dismembered, you're reconstituted, and then you're
transformed into something greater, it's basically that
same Osirian template. You, you really, I got a comment on
this before you leave this conversation here, because I've
been asking this question to many people, I even did this
recently, I can't help it, sometimes I have to say things,
even when the show's about something else, but in this
one, this, this fits the context quite well, I interviewed in
the last show I did, Cameron Riley, for the movie he just
did, Marketing the Messiah, and I said, look, you know,
dying and rising agricultural deities, okay, it's not that
far-fetched, I think, to suggest that the sacrament of
Jesus is agricultural sacrament of the being divine with one
with the God, or gods, and, and you are then participating in
the apotheosis ceremony with the divine, one might be beer,
one might be wine, whatever, but I have, and I'm not trying to
get too far off into the fringe type ideas that you are
speculating here, and I think there could be something
there, in On the Historicity with Dr. Carrier, his
argumentation is, Paul's crazy, he's bat shit nuts, he, he
just loses his mind and has this light experience, but it's
my experience as well, and I never did DMT, and I never did
ayahuasca, but I did take mushrooms, golden cat
mushrooms, I have tried other things that have hallucinogenic
principles and properties or whatever you want to call it,
and I didn't have that same experience, but I can easily see
the world that I saw through it, okay, it changed, there's not a way, you can't
put it in words, there's not a description,
you only can experience it, there is no way to define this.
Once you have experienced it, you understand things
only through that world, by the way, in a way that is not descriptive
other than possibly like a magical place, it's a magical world,
and so I wondered if the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus
that we find in the Gospels, yes, I'm gonna go so far as to say
the Gospels, where they go, that's the historical, okay, what if this is a
Homeric, you know, type of a funny cartoon, so to speak, of something
that is a ceremonial mystery school thing, and I asked a leading scholar
in the Mormon world, John Knight-Lunwall,
he believes in the physical resurrection of Jesus, right, which you know what
that includes, and I said, John, you've blown my mind with
astrothiology, you've blown my mind on seeing when Jesus walks on water,
there's a parallel here to the Orion in the sky, and he explained and did a
three-hour section on a video showing this is Orion,
Jesus walking, is this this that, I said, John, is that not what's going on with
the death, burial, and resurrection, is there not some type of celestial thing,
and he goes, Derek, I'll grant you that it's possible,
and then that was it, we were off the conversation, but I was like,
yes, at least you said, and he thinks that where I was going with it made a lot
of sense, so I'm sorry for taking us five minutes
out of the off the path for a second, I wanted us to get there for a second,
just sit there and think, what if mystery school is a better explanation
than the milieu of Judaism? I also just want to say kids, don't do drugs,
of course, you're not advocating that. The views expressed by Neil Boswell here
do not reflect those of me. Not at all.
Right, no, I'm not.
No, no, definitely thank you for adding that clarification, but also going back
to what Derek had just said, I'm so glad you brought that background to Orion,
because in the Egyptian Osirian cult, his celestial counterpart, or his
constellation that symbolized him, was Orion, that they called it Saab, but
Orion symbolized Osiris, and then Sirius represented Isis.
And the reason for that is because that's how they delineated their year in
their agricultural cycles. Orion was the first constellation to have a
tea-leafle setting where it can no longer be seen above the horizon for
about, I think, 72 days during the late spring to early autumn,
and then shortly thereafter, so it goes Sirius, and then the rest of the stars
follow. And then 72 days later, he appears above
the horizon again, and that's, quote, his, you know, resurrection.
So, yeah, and that was actually an in-game, so to speak, of the whole
Osirian soteriology, as we can say, especially as it's laid out in certain
texts, like the pyramid text, there's there's constant, there's, you know,
several spells in there that really want to drive that point home of you
becoming Osiris, and then you say, he said, I may osin to Orion like Osiris, and
then we live there and reign as king in heaven, like Osiris, I don't worry from
Orion, but I just set my side on her star, Sirius, or
Sophis, as they called it. Yeah, and so for you to mention the
water walking myth, why don't you talk more about that some of the time?
I'm interested to hear how. This is just the first, man. We've got a lot more,
you know, to do, for real. I can't help too, but think of
Ephesians, where Paul declares, you know, when God raised us with Christ
and seated us with him on the throne in heaven, that is,
you know, it's that same kind of, you know, it's sort of like resurrection
and apotheosis, kind of all in one, that you're being, you're raised,
you are raised into the heavens and then seated upon the throne,
that you yourself become a God in that case, and that's a mortal.
Even in the Gospels, Jesus quotes that verse from the Old Testament where he says,
it's not written in your law, I have said you are God's, and if it's okay for the
Old Testament to say you are God's, why do you get mad at me for saying I'm the Son
of God, you know? So even there, you kind of have this little
wink and nod to like, hey, hey, one day we're gonna, we're gonna
you know, that makes me think too, with the shamanistic stuff in light of this,
John the Baptist fits a strange description of eating wild locus and honey,
like, what are they trying to say? Your diet is strictly just,
I guess, but it makes me kind of wonder, he's leading a pack of people out in the wilderness,
there are multiple, there are multiple interpretations, I understand,
Theatus could have been this guy in history, Theatus had been beheaded, the Romans came
after him, he said he was gonna split the Jordan River, of course that didn't happen,
you know, but it makes me think of the practice of baptism because the entire
water baptism initiation is introduced by this guy named John the Baptist, and you know, I don't
know about you, but maybe they were this superstitious, that if you were out in the wilderness,
and I went to you and you were saying things that were kind of in the range of my kind of
thoughts, and you said, hey, I'm gonna dunk you under water, just say a few words,
and you're gonna come up and you're gonna be resurrected, let's just say like the Gnostics
kind of have a resurrection and baptism concept, I kind of wonder if there was an
initiatory process where it's like, all right, take this, all right, now we're gonna take you
and dunk you, you're gonna experience the doves gonna come out of heaven, baby, you know what I'm
saying, and I don't know, I'm reading into this probably, but it just is pure speculation,
just an interesting thought in the mystery school angle. Well, as you said, we find from some of
the heresiologists like Aaronaeus that there were schools of Gnosticism that had that view about
the baptism of Jesus, they say, there's some, the way Aaronaeus presents it is like, there's some
schools of Gnosticism that don't believe that Jesus, the human being Jesus, was literally the
Son of God, but they had the adoptionist view, which is that Jesus became the Christ, or he became
the Son of God at the moment of his baptism, when the Spirit of God as the dove came and,
you know, dwelt inside of him, again, like you said, kind of like this initiatory process.
Yeah, as far as what the cult of John the Baptist may or may not have been taking to
accentuate that experience back in the day, I don't know, but I do know there is a fair amount
of, I guess you could say circumstantial evidence that the earliest churches of Christianity were
indulging in mushroom caps. We find that in the iconography of our earliest,
our oldest extant churches have iconography of the Eucharist being served, and instead of
bread wafers, it's actually mushroom caps that are being handed around in the basket.
So it's like, okay, I mean, yeah, if you take a mushroom, you'll probably see Jesus
serve a couple of them or whatnot. Yeah, yeah, I definitely think there was something else going on.
There's probably something there, Derek, I know, I could, like, I can read your mind. It's almost
like I took a hallucinogen. Derek wants us to tackle David Whitla here, okay? He wants us to
deal with this guy, which by the way, I can't wait to read this book because he's brilliant.
He really is. He just came at the mythicist sideways, especially Dr. Kerry. And if you've
read his Dr. Kerry's response, who a lot of emotion in there, man. And I'm not trying to be funny.
I mean, there was a lot of emotion that I think Dr. Kerry feels that he's straw man left and right.
He's a one man army in this field. In a lot of ways, you know, him and Dr. Price aren't like
teaming up to come into this field. They both have their own avenues and carriers like a standalone,
and there's like eight or nine, 10, 20 people constantly attacking him for his mythicism.
What do you think about that? I mean, he goes so far in saying there are these connections,
but then like you said, Derek, he does a 180. So I guess sticking to the heart of this episode,
I'd like for us to just kind of tackle that a little more. Do you not see there's good reason
to say, Hey, this guy may not even have existed. And where does Whitla, and I haven't read his book,
where does he draw that line? I mean, he sounds like he sees parallels, but is he similar to
Dennis McDonald where Dr. McDonald says, Oh, look, the gospels, the synoptics are obviously
memetic criticism shows. They're borrowing from the Homeric epics in the Odyssey. He wrote his
book, The Dionysian Gospel, which he shows the Gospel of John. And, you know, you could show
where they took the literary tropes from and borrowed some of the stuff, not only from the Old
Testament from Greek stories. Where do you draw the line? And Dennis goes, That doesn't mean he
didn't exist. So it's like, well, what does show that he exists then, since you're already assuming
he does? Where do we draw the line where we're not, where we make sense? We're not just out here
swinging bats at people. We're legitimately like, show me who he is then, if he does. And
if not, at least speculate and say there could have been, but we're not sure. I don't know.
Take it off, brother. I know you want to talk more about that.
Well, I've just noticed this oddity to where, you know, like I said, in Isis Deus,
Litua has no problem whatsoever discussing religious syncretism and the parallels between
Christ and those such as Heracles, Romulus, and Asclepius. But when we're addressing
mythicism, suddenly all of that kind of talk is off the table. You see Bart Ehrman do this also.
I think it was his introduction to the New Testament, where he mentioned that the
mystery religions with their dying and rising gods are a good place for reflection, you know.
Is this, you know, quite possibly something that had an influence and impact on Christianity?
But when we're discussing mythicism and did Jesus exist? Oh, no. No, no, no, sir. That stuff is off
the table. So it's just this, you know, if we're attacking mythicism, then we have to attack
everything associated with it. And if, you know, if comparative religion, pagan parallels,
is part of that package, well, now we've got to take it down rather than assert it.
And it's just something I've noticed. And it seems pretty, I just, I don't understand the
hypocrisy. It's, it's, and yet it's also kind of deliciously ironic. But I myself, you know, as I've
said, I'm agnostic with regard to the historicity of Jesus. I don't know. Maybe there was a guy that,
if I'm being honest, I know I could be crucified for this, for saying this, but I kind of don't care
as regards my atheism. It just, it doesn't make much of a difference to me. But at the same time,
I'm not saying that it is therefore insignificant. I obviously understand why people are
fascinated with the topic I have been as well. But there comes a point where it's just like,
you know what, you can have him. But I don't know, Neil, I guess I'd like to ask you
what's your take on the historicity of Jesus? I think I understand you to be a mythicist. And
if you can crack that open as to why that is, you know, is it because, you know, some would say
that, well, Jesus, there was a historical guy, but he was simply deified along the lines of these
popular myths and popular legends. But others of course say, I don't think there even was a guy.
What's your take, Neil? Yeah, I suppose it really pressed the matter. I have to likewise admit to
being an agnostic on the situation, but with a probably 90% to 10% leaning towards he didn't exist.
And like you said, like, and even if there was a historical man at the root of it, I don't think
that I think the point is moved as far as the myth's position and what we're trying to bring forward.
Where it's mostly about like the character as portrayed in the New Testament is clearly, in my
opinion, 100% fictional. You know, Jesus was a pretty common name back in the day. You could have,
you know, picked anyone out as a, you know, here's the historical root of it. I've often heard the
analogy being to an onion. It doesn't matter how many layers you peel back on an onion, there's no
core to it. So, you know, a hodgepodge of like 20 different historical people is at the end of the
nobody at all. To steal a quote from Gerald Massey. Yeah, I've noticed, yeah, I've noticed this,
this special feeling. If you get this answer wrong, you're going to hell just so you know.
I've been to hell actually, the biblical hell. It's not a bad place.
Yeah, I think that I think it's in the New Testament. Yeah, I've been there. I've taken
trips to Israel and I've been to Gehenna. So, yeah, I've been there. And made it out on the other side.
But anyway, yeah, back to the topic at hand. Yeah, I've noticed this special pleading with
the historicity of Jesus when compared to basically anything else in the New Testament,
being deconstructed from a purely secular point of view. It's like, okay, we'll allow that up to
the point of the human being himself actually existing. Then we have to hop off this train and
say, oh, that's that's for the fringe. That's for the crazies. In my observation,
the what really made mythicism, and especially in regards to like comparative mythology,
that that route of it, what really made that polarizing in the way that Derek just laid it out
was with Zeitgeist honesty with the Zeitgeist going back in 2007. It was like before then,
and that was when like streaming videos as a social media was so kind of in its infancy. So,
like before then, on the internet and discussion forums and the other more popular mediums
through which we've been communicating on the internet, you could actually openly discuss the
hypothesis of mythicism, and perhaps Jesus didn't really exist at all in this fictional
with people who were scholars, people who were in universities working towards their credentials,
to working towards a graduate degree in a relevant field like classics or Egyptology,
whatever. You could openly discuss this with other atheists and skeptics and it not be derided as
some fringe theory or like, oh, that's just crazy. Nobody endorses that. Not to say that everyone you
talked with agreed with you, but it was like it was considered a viewpoint worthy of consideration
as much as any other viewpoint. Okay, your hysteresis, your hysteresis, the hypothesis,
oh, okay, hey buddy. It was, you know, we were all regarded as peers. When Zeitgeist came out,
while I think at the end of the day, the point it was trying to make is correct, the way it went
about it included many errors that I think have been thoroughly debunked on both sides.
And that's a shame because even to this day or a decade later, it still stands out as like the
quintessential, like here is what mythos is believed, kind of package that is presented.
And yeah, you know, because one of the priorities, I guess you could say of
not so much atheists, but skeptical minded people in general, one of our priorities is to,
again, to be skeptical and to want to strive for factual accuracy, then yeah, once the errors of
Zeitgeist came out, by and large, the internet atheist community had to distance themselves
from it. But as an unfortunate consequence of that, they distance themselves from mythosism in
general, and especially the comparative mythology side of it. And that's when you started seeing
not just, you know, apologists like JP Holdings jumping on the internet saying, oh, here's how
Zeitgeist is cool as shit. You started seeing a lot of atheists doing that. Here's how Zeitgeist is
cool as shit. And unfortunately, that's caused people, and I'm sure Derek well knows that's
caused people like us to kind of be put into that hell with Zeitgeist. Like, oh, I just know that
Peter does it, but you know, forget what he has to say. And that that and like, go ahead.
I was gonna say, it makes our job that much harder. I'm with you 100%. In fact,
I wish there was a documentary, the same, I don't know, that movie grabbed me. So like,
when I was a Christian, it was open minded, of course, toward the end, I saw it. And I was like,
literally, I was like, are you kidding me? Like, that's like, that's like, do not open this door.
This is the, this is the door you're not supposed to open as a Christian. And I opened it. And when I
saw it, it blew my mind. I didn't know sources. I didn't know how accurate all of it was. I didn't
even need to know that all the details were accurate to know the gist that that was being
presented felt right. It felt like, you know, I guess was more of a emotional and a subjective
experience that I had to get over for me as a Christian was, is my Jesus really the one and only?
And when I hurtled that emotional trauma, it was a trauma, I felt like a pain in my stomach while
I watched these men describe, did you know this is celestial? Did you know, you know, all this
different stuff, and it really blew my mind. Then I found out later, you know, because I didn't even
necessarily know anything. I just went, whoa, dude, this is bigger. It opened up a planted a seed
and opened up my mind a little. Then I started looking at the details. I started going, okay,
okay, Horus, December 24. You know, like, they do everything was identical. And I don't have the
sources, you know, but that was the problem. Now you have to fight that. I wish someone produced
a documentary from the atheist side saying, here's what was right. And here's what was wrong
about this movie. You know, that would be great. I know who you can talk to about that.
That guy, that guy, that one right there. Yeah, Boswell covered, he covers that.
Take it away, man. Neil, tell him. Yeah, definitely, definitely. What you just described,
that effect of zeitgeist is what I do appreciate about it, which is why I'm not going to totally,
you know, I never have completely jumped off the train and say, it's an unnecessary piece of
shit. It was the initial catalyst for a lot of people. And for that, I am grateful for it,
but it could have been a lot better. And yeah, it's, I think we are overdue in the community for
a revision of that, or a, you know, maybe a pop of video VH1 or VH1 style. Here's where
that guy's got it wrong. Yeah, definitely. I think that could be a worthwhile project.
I don't know, right now it'd be hard pressed to find the time for it, but yeah, yeah, definitely.
You'll make the time. Yeah, we'll make the time. You know, that would be a good idea is to do a
series where we play the clip and we pause it and we comment about the material and you can go in
depth, a piece at a time, because honestly, it's going to take funding. If we were going to do
something proper, and I wish we did. I mean, maybe funding will come, but like Cameron Riley,
who just did marketing the Messiah, someone who had the money came out of nowhere and said, hey,
I want you to do something on Roman, the Roman Caesar and Jesus JC and parallels. And he's like,
there's not that much there to create a good documentary on. So he said, I do have an idea.
And that's when he came up with marketing the Messiah, the movie we have, if someone could
produce the income and we had the graphic, you know, someone that could pull up graphics,
do some some nice footage and interview some scholars in this field that support the idea.
And then in the documentary, just so that they know it's not just a whole one-way street,
all supporters of the theory have the critics who don't agree, like maybe David Litwell or
other people who will go, oh, you know, even Dr. Ehrman have them say, no, listen, they're wrong
because it's in the mill mill you and then have the other scholars like Dr. Price piggyback on that
and go in and say, look here, okay, really, what do you do with this? What do you do with that?
How do you answer this and and really give a fair, it'll be more leaning in this direction of what
we're supporting, but it'll allow the critics to have a voice in the documentary. So if someone
watches it, they're not going to go, hey, loses bogus, no, nice try, buddy, because there was
I'm with you. There was a lot of truth in what was presented in my opinion.
I just think that we're due for an update that's more accurate and that's going to
hammer down allowing both voices in one documentary, not just a one-way street.
I think it'd be better. Yeah, true. And there is a new generation that's coming of age now who
is not familiar with that guys. I mean, we take it for granted because, you know, we've been around
long enough to to know of it, but I'm starting to find that like, you know,
people who were children at the time that it came out, now they're becoming adults and they
haven't been exposed to that yet. And so yeah, I think it's time to present the material more
accurately to this new generation and see if we can have that same effect that is like I should have
had. Absolutely. Now, Neil, Derek's experience was very similar to mine. I first came across
site guys didn't know anything about this stuff. It had a major impact. And again, this pretty much
the same process. I went about, I actually read a lot of JP holding on his site, Tectonics, and I
saw a lot of this stuff get debunked. But somehow in the process, I came across price and counter
apologetics, and eventually, you know, was able to dig up reputable scholarship and and legitimate
primary sources to kind of get at the real deal. But it sounds like you knew a lot about the stuff
before Zeitgeist ever even came out. How did you come across this stuff? And what is it that has
driven you? Because I mean, I covered this stuff pretty in depth, but you blow me the
frick away. What drives that? What is it that gives you such an incredible handle on this?
There's something driving that and I'm curious to know what. Yes, it's called obsessive compulsive
disorder. Hey, I thought you might. I thought you might. No one, brother, it does. Right?
Oh, yeah, definitely. There's definitely some element of that going on. I think guys like us
or we get about this stuff a little too much, perhaps, but it's for God's sake.
To answer your question in the way you asked it. Yeah, it's an extension from what I talked about
in the intro in that throughout my religious life, I always had that curiosity of just,
I guess, an existential crisis, just figuring out the why of it all, just religion in itself,
even though I wholeheartedly believed the Protestant Christian worldview that wasn't
enough to satiate my existential anxiety, so to speak. Still doesn't tell me why. Why does
God want me to do this? And so that initial drive is what led me to leave
the Baptist's nomination for Seventh-day Adventism. And then again, it was in the course of me,
I wasn't at Seventh-day Adventist very long, only a couple of years, and it was in the course of
trying to integrate into that culture. Again, they introduced me to the idea of comparative
mythology, but under the way they presented it was like, okay, here's all the things that are
pagan about Roman Catholicism. We've got the real version of Christianity. They've got this
heretical version that's corrupted in all this paganism, and they did a pretty good job of that.
Like they'll show you, here's the mantra beads of Hinduism, and here's the rosary beads of
Catholicism. See, they have a hundred nades, and this one has 52, which is half a hundred nades.
They present you enough to pique your curiosity, but then they stop just short of where it
incriminates anything that is considered canonical in the Protestant theology. They'll
stop shy of anything that is a pagan parallel of something directly in the Gospels, directly in
the Epistles, such as, you know, death and resurrection. They'll tell you, you know, all
day long, like, oh yeah, the Pope's miter is comparable to, like, the hijet crown of Osiris,
but they won't ever tell you that, hey, and did you know that Osiris was buried and rose from the dead
three days later? Very similar to Jesus. The way I came across that aspect of it was, I was researching
this very topic. This was back in 2002, I think. I was working at a Christian bookstore at the time,
and I was, you know, much to probably kind of incriminating myself by admitting this, but while
I should have been working out, I just kind of logged into the internet from the work computer
there at the desk, and was just, you know, googling and researching questions I'd had about this
material, kind of basically fact-checking, like, seeing how accurate it was, okay, is this Roman
Catholic custom really based in pagan mythology and stuff, and the internet back then was not
what it is now, and I stumbled upon one of those lists I'm sure you've all seen, like, hey, did you
know that, and it was about Mithras, hey, did you know Mithras ticks all the boxes, he had 12
disciples, he was crucified, he, you know, and again, a lot of those things on that list were inaccurate,
and I'm a little ashamed to say this, but the website he was hosted on was DavidEye.com.
Exactly. That was my site, guys. Shut it down. All right, my site, guys, was DavidEye. Now,
needless to say, for obvious reasons, I never really jumped on the DavidEye train. It didn't take
much digging through that website to say, oh, it was kind of that shit crazy, but what I read on
that page about Mithras had very much the same emotional response as what Derek described early
when he first watched Zeitgeist. He said that emotional trauma, like, I just remember as I
reading this, and even just considering, even though I didn't believe it, just considering the
possibility that it was true, I just remember feeling this intense heat and sinking feeling
inside. It was very like, whoa, what is this, the possibility that there was no Jesus, the
possibility that my religion is wrong? It was making me literally like tremble,
and I guess that trauma made it stick in my brain enough to, like you said, be this driving force
of like, no, I got to figure this out. I got to know for certain. I got to fact check all this
shit and find out what's really at the heart of the matter here. One of those things that blew
me away, guys, was when I watched the Zeitgeist and it got through the parallels between other
gods. That didn't shock me, even though I was like, whoa, it did take away the idea that this is
unique and authentic. In a way, that was a little shocking, but I think what I could grab a hold of
the most, because I've never read a those Cyrus story, the Mithra story, the Dianne, I didn't know
those gods. Even to this day, I talk names of gods that I don't know thoroughly from the source
material, which is, which is bad on me, but I mean, I'm learning, right? I don't claim to know
it all here. I'm just here to learn and I'm going to figure out more as time goes. But when it got
to explaining things on the celestial, that's what made the most sense to me. The agricultural
and celestial made the most sense to me because I looked at nature and I saw the world around us
make sense in this story. Not in this literal Jewish guy was a carpenter who ran the streets of
Judaism causing hell for the Romans or possibly for the Jews. And you know, like I did that
was what I always thought. But then when I heard them talk about how in the spring and it gave me
this, this continual annual cycle, and it was describing the sun, the light of the world,
you know, and just then I was going to these reading these phrases in John that I couldn't
let go of in different places that, you know, he's the light of the world. The ideas of him being
the bright and morning star, just basic stuff. Like, what? He's the bright and morning star.
What the heck? Why would you even say that about a guy? Oh, he's just, he's just a twinkle, twinkle
little star. No, like this guy is the bright and morning star. It's, and then you'll read revelation
and you go, what is going on with this book? I just, so I think the, the things I could connect to
more wasn't just the parallels to other gods, even though some of that stuff besides factual and
some of it's not. It was that I looked outside and realized in spring, that's when green starts to
come back. That's when there's fertility. That's why we practice, you know, bunnies out there laying
eggs. And, and that's when Jesus rises from the dead. And when I started seeing those, those practices
and things that we commonly understood, that's what I connected with the most. And that helped me,
I think, was going, this is the world around us, told in a great story. And, and there may be facts
in reality in the gospels of the destruction of the temple, people who existed, Pontius Pilate,
real people, real places, real things, possibly. And some of these people may not be real, like
Judas Iscariot. So when people argued, John the Baptist existed, why didn't Jesus, well, Judas
Iscariot existed, or he didn't, or he may or he may not. So who did and who didn't, isn't,
you know, we can do that all day long. But I connected to that theme. And then I found more and
more reason to look into numbers. Numbers started to get me lost. You mentioned earlier, 72.
And I just remember 72. Whoa, that digs deep into Luke 10 and going into the Old Testament and then
looking at, well, the way they came up with the cycle of a year calendar, and how there were,
there were five cycles of 72 that they would come up with. There was the five remaining days. And
just, there was so much, man, that really, you never get told is mainly start to look outside of
the box that I was in. And that was what got me. That drive was, they're not going to tell me this
at church. And it started realizing there's a reason that they don't know this information.
And they're not willing to discuss it. It broadens the scope of anyone who's willing to really look.
And I find that to be such a shame that, you know, churchgoers today don't want to
go down that route of exploring the stellar connection to their religion, because that
aspect of it doesn't require them discarding anything about their faith or any of their core
theological tenets, because the Bible itself often highlighted, you pointed out some of the
more subtle, it was like Jesus being blind in the world and talking about, they're being 12 hours
in a day, and hey, I've got 12 disciples. That's some of the more subtle, or you might even,
there's eight cryptic stuff, but especially more so in the Old Testament, it's a lot more overt.
Right in Genesis, when God creates the stars, he says, I give these to you for signs to follow
the seasons and to, you know, chart your location and things like that, to be a guiding system
for the stars. Now, we know scientifically, actually, that's that's bullshit, but the point being that
for a Christian, if you take the Bible literally, God is telling you to look at the stars and observe
patterns between the stars and what's going on in the world around you, like you said it, to
find the correlation and not to go so far as to astrology, which also, again, the Bible explicitly
condemns. So we're all in sync, but that can open up a whole new area of appreciation and wonder and
beauty for your culture as a Christian is to understand how star patterns were integrated
into the stories in the Bible. You know, Price mentioned that. He talked about how
because he continued to attend church for some time, even after he relinquished his faith.
And for him, you know, once he was partaking of the Eucharistic bread and wine, it was that much
cooler to him, you know, because of the fact that he realized that that had such a long
history from time immemorial in its manifestation as a mystery and
partaking of the, you know, the energy of the God who represented the grain or the wine or the
grape or whatever. It just it was that much more profound an experience for him after that. So.
Well, gentlemen, what do you think about wrapping this up for round one? And we schedule another
because there's too much. There's too much that we can cover when it comes to this topic. I'm with
you guys. I think that there's this they're going to sell themselves short if they don't realize
how much Hellenization really opened the door to just like the freedom of thought between
cultures. And there are groups who read this New Testament who want to demand. And I'm not just
talking about these guys. I'm talking about their groups in which that I'm acquainted with, which
are not, you know, the scholars realm called Israel only, for example. It's all biological
descendants of Abraham only even Paul's Gentiles, according to them, were biological descendants of
Abraham. And they do a lot of different things on why they interpret that. I'll leave that for
another discussion. However, there isn't this back and forth. They don't really, they don't see why
they see why Jews would use Hellenistic ideas. They don't see why the Jewish religion
would also have its impact on the world around them. And that is another key point here. I love
what you guys are talking about here, because it then allows the door for Dionysus, the Osiris
rituals, the other practices to enter the realm of Judaism. And I was going to mention this earlier,
Russell Gamirkin, if you've not read his book, Neil and Derek, you guys should really check it out.
I just recently read it called Plato and the creation of the Hebrew Bible. And his thesis is,
and what he does is he takes one of the most boring things you can do and actually makes it
quite interesting. The laws, like all the laws, and he goes extensively in detail, paralleling them
to the ancient Near Eastern cultures and theirs from the Hammurabi Code, the Hittites, the Athenian
and the Greek laws, et cetera, et cetera. And he shows that there's more of a comparison to the
Athenian Greek laws and the Hebrew Bible's laws in the Constitution of the Hebrew, the Hebrew
Bible or the Hebrew Old Testament, to Plato's laws and the Athenian Greek laws than it does to
the Hammurabi or ancient Near Eastern in many cases. Very few areas does it differ and it supports
more of the ancient Near Eastern interpretation over against the Greek and the Plato interpretation.
And Plato, you know, one of the things he does is powerful. This comes down to empirical evidence,
right? We want to be about evidence as much as possible. His thesis is minimalism. He believes
that we've started with late dates because the book seems late, it talks late, it acts late,
it sounds late in many ways. And he says, the problem is we've got to go with what we know
and what we have of evidence. And he dates it back to 270 BC when they claimed that they wanted a
translation of the Hebrew Bible. And that's when they translated it in the Greek. He says,
this is when they invented, this is when they created the Constitution for the Hebrew people.
And he goes to lay out the evidence by going to their sources in the Alexandrian Library,
Minitho and Borosus. And Minitho, I believe, was the Persian or, I'm sorry, the Egyptian
source. And Borosus is the Babylonian. So you got to ask yourself, why did Abraham come from
Ur of Chaldees? Well, you're going to find out if you read the book. And anyway, I just thought it
was interesting to say that because if the Hebrew Bible was created in the Hellenistic era,
all right, not saying they didn't pull from older sources, not saying they didn't incorporate
concepts they liked, even if it was a little different from the Greeks. Predominantly,
they borrowed Athenian and Platonic laws and gave it their own spin for their own Constitution.
If he's correct, this blows the whole door open to, well, only one way street. No, no, no, no,
my friend. This is a clear mishmash of Hellenism that we start to see. And this is why a cult
like Christianity could arise, in my opinion. Anyway, I'll shut up.
I found that absolutely fascinating. I mean, I've heard similar viewpoints before. I think it's
called the Copenhagen School, which yes, the Greek version of the Old Testament with the
Septuagint or whatever was was the first version of the Old Testament. But I'm not that well read
into the arguments about it. So yeah, I would love to get a hold on this book.
Yeah, he takes the Copenhagen School approach. Thomas L. Thompson, which is one of the guys
from the Copenhagen School, saw what he wrote. He's not even a PhD. He's a writer, prolific
researcher and writer. And when he found this guy's book, Russell Goodman, he said,
we have to publish this. This is unbelievable. And what made it unique, the title in the book is
literally the Achilles Hill, if he's right, Plato and the creation of the Hebrew Bible.
You can show parallels. He opens it up in the first chapter and says,
guys, you see the Greek parallels? This is what the scholars have been saying about the parallels
to the Greek culture's laws in the Bible. When you find parallels to the Greeks, all that is,
according to these scholars, is a long, long time ago, somewhere along the Levant,
the Greeks bumped shoulders with someone that bumped shoulders with the Israelites
or had direct contact. We have no evidence of how, we have no evidence of who, we have no evidence
of when, but it happened at some point, way a long, long time ago. And this is where the Greek
stuff found its way into the Hebrew Bible. This guy says, listen, that theory doesn't work anymore.
And let me tell you why. And the whole book lays out because he shows, not just Greek influence,
he shows laws that don't exist in antiquity, but only exclusively in Plato's laws, Plato's writings.
So how did they find their way? The least you could say is they were interpolated.
The most you could say is when it was developed, they incorporated at the Alexandrian Library with
all of the other sources that they had at their disposal to create something that we call the
Hebrew Bible. And I thought it was a fascinating book, dude. It was so fascinating, 300, like 26
pages. I read it in eight hours. I never consumed books that quick. I was like, I was here and
on my computer screen, it's wide, so I could like zoom through it and I was consuming it, man.
Damn, yeah, yeah, I got to get ahold of this. It's good, but it's a little expensive. So you
might want to get it on ebook if you could read ebook. Expensive is the name of the game in this
line of work or I guess hobby. I'm sure you've seen some of the books we have to quote from,
try to order a copy. They're basically like college textbooks, 200,000 copies of shit.
Well, you and Derek, man, Derek, the last episode I did, there's so much more I know you have, Derek,
that you want to talk about and you can cover in the next episodes. I really want to keep this
trio going because we piggyback off each other and Derek kept centering us back on something
important that I think is relevant right now and that's the Litwa assessment of Methodism
lately since he came out with his recent book and criticizing Dr. Carrier in Methodism.
Not saying, I'm agnostic too, guys. We have a trio of agnosticism here when it comes to whether
there was a guy at the base. None of us know with certainty. We're open-minded to the conclusion that
he may not have. We are open-minded to the idea that he could have even though we kind of wonder,
well, then what or who was he? Was he a rebel? Was he a stoic philosopher? Was he a magician?
You know, like there's so many different Jesus. More and more. I'm starting to think he was a
Jew, to be honest.
Over against what?
That just, when I read the ravine, it's like that, this, this, this is.
I think Celsus would disagree with you when he was born by Pantheris, according to Celsus, you know.
Anyway, with regard to Lila, I just, you know, the guy's a great scholar. I just was kind of caught
sideways by that particular chapter in his discussion of that material. I'm going to cover that,
though, in a blog. It is tentatively titled Rising God's Ideal Types and Cultural Context.
So I'm a much better writer than I am speaker in case you haven't noticed.
Sorry, guys, but I'm going to, I'm going to cover that in much greater detail in the blog.
And so you all can look forward to that. And that's all I got.
Go down in the description. If you guys are watching this, check out both of their materials.
You've got a whole website, Neil, like covering a vast, it wasn't aliens. It was aliens. No,
I'm just kidding. You have some really funny, cool blogs.
But seriously, go check them all out. Show them some love. And maybe at some point, we can do
this again here soon and talk about topics. Guys, drop a comment down on the video. Derek and Neil
will keep an eye on the comments section if you guys have questions. But we'll try and cover some
ideas that you guys bring up down in the description. It sounds like we haven't even opened the door
with you, Neil, when it comes to numbers and star patterns and all that good stuff. So I look forward
to that. Definitely. I love to get my nerd on about this stuff, as they say. Food is ready,
gentlemen. And with that, don't forget we are MythVision.
Join our Patreon.
We are MythVision.
