Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can also donate through PayPal and Cash App.
Join the social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter, Facebook, all sorts of social media.
Help the community of MythVision grow.
Hit the subscribe button, hit that bell so you guys are notified every time I do a live
video and you don't miss any of my content.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Today I have 5th with us.
If you will, I'm going to call him that through the entire interview.
His real name is Cliff Henderson.
He was on the Leah Remney show, The Scientology and the Aftermath.
He was on there with a lot of other ex-Jahovahs witnesses.
The show takes us through Scientology and you go into the crazy stuff that they believed
and the things they do to keep their members from escaping the cult.
That's what I'm actually interested in starting to show you guys on MythVision more.
I want to reveal some of the issues with these cults and why religion can be harmful, why
these ideologies can really destroy households, families and people's own lives.
So toward the end of the show, I was like, okay, this is all Scientology, Scientology,
Scientology.
What just happened?
The Kingdom Hall?
What are you talking about?
144,000?
I started hearing numbers.
I said, okay, hold on.
This took a turn, but it wasn't, it was the craziest turn.
It wasn't a turn like you would think where it was completely different.
It like almost closely compared Scientology and Jehovah's Witness cult in a similar fashion.
My heart went out to the guys who expressed and you were one of them.
So welcome to the show 5th.
I appreciate you joining me, bro.
Thank you for having me, Derek.
Man, it's really, really a pleasure for me to be on with you.
Yeah, man.
I know that right these days, it's not like you're not like doing it like you were, you
know, pro-activism all the time talking about this because you're moving on in life.
However, there's a lot of people who are still stuck that might need to hear this message
today.
And I really want some of them that might be sitting on the fence to consider from your
heart.
Like, I want this to be real.
I want you to just tell the truth, straight up what you felt, what happened, what it's
like.
And that's all you can do, man.
And maybe you can help some people just like yourself because I can tell you're a good
guy, man.
And, you know, your parents still don't talk to you till this day.
And that's a tough thing for anyone.
So with that being said, bro, I figure why not just start with this?
I want to give a shout out to my boy, first things first.
You know, he introduced me to you, you know, and he is an extra Jehovah's Witness.
He himself, his father, literally 48 years, is recently having to deal with leaving the
cult, completely leaving this cult.
And I honestly can't tell you how painful that must be, really, honestly.
David Samuel, I appreciate everything, man, and helping me get hooked up with Cliff and
taking an interest in the Jehovah's Witnesses altogether.
Because Jehovah's Witnesses, I'm going to say this now, 99.9% of them are good people.
For anyone watching that are just bashers of religion and an anti-theist, I get it.
Don't get me wrong.
I get it.
You're a skeptic.
I'm a skeptic.
But these are people.
And they really think they're thinking the right way.
They mean well.
We're all trying to know the truth.
We're all trying to figure out what the truth is.
We really are.
And they think they have it.
But cognitive dissonance and manipulation and some of the tools that have been known
for a long time by humans who've developed ways of controlling people by using ideologies
and such and got to the gaps explaining what we don't understand.
And here I've got the package and it sounds good.
It feels good.
And that's all they're doing.
So we want to try and unravel the package without destroying it because most of them
are run and hide and not even listening to this message today.
We want this to be a message of love and we want it to be of truth.
And so with that being said, I'm done preaching Cliff.
I'm sorry.
I called you by your first name.
Your name's over here in the video.
But fifth, I appreciate it, man.
And so my boy David's dad's leaving the cult and I figure why not start off with a few
things.
You have a YouTube channel, two YouTube channels, one about music.
And the other one is actually called XJW fifth, if I'm not mistaken.
What does that mean?
What does fifth mean?
You go by the name fifth.
What's that mean?
Yeah.
So that's funny.
There's actually a lot of misconceptions about why I'm called that, but it's actually
pretty simple.
So fifth is actually my suffix, like you have junior third.
So believe it or not, I'm literally like my name, as you say, Cliff Henderson, I'm literally
Cliff the fifth.
My dad is the fourth, his dad was the third.
So fifth has actually been my nickname since I was a teenager.
That's just something people called me my friends and even sometimes within my family.
So when I started my YouTube channel, whether it was for the music or for the activism,
I just went by what my nickname was.
I kind of wanted to, to bring people in on a more personal level, since that's what,
you know, people that were close to me would actually call me.
So it has nothing to do with being like a fifth generation Jehovah's Witness?
No, no, I've heard, I've heard people surmise that.
But so actually, if you're, if you're asking about the generations, I will be considered
a third generation Jehovah's Witness.
You know, my grandparents on either side were, were, were or are Jehovah's Witnesses,
you know, so yeah, I'm third generation.
That's interesting.
Yeah, that was the first thing that came to my mind, honestly.
They're very biblical minded people, you know, in air, infallible, every word, every jot
and title I saw recently in the court, they're dealing with legality stuff down in Australia,
if I'm not mistaken.
I did see a video where the courts were asking, so you're telling me, and this is actually,
I think was mentioned on the Leah Remini show, where they said, you are telling me you have
to have more than one witness to investigate a crime or investigate a child molestation
or something like that.
And they were like, when two or more are gathered, like two or three witnesses, we go by the
law of God and in the Bible, and there's a lot of that stuff going on.
So I just, I want to mention they're that literal, they're that strict about the Bible
and that's when you start to run into these problems, I think.
What do you think? Exactly.
Yeah, and, and, you know, one one way of looking at it is they're very strict on the Bible,
but even as was kind of shown in that court case in Australia, is still very selective, right?
I mean, there's still certain things that, like, for example, this is not something that I usually
think of, but this is just something that came about my right now.
But for the most part, you won't see Jehovah's Witnesses with Beards, you know, I don't know
if you, if anybody has ever noticed that book, but it's very rare and I'm only giving the
caveat that it's possible because there, you know, there may be some countries where it's
a little bit more acceptable or there may be people who are not actually active Jehovah's
Witnesses that subscribe to the beliefs that grow a beer, but they don't, you know, they
probably don't go to the meetings and go to the religious services because that's just
the thing with Jehovah's Witnesses.
They don't have beards in the Bible.
If you look at, you know, the what's considered the Old Testament, you'll see a lot of things
about it being shameful for a man to shave his beard.
You know, there's there's different things like that to where it's is definitely selective.
You know, the way that they will express it is that they follow everything to the T, but
you would definitely follow and find things that they're able to kind of explain away
and say, well, not this because of this and that, you know.
Yeah, that's every every call does that, too.
Do they do they do that with like with with kosher diet?
Like what what do they eat?
Do they eat? Is there something they don't eat?
No, the diet is the same.
The only thing and this is like as a Jehovah's Witness, I never encountered something that
like I wasn't supposed to eat.
Actually, it happened one time, but this is so rare.
So I was in Argentina at one point, just traveling as a Jehovah's Witness and they had
something and I'm not going to say the name because I forget it's been a while, but they
had like a blood sausage and blood.
If people know anything about Jehovah's Witnesses, you know, they know the transfusions are off
limits. You can't get a blood transfusion, even if it's, you know, to save your life.
But you also can't eat blood, right?
So something like that.
And again, that's kind of like that's not going to really come up in the average Jehovah's
Witnesses life and be like, Oh, is that a blood sausage?
Like it's very rare, you know.
So yeah, but but there's not there's no diet.
There's no dietary restrictions for the most part with Jehovah's Witnesses.
Yeah, that's interesting.
So all right, I want to take us into baptism here real quick.
And I'm going to try and give the quotations to kind of specify this is lingo that is a
specifically Jehovah's Witnesses have meaning to these terms.
And you can maybe spell out some of the stuff.
So you're born into the religion baptized at eleven, I think, if that's if I'm not
mistaken, perhaps let me ask you like this, what's the difference between baptized at eleven
or being christened as a baby in the Catholic Church, etc.
At age eleven, you are still a baby mentally, yet the Jehovah's Witnesses make you sign
a lifelong contract, kind of like the Sea Org members do a billion years or whatever.
Here you have a lifelong contract at such a young age with which has severe ramifications
as an adult.
And from my understanding, you get baptized in the father, the son and the spirit directed
organization.
Is that what they say?
Right. So I'm going to correct a few just a couple of minor things.
So I was baptized when I was nine, number one.
And there is not an actual contract.
I in my music video called Calls to Doing Business, you know, later when I when I started
doing music, I use a contract to represent what baptism actually means for Jehovah's
Witness. So when you compare it to, you know, I think you think you said the Catholic Church
or other, you know, religions, you know, as far as I know, oftentimes they will get baptized
as a as a baby or a different thing like that.
But because of what you just said, you know, when you say father, son and the spirit directed
organization, you're linking yourself, you're marrying yourself to to an organization.
So if at any point you ever renege or you, you know, as they would say, basically, you
go back on that dedication that you made, even if you make it as a as a child, you're
liable for the two experiences.
The your you will experience the consequences that come with breaking that that contract,
so to speak, right? And again, it's just the baptism.
But what it represents is a contract and it represents that you will be a Jehovah's Witness
and you will follow Jehovah's Witnesses teachings that you will never question the leadership,
that you will never do things that are against their, in many cases, peculiar interpretations
of the Bible. And, you know, if you ever do commit any of those trans transgressions,
there is a procedure, there's like a court, you know, that you kind of go through. And,
you know, maybe we'll get into that a little bit later.
But yes, so basically, at whatever it, you know, there are people who get baptized.
My mother got baptized at seven. And that's not very common, I would say, for most people
that are raised as Jehovah's Witnesses, I would say the average is probably somewhere
in the neighborhood of like 12 and 15, which is still really young, right? You can't really
qualify, you don't qualify to do anything else in life in a lot of countries between
those ages, right? So, you know, the age that I got baptized and some of my siblings and
my mother is even is even younger, but it's allowed, you know, I've heard people get baptized
as young as five. And the idea is, again, you know, you think about what you're thinking
at age nine, your parents could come and say anything to you. And you're like, okay, that's
what we're doing, you know, and that's basically how it went for me. You know, I was nine. All I
knew was this, it wasn't like, is this the truth? Or is this the true religion? Or should I, you
know, question this like that? Those thoughts don't even, for them, for the average nine year
old, or even 12 year old, or maybe even 15 year old, those thoughts don't really cost your,
your mind, right? Because that's just what you're, that's just what you're used to.
Yeah. Yeah, I totally agree. And it's a lifelong, a lifelong allegiance to an organization. So I
want to ask you real quick, and we can move to another topic here. Do they literally baptize
you in the name of the father, the son, and the spirit directed organizations? That what they
say? Yeah, so sometimes the language changes on the specific questions. I know the questions
have changed like over the years, but I believe that is the wording of it now.
Wow. And I think that's been the wording of it for a while. It's just, it's changed at some,
it's changed at some point. But yes, that's, that's the, that's the wording. And basically,
there's also another follow up question, if I remember correctly, again, it's going back a
while. But if I remember correctly, they also say, do you understand that your baptism identifies
you as one of Jehovah's Witnesses? So in either case, they make sure that it's stated that this
baptism is directly related to the Jehovah's Witness organization. You know, they make that
pretty clear. So they, they give like a talk, you know, they give like a speech, and then,
you know, they ask everybody who has gone through questions, that you go through questions with
elders on three different occasions, three different elders, and you know, that may take
several weeks, and then at the end, the three elders confer, and they decide if you basically
passed, or if you didn't pass. And if they decide that you pass at the next big meeting of Jehovah's
Witnesses, you're one of the people that stands up and, you know, and has to answer those questions.
Do you understand this? Do you understand that? There's two questions, and then you give baptize.
Wow. Okay. Yeah, that's pretty weird. They didn't just say Holy Spirit, they make it an
organization, which sounds like Scientology, very cult-like. So you're not attacking, you're not
attacking a entity, so to speak, or something being Spirit. No, you're attacking a physical
organization, which makes it more, I think the cults really use that. Scientology does similar
stuff. So you've been out for a few years. Tell us a little bit of your deconversion story, or
how you came to leave the organization. Let me phrase it like this. I also
deconstructed, I like to call it deconstructed, de-converted, whatever you want to call it.
There were things I can look back and pull out what happened when I was thinking this way, and
these things are what came into my path of thinking that caused me to start questioning
and considering new evidence for me. And I want to ask you in such a cult, and let me say this up
front, because I have my notes, but it's kind of later that you worked in Bethel, okay? This is,
if you're a Jehovah's Witness or ever were a Jehovah's Witness, you know this is the legit
hierarchy of the organization, the very thing you're baptized into. You worked there. And so
I want to say, you were up there, and then what happened? What happened in your heart, in your
mind? What caused you to change and leave? So I always struggle to tell an abbreviated
version of this story, because as you can probably attest to, you know, I don't know the details of
your story in particular, but I think most of the time it's usually a series of things, right?
It's usually an accumulation of like, okay, this happened, and I was like, okay, that's weird, but
I'm gonna just kind of keep going, and then something else happens, and you know, and then
eventually it gets to a point where you're almost forced to deal with it, right? And you kind of
keep pushing it off until you have to. So basically what happened with me is, you know,
at different points in my life, I was presented with different things. One time I was out,
you know, Jehovah's Witnesses are known for like knocking on doors or like
trying to convert people at train stations or whatever, you know, out in public. So I remember,
you know, when I was 17, I came across somebody who, you know, I was out doing that, and he kind
of told me some things about the founder of the religion that I didn't know, and, you know, he
was bringing up some some some prophecies, some failed prophecies that I had never heard of, because
that's the thing with as with a lot of groups similar to Jehovah's Witnesses, you know,
you may not know about some of the skeletons in the religion's closet from just a decade or two
decades before, right? Because even my parents, for example, would just never talk about it. They've
been in it for whatever, but it's just, you know, hey, we're past that, God is enlightening us,
wow, so people don't talk about some of those things, right? So anyway, there was a situation where,
you know, I came to learn about the year 1975, where the organization all but explicitly predicted
that Armageddon would come, right? They have plausible deniability to a degree where they say,
well, we didn't exactly, but you basically said it, you know, like people were selling their homes
and people were doing all kind of stuff, because it basically was conveyed that that was going to
happen. So, you know, obviously, I didn't know about that I was born in the 80s. So I didn't hear
about that. So anyway, when I was 17, I came across this guy doing the door knocking thing,
he mentioned that, you know, so whatever, you know, I kind of asked my dad about it and whatever
just kind of pushed it out of my mind, right? So then years later, other little things would happen,
you know, I had some friends that were close to me that were just as committed to me or committed
to the religion as I was. And, you know, out of nowhere, even some of them who also worked at the
headquarters that I did, they said, you know, basically, I've come to realize that this isn't
true. And just different things that would happen that will kind of, you know, they were kind of,
how do I say this, they would just give me at least a reason to have to consider the possibility
that this is not the absolute truth, right? Because because prior to that, it's not even a
it's not even something that goes to your mind, right? This is the truth because this is all I
know, right? All of my family is in this, all of my friends are in this, I've obeyed the rules and
haven't established relationships of any kind with people outside of this. So it's not really an
option for me to consider that something is wrong with this, right? But there were things that were
kind of forcing me to at least have to think about it. And then, you know, you read the Jehovah's
Witness publications, they say, hey, that Satan trying to trick you and blah, blah, blah. So anyway,
eventually, there was there was some of those things happening, I still have, you know, kind of a
high position in the in the religion. And eventually, it basically got to a point where
those, those, those doubts, those questions just became so loud in my head that I couldn't really
ignore it anymore. But I was still scared to do research, because as with many groups, you know,
you're not supposed to do any research outside of their authorized approved literature, you know,
every, everything that anybody else says against it is a lie and Satan and blah, blah, blah, right?
So, you know, I didn't do any of that. But eventually, you know, I just got depressed
because the cognitive dissonance was going on. I was like, it doesn't make sense, but it has to
make sense. It better make sense. You know, I stopped going to the services for a couple of months.
And then eventually, and if you have any questions about this later, I know it's kind of a lot,
you know, I'm kind of going into a little bit about the process of things, but it's okay.
I stopped going to the services for a couple of months just being depressed at my home.
And, you know, during that time, I was no longer following all of their rules, right? I wasn't
following all of the Jehovah's Witness rules. So, you know, after a couple of months, you know,
whatever it is that they kind of put in, you kind of started bugging me and I'm like, okay,
maybe it's true, maybe Satan is tricking me with this depression, blah, blah. So let me go back.
And let me try to, you know, rekindle my faith or whatever. You tried. You tried. Okay. Okay. So
I like this because I did very, I tried and I want to say for anyone watching, if you've
never been a person of faith, which a lot of people who see my stuff from never believers even,
like we really think we're, we're trying. I don't know with, with what we can allow and what is
acceptable, we're trying with those tools. But as you said, someone comes in with a foreign type
of tool and you're like, yo, I'm not supposed to use that. They told me that tools not supposed
to be used. It's not on my list. But for whatever reason, the way they presented and the way they
describe it was in just the right way, we needed to hear it at that moment to even just listen to
them and plant that seed in the back of our head that said, listen, you might want to look into
this, you might want to consider this. And then now I got you, I got you. But later on, 10 other
tools come in. So I'm sorry, I had to just say that that's power. No problem. And that, and that's
the thing, you know, that's, that's what people, I think is important that you bring that point
up because it's not like, you know, you go out in a blaze of whatever you just, you know,
this is your whole life, especially in my case, right? This is, this is everything. Everybody's
wrapped into this thing. You know, I didn't go to college, I had a 4.0 GPA in high school,
and I didn't go to college because they frown on college, right? They want you to pursue these
other things. So what, so I made all these sacrifices. So I'm like, no, it's got to be true,
right? So I'm trying, I'm still kind of trying to make it work in my head. Eventually, basically
when I, when I decide like, okay, I'm going to go back and try to like, try to work it out.
What happens is if you, during that period, you know, I, since I wasn't following those rules,
I ended up committing one of the very long list of transgressions that they have, right, as that
you're not supposed to do as a Jehovah's Witness. And because they emphasize that so much that, hey,
if you have any of those transgressions, you know, you know, you have to confess it. In my case,
it was being with a woman. And so because I was still kind of had the brainwashing going and I
was trying to like, okay, I want to, I want to do everything by the book still, even though I'm not
100% sure, I went in and confessed to the, to the elders, which is what you're supposed to do,
according to the literature. And basically because of that, they disfellowship me, which is like the
excommunication or whatever, even though I was telling them, hey, like, I got into this space
because I was having doubts. I wasn't sure. I didn't know what was going on. And that's what,
you know, led to this. But now I'm just trying to put my best before it. I'm telling on myself,
you know, kind of thing. So I ended up getting disfellowship and that, that cuts you off from
your family and from everybody that's within that group, you know, let me ask you this real
quick fifth, because this is important. When you try to go back and you confessed, I've heard that
some people who try to make it work, they penalize them or they punish them by letting them attend
meetings, but don't speak to anybody, get in, get out, like that kind of stuff. Was it like they
just knew with you? They were like, yeah, we're done. I mean, it might depend on the hall, but
yeah, so it's a, it's a little, this is kind of where the, the nuances come in. So, so basically,
you know, I don't know how, how detailed you want me to get into the process, but, but basically
how it works is when the elders find out whether it's through your confession or through somebody
telling on you, because that's another thing that they encourage within the religion, tell on
your fellow member, if you know about a transgression, right? So if the elders come to find out about
it, they have basically a little trial and the trial is you, you know, the accused center and
three elders, right? And so what happens is at that point, once it gets to that point,
it's not about, did you do it or not? It's about, are you sorry enough for us to allow you to
continue to have your relationship with other Jehovah's Witnesses, right? And they have this
book that you actually don't know about. You don't know about because you're not an elder, right?
So like as a, just a ranking file or anything below an elder, you've never read this book,
you don't know anything about this book. It's, it's, it's their secret manual that the elders have.
It's online. You can look at it now, but you know, as a Jehovah's Witness, you don't really know
about it. So you tell them whatever they amongst themselves, they look at this book and they figure
out, you know, what, what the punishment should be. And basically, if you, if they determine that
you're sorry enough for this transgression, then they just put some restrictions on you.
And like, you know, there's things that you can't do, but you can still have communication and
you're not like completely shunned. But if they determine that you haven't met your burden of
proof, essentially what it is, it's like the court, right? You have the burden of proof to say,
I'm so sorry. I was so stupid. I love Jehovah. I'm so, I can't believe what I did. You know, blah,
blah, whatever. If they're not convinced, and you can say all of those things, but you have,
they have to be convinced. It's really up to them, the elders, right? So you can be sitting there
crying, you know, you can be sitting there just cut to heart and like scared and blah, blah,
blah. But if, if those elders are not convinced and aren't satisfied, then they're going to say,
you're disfellowshipped. And that's, that's how it works, right? So once I came forward and said
this, but I'm trying to work on this, blah, blah. I had the three elder meeting. I was very
I was just confused. You know, I was very honest with them because I was a true believer,
even though I was having like my doubts or whatever. I just wasn't sure. You trusted this
organization though. You trusted confiding in them and saying, I messed up. I know that we
haven't written. And what they did is disfellowship you though. They said, right, they didn't believe
you. They didn't think you were. Yeah. Hmm. Well, see, and that's the thing. It's yeah,
basically, I'm asking you to kind of speak from your mind in your mind because I'm not,
I can't read their minds, but in your mind, when this is happening to you, you have doubts right
now. Yeah, you're in there. You had doubts. Were you kind of done and part of you wanted to make
it work? But at the same time, you were confused. You were like, yo, I don't think this is true
anymore like it was. But like, it's all I know. So I'm going to try it. And that's basically it.
They could see that. They could see that. Right. And they said, Satan, Satan. Yeah.
And that's the thing they have. They have this book that they go by. So it's like, if you say
certain things or don't say certain things, you know, when you're excused from the room and they're
deliberating, they're looking through this book that you don't know about. And it's like, well,
there's this, there's this, there's this, you check these boxes, you know, and then also just
whatever their opinion is, whatever their feeling is. And so, yeah, so that's what they did. So they
disfellowship me. So when you're, when you're disfellowship or excommunicated,
everybody's supposed to stop talking to you, you know, they make an announcement and then that,
that announcement kind of reverberates around the entire world by text message and phone.
Did you hear about such and such, you know, and then so everybody knows.
And so, you know, you don't have communication with anybody who's a job as witness. And then
what happens is there's a, there's a path to reinstatement. Right. So it's like,
and that's where that's where that comes in, what you were describing where you kind of,
you still have to go to the beat. So in order to get reinstated, you basically have to continue to
go to all of the religious services. They have to like look at your literature and see that it's
underlined and studied and all of that kind of stuff. And if they see that, and you do that for,
it could take six months, it could take two years, it could take three years. Like people have sat out
for a long time while actively trying to get back in. And it's really just up to their discretion
and that book that they have that you don't know about, you know, even once you're disfellowship,
you don't know about that book. So, you know, that's why they say it's not forever sunning,
right? You have to, if you come back and then like, okay, now I'm not doing the thing that got me
excommunicated anymore, and I am now going to be a perfect Jehovah's Witness. I'm going to do
everything right. I believe everything that's taught, blah, blah, blah. Right. So basically,
what happened to me is once I got disfellowship, and I, and I actually was thinking like, okay,
maybe I am going to be just kind of going back, you know, I, that's when I decided, you know what,
this is a unique situation where I'm kind of disconnected from, from everybody. I'm kind of,
I'm a person of, for whatever's worth, I'm a person of integrity. So like, I said, I got to find out
one way or the other, like, I got to decide, is this true? And if it's true, I'll do it. If it's
not, I just, this doesn't make sense anymore. Even though I don't know anything, I don't even know
what's out there. I don't know anything about anything, but like, I owe it to myself to figure
this out, because I've been struggling with these questions for so long, right? So I started doing
my research, and it doesn't take long. Once you actually, you probably know, like, in most of
these cases, you start doing any reading, right? The stuff that you're not supposed to look at,
because it's all Satan and blah, blah. The minute you look at it, you're like, yeah, that's exactly
what I was thinking, or this is exactly how I felt the whole time. And you start reading it,
or you start watching these videos and different things, you're like, yep, that's it. So it didn't
take me, it took me a couple of weeks, because I was already had that kind of build up, took me a
couple of weeks, and I was like, I can't go back. I don't know what I'm going to do. I have no idea
what life is going to look like, but I can't do that anymore, because it's not true. It's not true.
So that's basically my story. So what happened when you got disfellowshipped? Let me ask you
this one question. Did you ever step back into a hall again and go to a since then? Have you ever
stepped back into a service after that? After I got disfellowshipped, yes, you know, because like I
said, I wasn't sure I was going to the meetings for like two weeks. And I did experience the
disfellowshipped treatment of somebody who's disfellowshipped and like trying to go back,
because you go, everybody kind of puts their head down, nobody looks at you, you kind of walk in,
you know, after it starts and you leave, like before it ends so that there's no interaction
with you and other people. So I experienced that for a couple of weeks. And I'm going to be honest,
I treated people like that, right? Because that's what I was when I was a Jehovah's Witness, and
there were people that were disfellowshipped, and they would come and they're all ashamed and blah,
blah. And I thought that's what we were supposed to be doing, right? So like, I didn't talk to
people, blah, blah. And then they would come back and it's like, right, welcome back, you know,
after six months or two years or whatever it was. And it took me a couple of weeks. And I said,
something's off, something's really, really wrong with this. And I'm starting to really feel
something is off. So anyway, I did go for a couple of weeks. And then it got to a point where I
couldn't stomach it anymore. It was like, this doesn't feel, this doesn't feel authentic for
some reason. You know, and then I did my research and that was it. What about mom and dad? What
happened after this? Yeah, so how did they take it? And then I don't know, this is getting into
personal, but no, it's fine. Okay. Go ahead. Yeah, no, I just, I just, I just wonder, man, because
my mom asks me to pray all the time when I when I bump into her, because she knows,
she even tells me that Derek, now, you know, you can have your own beliefs. I don't even know what
you believe if you do believe. And I'm a skeptic, right? So I'm actually, by definition, an atheist,
even though I'm not like a hater of anybody who believes like I just personally, I don't think
there's sufficient evidence for me to actually believe a God or a specific type of deity or
whatever. Hey, is pantheism true? Maybe. But I just, I think there may be a natural explanation for
the things that we see around us in the world that we live in, even though I don't have all the answers.
And so anyway, my mom will ask me to pray. She knows I've been excommunicated from the
Presbyterian church and I went into heresy big time. And then, you know, I just, I'm like you
in many ways that we could definitely share a show on that. But my mom asks me to pray all the time.
She still communicates with me. She still loves her son because her religion allows for her and
her mind to still do that. But I'll pray right, right in front of her, even though I don't believe
in it, I do it. And mom goes, thank you. I feel so much better. Like it just makes her feel better.
But your mom and dad's religion doesn't allow that. How did they take it? What did they say to you?
What did you say to them before you were never able to talk to them again?
Yeah. So when you're, it's, yeah, this whole thing is so strange, like, especially looking at it
from the outside now, it's like, whoa, that's so, it's so, it's so odd. But basically, when you're
disfellowship and you think like it's possible you're going to come back, which 90% or a large
percentage of people, that's what happens. They're like, oh man, I just messed up and I got to, you
know, come back and this is just part of God's discipline and it's, and it's righteous and
whatever, right? So even though I wasn't for sure what I believe, I, out of love for my parents,
honestly, I was like, Hey, I just got a little confused, you know, I watered it down. I got a
little confused. I'm going to get everything together. I'll be back, you know, because they,
they're, for them, when you get disfellowship, it's like a death almost, right? Because if,
you know, ideas, if Armageddon comes while you're disfellowship, it's probably not looking too good
for you, right? You're probably not going to make it. So it's, it's really like there are tears and
it's literally like somebody dying. And in some cases, I think I could say this without hyperbole,
without exaggerating, it's worse than somebody dying because if somebody dies and they're a faithful
Jehovah's Witness, well, they're probably going to get resurrected, right? But if you're disfellowshipped,
now God hates you, right? Like God literally hates you and he doesn't want your family talking to you,
you know, he'll disapprove of your family if they talk like, it's, it's really like very heavy
things. So when I first got disfellowshipped and I was still kind of disoriented, I told my parents
like, Hey, I love you guys. I'm sorry for the pain, you know, putting you through,
you know, I'm just going to keep working and blah, blah, blah. But once I went through that
couple of week period where I couldn't go to the services anymore, because it was just
something was wrong. And then I did my research. I wrote an email to my parents and to which they
didn't respond. But I wrote an email and I said, you know what? I said, I've come to this conclusion.
I was like, I still love you guys. I'm not trying to end our relationship. I said,
I would love to have a relationship with you guys. I'm not sure what I what to do. What do we do
with this situation when I genuinely from my heart, don't believe this, I can fake it. And there are
people who do and there's no knock to those people, by the way, because I don't blame people for
playing the game to get their relationship with their family. Absolutely. I don't blame people.
There's a lot of people that do that, by the way, and I don't blame them. I just
don't really have that in me for whatever that's for whatever that's worth, good, bad, or indifferent.
That's just, you know, when I was at Jehovah's Witness, I really believed it. Like, I really,
really believed it. And like, I really followed, you know, to it. You know, that's kind of just
my just how I'm how I'm built. So, you know, when I got to a point where I was like, I don't
more, I said, what can what can we do? Like, I know what the rules say, but, you know, if you
guys decide that it's over, then it's, it's really over because it's not one of those situations
where later I'm going to be like, okay, I was just out having fun in the world. And now I'm like,
okay, I need you hope like I literally have looked at this, and it doesn't make sense to me anymore.
Like, I've done, I've analyzed this, and it does not make sense. And I can't
fake it. I'm not capable of faking it, right? So I told them that and there was no answer.
You know, eventually, this is where people are going to be like, no, that guy's crazy.
But eventually, I drove to my parents' house just because I just said, this is crazy. Like,
this is insane. I just drove to their house. And I kind of, and they ended up, because I was there
and it was an hour away, they ended up having a conversation with me. And I just said,
guys, what can we do? I was like, you got look in my eyes, like, I'm being honest. This is not,
I'm not trying to just be like, man, I just want to go and do this and blah, blah, blah. Like, I'm
honestly having, I can't believe this anymore. It doesn't ring true to me anymore. And in fact,
I know it's not, I know it's not, it's not true. And it was basically kind of well, you know,
I'm not, I'm not saying my parents weren't like emotional. They were definitely emotional,
especially my mother. But, you know, they are like, they're good Jehovah's Witnesses,
I'll say that, like Jehovah's Witness theology and leadership makes it very clear where your
loyalty is supposed to lie. You know, they give all these examples where they tie in these biblical
examples of people who chose Jehovah over their family and Jehovah blessed them. Like, it's
very, very, very clear. It's very, it's not ambiguous at all. When you're, when you're
family, your parents, your children, your brother, your sister decides they don't,
they're not going to do this anymore. Your decision is clear.
To the, you go with the organization and you cut them off. And you're prepared for them to die,
basically, right? Not not coldheartedly necessarily, but that's what it is. And that's
basically where, where my parents and my siblings, I'm one of five children,
having spoken to my sisters, my brother, nobody, you know, that's just how it is.
Fifth, it's crazy, bro. I'm sorry that you had to go through that. And maybe one day,
you know, they'll see the truth. And the truth is it's not what they've been believing it.
You know, this is, this just amazing hearing you say this, because I've never heard anyone
describe that, that I've actually talked to in person, this level. So, are you there with us?
Did he glitch out?
I think he glitched out.
You there?
Okay, he's on Facebook.
There you are. Hey, yeah, I'm not sure what, not sure what happened.
No biggie, no biggie. Yeah, I was just saying, it's just crazy, man. The whole thing's just
crazy. So let me ask you some of these questions that I have, because you worked in the world
headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses based in New York. This is the head honcho, the
Bethel, as they as Jehovah's Witnesses will use that term. What was it like working full time
for the religion at the world headquarters? Was what's it like at the world headquarters? I mean,
did you see some of the leading guys from the religion, the top top leaders of the whole thing?
Did you ever bump into them? And yeah, yeah. So, you know, in the context of a believing Jehovah's
Witness who thinks this is the end all be all, it was amazing, you know, to be there, you know,
putting myself back in that mindset. I was there from 19 to 21. And so, you know, it was kind of
like, wow, I'm learning from these very experienced guys, and you know, I'm meeting people from all
over the world, and I even had opportunities to travel and stuff like that. So within that context,
it's, it's like going to the NBA almost, you know, it's kind of, it's kind of along those lines. And
that's kind of how you look at by a lot of Jehovah's Witnesses around the world. Like it's a very
of my of like all the Jehovah's Witnesses, I know is a very small percentage that go there,
you know, that kind of get that there's people that apply to get rejected for whatever reason.
And it's just kind of one of those things that very small percentage go to. But yes, now looking
back at it, you could kind of see how things are just very, you know, they say that everything is
running through Holy Spirit and God and all of this stuff. But you kind of see there's favorites
to just like any corporation, right? There's favoritism, there's, you know, just people
making decisions on a whim, just based on their own feelings and, you know, their their interpretation
of things. And, you know, there is a certain definitely a certain code. So like at when you're
at the headquarters, it's kind of Jehovah's being a Jehovah's Witness on steroids, because
your, you know, certain haircuts that might be like allowed outside or kind of like, oh,
we don't really not here, we don't really allow that or, you know, how you talk and
even how you dress and different things like that. Like it's very regimented, you know,
everything is very regimented. So like what you're wearing right now wouldn't work what you're wearing.
Start with the beard. I couldn't even be a Jehovah's Witness with the beard. But yeah, no.
Yeah, it's very, you know, it's very strict. And they're like, I'm trying to think of examples,
but it's been a few years since I was in that, you know, because I left there as many Jehovah's
Witnesses do and then I continue to be a Jehovah's Witness for years in a very active still like
relatively high level Jehovah's Witnesses. Why'd you leave there? It's no problem. So, man, okay, so
basically what happened with that, I kind of go into more detail in other on other platforms, but
so it's another thing with like, right, so they constantly tell you about guilt and the need
to confess things and things like that. So when I was there, I remembered that when I was a teenager,
I had done something that would probably been against their trans, you know, against their rules,
right? And, you know, you're made to just feel bad about it's something that like, it wouldn't
matter for anybody else, but within that context, it's like, oh my God, you know, these things with
whether it's, you know,
anyway, usually many times it involves like, you know, maybe dealing with the opposite sex or
things like that, right? So I basically, I said, hey, you know, I can't, I went and confessed,
that's just that's kind of what they, what they drill into you. So when I, you know, I was like,
hey, when I was 17, you know, one time I was hanging out with this girl and this happened
and blah, blah, blah. So I had that was actually the first little trial I had, right? I had another
one later that I described earlier. This was the first little trial that I had. And I had it while
I was at Bethel because of just my own conscience that was tormenting me because you know, of how
they always kind of I get it. I had the same thing when it came down to
pornography and you know, you Nate, bro, trust me, I get it. And for the audience who's listening,
there is a shame. You don't even have to be a Jehovah's Witness. You could be a basic Christian
who takes the Bible somewhat serious and goes to a normal Baptist church that if you take this
religion somewhat serious, I don't think most people do take it as serious as what we're taking,
which is why they last 20 and 30 years in the church. Whereas when you get serious about it,
you're either going to be a top dog or you're going to collapse and realize something's not
right. And I think that's what happens here with you. You're serious. You're confessing
because you're really being honest. And it's almost like, bro, the guy who's asking you to
confess to him, he probably done way worse and never had to say nothing about it. He took
it to his grave because he saw what happened to people like you. I'm just saying I'm not judging
them. I don't know I'm saying, but we don't have to dwell much on that. I guess what we can do is
either another episode or they can go check out your YouTube channel to get into this. But I can
see that start to once again, push you outside and make you, oh, well, you can't be in this
organization over here at this building anymore or whatever. Exactly. And just to kind of like,
I guess, kind of put a bow on that. So remember I said how when you go through that trial period,
you could either get kicked out like I did the second time or you can get restrictions on you.
So what happened is the first, that first time they put, they decided I was sorry enough,
and it happened long ago enough to where they just put restrictions on it. But in that process,
you can't be at this pinnacle anymore. You know, you can't be here at Bethel anymore, but you can,
you know, you can kind of be, be a regular job as a witness, but you even out there,
you have restrictions, you know, so there's, there's kind of always that, that thing going on. So
that that's basically what happened. And that's why I ended up like leaving the headquarters.
Wow. I know someone who's a Jehovah's Witness watching right now will see why you're wrong.
And like, you know what I mean? In their head, they'll go, yep, yep. See, y'all are blind because
you think that's silly. No, that's the truth. And that's how crazy this thing is. It's so amazing
how they could do that. Okay. Well, we got you to speak on that. I want to talk about your
pioneering, as they call it. You were out there, knock, knock. Hello. Have you ever heard of
Jehovah or whatever? You know, you're out here giving your spiel. You're like a salesman from
door to door who's trying to sell salvation, if you will. I used to donate to them once in a while,
giving 50 cents to a dollar for magazine, you know, and cartoons, little white and black kids
petting lions, which is interesting because this gets into the race thing. I wanted to ask
real quick when we get to the door to door, I want you to tackle both of these. This wasn't
on our list when I sent you the notes, but I wanted to ask because racial tensions are so
big, especially with the media right now. It's like, it's a big deal. Yeah. It's a reality,
though, in many places in in the United States. It's a fact that this happens. Right. And a lot
of these cults, like Scientology, like, well, I won't say them as much, even though they're
predominantly white people, Mormonism. If you know the history of Joseph Smith, you'll be like,
oh, my gosh, from the Indians, the Indians were darker skin because of their sin. And like,
this goes into this. And this isn't me making this up like the legitimate early sources talk
about this. So is their racism built into the system of Jehovah's Witnesses? Or do they have
such an ideological bubble that sees like past skin color, you know, like, because the cult can
really get you thinking like that doesn't matter. And they're really beyond that it doesn't matter.
But I wonder if at the higher ups, there's something like that. Is there a color issue in the cult
that you think? Well, let me let me answer it like this. So when you talk about like the
John Smith with the with Mormonism, as I'm not even going to pretend to know very much about that.
Right. But as far as the person who founded the religion, Jehovah's Witnesses and some of the
earlier leaders, I guess, there is definitely some literature that's very embarrassing to put it
like lightly about black people and, you know, being a servant class and how black people are
going to turn white when paradise comes and stuff like that. Right. So that's that's older stuff.
I will say this. And if somebody watching this, who's a former Jehovah's Witness,
thinks differently, then that's that's cool. I would say I didn't see that there was like racism
built into the fabric of the religion any more than just in society.
You know, there may be some people who might say that
because it is a like a multiracial, multilingual, multi, you know,
very international type of religion or organization, some people might say that it exists
less than in regular society. And I guess it depends on where you are and what the situation is,
you know, it may have evolved, I suspect. It's probably evolved.
Yeah, I would I would say, you know, just being honest, because, you know, I don't I don't like
to like exaggerate any of these things. I would say it's my opinion, by and large, it's not any
more than just regular society. It's there in a lot of places. But I think kind of on par with
just, you know, regular, regular society. Yeah, it's never blatant. And it's never a known thing.
It's hidden. But there's there's kind of like you can tell when they're mistreating people or
they just like you talk about favorites. Well, I could see something like that playing a part,
you know what I mean? I hear my kind or something. And that's just from society itself.
But you were pioneering door to door. Yes. Did you like doing that? Did you get a lot of people
converted? Like, and do you have you? Let me ask you this, too, in light of that,
you can answer those things. But you ever bump back into the people you used to used to talk to
say, Yeah, I'm actually not a Jehovah's Witness anymore. And yeah, so I will answer the first,
the last part of your question first. So as far as bumping into people and saying I'm not a Jehovah's
Witness, in my case, that wasn't necessary. Because when I was no longer Jehovah's Witness,
I was like breaking news, you know, everybody. Yeah, that was in my area and even other areas,
you know, like I said, because I was at what they call Bethel, I was at the headquarters and
I traveled to different countries. I was in three different languages. I'm actually trilingual.
And I was in I was in a Spanish congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses. I was in a Portuguese
congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses. And of course, English. So like people knew me, my family is
very well known. So like, there's no, there's pretty much nobody that knows me that doesn't
know that I'm not a Jehovah's Witness anymore. There's a reason you're on Leah Remini's show.
Right. Yeah, yeah, definitely. So but as far as like the pioneering you mentioned, so every Jehovah's
Witness is expected to go door to door. That's like, just to just to even be counted amongst the
ranks of Jehovah's Witnesses, you have to be doing that proselytizing in some way. But there's
another group of, you know, there's like a special subset or whatever of Jehovah's Witnesses that
are known as pioneers, and they dedicate 70 hours a month to the, you know, to the proselytizing
work. And obviously it's uncompensating, you know, it's on your own gas, your own time. You know,
I used to take Tuesdays off of work, you know, so 20% of my income just gone because I really felt
like I had to do this thing. Like, you know, the idea is if you have the circumstances for it,
you should be doing as much as you can. So if you can learn another language, go learn another
language. If you can move to another country, go, you know, they kind of push that, especially on
like the younger people. So as far as did I like it? The time that again, in the context of that,
you feel like you're doing something good. Yeah, I guess I won't say I liked it. I won't say I like
now I'm like really trying to think about it. Honestly, I didn't, I don't know if I ever liked
it at any point. I guess like there were times where if I was like trying to convert somebody and
it seemed like they were kind of going along with it, it was like, okay, well, this is kind of nice,
you know, but I don't know if that's really liking it in and of itself, right? Because most of the
time it's like people, you're annoying people, you're, you know, you're disturbing people on
their Saturdays or on their weekday evenings or whatever. And it's kind of like, dude, bro,
like leave me alone, you know, like, yeah, like it's your, it's an annoyance to people, right?
And you feel that, and especially like I said over the years, when I was having my questions,
it's not like I was on fire like, man, I know this is, it was kind of like, well, this is just
what I'm doing. And this is, you know, what I, what I'm promoting. And I hope this is true,
you know, and so it's not quite as fun. Now, as far as like converting people, I actually did
study with people, study with people with the Jehovah's Witness publications and their translation
of the Bible and did get people to become baptized, you know, AKA kind of signing the contract.
I did get a couple of people to do that, young people, because when I was really
doing that, before I like kind of moved to other languages and stuff, it was with like
teenagers and stuff. Cause I was like in my early twenties or I was a teenager or whatever.
So like, you know, young, young guys or whatever. And yeah, I did have that. And
I haven't, you know, I haven't really been able to talk with anybody because they're all, you know,
they're in now. So in those cases, their parents, you know, in my particular case,
their parents were also in. So it's not like I kind of got them from the street and blah,
blah, like their parents were kind of in. And I was the one who kind of like, you know,
just kind of gave them the studies or whatever. And so, but no, I don't have communication with
any of those people because I'm, you know, I'm looked at as, you know, like the evilest.
Like, you're up there with Lloyd, right? You and Lloyd are like really horrible in their mind.
Yeah. Yeah. Lloyd is a lot more, a lot more popular as an extra Jehovah's Witness than I am.
He's very well known. Right. But yeah, but like, yeah, especially like for my area and stuff like
that. Yeah, people, you just think of the worst crime you can imagine, just use your imagination.
And I'm considered worse than that because I was a, I knew the truth. And I, you know,
I'm no longer in it. And I'm speaking against it. So it's kind of like, yeah,
anybody's getting destroyed when this thing goes down, you're number one on this.
You went from Bethel to the lake of fire in a heartbeat to them. Like, yeah. So let me,
let me ask you this. And this isn't, this was not scripted here. This is, this is an interesting
question I'd like to ask you. When you went door to door, I had a lot of Mormons that would come
to mind, also Jehovah's Witnesses, but I never got into the literature with Jehovah's Witnesses
because I myself wasn't at the place where I am now, where I developed a new understanding and
researching and seeing the mythology and stuff in a whole different, we would sidetrack the
conversation. I'm not trying to do that. But I entertain, I'm willing to even sit and say,
all right, how about this? If, if you get to share with me your opinions, your thoughts,
your beliefs, you have to allow me to do the same back with you when we're looking at the text.
And we can go into it together. As long as you're allowing me, I'll allow you. And we can have that
kind of dialogue. Well, I had Mormons do that. And these two young Mormon kids, man, they were
on a mission. They started loving me. I was feeding them pizza and giving them Mountain Dew,
and I don't think they're allowed to have caffeine. So I'm going to be hooking them up with Mountain
Dew, man. You know what I'm saying? But what were some of the coolest situations going door to
door you had? And what was like one of the worst if you can remember one going door to door,
if you can remember one? I know it's usually just a gray space in your head, probably.
Yeah. Did you have any really cool people that like, like you talked about the guy that told
you, man, did you know you guys had felt prophecies? Was that at a door to door situation? Because
that's the only time you're really encountering people from the outside, right?
Yeah, it was basically a kind of a door to door situation. And it wasn't a good experience for
me, at least not in that headspace. It was very, it threw me off and like, you know, kind of threatened
the whole fabric of everything I stand for my family and everything. So that, you know, looking
back, it was, I think it was, it was helpful in getting me to where I am years later. Yeah,
I don't know if I can really pinpoint like, oh, this was like a cool, it's like I said, I did,
I did like in the context of that, I did like the teaching aspect of it, even though now I look at
things and I say I was teaching him nonsense, or I don't know if I should even say that, but I was
teaching him something that was, I don't think is ultimately beneficial in my opinion. But I did
like kind of enjoy the process, I guess, of like teaching, I think just by my nature, take religion
out of it or whatever, like by my nature, I think I like being able to like explain things and teach
things to people. Like I've helped people even like learn Spanish and stuff like that, like
separately, and it's just something that I kind of, you know, somebody enjoyed. But anyway,
yeah, and as far as bad experiences, yeah, there were a lot, especially as it got closer to
the time when I was having more doubts, you know, I would hate it when somebody, and this would
happen often, somebody would ask a question or say something that was like, yeah, like in my mind,
I'm like, yeah, I agree with you. But I can't say that, you know, I just give them kind of the
stock answer like, well, this and this and this, but I leave the door and I'm like, man, I don't,
I don't even believe what I just said. I just say what I was supposed to say, you know,
so there were a lot of those experiences, sleep was nice, because, you know, when you're not being
authentic, and you're doing something because you feel like you're kind of forced to or you're
under obligation, it's just not a good feeling, you know, and I did I did that for a while,
hoping that at some point, it would it would just get better and it would click, you know,
and it just that never happened. So I don't know if that kind of answers your question,
but there was a lot of like very legitimate objections that were brought up when I would be at
the door. And I guess let me ask you, let me ask you like this, have you ever bumped into a guy,
I'm sure most likely it's a man just saying because we guys like to get all intellectual and
I can tell that you're an intellectually satisfied, you're stimulated by intellectual thought,
and maybe that's one of the reasons why we do leave things like this, because we are truly not
only seeking, I'm not going to I'm not going to downgrade anyone else is seeking, but yeah,
I like to compare and look and go, you ain't taken into serious as I am, but also intellectually,
I'm not saying other people aren't smart, but they're not, they don't find the interest
theologically and going into complex mind games and digging and deeply looking into this stuff
and seeing what a word means and the concordance and then finding out a source and stuff like
into that, have you ever bumped into a guy that you were like, oh, shit, this guy knows some stuff,
I went to the wrong door. Yes, yes, that's that's definitely happened. I will say that generally
with Jehovah's Witnesses, if you if you're if you're getting into something like that,
you basically like you try to leave as quickly as possible. If it if it if it looks like it's
one of the unless it seems like okay, if I'm able to just present a few things to this guy,
like he'll come around, but otherwise, I think you're taught to you know, they kind of teach you
this this thing to where if somebody's bringing up what I would now consider good points or like
legitimate arguments, well, they're they're arrogant and they want to follow Satan. And so
you kind of just try to take your leave as quickly as possible, right? But yeah, I've definitely come
across people that were like, you know, they knew things about different translations of the Bible
and we're pretty like with Jehovah's Witnesses, you know, you could say that Jehovah's Witnesses
know the Bible, I guess there's a lot of caveats you'd have to put there, you know, you have to
say their translation, you have to say this and that, but they know a lot of scriptures in the
Bible. But they're also very one dimensional because they're only it's not like they're they're
able to explore a lot of different like encyclopedias and stuff like that. Now the the watchtower
writers that Jehovah's Witness writers, they'll say, oh, the encyclopedia says this and that'll
be the extent of it, whatever it is that they feed you from these other sources, but you don't go
and so your knowledge is not very well rounded. It's basically just filtered and it's whatever,
you know, they want to tell you. So yeah, there's definitely been situations where,
you know, people were talking about stuff that was just way over my head. But again,
as a believing Jehovah's Witness, for the most part, it's kind of like, yeah, they think they're
smart. They don't know, you know, that's how Satan was Satan thought he was smart, blah, blah,
you know, and that's kind of like that's kind of the approach, you know, that you take.
Yeah, that makes me think of some of the things that must have been said to you that that slipped
through the cracks that cleverly made you question. And, you know, that I hope anyone watching this
finds out how to somehow help another guy who comes to their door, don't just slam the door
in their face. I mean, I personally, personally, I'm not afraid to talk to anyone, you know,
for whatever. At the same time, yeah, I'd like they're human, man. And so maybe you can plan a
seed, show them some love, like make make them feel comfortable, I guess. But we'll get there,
because I want to ask you some some advice toward the end. One thing I want people who are watching
right now to know is there's a cost to doing business with this, you know what I'm saying,
and your music video is awesome. I mean, it is dope, bro. I mean, me and my wife watched it.
And I started tearing up, man, because first of all, it's a lot of Jehovah's Witness lingo.
There's a lot like as a Jehovah's Witness, you will know what this means. Like I will listen to
it. And I'm like, yeah, this dude, it's like really changed you, you know what I'm saying,
making a stand against the very thing that was what kept you alive in your mind, the very
thing that gave you the fabric of existence. And so tell us a little bit about the video,
some of the lyrics in there, if you don't mind. And then you guys go check this video out, I'm
telling you, you're going to like it and subscribe to that channel, because he does music to you
guys, like, it's not just on this topic, like he's a human being now, he's not just a robot.
So tell me about the cost of doing business. What goes into this?
Yeah. So, you know, several years. So I've been out of the religion for, I guess, four and a
half years. And I was crazy to think of how time flies. But so I've been out of it for four and a
half. And, you know, I kind of always liked rap music. That's a whole other issue, because that
wasn't really, you know, that was frowned upon within the religion. But, you know, there were
some of us depending on, you know, some of us came from the inner city or whatever, for whatever
reason. And we identified with that. So we would find ways to kind of like legally listen to that.
So like, for example, maybe the radio edit of certain songs or like songs that weren't explicitly
about things that we knew we couldn't be supposed to be entertaining ourselves with whatever. But
I've kind of always had an affinity and always had like a love and a passion for rap music. You
know, I always just appreciated the storytelling. And even though, you know, I don't come from the
environments that a lot of the guys that I looked up to would talk about, I was able to identify
with just the human experience, right? Of just being able to kind of tell your story and talk
about what you've been through and, you know, overcoming things. So anyway, you know, last
year, I decided to like, you know, who cares? I'm just going to do it. Like, there's a lot of
reasons why people would say I shouldn't blah, blah, like, I'm free now. I can kind of talk about
whatever. And I'm going to I'm going to go ahead and do it. So anyway, you know, I've been dealing
with this issue, this thing, this is never going to stop about like being cut off from my family.
And we were very close in that family. So when that's just cut off kind of cold turkey, it's kind
of like you're confused and you're hurt, you go through all this trauma and stuff like that. So
you know, I basically was just able to I got to a point where even though I don't accept it in
terms of I don't think it's okay. And I'm not I don't I you know, if you look at my activism
channel, I talk very aggressively, primarily against this whole cutting off thing, because I
think that you know, as humans, we're, we're social creatures. Like, that's literally that's
why people kill themselves. Like, no, no joke. Like, I've had friends who have tried to kill
themselves. And I know people who had killed themselves after this process. And so I don't
take it lightly. I don't say well, it is what it is blah, blah. But it just got to a point where
in order for me to like continue moving forward, because I didn't want to do that. You know,
I didn't want to take these other, you know, I didn't want to do anything that anything crazy.
I got to a point where I had to kind of
contextualize it somehow and say like, okay, this is the price I paid to live in my truth.
You know, again, I don't I don't accept it, but it's kind of the idea that kind of just helped
me to say like, okay, I wasn't free before I've lost everybody, but at least like I'm free. And
I think there is some value in that. So that's kind of the idea behind cost of doing business.
It's like, you know, on on my channel, it shows like there's a check, I'm writing, I'm literally
writing a check. And it says the cost of doing business. And this is what I'm paying, I'm paying
my family, I'm paying my friends, because you know, again, like I was disfellowship,
but that's not you can always go back, you can always, you know, and I made the decision that
like, I can't write. So I paid the cost, right? So that's kind of what I'm talking about. I'm,
you know, so I say, in the hook, I say, my family don't acknowledge my existence. I'm thinking,
hey, that's the cost of doing business, you know, I say these other things about, you know, my family
and, and friends that I've lost and, you know, having to talk with my parents and try to explain
it to them. And, and the, and the fact that it's kind of emotional blackmail, because, you know,
you can get your family back, like even to this day, I could get my family back if I'm willing to go
and, hey, you know what, I was blinded by Satan, I believe it all, I'm going to do everything,
you know, if I go back and do that, then I can get them back. So it's kind of like,
that's where they, you know, the Jehovah's Witnesses will, will justify and kind of
rationalize. Yeah, just become a mental slave, just become a mental slave into something that
you acknowledge is not factual. You see the flaws. I get that they don't and they think it's not
flawed and they under they have all their apologists, they have defenses for everything you would say.
But there's you are on the side of truth. And it would be like, you know, when you believe and
know that what you're doing is right and true. How could you? I hope one day you're reunited,
man. One of the favorite things I heard in that whole song, I mean, there's a lot I really loved
about it. I ask and plead for all of you to watch and go subscribe to his channel, support him in
what he does. His activism is trying to help save people's lives, literally. And I mean, this is
what you are describing. And this is true. It's not just you, man, there's countless people talking
about this. My heart goes out. But you had a saying and you said, I'd rather or there's answers,
you can't even question, but I'd rather have questions that I can't even answer. And that
was one of my favorite things being someone who has always wanted to know the truth and seek the
truth and to know what the truth is. Well, when they give you what is the truth and you can't
question the truth to see if it's true. Once you really put the flame to the paper to see if it'll
burn, when you really go to test something, you know, the scientific method, if you will test it,
test it. And it talks about this testings and show yourself approved and all these things too. But
well, we're just taking that to the bank. And when we do, we find issues with the system itself.
We're realizing we're in the matrix. We know how to unplug now. We're sorry that you're plugged in.
But I like how you said that. You said, I'd rather have questions I can't answer than answers I can't
question. And you floated so well. I appreciate that. Yeah, it speaks to how I and I think so many
others feel like what you just articulated, you know, it's kind of like,
I think the thing about the allure of some of these groups is, I forgot that you used the
expression when you first started your introduction, I'm gonna have to go back and look at it, but
something about the gap. I forgot exactly what you said. But the idea is, there's all these things
that people don't know the answers to, right? And these religions or these cults, they give you the
answers. So you know, you like, Oh, why do we die? Well, I know the answer to why you die,
you know, and you're good, like, you don't really need to keep keep questioning it or,
you know, why is this happening? Why blah, blah, blah, right? So you have all of these answers.
But if you're, you know, your, your, your normal human instinct is to, is to continue to question
it, right? And to continue to inquire. But you're not allowed to do that. It's like, we gave you
the answer. That's it. Stop. Yeah. Right. Just it's your, your search is over, right? And if you,
if you have intellectual integrity, and maybe a few other things happen, like it did in my case,
right, a combination of things, that's not enough. That's not enough. In fact, that's like soul,
this that destroys your soul, right? Because by nature, you're inquisitive, you want to,
you want to find out what's going on. So I'm, so, so what's interesting is, you know, just
whether it's this group or many others, what they'll say is, well, if you go out there,
right outside of these walls, so to speak, you're not going to have the answers anymore, right?
And I'm saying, I actually prefer saying, I don't know the answers to these things,
than to have answers that I'm not able to continue. Like I want to continue to dig, right? That's why
I call my album, the name of my album is one years old, right? And the idea, obviously,
that that's the idea is it's, it's kind of like how a kid would say one years old, right?
But the idea is, I continue to have that my, well, it has two meanings, right? Number, number one,
it's like, I'm starting out in the world and I'm new, right? So it's like, I'm a baby, all of these
things that everybody else learned when they were 16, I'm trying to figure it out in my late 20s,
in my early 30s, right? But the other aspect of it is, I'm embracing the childlike quality of
just being inquisitive and asking questions and not, and not having that pride or that ego to
where it's like, well, I know the answer, so you can't teach me anything, right? Like I think
that's where we were. You know, when I would have a conversation with somebody that wasn't a Jehovah's
Witness, it was all about, I'm just waiting for them to say something that kind of gives me
the end so I can teach them the truth, because I know the truth and they don't.
So it really doesn't matter what they have to say and what their experience is,
I'm the one who can teach them something, right? So when you have that one years old mentality
in my mind, right? It's kind of like, it doesn't mean you believe everything everybody tells you,
but you're open to other experiences and you're using all of this to grow, right, and to evolve.
And that's kind of what, that's the message that I'm pushing, right? Like just, you don't have
all the answers, nobody does. Just be humble and take it in and be willing to, you know,
you just may really learn something valuable from the person that's sitting across from you,
instead of just trying to like tell them, you know, all of the answers to everything that
you already have, you know? Wow. Wow. That's my philosophy in many ways. That's how I live
and my philosophy is to continue to expand my consciousness and my intellect and keep learning.
But yeah, we had the answer. That's one of the things I always tell people. When I thought I knew,
now I know, now I know those are red flags for me because I'm a recovering drug addict. And
when I think I am on top of this mountain and I have the answers, watch out Timbuktu. I'm about
to drop. I'm about to, Humpty Dumpty fell off the wall and I don't, I now remain very, I have
answers that I have conclusions, I think that I have met. But there are things that I question. And
even if I think one thing's right, the amazing part about my mentality now is, even if I think
something may be more plausible or possible, like we talk about the historicity of Jesus on the channel
here, did he even exist? Like, this is a legitimate question amongst some scholars
and other scholars say, yeah, absolutely. Like the consensus says he did. I really entertain
whether or not he's a complete fiction. And I say to my mind, man, it does make sense that there
was a guy, but he was mythologized. And then I hear these, these other guys and it's like,
hold on, dude, what, what was he if he did exist? And what evidence do we have to know that we
could trust that that's really about him and not some other character or they didn't fictionalize
that? So there's so much that I ask and I don't, I don't try to put too much concrete in there.
Let me ask you, we're going to shift, we're going to shift out out of the show here. And I want to
ask you two things. First question that I think is important is this. How many people just, you
don't even have to give an exact number, but I can only imagine you probably have a lot of people
who have written you, reached out to you and said, I was where you were. Thank you. Your message
got through to me. Have you ever had anyone write you specifically and say, as an active
Jehovah's Witness, I heard you on your YouTube, on a radio, on Leah Remini, I heard you and you
impacted my life and I am no longer a Jehovah's Witnesses. Jehovah's Witness, thanks to you.
Yeah, I might have lost my family. Yeah, I might have lost these things that we thought were the
all, but your message helped me leave. I've gotten a lot of messages like that,
man. I'm going to be honest with you. More than, more than I can even count, you know. And
it's crazy because I, you know, growing up, I always just wanted to be at the pinnacle of the
organization, right? Like, I wanted to continue to push this message and blah, blah. So like,
the idea now that people are like, Hey, man, you like, you kind of saved my life because
even whether it was the activism or especially that first music video,
you know, I've received and the Leah Remini special, which is on Netflix now. So now there's
like a new wave of people that are seeing it for the first time and reaching out to me, you know,
easy to find when you're right, exactly case in point. And yeah, man, I don't take it for granted.
You know, I appreciate being able to be in this position, all of the stuff that is kind of like
led me to this point where people are able to like kind of look at my story and see
whether it's a blueprint or just like, Hey, you know, it's possible to
leave this and still kind of be okay, you know, even if it's just kind of at that bare minimum.
You know, I appreciate being that, you know, for some people, but yeah, I've definitely
gotten messages that just kind of stopped me in my tracks and, you know, I was about to commit
suicide and then I saw this and I didn't do it, you know, like things like that or people that
have left. I've even had, and this is something that I never expected, but I've had people that I
knew, even people that I was at the headquarters with that saw my videos and then left the religion,
you know, I have, there's people like that, you know, it's been, like I said, it's been about
four years since I've been doing the doing the activism and doing the videos and everything. So
yeah, you know, I've kind of gotten it all. And I want to say if anybody who is,
who has written me or who has, you know, been helped by some of the stuff that I put out,
and you've reached out, I want to say that I've read it all, you know, I try to respond to as
much as I can. I'm sure there's some that I haven't, but I definitely try to read it all.
And it definitely impacts me, you know, just being real, like it definitely impacts me because
honestly, there's people that whose videos I watched that helped me out, you know, when I was
kind of coming to that. So I understand the impact that it can have, you know, so, you know, I
definitely want to express my appreciation and gratitude for that. It's not something I take
out, bro. I feel you, bro. I get the same way with some of this stuff that I get, man.
Yeah, man. I'll get you, bro. Yeah, you got me, bro. You got me. That means the world to me,
too, to hear that, bro. Your voice impacts me. And it's not even a cult member or never was
influenced by them. But but yeah, man, you're saving lives, bro. And I know exactly what
that's like. I'm an emotional mess all the time because I feel it. I feel like I feel what I do.
And if I ain't feeling it, then I'm not in it. And what you're doing, man, like you've done it for a
long time. And we go through seasons where I might not shed a tear. And here you tell me how much it
impacts you. And then a day comes where I realized like, right now, I'm seeing it, I'm feeling it.
But look, let's let's let's end on this. Someone needs advice. They're in the cult. They're on the
fence. They got they got doubting Thomas in their head, you know, I need to see to believe,
like at this point, I need evidence. I don't I don't have that faith I did. I need to see.
And we know what that's like. We were all doubting Thomas's. I even say to this day,
you know, if Thomas, you know, if Jesus were to appear to me, for real, like, and said,
here I am. And he like, I knew I'd know like what me hallucinating. This is legit.
I'd become a Christian. Like, I mean, I would say this is good reason for me. Like, you did it.
Okay, you did it. But I have all the reasons in the world to think this is fiction, that this is
that this is a story. And even that story itself is written for people who are in the movement
to keep them from moving out of the movement. Because he says, but blessed are those who don't
see yet. So you want to be blessed, don't you? You don't see, I know, believe anyways. I mean,
so my point is advice to someone like yourself or in there that's actually hearing you right now,
what would you say to them?
Man,
man, you owe it to yourself to figure out if this is what you're supposed to be doing or not,
you know, whatever path that you have taken, you were born into it, you got persuaded to believe
it or whatever. There's never anything wrong with information. Never. So if you, you know,
sometimes people will people will write me and they're on the fence, and they're like, you know,
what should I look at to try to, you know, I don't know up from down, I'm confused, I've
watched some of your videos, and I will, I will generally tell them, go ahead and read their stuff
too. I want you to read, but read everything, look at everything, right? Take everything in,
because I also don't, I don't want to be just like them and be like, don't, you know, don't
look over there, only look over here, right? That's what they do. And that's the beauty of
being on this side. I have no fear of anything you look at. You can look at whatever you want,
right? Just be honest with yourself and come to your own conclusion, right? Like I wouldn't
even tell anybody you need to do this, you need to do that, except just research. You owe it to
yourself. You would do it for anything. Nowadays, when we're going to go buy a freaking toothbrush,
we research, what's the best, what's the best toothbrush? What are the critics of this toothbrush
say or a car? Maybe that's a little bit more reasonable example, right? You want to buy a
Prius or whatever, you know, whatever car you want to buy. You don't just go on the website of that
brand and look at what makers of that brand and promoters of that brand or that make
say, you look at everything, right? And it could be that you hear some criticism and you say,
yeah, I hear criticism. I'm looking at criticism, but I'm still like, I'm still going to continue
with that, right? Don't be scared of that process. It might be the same process, right? Like just
do the research, you owe it to yourself. If you have all these nagging questions and whatever,
it's just no way to live. As far as we know, it's one life. I don't know what you people
believe beyond that. That's fine, whatever you believe, but at least this life is too short
to waste on something that you're not sure about, right? Especially if it's something
like that, right? Now, I will say this, just being very candid. My situation without having
my family, you know, my brother was my best friend my entire life, haven't spoken to him.
I have not spoken to him. I talked about the Leah on the Leah remedy episode. I talked about
how I literally popped up at this dude's wedding a few months after I left and I was treated terribly
and basically kicked out and my dad was, it was terrible. It was terrible. And so I'm definitely
not saying like just do it and it's easy and it's cool. Like I still battle with the fact that I
don't speak to anybody who knew me before I was 28 years old. Like there's basically no evidence
that I existed before 28 because everybody is involved in that, right? Like I said, I've had
a couple of people come out, but by and large, like you have to also like consider that, right?
It's not like an easy decision, especially if you're wrapped up in one of these groups like this
and you come to the conclusion that you have to make an exit. You have to take all that into
consideration. But what I will say, what I will say is it is worth it. It is worth it. And that's
why I say my song or anything else, anything you ever hear me, I will not, I'm choosing not to be
enslaved in that way, even though it comes with some terrible consequences that I don't think
should exist. And I'm going to continue to fight against those consequences because I don't think
that anybody should have to choose between what they literally believe and their family. I don't
think that makes any sense, right? And I'm going to speak against that. But I will also say that
being mentally free to be able to let my mind go where it takes me and to feel like I'm at
least closer to who I am to my core is worth it. It's worth it. And I feel like you are going to
find whoever you are that's watching this, you're going to find out the same thing. Wow. Ladies and
gentlemen, fifth, go check out the links down below. Check out his YouTube channels. Go watch his
videos. He's interviewed people himself. He's done a lot of soul searching, if you will. And
you guys can help support what he's doing. I hope you do. I really do. And I hope you who
were watching take what he said and really run with that because we had questions and we wanted
to try and find answers. Sometimes you never know what the real answer to that question may be,
but it's okay. If a place tells you you're not to question and to truly try and investigate,
you might be in a cult and not a good one, not a good place to be. You might be a slave to this
ideology. And we both were freed from this. So I really do appreciate you coming on and showing
this and letting us know this information. I know you're out of step with the activism
on this stuff as you used to be, but you never know, man. We're humans. We're seasonal humans,
man. So there's going to come another time, bro. I think you're going to be running out on the
street saying, that's it. We're fighting this thing. I'm done. You know what I mean? Yeah.
We got to knock the tower down, watch tower, if you know what I mean. But
the people, we love the people. That's why we're doing it. Absolutely.
Thank you, man. I appreciate you. And hopefully we could do this again.
For sure, man. I really appreciate you having me on, man. Love what you're doing and definitely
keep it up. And wish the best to anybody who's watching this right now. Just live your truth,
man. That's my only message.
Thanks, brother. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
