Yo, we are live. Hit that like button. We're gonna talk.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is? After this, there's no turning back. You take
the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to. You take
the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
one. If you can hear me, if I'm coming through clear, I have moved across the country. This
is Caden. Hi. This is Caden. Caden's my youngest boy. We have three boys. So everybody can
hear me. I want to make sure my audio is coming. Press, press two if you can't hear
us. Yeah, you know what? Some people do that. Some people will press two. Awesome. Let me
see. So speakers good. Mike sounds like it's coming through the right one. Awesome. Cool.
Good to see everybody here. I'm glad everybody's showing some love. Show some love to my youngest
here, Caden. He's like, Dad, I want to go stream with you. I want to go live with you. Let's do
the live stream. And the only time we've done a live stream was when we were on my recovery
channel. I have another channel that kind of documents my path of overcoming addiction.
And so that's something that the family has a lot of and I want him to know. It's K-A-I-D-E-N
and that's Caden. So Caden's going to run the stream. I'm going to take off, Caden. You're
just going to make sure everything is totally safe and fine and communicate with everybody
for the whole hour. Okay. All by yourself. Okay. Does that sound good? Yeah. Yeah. No.
So anyway, we have a lot of people watching here, buddy. Look at the chat. So a lot of people said
they can hear us and hi, Caden. Hi, Caden. Hi. Love your videos, bro. Love from UK. Okay, mom.
And we'll do that this year. What award did you get at school? Yeah. Tell everybody. Future
YouTuber. A YouTube star. They called him down to the front and he picked up an award from his
school future YouTube star, which was pretty cool to see. Inquisitive mind with a super chat. So
super chats are when people can send you like special notes or questions and stuff like that.
And they give you a little money too. Is that two pounds? I think it is. I believe so. I'm not
sure if it's in Europe though. So it might be, yeah, I think two pounds, two euros. I'm not 100%
sure. The symbol's close. So yeah, good to see everybody. Zaza's showing love. Dr. Andy, love
you too. Deb says he's cute. There you go. You're cute, buddy. Loud and clear. Caden, what's up?
Sean says just back from Baja Khan, got to see some awesome people. Dr. Josh, for one nice to
see your son, Teresa said. I'm jealous of his hair. Austin says, jealous of your hair, buddy.
That's nice because I got it done at a salon. It's a perm. So I grown it out,
I permed it, and then it grown out even more. Exactly. Marie said, your channel changed my life.
Thank you. Congrats, Caden. Austin said you're going to be a future YouTuber, huh?
Yeah. Sean says the future is here. That is true. This is the future. This is the future.
What's your thoughts on Nasdaq Informant? That's my buddy, Neil. He does things a little different,
a little different than I do, but Neil's my buddy. He'll be here actually in a few days.
We're going to record, I think he's down here to do other podcasts as well, but he's going to come
see our new pad, and we're going to do some recordings on some of the more controversial
stuff that he's been doing as far as, I think, like dating the Hebrew Bible, or when do we
put these texts, and then also probably going to dive deep into early Christian sex, mythology that
influenced Dionysus as our friend Paola Corrente pronounces Dionysus and stuff. We're going to dig
deep. Austin says, yeah, I have no hair. If you're in the image, Austin, I understand my friend.
I look at his hair and go, wait, if I had a mop like that, I'd love it too.
Absolutely. Nitty's been around for a long time. Nitty's been, congrats, glad to see you again.
Carrie Ann, Chrysler, forgive me, I always try to pronounce names right, and I get them wrong,
but Carrie's been here for a long time as well. The Stacey's Moms podcast, what's up Stacey?
I suspect everybody is back from the conference, which is cool. Was that your phone? Yeah.
All right, so Hidden Gnosis, welcome to Florida. Don't let anyone tell you that he gets better.
It's like this year round. I actually like it when I walk outside. Yeah, there's a bit of a sweat
that comes on, but I like that. I like that. Let's see. They made it safely. Thank Almighty Jesus.
Amen, Father Socrates said. Thank you. Yeah. What a heck of a trip pulling the trailer across the
country. That was difficult. Very difficult because my vehicle was pulling weight. I don't think it's
intended to pull on a 16 foot enclosed trailer. He hung out. How was the trip? It was better than
going on a plane. You don't like the plane? I feel like it was more fun to go on there because
we get to go on to the gas stations and stuff. You get snacks and stuff. Plus, we had Wi-Fi,
right? You played your video games. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome, buddy. Yeah. Well, for me, it had its
moments where it was enjoyable, but it was also very difficult. There's a lot of making sure you
guys made it alive and well. Okay. Yeah, wait, a lot. Or Jesus, who would be the best rapper?
TMT just showed up here. CH, mid vision is great channel. Your scholar interviews are top notch.
I have more coming. We're going to be doing some interviews with academics we haven't done interviews
with and covering further deeper into the weeds material. Got documentaries that are around the
corner that are happening soon. We have some courses with MVP dash courses that you will
definitely want to check out. And I'm hoping to pump out a lot more courses as well, bringing you
what these experts were teaching in wherever their institutions were and stuff that's cutting
edge that they haven't discussed yet. Hopefully bring it to you where at your fingertips on a
computer on a phone, whatever you can watch and learn from them as students, right? The infamous
one, 250K followers is an explosion. I agree. I think it's thanks to documentaries. We see such a
such a broadening of the audience because what myth vision does is a very niche thing. It's very,
very specific. What's up? No where man. Where? Have you seen any gators since arriving in Florida?
No, but we can if we go out here. So what's the sign say? Right? It says be aware of like gators
and I think it's black mambas snakes. No, it just says venomous, right? Yeah, poisonous.
But it also says don't pet the gators, right? Why would you pet gators?
Exactly. Yeah. Good to see you. You've seen a lot of lizards too. Oh, yeah. You guys are
swimming with them in the backyard, huh? Yeah, pretty much. There's a lot of lizards in the
backyard. Right, right. Seeking truth says when will you publish the video on revelation you mentioned
the other day? I don't know which one that I mentioned. I did publish one on revelation
specifically addressing who the Babylon mystery Babylon was and stuff and then did it kind of
going back to Daniel, second Peru, fourth Ezra and stuff. I don't want to get bogged into the weeds
right yet. We can do that when little man's not here. I want him to have a little fun hanging out
with us. There's a chance that the skeptics and scholars tour will happen. But when everything
calms down, obviously, I don't want us to go over there to Israel and all this stuff to try and
see some of these sites when war is happening, when there's constant conflict. Nobody wants that.
So I'm hoping that things figure way above my pay grade, but I'd like to see things end and
peace resolved so that we can actually make something like that happen. But since you brought it up,
I am going to want to put together something here in Florida, potentially a cruise.
Never been on a cruise myself, but wouldn't it be awesome to enjoy
relaxing, socializing with a lot of the people or fans who are deep thinkers, we're into this stuff
and also have some scholars do some lectures on a tour on a cruise. I think that'd be awesome.
So I'd like to put something like that together, but I've got to make some stuff happen. We're just
now moving in and unpacking. We've got boxes behind this camera and all throughout the house.
We're having to unpack. Let's see. Carl says, good job, Dad. Can tell he's a smart kid.
Pretty smart, huh? Go in the middle school. There you go. You're going to have a good time too.
Tays is so thankful for your work as I'm unlearning lies and healing from religion trauma.
Keep up the good work, Derek. Thank you, Tay. Appreciate the love. I can relate. I totally
understand it. What's your name? It's okay. Like who doesn't spell the name Derek? Come on.
Everybody does spell the name Kayden wrong. Yeah. K-A-D-E-N. It's the K-I-D-E-N or K-A-Y-D-E-N.
There's so many ways. I saw somebody say that too. Right? Let's see.
Scrolling down here. Scrolling down. No. Hey, PC. PC.
Don't eat those Gator. Gators, they're very tough. Gator jerky actually is pretty good. I've had it
before, believe it or not. I haven't. Maybe someday. Guanas. We haven't seen any so far,
but we did whenever we went to Puerto Rico. Yeah, we went to Puerto Rico for vacation. Our
timing was terrible. We haven't been on vacation in a long time. We went to Puerto Rico and they saw
iguanas, but not as many as when I used to live there because I lived there for three years when
the base was open in Ceba on Roosevelt Roads. We went and saw our old house in Puerto Rico.
And I got bit by like red ants and stuff and also Uncle Curt. He threw like a little
hermit crab, a giant one actually. I was scared. I was like, whoa, I'm not like hermit crabs.
Yeah. So there's some like literal hermit crabs like crawling around. I mean,
enormous ones and then little ones. But when I grew up there, it was, there were so many Guanas
everywhere, little ones, big ones. We had one we called Godzilla at our school.
Yeah. Hitted noses said, Cruz, I'd pay for that. Well, the cool thing about that is
what would be the goal, right? We're going to socialize, connect, but also educate,
bringing some of the really cool cutting edge scholarship.
It'd be different than your typical, I guess you'd say like skeptics who get together and
just kind of want to hang out and talk about, you know, not belief anymore, lack of belief,
atheism, all that kind of stuff. It's more like everyone's welcome. You can come and educate,
but also you can connect with people who are into this for different various reasons. And
anyone and everyone would be welcome to something like that. I don't want,
you know, I'm not saying we couldn't do stuff that's specifically targeted towards certain
individuals, but it's like what I want to do to, like kind of my heart is to not limit the scope
of a community that is only members, only must be non-believers or must be agnostics or must be
theist or must be, it's like, of course, fundamentalists aren't going to like what I'm doing. Duh.
But I'm trying to build,
I'm trying to build somewhat of a community that allows people who are from various fields. I
have Christians who watch my stuff who are thankful, even though they disagree with my
conclusions that I draw. And that's fine. I don't, there's going to be people who
literally are skeptics and identify with me in many ways, but disagree with me and others.
Whoop-de-doo. I think we can all find common ground and that's what I'm hoping. And then
when we disagree, we can agree to disagree or even discuss and debate a little bit about it,
but like, there's no reason to, I don't think, build those walls when we can't have a good time
discussing learning things like that. Alligators and poisonous snakes sounds exotic. When does
schools start? School was supposed to already begin, huh? We're just going a little late.
Yeah, are you taking advantage of that or what then? Yeah.
How old are you, Jackie says? Um, 11. I just turned 11. Like, it's your birthday just literally the
other day, huh? So August the 7th is his birthday. He just turned 11. And yeah, you kind of celebrated
it on the road, huh? We didn't, well, we didn't really celebrate it. Yeah. We celebrated it before
we left from Washington. And then whenever we were on the road, we kind of just got something
from the gas station and so. Well, I got you that. But there's still some things that I,
that like gifts and stuff that I'm gonna do. Yeah. So. Make me look bad, buddy. Make me look bad.
Yes, of course I will. Stacey's mom says, I just got to hear Dr. Josh speak live on Saturday.
Josh is a great guy. Love, Josh. Love. There's some good gospel music cruises you can check out.
That'd be fun, huh? MythVision, Skeptical Channel is here on the tour. Let's go, proselytize to them
and get them to come to our position. Cruise would be awesome, John says. I think so.
Are there scholars that believe Bible is real instead of a political weapon?
Not sure I completely understand the question, my friend. There are scholars who would identify
themselves as Christian, but they try to do historical research. Sometimes it gets muddy.
I feel like sometimes it does interfere with what the conclusion might be. I mean,
if we were talking about Joseph Smith right now, I can't say that Mormon academics could go all the
way and saying, yeah, the guy was a false prophet, right? Or the guy, like, you know, was a cult leader
who may have had motivated beliefs in this, and I'm not saying there aren't some. I just don't
know if they could go all the way and saying, this isn't true, you know? What do we get?
Yeah, Super Chat. Yeah. Hold on, let me scroll down. $5 on Super Chat.
Medical vitriol. Thank you so much for the Super Chat. Does Star Wars prove from its
division of fan base from different sects, reinterpretation of canon?
We now see play out in our world myths as man-made. Trying to understand that question.
The Star Wars prove from its division of fan base from different sects,
reinterpretation of canon, we now see play out in our world myths as man-made.
Someone help me with the question here. If you understand what is being asked,
I definitely think that humanity, it's not just religion. The only thing I really understood was
Star Wars. Yeah. Yeah. You like Star Wars? That's why I think, yeah, I have a Star Wars room.
Mm-hmm. You do, don't you? His room is decorated in Star Wars stuff,
so he's got all sorts of cool Star Wars.
Yeah, medical. I'm sorry. I'm having a hard time. Yeah, I do think myths are man-made,
as Crecgan Ford says. And by the way, his channel has a lot there. There's a lot of drama,
dramas going in that community drama, I think. Yeah, I think humanity period, though, politics,
religion, you name it. There's going to be, you know, there's division, humans evolved tribalistically.
And so another one, ooh, another super chat. I hope I'm saying this, but I don't think
that division alone makes it clearly man-made. I think it plays a significant part. Just one more
comment that we'll get that super chat, buddy. A significant part, because as Xenophany is a
geographer in the Greek world, traveled the world, he noticed that each culture had a God that
resembled that culture in their own image. Now, he wanted to argue that, you know, there's a God
above that isn't in the image of man and all this kind of stuff, as the philosophers did.
But I think you see the grassroots evolution idea of gods, when all these cultures have,
you know, the gods look like them and act like them. And even if lions could draw images of gods,
they'd look like lions, horses, horses, dogs, dogs, et cetera. So it can help someone like me,
when you put multiple pieces together, realize that these are all man-made. They're constructions of
humans. Thank you so much for the super chat. I hope I answered your question. Dr. Andy, your boy
needs an ice cream this week. Beautiful to see the two of you together, Derek. Thanks for letting
us watch you so privately. No problem. What does that mean? What does that super chat mean?
So, no, I think that's, that might be euros or pounds. That's actually, help me out, Dr. Andy.
Yeah, we need some help here. Help me out the symbols here. A lot. But yeah, he just sent 10
pounds or euros. And I wouldn't know the two, euro. I guess I can get an ice cream. So those are euros.
You can get an ice cream, buddy. We'll get you an ice cream. What's your favorite kind?
I think mint chocolate chip is good. Yeah, mint chocolate chip. Let me hear more.
It's gonna, this is like a small area. Dr. Kip Davis says, Derek is now in Florida. Sad.
Sad for you, man. No, I'm enjoying it, actually. I think the weather's beautiful. We're right near
Disney in Kissimmee. There's a whole bunch of water parks near us too. And we have like,
another water park we might go to today. But it's not really a water park. Yeah, it's in the
neighborhood. The one that we walked to that one time. And we really walked there. We lose like
20, 50 calories. Yeah, you definitely. Yeah, I went on a walk today with Grandma.
MMA philosophy says doesn't blow your mind how stupid most people really are.
I mean, look, obviously, it comes off like this is rude, but it really isn't too mind-blowing,
to be honest. There's a lot of people who, you know, when I, when you use the term stupid,
the thing that comes to my mind is that they already know. They just, they assume they already
know. And I think it's better to start from a doubting mind and being more of a cautious,
I'm not sure, kind of person than pretending you know. And I think that the dumbest people already
assume knowing something. And you can't teach people who already know, you know, that's, that's
my interpretation of what you're saying here. Dr. Roman, that says, so a lot of these people, buddy,
you don't know. There's a lot of people who have been around for a while and you see the little,
the little wrench. You know what that means, right? Yeah, they're mods. They're mods. Yeah. And then
you see the symbol next to the names. So let's go up and see. The symbol next to the names
means the members of the channel. So whenever we do videos and we release them early,
people can see that right here. And they have the special symbols, the myth vision.
Circle with the S. That's what that's for, man. Pretty cool. Yeah. Okay. Mr. Warlight.
Thanks for the super chat. Hi, myth vision. Is that the name? It's a myth vision. But I think
there's some funny here. Smithy's myth vision. Thanks for the super chat, Warlight. Appreciate
that. Who's the kid? The water parks? Who can complete, who can compete with that? Yeah, who can?
It's kind of, it's kind of like Puerto Rico is. Yeah, but this, like, who can beat nobody, right?
Yeah. This place has a lot of stuff. Like, we have the best stuff in your house.
So this is the best place ever. Doc, we're going to have to make that visit happen sometime, man.
I'm dead serious. It's been around too long for us not to connect. I definitely look forward to that.
I want to do something. We got to do something. So much on the horizon. We got to get kept out of
Canada, eh? You know all of both that, right? We got to get kept out of Canada. Get him down here
so he can change his mind and check out the environment and see what's up. Hold on. We got
Chris M. in the house. I passed Chris M. and I didn't mean to pass you. Just trying. You were wrong
about Mount Kizadek and I won't be entertaining myself with your tips at disproving God Most High.
Notice how my tone changed as I recognized what was happening in the sentence. It was pretty clear.
When the Christians are raptured, I will be expecting your scholars to change. Chris,
I'm going to tell you something you probably don't believe, but I'm just going to say,
maybe you do believe. I don't know. I can't read your mind. The day people who are only Christians
get raptured, I promise you, I will truly reconsider all that I've said. That day,
when it comes my friend, I promise you. But see, I once believed just like you did and
it just, I don't have time, nor do I want to entertain the idea of explaining how I got there
when I'm hanging out with someone so cool like Caden. But yeah, man, like if that day happens,
trust me, I've said it before, what would change my mind? I don't know. Do what you did with doubting
Thomas. That would help. That would help. So anyway, thanks, Chris, for being here.
Oh, let's see. It's good to the newest. Yep, we're down here at the bottom.
We're here at the newest. I just sent an email, Derek. I will look for you, Dr. Andy, trust me.
Anyone have anything for Caden? Caden's the man, the plan right now.
He's the superstar of the live stream.
Hmm. Waiting for questions for you or even any comments or whatever for Caden.
Because Caden doesn't hang out on the live streams much.
Okay, Carl, I can, I can totally relate. Thank you. Yeah, it's tough, you know, even to this day,
I wonder, like, will I always still have a part of me? Because when I was really young,
kind of, you're still a sponge absorbing this, this stuff. And I don't know if all of the things
that I was taught and experienced will ever completely go away. Let me see.
Learn Matthew. Learn. Ben Benu. Mythision is my channel name. The other channel name is just
Derek Lambert. If you're looking for like recovery side. President Christopher. Hold up.
Did I miss something? Do you see President Christopher? I mean, I saw Chris or something
like that. I don't see anything. Yeah, I don't see any. No super chats on this thing. Interesting.
All right, so let's scroll down here. Does Caden know another language? Do you know another
language? I'll do lingos French. That's, that's like a cat. So you know a word, huh? I know a few,
but it's kind of hard. Someone said, thanks for starting conversation about Islam's origins
and context. Trust me, there will be a lot more to come with that. I will be discussing much, much
more. I would actually just so anyone who's curious about me covering Islam, which I do plan on
covering. I know I'm crazy for doing that, but I do plan on doing it. I have been listening to
even a shocks biography of Muhammad. And wow, there's a lot in there that, you know, is really
interesting and probably needs to be discussed. And I hope to unravel that. I also want to do an
origins of Islam kind of documentary coming at it from the same way I'd approach Christianity,
the same way I'd approach Judaism, just like that. So thank you for being here.
Look, Carrie says, what are you looking forward to about the new school Caden?
I don't know. I think it's going to be like different than how it kind of is in elementary
school. Like, like, like halls and stuff. I don't normally go in the halls.
You don't let him fool you. He's a people person like me. So every time I'm out of school waiting
for him to come out, there's like six guys hanging out around him and hey, Caden, Caden, and it's like
hard to get him to go home. But you're a people person. You have all sorts of friends, you know
what I mean? So do you look forward to new friends? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's the most thing you think
that you want you're looking forward to? You think it's friends or what? Hopefully it's a fun school.
Like you mean like outdoor stuff or like just fun. I don't think that's going to have an outdoors
like a playground or anything. It might. It might. I didn't know that. So GI, I'm just going to say
GI for the sake of in case I don't know what maybe G2, not sure. What do you think of all this
fundamentalist stuff, Caden? I don't know what that means. So daddy talks about a lot of stuff.
What do you think about like, I don't know, all the stuff that daddy does that you have heard?
It's not your stuff. You're not into it that much? I don't know. No, not really. Not really? No.
Let's go back to the new comments. So people don't think that we're just watching the old
comments and that we're going to read their new comments. I'm looking. I'm looking. Oh, look,
we got a super chat too. Oh, did we? Yeah. Oh, okay. Let's let's see what you got. Oh, got more than
Oh, three days. There you go. So $2. $1.99. That's a lot. What kind of books
do you like, Caden? We've read a bunch together, huh? What's your favorite?
I don't really like books that much, but if I'm talking about books, probably like a fun one,
like like ones with movies or something so that I could read the book and watch the movie or
watch the movie, then read the book. What about the ones that you have? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So either
cartoons, movies, something like that, but also some like video game ones like Minecraft. Remember,
we read the Minecraft book. Do you like those kind because you can get into it because you
understand it? Yeah. I mean, you're not like a huge fan of books, but do those help? Yeah. Yeah.
You like video game books, stuff that goes into it. So I like that stuff. I like, I like the fun
books. The fun books. Okay. So the books I read, you probably won't find fun, the ones that I read
for work, but I like them. But yeah, I get it. We read together and we go into books that he likes.
Okay. We got to do more of that, don't we, for school. So Robert Mahaney, thank you so much
for the super chat, Robert. Appreciate the love, my friend. Then send a message, what gave us,
like a super chat. He threw money at you, man. He said, take my money. He said, take the money,
take the money. Just take my money, dude. Watch it on me, huh? Here, have some money,
Caden. Mr. Warlight, question for Caden. Are you mythicist or historicist? What does that mean?
Do you think Jesus existed or do you think he didn't exist? I think he did. You do? Yeah. Why?
Well, he's, by the way, never studied the stuff that I think. I'm insanely lucky whenever I pray
before things like, you know, that one, that one time whenever we're doing like the little thing
and I want it. Yeah. The little thing at angels. Yeah. I prayed before that. So for those who don't
know, my mom, my wife, we don't push our views onto our kids or tell them what they need to believe
or don't believe, but Caden has a sensitive heart. And when he asked me a long time ago,
daddy, do you believe in God or this kind of stuff? He worried about it. And that kind of stuff's like,
that's what bothered me about how the effect of this stuff can be on people who worry about
whether or not the daddy believes or doesn't believe. I have to tell him not to worry. But that's
not good, in my opinion, that things can make people feel that way, you know? But yeah. So he
just thinks he existed. But all, all he's technically been involved in when it comes to this kind of
stuff is in church. I don't push my stuff on him. I don't make him come over here and read our materials.
But over time, he'll have more questions. And when he does, daddy's here. I'm always here.
Sparky X has a super chat. Hold on. Let's see. Yep. That's the next one. Sparky X. Godzilla
is my God. Have a great school year. Hope to see you when it gets cooler.
We actually watched the Godzilla versus, well, X comms movie recently. Yeah, it was kind of fun.
They like, they said Godzilla is their God. They like Godzilla.
Isn't that pretty cool? Do you like the movie? Elizabeth, who's not super chattences, what's
your favorite subject? And school is probably R or PE. I like R because I'm like a artist kind of.
Yeah. I like to draw a lot. Yeah. Yeah, it's kind of hard to draw on a phone. So that's why I like
art. You like, you like playing video games the most, don't you? Yeah. If they have a video
game room, I'm going to be in an all day. His name is Caden, but mine is Aiden. You copycat.
Oh yeah. I have a friend named Aiden. I have his number on my phone.
Yeah. Yeah. Kips is making sure you get your money, Caden.
That's awesome. Okay, we caught up. We caught up. Are you going to watch the third Sonic movie?
The third one? Like, you mean the one with the shadow on it? Yeah. Of course. Why wouldn't I?
That'll be awesome. I love playing that game growing up. Yeah, I have acting figures in my room
right now. Just for anybody who's curious, Caden's name is spelled K-A-I-D-E-N. But we understand if
you, you know, you don't get, like people don't spell my name right. Can you pin that? Can you pin
that so that people know? Can you pin that? Can I pin it? Yeah. I think there's a way to do that,
but it's not in this setting here. I think I have to go somewhere else to do it. I thought you
had to click the dot, dot, dot thing. I don't think it lets you here. Let me double check. Where's
that? Nope. Wait, click hide? So these, yeah. Click hide and then click on the dot, dot, dot.
Nope. No. I thought I said pin, not put user. Oh, look, we got, I think they spelled your name
wrong again. Karen, you have a very wide dad. People always miss Bella, but it's obviously funny.
Yeah. Thank you for that super chat. And then Sparky says, I'm coming to Florida to paint a mural
for a friend of mine. They live an hour from you and your dad is an old friend of mine. See you then.
See? They want to see you then. Elizabeth says, oh, wonderful, Kaden. Thank you. I am
retired educator, midfusion. I am so glad you are joining your dad. Isn't that cool?
I should go on more live stream. You know, we'll hang it out. Just take over, man.
Yeah, take up, take up the entire account. Right. I think I can handle it.
I think you can handle it, man. When they ask you questions like the origin of the universe,
you know, you can answer all of that stuff. No problem. You know what I mean?
I don't even know what that means, but sure. You just tell them, look, man, I know what it means.
Don't ask me silly questions. Have a nice day. Right? I'll be like, okay, guys, today we're reading
this book. No worries, MMA. Don't worry about it. We get it. And a lot of people are on phone,
so it does that. All I have to go best wishes at your new school, Elizabeth said.
Do you have anything you want to tell everybody?
I don't know. Just have a wonderful, amazing day. I just wanted to touch base, right? We wanted to
tell everybody we made it. We're safe. We're in Florida. Are you loving it? What's your favorite
part about it right now? We have like a like a whole place. This is like the whole package.
It's like how it was in North Carolina, but better. Is it? Yeah. You excited to see where we go?
We're going to try and figure out a way. I know it's expensive to get like
Disney passes and try to get Universal Studio passes, stuff like that. Find like a thing so
the kids can go to the water park and then go to the amusement parks and enjoy this while we're
here because we don't know after one year whether or not we want to live here or whether or not
we want to relocate to somewhere different. We have to test it out. That's where we're at right
now. You know what I mean? I didn't see a super chat TARDIS, but feel free to ask away. Michael
Beverly, glad to see you guys had a safe trip. We are myth vision. I think we can see super chats
right there. Yeah, I didn't pop up. Oh, hold on. Hold on. Oh yeah, right there. Well, how did that
slit? Says have you looked into the parallels between the book of revolution and Ragnarok?
Yeah, so they mean revelation. Oh, but I haven't really looked at the parallels between the two.
Never checked it out. I don't know. I've never heard of it having parallels. It wouldn't shock me
that there's an apocalyptic kind of end, a war type end. That would be something off the top of my
head that I would know between the two. But the only thing I could think about is numbers as well.
Like how many, if there's any number play parallels between the two, but I've never really
looked deeper, right? Yeah, yeah, right. As long as he agrees with me, then we are okay.
Kip, we did drive. We drove five days. Oh, nightmare for me. He had a blast. They had
Wi-Fi the whole time. When we were growing up, I'm just going to tell him, son, when we were
growing up and we were traveling long distances, we had, you know, red punch buggy, no punch back.
Our entertainment was like rock, paper, scissors and like looking out the window to see and like
try to distract ourselves. We didn't have phones. I was trying to do the punch buggy thing with
Caleb, but then he got mad. Well, we did. There was a moment. What was the game we played?
We played iSpy. iSpy for like 20 minutes when the traffic got real, real bad.
And you like iSpy something green and you got to look around and find a color and then whoever
guesses it finally gets it right. But they have like, he has this video game. They're playing
in the back seat. Don't like, they got it made in the shade. That's for sure.
MMA philosophy. What's your thoughts on Christopher Hitchens?
I mean, I haven't done a deep dive into his philosophy and all that. I know that he can
be pretty blunt. I didn't like him when I was a Christian. I can tell you that because, I mean,
I was more in favor of William Lynn Craig and stuff like that kind of side. I think he has
some valid points that he can bring. And there's a place for some people being blunt, but there's
also a place for people, I think, that take their time. And you need kind of both sides of
skeptics if you're going to have that. It's not my style to be as blunt. That could change over
time with dealing with people's ideas and not being able to get through. So maybe that's made him
become more direct, blunt, rude. You could say even rude at times, but there's a lot I totally
agree with the guy on. So I'd have to do a deeper dig in understanding what's going on or even
knowing what his views on in other areas. Michael's Florida Museum of Natural History's
butterfly rainforest exhibit. You'll come face to face with exotic free flying butterflies
with a large screen enclosure. Oh, that's what he meant by PC? That guy?
PC is Pragmatic Crystal. So it's the short for Pragmatic. That's a friend.
Nice. Yes, made it. That guy said, what's your favorite sport, Kaden? Probably football.
Football or basketball. And you were kicking and doing other stuff in football, huh? Yeah,
but I was also kind of good at wrestling. Yeah. I only went for like one day.
You're a natural. You're a natural, buddy. I'm trying to get him in. Yeah. Joel says,
Hitch was a clever man and a great orator. That's true. I mean, as we all know,
if this is the problem with debates, one of the reasons I haven't engaged in them is that
they're typically polemical rather than informative. They're not, you know, anyone can almost paint
an argument that's horrible in an eloquent way and speak it with emotion and passion and people
walk away going, fully convinced. And it's so persuasive. And then, you know, it's fun. It's
entertaining. The best way to learn is just to kind of hear the arguments being made and
chew on that material and go from there. But yeah, other than that, I'm not sure about his other views.
MediKule, again, thank you for this interview. Will you ever interview David Falk? I probably
have no interest and I doubt he would want to come on discussing it. If I did, it'd be more
just kind of like challenging, asking challenging questions, critical questions and such. I did
try to, at first, before, let's just say, crap hit the fan way back when, tried to have him on. He
told me to read his book on Ark of the Covenant. And I got the book and I started reading some,
but I never finished it. And stuff happened. Stuff happened. And then it didn't work out.
Didn't work out. But I hear Kit Davis and him are best friends these days. They go on walks
together. They hang out together. Falk moved in to his house. They live together now,
drinking coffee in the morning, exercising, high-fiving. They're like best buds. So that's
what I heard from someone. I don't know their name. Anonymous. It was an anonymous author,
actually, that wrote that and sent it to me. So it must be true because they claim to be
eyewitnesses of them walking dogs together and such. So it's definitely true. And people,
they were willing to die, by the way, for saying that they're best friends now. So anyway, did you
know that? You didn't know that, did you? I wasn't listening. I did not know what you were saying.
No, I haven't been to the gym in a while, Blake. I've been moving my family, but you could say
lifting boxes and constantly being busy is enough. All right, we got a famous rock star right here
on stream. Hey. All right. Tabor, definitely. I'd love to have Charles Worth at some point.
He's getting up there in age, so I've got to try and get him before it's too late.
I might, at some point, we'll see. Michael Beverly, Falk and Kip are besties.
You didn't know that? Come on, man. You know that's believable, right?
I just made a joke to Kip, too. Someone said.
Kip's laughing. If you made it true, that's why we all know.
Yeah. Let's go down. Oh. Nobody's super chatting you, dude. Nobody's super chatting you, dude.
I don't need a super chat. I can talk to the chat. I haven't been on Discord in a while,
but we do have one where people hang out and talk. I'd like to be more active as I get things
settled and maybe do more live streams as well, but I also have some cool cutting-edge stuff
that I'm hoping to bring to the table soon. You don't want to stay tuned for that. For sure.
No one's talking to me.
I do, Barron. Forgive me. This has been a real tough transition. We moved over 3,000 miles from
where we lived, and that's just a lot. It's just a lot. Seeking something said,
do you have any opinions on the mine ads potentially using the Almanida pantherina
mushroom? I have a story about how I was chased to the woods by a female friend after she consumed them.
I wouldn't say someone running through the woods wouldn't necessarily mean that they had to
been on mushrooms, though I can relate to the crazy experiences I've had. I don't know enough
about what consumption of liquid. I imagined it was just wine, but it could have been infused
depending on the particular cult with some psychedelics or something. I don't know a
particular drink. I think there's guys who've written on this that I've interviewed before as well.
Harvard professor Carl Ruck. He's written a lot. Apples of Apollo, all that, and it wouldn't shock me
at all if Greek cults of Dionysus had some kind of psychedelic drink that they would drink,
and it would cause them to go into a frenzy. That wouldn't shock me, but you can go into
trances without that. You can go into trances just from alcohol. Who knows? I don't know.
I really don't. What you got there? Someone said they want to see the t-shirt. I guess that
right there. Oh, here. Up here, I think. Right there. Oh, look. We want to see the t-shirt.
I'm covering it now. Look at you, man. You're awesome. I guess that's what they were looking for.
Look, Kip's streaming in one hour, so go check out Dr. Kip. I'm about to get off of here and help
unpack more. I wanted a touch base to let you know we're all alive or where we were supposed to be.
What a heck of a trip. I wanted you to meet my youngest, and my middle son didn't want to come on.
He was shy. His hair wasn't where he wanted his hair, but it is what it is.
I want to read some more. Say some final words, man. Say some final words.
This guy said, do you like Mr. Beast? Do you like Mr. Beast? Yeah. Do you like the videos?
Yeah, I watch his videos once in a while. He posts every week. He said that he used to post every day
a long time ago. He said that. Consistency is important. I haven't been consistent lately,
but we will. We're going to hit the ground because there's so much. I literally wanted little
man not to be bored to death and have fun and hang out with you. We will be getting into some
topics. I was listening to James George Frazier, never listened to the Golden Ball, and got to
listen to that. I understand that anthropologists and a lot of scholars say that he got some details
wrong, but I do wonder if there is an unfair hand wave. Screw that guy. You don't need to learn
anything from him. He was a pivotal moment in comparative mythology and anthropology.
I want to get into that, which he doesn't even care about all that stuff. It's about him. Anyway,
good day, Derek. Someone said that your production is off the chart, my dude. Amazing stuff. Thank
you, Bradley. Appreciate the love. Caden is awesome. He is awesome. He's always positive,
very rarely. The day really has to be a bad day to have him not be in a good mood. He's usually a
very positive kid, great kid. Doc, trust me, we're on it, bro. Have a good day. Yeah, have a good
day. Final words from Caden. What would you like to tell people? Anything cool, anything you hope
they have a good day, that kind of stuff? What would you like to say, buddy? Hi. I like turtles.
You know. Anyway. But, hi, Mom. What do you want to say, buddy?
This was fun. It was fun, yeah. We were on for like an hour. Yeah. I would keep going. You want
to keep going? I want to get unpacking, buddy. We got a lot of stuff. We got to move to trailer.
We're in a housing community. They have a strict HOA, all that stuff for anybody who knows.
But look, we've got people from Greece even. Hello. Good to see you in the chat.
We are MythVision. Can you say we are MythVision? We are MythVision. That's what in 2020,
dad showed me that. He was like, look at this. In the basement. Yeah. Where he stays every time
we keep him in the basement. He's stuck in there all day. I was in the basement. You guys kept me
stuck in the basement. No, I was totally chill in the basement. All right, we're going to go. What
outro do you want us to use? But, um, we'll go ahead. Uh, I'm gonna think. You want the comments
back? Is there any outro? Maybe a few more super chats. Please, please, please before we end it.
But it's fine. It's fine. It's fine. Look, he's saying throw money at Kaden. Please, please,
please. Throw money at me. Super chat me. Please. Do you like the super chat? I like super chats
and people who chat never, whenever I go live, never people. Come back again, Kaden. Yes. That's
awesome. We need to do this more often. Little man is a little myth is a boss. I think he meant
to say man, but little myth, not myth vision. Yeah, maybe. Yeah. But yeah, if you guys give me
super chat, I can buy Robux or something good. Great kid. Thank you so much, little Susie.
Uh, this is too sweet. Got unpacked. Myth vision has a little co-host. Yep. Yep. Yep. This is my boy.
I'm going to host it while dad is gone. Right? Oh my gosh, a tiny human. Thank you both.
Thank you, CH. Oh, yeah. Stacey's mom podcast. This is for your Disney fun.
Either for Disney or Robux. No, I'm joking. I'm joking. He knows daddy is going to get
a pass this is for Disney or Robux. No, exactly. I keep. Well, say a final word and choose the
outro you want to use, buddy. Robux. Yeah. What would you want to, what would you want to do?
Did you want to do that one on your Huckleberry? What? Where's all the outros?
Really, it's this one. It's this one, which is shorter. There's that one. Yeah. And which one?
You like the Matrix one? Yeah. Yeah. All right. We love you. Thank you so much, everybody,
for tuning in. Trust me. Stay tuned. We got a lot of stuff coming and I want to do a lot more.
Hopefully we can get like a big cruise thing going. Myth Vision Cruise. So
love you. Let's do the outro and hit the like button. We'll see you next time. Oh, say it.
I did. Okay. We are Myth Vision. Son, do you want to know what the truth is? After this,
there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever
you want to. You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you just how deep
the rabbit hole goes. Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
