Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Jason, so if you don't mind, your podcast is called Dragons in Genesis, and you do a lot on mythology.
You like to look at surrounding cultures, ancient Near Eastern myths, Greco-Roman myths, just a
variety of different things, even the Jewish myths, like Enoch and things later, but I think it'd be
important if we go into the topic of common myths that influence the biblical account that we have,
the Hebrew Bible, without even getting to the New Testament necessarily. That gets touched as well,
but let's stick with your podcast, Dragons in Genesis. You mentioned in our last show
something about dragon carcasses and things. Where do some of these stories come from,
and then maybe talk about some of the influence on Genesis, and then we can kind of broad stroke
into a variety of different mythologies from various cultures that influence the biblical account.
Yeah, so there was this thing that was incredibly common, incredibly popular in the ancient Near
East, and that was this idea of a creation by combat. If you just google creation by combat myth,
you'll see a variety of these things, and they're all very similar. And this is sort of a backdrop
for Genesis 1, and the way this works is you have this whole big pantheon of gods. These are
polytheistic cultures, and so you have this big pantheon, and in this pantheon you have
a nice little hierarchy, like we have your creator deity at the top. It's always male,
and he usually has a consort, and then this whole descending range of deities beneath him,
and they're threatened, and they're almost always threatened by the same thing. A water dragon that
represents chaos and destruction, and this is essentially the ancient fear of the ocean. You
have people who, 99% of them, would never learn to swim in their entire lives. If they go into water
that's more than six feet deep, they're dead. Even most sailors didn't know how to swim at that time,
and so, which that would be a really dangerous job. I mean, you trip and you're dead. So,
right? You have this innate fear of the water, especially because these cultures they lived
on the banks of rivers, they live near the ocean, and if you have a tidal wave, a tsunami,
something like that, which used to be common in the Mediterranean world because you had like,
you know, volcanic activity out there, like the island of Canosis. So, that would be a problem.
You know, heavy rainfall up in the mountains, all of a sudden your river is flooded, and well,
if you live on the river, that means you're probably gonna die. And so, one flood could wipe out a
significant portion of the civilized world in a single day, which actually happened, and we have
stories about this. And so, water was terrifying. I mean, it was this dark, frightening, powerful,
unpredictable force. And so, that lived in the minds of people, you know, all the time. And so,
you have these myths about the water coming up to kill you. And when your city is sponsored by
its patron deity, if it gets flooded, well, that probably meant that your deity lost the fight
with a water dragon. And so, you have all these ancient stories about these gods getting into
fights with water dragons that represented rivers or the ocean. And so, we have these, this myth,
this sort of creation by combat. And what happens is, these deities, they're all losing to this
water dragon, okay? Or sometimes a host of water dragons. And while they're losing the fight, this
one young, upstart god, usually a war god, says, hey, I'll make y'all a deal. I'll fight the water
dragon. And if I win, I get to sit on the throne of heaven. And the gods are like, ah, sure, what
have we got to lose? I mean, we're all about to die. I'd rather this guy rule heaven than for us
to all get eaten up by the water dragon. You know, and this is Yom, Rahab, Tiamat, Leviathan.
It's the same thing. And so- And what are some of the cultures this is coming from? Like,
is this coming from the Mesopotamian world? The Sumerian? Yes, Sumerian, Babylonian, Egyptian,
Canaanite, Phoenician. If it's on the Mediterranean, if it's in that region,
it has a myth like that. Even some that don't. I mean, we've got myths like this
in China and Japan. I mean, look at their dragons. All their dragons are like these long,
serpentine things, and they're usually in the water. Or sometimes they're up in the clouds.
What comes from the clouds? Rain. You know, they have very similar myths. It's a very
similar idea that can come, you know, I mean, you're a primitive people, and one day the water
comes up and kills a bunch of your friends. You personalize this, you know, that we did something
wrong, or this is a, there's an intellect behind it. There's a force behind it. That's what myths
are. It's often people trying to explain things. You know, where does the lightning come from?
Well, there's a magic man in the sky who makes lightning bolts and he throws them at his enemies.
You know, why does the water kill us? Well, it's a monstrous sea dragon that occasionally gets
angry and kills us. And so, yeah, we see a lot of them in the Near East. I focus on the ones in
the Near East because they are directly related to what I study. But we have these everywhere. If
you have a culture that grew up near water, they probably have a flood story. They probably have
a water dragon. And Dr. Price said that Yahweh fought Leviathan. And this kind of gives you the
implication and joke very clear where he says have you or can you. And it really reminded me of,
remember the Hobbit where the dragon and they were trying to find the weakness and he's trying to
find the one open scale that was near the heart of that dragon to kill that dragon. And finally,
he finds that one missing piece and he was able to somehow kill the dragon and defeat it with
a gold and all that was. Well, it reminds me of that where it's almost like the polemic that God
is using towards Job is trying to say have you, can you, can you spear pierce the armor? Can you,
like he's saying I did. And it's like, right, to me, that's kind of embarrassing in modern context
because we would interpret that and go, what a narcissist. Like it's almost like, right,
an older brother telling a younger brother, like, yeah, but are you as powerful as me? Do you feed
the birds in the North when they crawl for food? And can you feed the lion in the field and like
all this stuff, the rain, the lightning, the snowflake and then the Leviathan, he's pretty
much saying he is he, right? And so what is Leviathan and Yahweh? Like, can you, is there any
backdrop? Is there a book? Is there a story that isn't in our New Testament or in our Old Testament
that I'm missing that tells us a little bit more about this? Oh, that's a great deal. There's,
there's, there's probably, there's at least as much outside of the Bible as there is in that
that's relevant to this. Now, before we move away from the Hobbit, if you read that passage
in the Hobbit, where Tolkien is describing what the dragon's mouth is like or where the
the dragon himself is describing, you know, like, my claws are like spears, my teeth are harpoons,
and my scales are like breastplates, and you know, my wings are hurricanes and everything else,
go back and read that passage in Job. It's about 15 or 20 lines long where Yahweh is describing
what the Leviathan is like. It's very similar wording and imagery. Now, Tolkien was very,
he was biblically literate. I think he, whenever he was writing that passage, I think he remembered
Job, and he went back and looked at it, and I think that passage where Smough is describing
himself is almost like an homage to this passage in Job. It's very, very similar. I think he was
like, I like how this is told. I want to do something similar, right? And I think, I think it was a
nod toward this passage in Job, and read the passage in Job, and then read that paragraph
in the Hobbit, and you will see what I mean. You can be like, dude, that's totally a nod to the Bible,
and I love stuff like that. Yeah, the Hobbit is modern mythology, you know.
But yeah, so in this creation by combat thing, what normally happens is this young upstart God,
Balhadad, or Marduk, if you read the Anuma Elisha, it's centered around Marduk,
this Babylonian God. He's the patron of Babylon, the same way that Yahweh is the patron of Jerusalem.
And he's going to go and fight the God, the dragon Tiamat, and there's this huge battle,
and he eventually wins, and in the victory, he basically dies. I can't remember if he gets swallowed
or just mortally wounded, but he basically dies, but then he comes back to life. Many of these
gods involved in this creation by combat story are dying and rising gods. They die in the struggle
against the darkness, against the chaos, against the destruction, against the water dragon,
but then they come back to life, and it's usually their consort or their father who comes in and
uses their power to resurrect them, and then they come back to life, and the dragon is then
dismembered, and often the body of it is used to create the world, and so in this story you have
like the body of the dragon, it gets cut in half, and this represents the chaotic waters of the
primordial world. It then gets divided, and now that half the water is gone, the dry land can
emerge, and we see this in Genesis 1. The waters are divided, half of it is put up in the sky,
and the rest of it is down on the ground, and now dry land can emerge. Now the body of the dragon,
part of it is used to erect the farmament. This is the big glass dome that covers the
snow globe earth that they believed in, and so it supports the sky ocean, which is the other half
of the water, and that's where rain comes from, and that's why the sky is blue, and we see this
in Genesis 1. First thing you know, he separates the water, you know, into two halves, and half of
it is put up above this farmament that is erected to hold up the sky ocean, and so we see the exact
same thing happening here. It's just phrased differently, and it goes through all the different
steps. They make all the animals in the trees and everything else, and eventually they end up making
people. In the Anuma Elish, the Babylonian epic with Marduk, it actually happens in pretty much
the same order as we see in Genesis 1, beginning with this struggle against the primordial water,
which we see in the first verse of Genesis. It talks about the spirit of God moving over the
surface of the abyss, you know, this is the waters, and it concludes with the creation of people,
and we see that in the Anuma Elish, but it wasn't just the Babylonians. I mean, everyone had this
story. The Canaanites had it. It was that God bailed, or Baal Haddad. He does the same thing,
I believe, with the Water Dragon Yom. So we see the same thing, and as you mentioned in Job,
it's a retelling of that only with their God, Yahweh, and the Leviathan, which was their version
of the creation by combat myth. You know, Eleleon sits on the high throne, they're threatened by
Leviathan. The young upstart war god Yahweh comes along, he kills Leviathan, and then from its carcass
you get the the farmament with the sky ocean, and then they've removed enough water for the dry land
to come out. I think that's funny. I mean, honestly, it's interesting. I mean, if we had no science,
or if we had no observation with technology we have today, and we lived in the ancient world,
during the day we would think we're really seeing the sky ocean. It's blue, and then at night it
would be almost like he moved the water for us to see into the heavens, because you see sparkling
stars, and you're like, where did the water go? It slowly went away, like God moved the water out
of the way for you to see the heavens. So it's really interesting. And there's this great book
that I'm just obsessed with. It's called The Book of Enoch. There's actually like three different
books of Enoch. I'm really focused on the first one. But in Enoch there's this whole big section,
the the centerpiece of the story, called The Astronomy Book, and in it they explicitly
lay out their whole cosmology, and they talk about like why the sky is one color during the
day and another color at night. Well, you know, they recognize, okay, the the sun is going around,
that's kind of illuminating the the waters above the firmament. You know, now why do you see the
stars? They didn't believe that the water moved, and you can see the stars behind it. No, they
believe that the sun and the moon and the stars would come inside the firmament, and then fly
over the sky. Because they're beings, right? Or sometimes. Yeah, they had gates in the
firmament. These, you know, because just how you have the floodgates that they mentioned
in Genesis 7, I believe, with Noah's flood, the floodgates opened up and all the water came down
and that flooded the earth. They believe that those weren't the only gates. They had gates around
the perimeter. And this is where the wind came from, the rain, things like that. They had warehouses
outside the firmament. These were the storehouses of heaven. And it had, it had frost, it had rain,
it had the dew, it had the winds, everything else. And it also had the stars. And gates would open up
in the eastern sky. And angels would bring the stars in and move them over the sky to the western
end. And then gates over there would open up and they would take the stars out. And each angel
guided a different star. And they had a prescribed course. And that's why the stars move in the same
way every single night. If there wasn't an angel guiding them, it would all be chaotic. And they
actually have stories about some angels that did the wrong thing with their stars. And it messes
everything up. Yeah, it's fascinating stuff. But they, they lay out how the universe works in,
in this one section called the book of astronomy, which is overlooked when you study Enoch.
I thought it was fascinating. My recent interview with Dr. Michael Heiser, I actually am quite
fascinated with this gentleman. He is a Christian, but he is definitely fringe in terms of like what
fundamentalist Christians are willing to even venture. And he says, blatantly in our interview,
that the Genesis 6 narrative, the Genesis is 3, 6, and 11. There are three
chaos situations, if you will, if you'll permit me that, where you have a single
character, Satan or serpent. It's not really Satan, it's a serpent. That tricks a woman,
she ends up falling, death enters the world. You have, in Genesis 6, a corporate, if you will,
entities of sons of God, divine beings as he would put it, and most people I understand will
look at this because there's a lot of overwhelming evidence to use in this argument,
rather than saying the nature of the sons of God here are human. Seems more obvious,
they're divine in my opinion, but I've heard both sides. And then Genesis 11, where you have to go
to Deuteronomy 32 to kind of see more of a worldview and Psalms, what is it, 80 something, 90 something.
Where you see that there was sons of God, El Heem, that were allotted to the nations. But
he permits this idea, and he says, the Genesis 6 Watcher's Fallen concept with Marduk
and the Mesopotamian background, there is this Apkalu character who was venerated in a positive
light in the Mesopotamian myth, who came down with divine beings, if you will. They talked humans
the culture of life, which you've mentioned on our show before. And I will let you elaborate on
that, just making the point for anyone who's listening to catch us. And he said that these
narratives in the Bible were written as polemics against, because they venerated those characters
in the Mesopotamian, but they said the reason that all mankind went evil in the biblical one
is because of these very beings. And so I thought that was fascinating that a Christian
was willing to go this far. Now he argues against polytheism, right? He wants to go, no, no, no,
there was always Yahweh, was supreme and all that. Okay, I'm not even willing, like I'm so glad
he even came this far. He says that on the show blatantly, that the reason they wrote it was against
that idea. It's like, within what was before, I mean, you're clearly saying that this was written
after the fact of these Mesopotamian ones. Yeah, I find stuff like that fascinating. And
Michael Heiser is, he's simply brilliant. I mean, the man is, there's no two ways about it. I mean,
it's not an opinion, it's a fact. The man is brilliant. And his analysis of things, especially
like the book of Enoch, and some of these early Christian views are, I think he's onto something.
Yeah. I mean, he is a Christian, he's going to read it in a certain way. Right.
You know, but I mean, anytime you're studying anything, you have to be aware that every human
being on earth has bias. You know, I mean, anything I read, I'm automatically going to assume that
these myths are mythology, and it's just a story written by people trying to explain something.
I mean, that's a bias I have. That's how it appears to me. And sometimes the things they're
explaining aren't completely fiction. It's like, the tools and the writing, the way that they wrote
things are hard to explain, like the storehouses in heaven opening. Like, why are you coming up with
this narrative, you know? Right, right. It's their understanding. Yeah. And I mean, I could be dead
wrong. There could be a god up there who's looking down at me like, what an idiot, you know? I mean,
that's how my bias works. So you have to be aware of any kind of bias, you know?
Well, you're not convinced there is one. That's the thing. Right. It could be. That
could give me more material for my podcast, you know? But yeah, so I mean, anytime you're
reading anything by anyone, be aware that everyone has a bias in one direction or another. We have
multiple biases going all the time. But that certainly doesn't detract from the man's work.
He is brilliant. And I think he has a vastly superior understanding of Enoch when compared to
most biblical scholars who are not religious, because most of them see it as just this bizarre,
apocalyptic work that doesn't really have much of a relation to Judaism or Christianity. It's
just this thing that they kind of see, and they're like, okay, it was there at the time,
but I don't really know what to do with it. And they just shove it aside. And I think that's a
mistake. Heiser actually believes, and that's what makes this valuable, is that the motivation and
drive for him is he really believes these words, he believes these guys, this account called Bible,
as a Christian, I know from experience, that he presses on to try and see if these are true. I
mean, look, he could be like most Christians, discredit it, be on, focus on the canon, 66 books,
let's go with it, just, you know, try to brush past Jude and Second Peter, you know, find ways to
skip those portions, let you misunderstand and try to humanize these things in some way. He doesn't,
he really wants to. And I think him having that worldview as held sacred for him helps drive him
into trying to investigate further deep into those things, which we, I think, are seeing something
he's not, and that's okay. But I am very thankful that he has that worldview to press deep for us
to see, you know what, he's put a lot of pieces together, he made the case in his book Demons,
I suspect, in his, what is it, the realm, the unseen realm, unseen realm, he makes a good case
in Second Temple literature and the biblical literature, that they're using this sons of
God narrative into not only the biblical narrative, but also outside of it. And so, right, right,
I think it's important to look at the work that comes from believers, because as a person who
holds these worldviews, you know, who is living inside of this literature, they're going to see
things and understand things about the literature that is very different from how you and I would
see it and understand it. And this gets us closer, perhaps, this gets us closer to the understanding
of the people who wrote it. It can. You know, it can't. I mean, people reading their own modern
religion will definitely color their understanding of it, and that's one of the, that's a bias you
need to be aware of. But, you know, some of them, like Heiser, like Margaret Barker, have taken it,
I believe, closer to first century Christianity than most secular scholars have.
I agree with you, and I love that you said that. I apologize for interrupting you. When I was just,
I just was trying to point out, like, quickly, fundamentalists in the sense of, like, modern
press, Protestant movements and such, that even Dr. Heiser on my show, which you will see,
it hasn't been released yet. That tells you when I'm recording this, by the way.
If you have the wisdom, you thou shalt, though, calculate the number of days.
No, Enoch told me about the Heiser episode before he even came here.
Oh, did he? Yeah, yeah. Hold him not to tell you.
He writes everything down and I get a copy. I'm sorry, man. I probably shouldn't have said that.
No. You know, he even says, he's like, this Calvinism, like all the isms and the schisms,
he's like, they're just, they can't see, they can't go there, and they've kind of painted their own
walls up in imaginary walls to prevent themselves from even going there. So with the chaos dragons
and the creation warfare, is there any last thing you'd like to say on that?
I think if you familiarize yourself with these ancient Near Eastern myths, there's a book just
about Canaanite mythology that you can get. Just look for Canaanite myths on Amazon and you can find
a copy of like the Euguritic text, which is fascinating reading. It tells all about like
the ball cycle and things like that. You familiarize yourself with this, with the Enuma Elish,
things like that. Then whenever you begin reading something like Genesis one or the story of Joe
or anything like that, you can really see that this wasn't like this weird standalone mythology.
This was something that actually fit well within the contemporary thinking.
This was a common understanding of the universe and you find that the Old Testament
actually fits quite nicely within Near Eastern mythology.
