Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Bart D. Ehrman. This video will go viral. I really enjoyed this
so much and I know you will too. A Christian apologist by the name of Jonathan McClatchy
has been taking pot shots at Dr. Ehrman trying to discredit him in some of his articles saying,
well, Dr. Ehrman's sloppy or he's not really someone to fear as a Christian when it comes to
contradictions in the biblical account. And we take a detailed analysis of this pulling graphics
up thanks to people like Stephen Nelson and we pick apart this apologist arguments. We also parallel
Apollonius of Tyena to Jesus and slavery to Jesus condone slavery. Also Dr. Ehrman makes his
remarks about mythicism. I know some of you guys take this stuff offensive, but I'm just learning.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Your host Derek Lambert. We have the
infamous Dr. Bart D. Ehrman with us today. Welcome to MythVision podcast, sir. Yeah, well thanks.
I didn't know I was infamous, but it's nice to see you. To a specific crowd, you're infamous. So
thank you for coming to MythVision. I'm so thankful to our donors who made this possible.
Super duper awesome. You guys are amazing. I can't thank you enough. I'm so glad to finally
make this happen and to be able to meet you, Dr. Ehrman. So I'm going to introduce you and then
we'll start getting into the juicy stuff. Dr. Bart D. Ehrman is the James A. Gray Distinguished
Professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, right down the street from me.
He came to UNC in 1988 after four years of teaching at Rutgers University at UNC. He has
served as both the Director of Graduate Studies and the Chair of Department Religious Studies.
A graduate of Wheaton College, Illinois, Bart received both his Masters of Divinity and PhD
from Princeton Theological Seminary where in 1985 he did his doctoral dissertation in 1985 and was
awarded Magna Cum Laude. Since then he has published extensively in the fields of New
Testament and early Christianity, having written and edited 26 books, numerous scholarly articles
and dozens of book reviews. Among his most recent books are Greek English edition of the Apostolic
Fathers for the Loeb, Harvard University Press, a scholarly monograph on the use of literary
forgery in the early Christianity Oxford University Press, and four New York time bestsellers.
Misquoting Jesus, God's Problem, Jesus Interrupted in Account of Scholarly Views of the New Testament
and Forged, I recently finished that a month ago, so it was really amazing, a study of the
books of the New Testament that were not actually written by their alleged authors. Also, everyone
right now, before we get into the juicy stuff, go down in the description, join his blog.
Fantastic stuff. He even has guest articles from other scholars who come on. I love the one recently
wondering if Paul was writing to a sister or had a sister trying to find out. There's so much
stuff. Anyway, and for the Great Courses Plus where Dr. Ehrman teaches a number of courses,
make sure you guys check that out. So, Dr. Ehrman, that was a lot of just trying to get
through the beginning because we have very limited time here. Here are some of our donor
questions. We'll start with them and first, we'll just call him Anonymous. Anonymous does not want
his name to be mentioned, but he asks, can you briefly talk about the parallels, if any, between
Jesus and a contemporary Greek miracle worker, Apollonius of Tyanna? Was there any borrowing
between the narratives and who borrowed from who if there was? Yeah, it's a great question. So,
the background of the question behind the question is the fact that we have stories of other people
besides Jesus who are portrayed as miracle-working sons of God, who often are born because of some
miracle, some supernatural event, who are ludicrous children who like religious superstars
and who grow up and then go on itinerant preaching ministries and can heal the sick and cast out
demons and raise the dead and at the end of their life they ascend to heaven. So, sounds like Jesus.
So, one of the better known people in recent times has been this figure, Apollonius of Tyanna.
Apollonius was not a contemporary of Jesus. He lived at the end of the first century instead of the
first, beginning of the first century, but he also had a miraculous birth where a god
made a woman pregnant and he was born, who was a religious genius as a child, who when he grew up
went on a preaching ministry teaching people that they shouldn't be concerned about the material
things of life, they should be concerned about the spiritual realm, who could heal the sick and
make the weather do what they wanted it to do and so on and raise the dead and at the end of his
life he was brought up on charges before the Roman authorities and he ascended to heaven,
where he still is. So, that's Apollonius of Tyanna. Now, when you tell it in those general terms,
it sounds just like Jesus. If you actually read the stories, it's not just like Jesus. It's very
different from Jesus in a lot of ways, lots of ways. For one thing, this guy is a neo-Pathagorean
philosopher. He's not a Jew. So, there are lots of differences and the mother's actually not a virgin,
he's just God gets a pregnant, but she's not a virgin. So, there are lots of differences,
but there are lots of similarities and so the question is, why do you have these stories?
And as I said, it's not just Apollonius and Jesus. I mean, you have people like this.
And so, I think the reason is because in the ancient world, if you're talking about
somebody that you think is a superhuman, like he's human, but he's not like the rest of us.
There are certain kinds of stories you tell about someone like that and these are the kinds of stories
about their miraculous birth, their miraculous life, their miraculous afterlife and so these
are the things you say and one of the things you say is that this person become a divine being
and in the ancient world, the way you become a divine being is by going up to live in the
divine realm and so you have these stories of ascensions up to heaven. So, it's tricky because
Apollonius lived after Jesus, but the accounts we have were written after the Gospels. So,
like you might think, you know, you're not sure who's borrowing from whom here,
but so it doesn't look like the Gospels are borrowing from Apollonius, but I'm not sure
that Apollonius, the biographer of Apollonius is borrowing from him either. I think these are just
stories that you find in the ancient world and these two people are two of them.
So, technically it was in the milieu, so to speak, in the air. There's a common practice for things
like this. Awesome. Next question, same donor. He asked, if you could briefly speak about the
writings of Aleutian of Samosota and what I like about him is he's a second Socratic, so
this is a guy who, I guess we'd love him today, especially with the religious freedom we have,
but he's arguing and writing funny humorous stuff about superstitious people and can you
comment on that and just give us some elaborate on how this character was in the ancient world
and how he affected Christians? So, Aleutian of Samosota, he's a skeptic and he's a satirist,
so he writes satires. So, if you've ever read Voltaire, like the French satirist of Candide,
who makes fun of religion by having religious people do stupid things, Aleutian of Samosota
does that, and not just with religion but also with philosophy. So, we have a lot of his works
and some of them are very amusing and they poke fun at people, including religious figures,
including one figure who, his name is Peregrinus, this figure is Peregrinus and he is a cynic
philosopher who claims that nothing in this life really matters, the material world doesn't matter,
pleasure doesn't matter, the point is to escape this world and not to be bound by material wealth
or material pleasure or anything, and he proves that he's really committed to his message by
committing suicide, by throwing himself on a pyre built for the purpose at one of the
Olympic Games in the second century and Aleutian observes this whole thing and thinks the guy's
a real shyster, even though he's killed himself to do this, but it turns out in Aleutians account
of him, he became a Christian for a while and he duped the Christians into thinking that he was
like the second Jesus or something, and so you get that, and then you get other people who are
shysters who just do magic tricks, they're sleights of hand and convince people that they're
miracle workers and so on, so Aleutians make it fun a lot because he's skeptical about everything,
like that, he's a terrific source for understanding early Christianity and for understanding some of
the New Testament, but he's also just really fun to read, so people who are interested in this kind
of thing, Lucian of Samosada, it's great, great reading. Thank you Dr. Ehrman, this is an interesting
question, do you think Morton Smith forged the secret gospel of Mark? Okay, so like this would
take two hours to answer. We got like two minutes. Yeah, so I don't know what your listeners would
know about the secret gospel, so Morton, I'll do it in two minutes, so Morton Smith was a brilliant
scholar who taught at Columbia University, one of the most brilliant scholars of early Christianity
in modern times. During the Second World War as a young man, he was isolated in Israel, he was there
checking out the archaeology and such, and got stuck there during the war, couldn't get out
because of the war, and he spent some time in a monastery called Marsaba, monastery outside of
Jerusalem, about 12 miles out of Jerusalem. He later, and he realized they have this really great
library there, but there are no books that are, the books are in there, but there's no catalog of
the books. Years later, he went back, he had a research lead from Columbia, and he went back
to catalog the books, just so they'd know what's in there, because there's an old manuscript, some
books, and he's going through a book, a particular book written in the 17th century that's the writing
of one of the church followers that has some blank pages at the back, and inside the blank pages
is a hand written, four pages of handwriting that looks like it's written sometime in the 18th
century, he can judge from the, he's a Greek scholar, and he thinks it's an 18th century hand,
he doesn't have time to do it because he's trying to catalog all of these books during his
leave, so he just takes photographs of it. When he goes back after his leave, and he
looks at these photographs, he realizes this claims to be a letter written by a famous church
father, Clement of Alexandria, who lived around the year 200, who claims that he knew of a different
edition of the Gospel of Mark, a secret Gospel of Mark that was kept secret, and this secret Gospel
of Mark, among other things, has an episode in which a young man comes to Jesus during his
ministry, wearing nothing but a linen cloth over his nakedness, and Jesus baptizes him,
and spends the night with him, teaching him the mysteries of the kingdom of God.
They're teaching the mysteries all right. Yeah, missing, Smith thinks there's more than
some kind of spiritual mysteries going on here, and that it's a homoerotic scene, and so he wrote
two books about it, one a very scholarly book that's very, very impressive on Clement of Alexandria
and the secret Gospel of Mark, and the other is a popular book just called, I think it's just called
the secret Gospel of Mark. Scholars, scholars verified that these photographs are authentic,
they verified that the handwriting is in fact from the 18th century, they verified that the style
of the letter, it looks like it is a copy of Clement of Alexandria's writings, because it's
very much like Clement's writings, and the quotations from the secret mark sound a lot like our Gospel
of Mark, and there are a number of people who think that Morton Smith forged it, and so the
question is, what do I think? I tend to think he forged it, but it's a minority opinion within
scholarship, I think the majority of scholars think that it's authentic, but I think he forged it,
I think he probably, I'm not definite about it, like I'm not gonna, it's not, you know,
bet my house on it, but that's my guess, based on what I'm studying. I appreciate it. What was
the growth rate of Christianity during its earliest decades? I know you've written on this extensively,
but if you don't mind just give a minute even explaining that, and we'll get into how many
converts you think defected from the movement once the promise is made by Jesus and Paul regarding
the Messiah's return fell, but first let's talk about the growth rate real quick, and then I have
something interesting I want to poke in on that next one. So in my book on triumph of Christianity,
I try to estimate the growth rate of Christianity, if it started out, as the New Testament says,
that right after Jesus' death, there were 11 male disciples following him, and there was a handful
of women with them in Jerusalem, so there are about 20 people to start, and I think that's
probably right, who first believes in the resurrection. By the year 300, there are probably
two or three million Christians, and so people used to say, well, it must be a miracle, how do
you give 20 people to three million? It's a miracle, or people say there must have been
like these massive evangelistic rallies where like, you know, like Billy Graham is down there,
and, you know, 5,000 convert on one day, how else are you going to get there?
So a sociologist of a religion named Rodney Stark wrote a book called The Rise of Christianity,
and sociologists really know how to crunch demographics, numbers, and so he crunched the
numbers and said, you know, you don't need a miracle, you don't need massive conversions.
What you need is a steady growth rate, and he estimated that if you grow from at a rate of
about 40% a decade, you'd get there. So in my book on Time for Christianity, I discussed Stark's
work and I showed why there are problems with his numbers, and I re-crunched the numbers,
and it's not significantly different. The growth rate over time would be about 35%
growth rate, and what happens is it's an exponential curve. It's like if you invest money,
you know, you're making 7%, and, you know, every year you're not making much, you're
saving 7 bucks for every hundred dollars, but if the hundred dollars is a million dollars,
you're making money ahead of a fist at the same rate, right? So the money goes way up,
and that's how it is with population growth. So the entire period is about 35%, but it has
to be much slower at the end, and it has to be much faster at the beginning, because if it's
only 35% a decade, you know, then after 10 years, those 20 people have become, you know, 27 people.
There's clearly more than 27 Christians in the world, you know, and so when Paul writes a letter
to the court in the 50s, you know, there are more than 40 Christians, and there are more than 40
Christians, and it's a court, and so it's much faster to the beginning and much slower at the
end in order to make it work. What is the rate? I don't know. It's a guess. A lot more. Yeah. Well,
thank you so much for that, and this is a technical question, I guess. I don't want to spend too much
time, because we've got some interesting apologist stuff we will get to, but I want to spend time
on the donor's questions, and this one personally has my interest. How many converts do you think
defected from the movement once the promise is made by Jesus and Paul regarding the Messiah's
return fell? And what were, because this is important to ask, and you do this in your, you
lecture this all the time and say in your college courses, you ask people to show the difference
between Paul's teachings and Jesus' teachings and stuff. So the real question comes down to
there's obviously a felt apocalyptic promise of some sort. What was Jesus's promise? And then Paul
has a Messiah that's resurrected and has a returning Jesus. I very much doubt Jesus is on
land going, all right, guys, I'm going to die and actually come back. So what promises did Jesus or
the original movement in your best educated guess would be on what he's saying, and then Paul's,
and how many people do you think defected when no return and no actual Parasya, if you will, occurred?
So I think Jesus definitely did predict that a cosmic judge that he called the Son of Man
was going to come back while his disciples were still alive. So within his generation,
Paul, who Paul probably converted three or four years after Jesus' death, and he expected Jesus
to come back within his generation. He thought he would be alive. 1 Thessalonians 4, 1 Corinthians 15,
Paul seems to think he's going to be alive when Jesus returns. It doesn't happen.
So there's been some very interesting studies about what happens when you've got a religious
group or some other kind of group that has a very firm expectation of something that is going to
happen that doesn't happen. And if you're, if you, if you read your listeners want to listen,
read something really cool about it, it's called When Prophecy Fails by Leon Bestinger. Have you
read it? I'm halfway through it right now. Oh, fantastic. Great. So it's about UFO cult, as you
know, who are expecting, you know, the Venetians or the Martians or somebody to come on this
particular date to take them out of the world and the end doesn't come. And this author who's a
social psychologist has infiltrated the group to figure out what are they going to do. You would
think what they do is they give up and say, oh, we're wrong about that. No, some did. But the other
thing that happened that's more striking is that the group became more evangelistic. They reset the
date and try to get more converts. And Bestinger has a psychological explanation for it. It has to
do with a phenomenon he named cognitive dissonance. Cognitive dissonance is when you've got a belief
that can be confirmed that is confirmed. So there's dissonance between what you know is going to
happen and what you know did happen. You thought you knew was going to happen. What you do know did
happen. There's a dissonance there. What happens? If you get more people to agree with you on this
belief, it eases your feeling bad that it didn't happen. It makes you think, oh, I was right. I
just got the date wrong. And so you go out and get more evangelistic. Christians appear to have
gone out and gotten more evangelistic. So some people certainly would have dropped from the
movement. But we don't have any numbers. We don't have numbers for defections at all throughout
Christian history. So we don't know. We just don't know. Interesting. And I suspect when the Gentiles
find their way in, then that's when things actually are more successful. Paul I think kept the thing
alive. I just very much doubt if it stuck. That's just my opinion. But anyway, I don't want to get
trapped there. No, no, no. I don't think if Paul hadn't come along, Paul didn't invent the idea
that Jesus' death and resurrection is what brings salvation. People get that wrong. I think Paul was
the founder of Christianity. That view was around before Paul converted. That's why he was persecuting
Christians because they were saying that. And he thought it was nonsense. But what his conversion
was all about was realizing that this salvation to the Jews can go to Gentiles without them having
to become Jews. And so men don't have to get circumcised. And so in Christianity, following
Jesus is not a Jewish sect for Paul. And so that opened up the floodgates. And yeah, if that hadn't
happened, Christianity would not have anything like the success it's had. If we had more time,
I would probe you to ask you specific details about Paula Fredrickson. I would love to get your
insight because it's just something of mine. But I suspect, I don't know, we'll save that for a
future interview if everyone wants to hear your views on different scholarships of Paul within
Judaism because I'm just fascinated. And your student, I believe one of your students, Dr.
Jason Staples, English Cross, I can get him on to promote his new book that's coming out
on a new look on Israel. But he will be happy to join you. I would bet my house on that.
I hope so because I want to learn from him. There's so many groups. And by the way,
this whole second coming thing with cognitive dissonance, there's a group called Full Preterist.
Are you aware of them? Full Preterist? Well, they're like full. They think that everything
was fulfilled, the pericy of the second coming resurrection, but they interpret it to mean,
oh, that's covenantal language or that's allegor. Well, that's not really cosmic in. Anyway, we've
got to do more shows. So ladies and gentlemen, make sure you guys make that happen sometime.
Anyway, next question, Dr. Ehrman, I'm just excited to have you on here. My really good friend,
Anthony Guthrie, he helped me this possible with a substantial donation. And thank you, my friend.
Here are his questions. What do we know about the historical practice of slavery in the first
century, especially the inheritance of foreign slaves who could be beaten to an extent without
recourse? And I want to follow through with all that he has to say on this because you'll get the
tone of what he's trying to ask. Yahweh, the author of the Epistle of James and Jesus in the
Gospels all seem to intend for the old laws to be upheld forever, including those regarding slavery.
When Jesus states in Matthew five that he came to fulfill the law and the prophets,
how was this used to justify the transatlantic slave trade? And does it seem that the character
of Jesus ever really envisioned a world without slavery? So he has, just like some of the guys
I've been interviewing, the scholars, they point out that what slavery was was actual slavery.
A lot of fundamentalist Christians make it, oh, it's only indentured servitude and they don't
realize the cruelty in the Hebrew Bible or even in the ancient Near East. Was Jesus upholding
the same concepts of slavery? First question, I guess. It's a complicated question. It turns out
not to be an easy one. And one of the reasons it's complicated is because slavery was a major
institution throughout antiquity that virtually nobody questioned per se. It wasn't seen as an
ethical issue throughout the Roman Empire. The other reason it's complicated is because it wasn't
like American slavery. American slavery had everything to do with race. And ancient slavery
had nothing to do with race. And it's true that foreign slaves could be beaten without penalty,
but any slave could be beaten without penalty. A slave was the property of their owner.
These were not indentured servants. The word in Greek for slaves that gets used in the New
Testament is doulos. It's the word that Paul uses of himself, that he's a doulos of Christ.
He's the slave of Christ. I mean, Christ is his owner and Christ can do anything he wants with him.
Even though that was the case, slavery was a very complicated institution in antiquity
because there were slaves on numerous levels. We had some slaves who were sent to the assault
lines. Their life expectancy would be about two years or something. It was very bad, very bad,
very bad. But there were other slaves who were welcome members of upper elite households who
were highly educated scholars or highly educated businessmen when business women and who were
well placed and well treated and well dressed and well fed. And so it's not like there was a thing,
slavery, there's this wide range of things. But it always involved somebody belonging to someone
else, not as an indentured servant, but actually being owned by them for whatever purpose they
wanted to use them for. A large percentage of the population, I forget what the numbers are,
but like a third of the population in their own were slaves. It wasn't based on race.
There are various ways to become enslaved. If you were born into slavery, you yourself were,
in other words, your parents were both slaves, and you were born as a slave.
A lot of slaves were provided by wars. And so prisoners of war would typically be made slaves.
You could be sold into slavery. If you owed debt, you weren't able to pay. You could be,
you were your own collateral, collateral, you could become a slave. So there are all sorts of
ways to becoming slaves. But again, it wasn't based on race or it was based on factors like that,
the ones I've just mentioned. I was just going to say Jesus did not oppose the institution of
slavery, either did Paul, Jesus. But you know, that didn't seem weird. Nobody opposed the institution
of slavery. I mean, we have we have authors who are slaves. They don't oppose the institution of
slavery. It's just the way things are. I mean, it's like, I mean, it's just, and so I don't know
that it occurred to much of anybody. I mean, slaves do want to be enslaved and slaves could
be set free, of course. I mean, an owner could set free somebody that they thought well of,
or that they appreciated, or that they were paid off, or you know, and so, so it was a fluid
institution, but it definitely was slavery. And there were there were some nasty things that
happened. It was also though, you know, it turns out, sorry, it turns out that in many ways, in
the ancient world, in many times and places, it was better to be a slave than to be a poor, free
person. Because the slave, at least, the master has a reason for feeding the slave to make sure
that they're fed enough and healthy, because this is their hired labor. And if the person dies,
they've lost an asset. The impoverished person doesn't have any backup plan. And so they're
often seen as worse often slaves. Interesting. I guess the final thing I'd like to say is
was this whole Matthew five with Jesus to fulfill the law and the prophets, was this just like a
used verse or passage to justify transatlantic slave trade? I mean, we know that like the southern
slave owners in America, for example, would use Bible verses sometimes to like, you know, use their
Oh, well, slavery's thumbs up, you know, I don't know about Matthew five during the slave trade,
it'd be worth, it'd be worth finding out. But Matthew five itself is a complicated passage.
It's not so, but you're not asking what it really means, you're asking how is it used. And I don't,
I don't really, I don't know how it was used during the slave trade. It doesn't ring a bell
as being the most common thing, though, because, you know, you have other things that would be
more appropriate. The one that was used a lot, for example, was the the curse of Ham,
in the Old Testament, where in the story of Noah's three sons, who one of whom Ham saw Noah naked
when he was stone drunk. And Noah realized that he'd been shamed in front of his son and he cursed
his son Canaan. And in the 19th century, as they develop race theories, anthropologists developed
race theories that you have these races, and there some have some qualities, some have other.
The thought came to be that the what they called at the time the Negroid race came from came from
Ham. And that since it was that race was cursed, that meant that white folk were justified in
enslaving black folk. And so that was a very common room, but Matthew five I'm not aware of,
but it might be my ignorance. Well, thank you, Anthony, for those questions so much. Another
donor says, I have a special request, Dr. Airman, please blink twice, twice, if you're secretly
a mythicist. Would you like to comment? I'm going to get some toothpicks. No, I think the
mythicists are completely wrong. And they, you know, and I think they're shooting themselves
in the foot. Does everybody know what a mythicist is on your phone? Yeah, pretty much. So,
look, you're just doing yourself a disservice because people who are not mythicists are laughing
at you. You're ignoring historical evidence in order to assert a point. And you might think
it's great. But it's like, you know, look, if you're a big fan of Fox News or MSNBC,
you think it's great. But anybody who's not who listens to this, this is crazy. And look, I'm
a fan of MSNBC. And but, you know, I am a liberal, but, but, you know, the evidence is so overwhelming
that I'm saying, why, why, why not argue something that is going to make a difference instead of
like trying. So I know why people do it. They like to get named from themselves or they like to get
a book published or they like having a following. And then it's cool to say Jesus never existed,
but it's just bollocks to put my English wife. Could we, and by any chance, before we leave
this one to the next question, is it possible to say that some of the academic mythicists aren't
on the same playing field as some of the guys who are, let's say, coming up with
really, really, really out there theories that don't even go into the vein of academia at all?
Like, for example, Dr. Richard Carrier, Dr. Robert McNair Price, would they be,
you don't equate them to Holocaust deniers the same way you would someone else, right?
Not generally. Because I mean, those guys, yeah, they know a lot, but they know a lot,
but they're completely wrong on this. Have you seen my debate with Robert Christ?
Yes. So I mean, I just think they're completely wrong. And Carrier, you know, Carrier's a smart
enough fellow. But I think he does himself a disservice. He knows, he knows a lot. He's published,
you know, he's published, you know, an article or two in a peer-reviewed journal. He brags about
how many things he publishes in peer-reviewed journals. But I mean, it's not like a big deal.
That's what scholars do. But you know, there's nobody, there is no professor of New Testament
in the world that I know of in an accredited university. And there are thousands of people
like this. Who's a mythicist? I don't know. Do you know one? I don't know one. I am not aware.
And that's not an accident. And it's not, you know, they say, well, they're prejudiced against us.
Well, they're prejudiced against you for the same reason that the biology department is prejudiced
against somebody who doesn't believe in evolution, but believes in Adam and Eve. They think you don't
have any evidence. And so, but, you know, they get offended when I say that. I know they get offended,
but I'm just telling you the reality is, this is, this is the problem. So why not, why not like,
use your intelligence to it? I don't know what your goal, I don't know what the goal is. I don't
know what the goal is. But because I thought they're really kind of asking the goal. But if the goal is
to help to help people realize that Christianity is not true, you're not going to get there by
saying things that people are just silly. You know, I have to make a comment and then we'll
get to the next question is there's a group that thinks that all Paul's Gentiles are actually
secretly lost Israelites. And so I'm like, and they go, well, this disproves Christianity. And I'm
like, you're never going to convince, first of all, with Greek and linguistics and experts,
they all disagree with you. But number two is you think this is going to convince them? Anyway,
there's so much more, Dr. Airman, I can't even begin. We don't have the time. And if we, if we
thought we did, we'd be practicing cognitive dissonance. So we discover we had it. Yeah, right.
Yes, there. Textual criticism. This is, how do I say this? Apologist, we're going to be talking
about this. So before I get into the key stuff, I'd like to cover, I just want to make sure our
viewers get a very brief introduction to some of the basics of textual criticism.
Since a few of these topics are going to come up during our discussion, my friend Stephen Nelson,
you're the man, has put together some illustrations for all of the stuff we're going to be going
over. And thanks for the illustrations, man. I'm going to pull up one that, that he made to start
the conversation off, which is an illustration of BH Streeter's theory of local text. And so
let me pull this up real quick. I apologize. Do your listeners know what you're talking about?
I don't think half of them will. Just wondering. So let me read this and then get your thoughts.
Can you explain in broad terms what all the, all this represents in terms, in terms text types
and the transmission of the New Testament? And can you also explain what the coherence-based
genealogy genealogical method is? I know you're going to love this. I know you're going to love this.
Well, I'm going to try. I'm just trying. And how it's changing the way textual critics conceive
of text types and the role they play in reconstructing text. And by the way, you're going to hate me.
Ready? Try to do it in less than five minutes. Okay. So, okay. So I wanted to explain quantum
physics in five minutes or less. Please, make it simple so everybody can understand. Okay. Don't
use any complicated language here. I know, right? So, okay. So is everybody seeing this chart?
I think so. So BH Streeter was, so early 20th century, a major scholar of the Gospels,
Britt. He is building on the theory developed most convincingly by Westcott and Hort, who were two
Cambridge scholars in the 1880s, who published their work in the 1880s. The logic of this chart is
that you have different, different forms of the New Testament in circulation in different parts
of the Christian world in the early centuries. By different forms of the New Testament, I mean
that scribes are copying the New Testament in Alexandria, Egypt, in North Africa, in the city
of Caesarea. You know, different scribes in different places are copying the text. And
in every place, scribes are making mistakes and they're sometimes changing things on purpose.
The changes made in one place tend to stay in that place because that's where the other
successors scribes are copying them. And so a certain way, a certain form of the text that's
worded in a certain way, so you take John chapter one, there'll be differences in the way it's worded
in Alexandria and in Caesarea and in Antioch and Italy, depending on the changes that scribes have
made and then reproduced in that locale. The argument of Streeter is that you can isolate
these various local texts and that over time, as Christianity grew and spread, the textual
traditions of one place came to affect the textual traditions of other places until by the end of the
fourth century, you end up with a text that was kind of an amalgamated text of these various
locations that is not particularly close to what the original looked like because it's an amalgamation
of local texts in various places that have all been smashed together into one kind of more,
one text that there is being seen as improved, but in fact has all sorts of changes in it because
of where it came from. That's called the Byzantine text. That became the text of the
Greek New Testament throughout the Middle Ages. And it is the form of the text that then was used
as the basis for the King James translation. So the King James translation is based on a form of
the text that is a late and inferior form of the text. To find out what the text looked like in
the earlier centuries before the Byzantine text, you have to isolate the Alexandrian text and the
Caesarean text and so forth and so on. So a quick question on that is, do we have, or I might be
wrong about this, do we, we don't have Jerome's Vulgate, do we? I think only later copies that
are corrupt, corrupt, correct? We don't have the original thing that Jerome did and Jerome actually
didn't do the entire Vulgate. He did the Gospels. And so we don't have the originals of the Greek
New Testament or the originals of the Vulgate or the originals of translations, versions done in
Syriac or Coptic or Armenian. None of these languages. So what we have in all of them are
copies that have been made that have been changed either by mistake, by accident or on purpose.
And the trick of textual criticism is to figure out, among all these manuscripts, which, which
reading of this verse is the right, is the one that was originally written? John 1, 18. What was
it, what did they originally said when the author wrote it and how was it changed and why was it
changed? That's what textual critics do. And Streeter was a old, old style, textual critic.
It was very good for what he did. He's not genealogical based. He is genealogical based,
but he's not, he's not the coherence based genealogical method. No, he's genealogical.
Because the whole thing is a genealogy because you're drawing a family tree.
Okay, got it. And so you're drawing a genealogy. And so that's what, that exactly is what he's
doing. But that's not what the genealogical based coherent, I mean, yeah, I would hope that maybe
we can have another time to do this, of course, to delve into getting your thoughts on this theory,
of course. And, and, and no, I'm telling you, the coherence based genealogical method is not
something you're going to be able to explain five minutes. I know. Yeah, maybe one day, that's what
I'm saying. Nobody's going to care. It's not going to make any sense. I mean, I'm just telling you,
you're very few textical critics who can actually understand it.
Well, modern evangelicals like to use the catchphrase embarrassment of riches to describe the vast
quantity of copies of the New Testament we have, but most Christians throughout history didn't have
an embarrassment of riches, right? Why do you, why do you think it's important to modern Christians
to believe that scholars have finally restored the so-called original texts, considering most
Christians throughout history had Bibles full of errors? And how close do you think we are currently
to the original text? These are really good questions and they're they're again very difficult.
It only gets worse from here. I don't know of any bona fide scholars
who think we have in every detail the original text. Even, you know, I've debated Dan Wallace a
number of times and, you know, he and he has a more optimistic view of things than I do. But
he agrees. There are passages where we don't know or where I can change it. There are passages where
we wholeheartedly disagree. I don't mean me and Dan. I mean, everybody in the field disagrees.
Is it worded this way or that way? This way or that way? Tons of verses like that. Dan would agree
with that. So we don't know. The question is how close are we? And the embarrassment of riches
is all about the fact that there are more manuscripts of the New Testament than for any
other book from the ancient world. Flat out. And, you know, people raise this with me as this like
I didn't know this. Yeah, this is, this is right. It's completely common knowledge. It's true. And
it's no, it's not an accident. It's true. It's not a miracle. It's true. Who's copying books
throughout most of Western history? Monks and monasteries until about the 16th century. That
was it. And so, so what books are they going to copy? Are they getting more likely to copy Paul's
letters or Plato's dialogue? What do you think? Paul was scripture for them. So of course they
covered copy Paul's letters more. And so yes, of course, we have more. That is true. It's also
true that as a result of that, we have far more textual differences in the New Testament
than for any other book from the ancient world. So many that scholars have not been able to count
them all. The latest estimates say that there are up to 500,000 differences in our manuscripts,
half a million differences. Now, what, what people get upset with me is when I say that,
but then I go on to say, which is also absolutely true, the vast majority of these don't matter
for squat. They don't. Scribes can't spell. Every time you misspell a word, it's a difference. Okay,
who cares? I don't really care much, but I mean, so that's, that's absolutely true. But there are
some big differences. And that's what I want to, our time is so limited. I'd love to just squeeze
more out of you. This is amazing. So have you ever heard of a Christian apologist, Jonathan
McClatchy? I don't recall. So he's a Christian apologist, of course, who has actually written
articles. And this is what he says in 2000 or in 2020, a Christian apologist named Jonathan McClatchy
published three scathing blog articles criticizing Jesus interrupted for alleged misrepresentations
and distortions, which you can go down in the description and check out all three of these
articles for yourself. We won't have time to address all of his crit crit critiques, sorry,
but I have picked out certain examples that I think might be interesting to discuss. And of
course, you'll get right, you'll know exactly where we're going with this. And I'll have images and
everything. So homo tell you, Tom, that's what a heck of a word. I'd like to start with one example
in particular that I think is really interesting. McClatchy quoted a paragraph from Jesus interrupted,
which he evidently copied manually. And in doing so, he left out a huge chunk of a sentence.
Before we address this critique, let's just correct the record and clarify how and why
McClatchy's quotation differs from the original text of your book. So let me pull this image up
from who is this guy? He's a Christian apologist. I'd say he's on the up and coming when it comes to,
you know, can you see that, by the way? I can see it. Okay, so in he says, he's quoting you, right?
In Matthew, it says, this is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. And ultimately, if you don't
mind me, I'm going to go, he says, McClatchy's omission is rather striking, since it's demonstrably
false because it comes out where it says I am taking here the original wording of the verse as
found in most English translation. And you actually say the opposite when he's trying to
skate you in his article, but it's a mistake. So the textual variant is not actually in most
English translations. And if anyone bothers to fact check this quote, they'll find that you
actually stated the opposite. And so with that opposite makes you guys, you can go back and pause
this video if you want to see the screenshot. Put it back up again. I want to point something
out about it. Yes, sir. Hold on. Let me pull that one back up. I apologize. I ended up closing that
one second. I believe we're there. Yes. Yes, sir.
I see. You're saying it's home. I tell you Tom, because the word found occurs twice.
And yes, you're suspecting you're suspecting that his eyes skipped. Are those on are they
on subsequent lines in the book? Yes. And I'm about to show you the second image, which actually
points this even better for us real quick here. And I love this because this is the perfect example
from someone like him who's actually trying to skate you. This is exactly in the vein of what
you're trying to say. But see, he could he could claim it was an accident, but I'm not. Yeah.
It may have been an accident. I mean, no, it may it may it looks like it could well have been an
accident. But it's also possible that he did it on purpose.
Interesting, because a lot of Christians listen to him. And I think it's important we get into
some of the juicy stuff where he's trying to say your contradiction claims aren't valid. And
it'll be interesting to hear your thoughts on this. But I wanted everyone to see, including
McClatchy, I hope you see this, that you have also fallen into the same situation where mistakes
happened. And this is right in the vein of Dr. Bart Ehrman's work. So I ask all the Christians
who are afraid of Bart Ehrman, continue to be afraid. Okay, I'm just teasing in his article,
he says, don't be afraid of the big bad wolf Bart Ehrman, you know, like he goes into all this.
So we're going to go into the voice at Jesus baptism.
Stuff I'm saying, by the way, is like, there's almost nothing in these books that I came up with,
nothing, almost nothing. The book he's talking about is quoting Jesus, that's all just common
knowledge. So just people get upset with me because I mean, scholars have known this stuff for
centuries. Okay, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. No, I appreciate it. Seriously. So we're going to talk
about the voice at Jesus baptisms. And his objection is that the textual variant you cited
is highly contested. Do you actually believe that today I have begotten you as the original
reading of Luke 322? Can you elaborate on this? And let me pull up the image for everyone who's
watching to get aware of the particular passage. And hope you could see that. Can you explain
what it means when the textual apparatus, or we're leaving that. So let me have you comment
first on this. Today I have begotten you and you believe this comes, I believe from the,
is it the Eastern text or the? No, we don't do it that way anymore. Okay. So yeah,
you be called the Western text. So all right, so here's the deal. Did he get this out of my
Jesus interrupted book? I believe so. Yeah, so okay, the deal is this, you know, I was, in the
course of that argument, I was trying to make a point about things. And I wasn't trying to prove
anything about Luke 322. If you want, if he wants to, I don't know if he reads scholarly works or
not. If he does read scholarship, then I suggest he look at my discussion of this passage in my
book, The Orthodox Corruption of Scripture, because I have an extensive argument for why the text
originally said today I have begotten you from Psalm 27. It is found, it's found only codex
bz, as he says. Well, he doesn't actually say that, but that is where it's only, it's found in codex
bz and in a group of Latin manuscripts. And so usually that's thought of as a Western variation
that, you know, people look at, but usually they think, yeah, probably not. But you have to look at
the other evidence. And the most striking thing is when this verse gets quoted in early church
fathers, prior to any of our manuscripts, this is the form of the text they have.
So that's why even if it's wacky and crazy stuff comes up in those.
Well, it's not wacky and crazy because church fathers thought that this was accurate. And it's,
and it's not, and it's not, you can see why there's a big argument. See, it isn't just like, oh, is it in,
you know, 200 manuscripts versus one manuscript? Yeah, that's, that's how you argue if you're not
trained. But I mean, if you actually know anything about this field, it doesn't work like that.
The way it works is you mount an argument based both on which manuscripts have it, not so much,
how many manuscripts, what the quality of the manuscripts are, what the date of the manuscripts
are, but also which is the often more likely to have written given everything else we know
about his theology, his word usage. You do a whole analysis of the verse in light of all of
Luke and Acts. And then you decide which of these two variant readings, you've got two different
ways of reading, which one is described more likely to have wanted to change.
And so like, and, and what evidence do you have for that? So it's a lengthy argument. And so if I
gave an argument like that, every time I mentioned Luke 322, every book of mine would be 20 times
larger than it is. So of course, I don't say this every time, just if you really want to see the
argument, don't don't look at a book where I don't give the argument, read my argument. And if you
disagree with my argument, let me hear about it. I mean, because it's not, I'm not saying that's
definitely, you know, I'm just saying the probability is this. And it's not a weird claim at all.
Thank you. This is what scholars say. They're debates about this verse. Yeah. By the way,
if he thinks that we have the original text, why do experts disagree on this verse?
Right. What are they disagreeing on?
Great point. Matthew's dual donkeys. McClatchy quotes Jesus interrupted, and this is a good one.
In Matthew, Jesus' disciples procure two animals for him, a donkey and a colt. They spread their
garments over the two of them, and Jesus rode into town straddling them both, Matthew 21.7. It's
an odd image, but Matthew made Jesus fulfill the prophecy of Scripture quite literally.
McClatchy claims that Matthew is indicating that Jesus sat on the cloaks, not that he sat on
both the donkeys and the colt and the, the donkey and the colt at the same time. In fact,
he points out since the colt has had never been ridden, the mother donkey is actually there for
some kind of moral support. And so let me pull up this image for you. Okay, moral support. We like
that. Yeah. And here is the parallel to the passages. And I think if you look at the bottom
of these, it's really interesting between each of these. Matthew has it in plural. They brought the
donkey and the colt and placed them on their cloaks. And then here's as they brought the colt
singular to Jesus and threw it on it singular, their cloaks, and he sat on it singular. But Matthew's
clearly adding the colt's mother in the scene where Luke adheres closely to Mark, who has only one
animal. You can see that Matthew converts all the singular references to plural, and it seems like
he needs two animals to fulfill prophecy. Apparently, Christian apologists are totally fine with Jesus
walking on water, but they draw the line at Jesus riding two donkeys. Do you think McClatchy's
interpretation is reasonable? Can you elaborate on Matthew's use of Zechariah 9-9? And I'll bring
up that image if you'd like to elaborate. I'm just trying to figure out what translation this is
that he's using. I believe if I'm not mistaken, this RSV here, and this is not him. This is actually
my buddy who's who put this image together, Stephen Nelson. But are you seeing any conflicts there already?
I'm just having a little trouble understanding. So the apologist is simply trying to say that he
didn't ride on two donkeys. He wrote on one. No, I got that part. I'm just trying to understand
his argument that he's not sitting on the donkeys. So in Mark right here, the way that he's trying
to argue this, and maybe you can talk about the Greek. Okay, let me just put it like this.
Even if you go with his argument that he's not saying, they have put the cloaks on the two animals.
Whatever he's sitting on is plural. He's sitting on the cloaks. But if the cloaks are on both
animals, he's not sitting on some of the cloaks. Yeah, I guess you'd say the referent, the antecedent
here is... No, I get it. No, I get it. You're right that it's the colt, but he's trying to say it's the colt.
No, I get it. No, he's saying they spread the cloaks on, he's sitting on the cloaks. I get it.
But they put the cloaks on both donkeys. He's sitting on whatever they've, in his view, they're
he's sitting on the things they spread over the cloak, over the colt and the donkey, right?
Right. They spread them over both of them. So if he's actually sitting on the things that were
put on the colt and the donkey, then he's sitting on both the colt and the donkey,
because the cloaks are on both the colt and the donkey.
What about Zechariah? This is not my argument anyway. If you want, one of the best commentaries
on the Gospel of Matthew written in modern times is by John Meyer, a senior professor of
New Testament retired now from Notre Dame, who's also written the most massive study of the
historical Jesus. And this is his argument. And, you know, just about everybody agrees with the
argument, they just have different, they just say, well, you know, that, you know, it's metaphorically
or something. But, you know, it looks like he's sitting on a colt and the donkey. So whatever.
So I guess a simple question would be, in light of the Zechariah thing,
was the author Matthew simply misrepresenting the Greek translation, or do you think he could
actually read the Hebrew text? What was the point of Matthew's going out of his way to add the
second animal to the scene, if not to fulfill prophecy? I'm not quite sure what you're asking,
because Zechariah has two animals. Right. And I think that's why the simple question is,
isn't that why Matthew's using two animals instead of Mark's singular animal? Yes. Yeah.
No, the whole point is that when Zechariah uses the two animals, so Zechariah is using a poetic
form called synonymous parallelism, where, and you find this throughout the entire, I mean,
all the poetry, the Old Testament, the Psalms, the Proverbs, they'll state, they'll state something
on one line, and then they'll give the same idea in the next line with different words.
So they're not rhyming, you know, they're not rhyming words at the end of the sentence,
they're kind of rhyming ideas. And so Zechariah is doing that. And so the first line and the
second line are parallel to each other. So everything that he says in the first line,
he says in the second line, using different words. And the point is that Matthew seems to,
in this case, think to be a literal interpretation of this. He's got to have both animals, even
though they're supposed to be synonymous, the same animal. And so the point is, is that he,
Matthew has taken something literally that was meant to be poetic.
Interesting. Thank you. Next topic. When was this the current, when was the curtain in the
temple ripped? Mcclatchy quotes, Jesus interrupted, according to Mark's Gospel, after Jesus breathes
his last, the curtain of the temple is torn in half. Luke's Gospel also indicates that the
curtain in the temple was ripped in half. Oddly enough, it does not rip after Jesus dies, but
it is explicitly said to rip while Jesus is still alive and hanging on the cross. Mcclatchy asks
rhetorically, but is that what the text of Mark and Luke says? So here is an image. I like to give
the visuals to people. An example. Thank you so much, Stephen Nelson, for doing this, man. I
appreciate it. So Mcclatchy argues, quote, from the translation found in the English standard
version, it is easy to see how Erming came to the conclusion he did. And for some illiterate,
someone illiterate in the Greek, this mistake might be excusable. However, notice the Jack here,
Erming is an expert in Greek. Yeah, I can't read Greek. I should learn that language sometime.
Exactly what he says. He says, however, Erming is an expert in Greek. And so this mistake is
quite inexcusable. The ESV translation of Luke 23.46 says, following the tearing of the curtain,
then Jesus calling out with a loud voice said, Father, into your hands, I commit my spirit.
And having said this, he breathed his last. The English translation makes it sound like Jesus
died following the tearing of the curtain. However, this is not at all clear in the Greek. The Greek
word translated then is chi, which is a conjunction normally translated and it is temporarily
nonspecific in ancient writers, including the New Testament authors, frequently used chi when
narrating events a chronologically, that is, without a respect to chronological sequence.
Thus, both Mark and Luke are ambiguous as to the exact order of these events, and both are even
consistent with the tearing of the temple curtain being simultaneous with Jesus death.
Would you like to comment on this? Yeah, I would like him to give me, let's say, three examples
in Luke's passion narrative, where he's, he's narrating events one after another. And he uses
chi to show me that the second one happened before the first three other examples. Give me
three other examples of that in Luke's account of Jesus passion, where he's chronologically
narrating what happened. He uses chi to separate one thing from another. And the second thing
is understood to happen before the first thing. Give me three examples.
Thank you, Dr. Airman. We'll go on to the next one. You heard that, so be on the lookout.
I feel like I'm like Jerry Springer in the middle of, you know, this, this, this match going on
here. I'm just teasing. Not much of a match. I mean, the things he's saying, I mean, nobody
agrees with it. So, I mean, you know, it's nice to apologize to say it, but I mean, get it. Okay, go
ahead. My friend Stephen Nelson, who knows biblical Greek, provided this reference from a
biblical Greek textbook and noted the following about McClatchy's interpretation. Luke surely has
Jesus dying after the tearing of the temple curtain because he dies after calling out with a loud
voice. And after saying his last words, these are two successive aortis part of participles,
which establish a clear sequence of events. The tearing of the temple curtain and Jesus' last
breath can't be happening at the same time in Luke, even if it were plausible reading in Mark and
Matthew, where those events are directly in sequence. Dr. Aaron, do you concur with this analysis?
I don't think so, because if you could put the Greek up again, I can explain why.
Yes, sir. Let me pop that back up.
The issue is going to be that our Apologist friend is not basing this on the relationship
between the participle and the verb that's governing it. He's basing it on the conjunction
Chi. Okay. I think this is it. So, he's not saying, he... Am I right here?
Yeah. So, what your friend Steve Nelson is saying is that the phonasos... I think that's
what he's saying. The phonasos has to happen before the eighth end. I'm sorry, but do this in
English. The calling out happens before the said, and this after saying happens before
breathed out. And that is... That's absolutely right. But that's not our Apologist friend's
argument. His argument is that the and means that... Hold on a second. Well, now that's interesting.
Yeah. He's saying that all of verse two happened before verse one.
Right. So, it's not... So, verse two is where you have those two participles that are dependent
on main verbs. And he's saying he would agree with the sequencing within the verse, I assume,
if he knows Greek, I assume he does. But he's saying that the and at the beginning of verse two
doesn't mean that it happened next. It means that verse two actually is happening before verse one.
And I'm asking him, give me three examples of that.
Awesome. Thank you so much. We did a lot of good slides here. I think these are wonderful for
people to kind of keep track of. So, all right. If the author, John, wanted to convey... Sorry,
Jesus Miracles and John. This is something interesting that you made a comment on and he
wrote about. So, McClatchy quotes from Jesus Interrupted. Jesus performs his first miracle
in chapter two when he returns the water into wine or when he turns the water into wine,
a favorite miracle story on colleague campuses, and we're told that this was the first sign that
Jesus did. Later in that chapter, we're told that Jesus did many signs in Jerusalem. And then,
in chapter four, he heals the son of a centurion and the author says this was the second sign that
Jesus did. Huh? One sign, many signs, then a second sign. This is quoting you. McClatchy's
objection is that the signs performed in Galilee were merely the first and second signs performed
in that particular location and that the other signs performed in Jerusalem don't actually count
as signs performed in Galilee. And, of course, in the image, you could see the comparison.
If the author of John wanted to convey the idea that this was now the second sign that Jesus did
in Galilee, why doesn't he just say that? How does McClatchy's reading hold up in like of the phrase
when he had come from Judea to Galilee? Yeah, so, yeah, it depends how you want to translate
the Greek here. Scholars have made a big deal of this thing that you've got the first sign
and then the second sign, then signs in between the signs, and so that them really look like the
second sign. And it has to do, again, it has to do with how you translate a part of it. In this
particular case, my view is that what 5-4 is saying is this now is the second sign that Jesus did.
He did this sign after he came from Judea to Galilee.
But the emphasis is that, I mean, it's true, these are two signs that he's done in Galilee.
But, you know, even with, I don't know if that made sense why I just said this now, but
let me put it like this. No, put it back up because I need it to understand.
Okay, yes sir. If you read it the way he says you're supposed to read it,
he's saying that the first signs when he was in Galilee does many signs in Jerusalem,
second signs when he's back in Galilee. Right. But it actually doesn't say that.
It says this is the second sign he did after having come from Judea to Galilee.
But in his reckoning, it's the second sign.
See what I mean? Yeah. Whereas in my way of reading it, he does the first sign,
he does the many signs, and then the author, you know, it's a discrepancy. The author says this is
the second sign, but he's just telling you this second sign was done after he'd come from Judea.
So I don't have a discrepancy. I mean, the way I,
it's really hard to explain this stuff without the grief, but okay. It's the way you translate
the participle. He ends up translating in a way that doesn't make sense of the word second,
because he doesn't think this is the second sign he did after he came from Judea to Galilee.
But the way he's translating the participle, it does mean it's the second sign he did
after he came from Judea to Galilee. Because this first sign was just when he was in Galilee.
Right. The beginning of his signs. Right. And how many women went to the tomb?
McClatchy quotes Jesus interrupted. Who actually went to the tomb? Was it Mary alone?
Mary and another Mary? Mary Magdalene? Mary the mother of James and Salome? Or women who
had accompanied Jesus from Galilee to Jerusalem? Possibly Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother
of James and other women. McClatchy points out the fact that Mary Magdalene says, we do not know
where they've laid him in John 20 verse two. And he claims that this presupposes that other women
were present with her at the tomb. So according to McClatchy, there is no contradiction here at
all. And I'll pull up the image for you. And it is interesting me and my buddy went over this last
night. Like it's singular all the way to this very part. Like if you look at John 20 and you
could, you know, you can compare all the synoptics. But in John 20, she saw that the tomb and then she
ran and then she said, and then you get down here at the end. And we do not know where they had laid
him. He uses this little plural spot right here where we is to argue, oh, this right here is,
you know, evidence of a plural women at the tomb.
So it kind of depends on what you're trying to do with these passages. If what you're trying to do
is to figure out a way to reconcile them, then this, this is a way, this is a way to do it.
It actually doesn't reconcile them because it doesn't tell, because the, as you, as you can see,
Matthew, Mark and Luke don't all say the same thing either. But it would allow
that Mary Magdalene went with somebody. And then you'd have to ask, why doesn't John tell you who
the other one is? And if you only read up through, she said, so she saw that the tomb had been taken
away from the, the stone had been taken away from, if you only read that far, what would you think
had happened so far? You think that Mary Magdalene had gone to the tomb.
If he said, she says, we don't know where they have laid him.
If I were a fundamentalist, what I would say is that the reason she says we don't know where
they have laid him is because she went off and first she conferred with her other, with other
people. They didn't know either. So she went to Peter and said, we don't know.
You see, if you, in other words, if you want to play that game, you could play it either direction.
And so how do you know which one is right? So I choose not to play that game. And when,
when John says it's Mary Magdalene, so the deal with John is, as you, as you probably know,
John, like the other gospels, is made up of lots of different sources, and there's lots of internal
inconsistencies, partly because he's woven sources together, which is why you have that problem with
the signs, and, and partly because he's not careful in his editing. And so stories sometimes
come from different sources. And when you do that, you get inconsistencies. Somebody could just as
well say that this is an inconsistency, that the we is an inconsistency.
Thank you for answering that. I appreciate it. And we're going to move on to where was Jesus after
the baptism? You know, all of these are McClatchy's issues with, with what you presented. And I,
I figured it'd be great. I'm sorry that we're spending so much time. No, no, it's fine. You
know, when I was a fundamentalist, I had the same kinds of views. So I, I understand. In fact,
I had exactly as you, I understand. Where was Jesus after the baptism? McClatchy quotes, Jesus
interrupted. In Matthew, Mark and Luke, the so-called synoptic gospels, Jesus after this,
after his baptism goes off into the wilderness where he will be tempted by the devil.
Mark especially is quite clear about the matter of, for he states, after telling of the baptism
that Jesus left immediately for the wilderness. What about John? In John, there is no account of
Jesus being tempted by the devil in the wilderness. The day after John the Baptist has borne witness
to the spirit descending on Jesus as a dove at baptism, he sees Jesus again and declares him to
be the Lamb of God. John is explicit stating that this occurred the next day. Jesus then starts
gathering his disciples around him and launches into his public ministry by performing his
miracles of turning water into wine. So where was Jesus the next day? It depends on which gospel
you read. And of course, looking here, this is McClatchy's objection. Quote,
this then is not the baptism narrative itself, but rather John giving testimony
to what had happened on an earlier occasion. Bart Ehrman once again has simply misread the text.
In quote, I'm not exactly sure what McClatchy means by on an earlier occasion, if he means that
this. Oh, that's a good one. That's good. That's pretty funny. You want me to finish saying this,
or you want to go ahead and jump into it? No, go ahead. Keep going. So if he means that this
occasion was, in fact, Jesus baptism, I suppose his interpretation makes sense. But if he's implying
that the spirit descended from heaven like a dove on two separate occasions, then that seems a little
odd. Do you think this is John's way of narrating Jesus baptism without narrowing the actual baptism?
Dr. Ehrman? So if you actually read the passage,
John 129, you have to start with John 129, where the passage begins. And it begins with,
on the next day. And the next day, so John saw Jesus coming to him, and he said,
behold the Lamb of God. And he goes on to talk about Jesus. He begins talking about Jesus at
the end of verse 29. He talks about him in verse 30. This is the one I meant when I said,
continues talking about him in verse 31. I myself did not know him, goes on verse 32,
and John gave his testimony. I saw the spirit coming down upon him. He's talking about Jesus,
and Jesus coming to him to be baptized, and Jesus being baptized. Chapter 1, verse 29,
to chapter 29, verse 34. The next word is the next day. So the next day is a relationship
to the day that John was speaking. You'll notice that in verse 29, and in verse 35,
it begins exactly the same way. In Greek, it's te apareon, on the next day. He's narrating a
sequence of events day by day. And one day he came to John. John saw the spirit coming upon him.
He told the others about it. The next day, Jesus calls his disciples, and he goes from there.
No temptation in the wilderness. No 40 days away.
I love this. I am very blessed to be able to sit here with you and learn and get your
insight on this. I so hope we can do this again. Here's another one.
Squeezing in everything we can. Guys, we're squeezing a camel through the eye of a needle
right now, so please bear with us. Does Acts contradict Paul regarding his visit to Jerusalem?
McClatchy pushes back against the idea that Acts contradicts Paul by claiming that Paul
simply had no reason to mention all of the events in his itinerary. McClatchy quotes Jesus
interrupted. This emphatic statement that Paul is not lying should give us pause. He is completely
clear. He did not consult with any others after his conversion, did not see any of the apostles for
three years, and then he did not see any except Kephus, Peter, and Jesus' brother James. This
makes the account found in the book of Acts very interesting indeed. For according to Acts 9,
immediately after Paul converted, he spent some time in Damascus with the disciples,
and when he left the city, he headed directly to Jerusalem where he met with the apostles of Jesus.
On all counts, Acts seems to be at odds with Paul. Did he spend time with other Christians
immediately? Acts or not? Paul. Did he go straight to Jerusalem? Acts or not? Paul. Did he meet with
a group of apostles? Acts or just with Peter and James? Paul. And so obviously you see in the slide,
McClatchy asks, quote, now how long a period of time is denoted by many days? Get this. Take a look
at 1 Kings 2, 38 through 39, McClatchy says, where many days in Hebrew is immediately glossed as three
years in quote. Dr. Airman. So, okay, so let me ask, let me ask him this. Yeah, leave that up.
Let me ask him this. The Septuagint is a translation of 1 Kings 2 that was done centuries after 1 Kings
2. The translation was not written by the author of 1 Kings 2. 1 Kings 2 says it was a long time.
He doesn't put the Hebrew there, so I don't know how it is. He says it's literally many days. I'm
not going to bother to look it up in Hebrew right now, but the translation of the Septuagint
centuries later says three years. And so he says, therefore, many days means three years.
And therefore, some days in Acts 9, sufficient days, it actually doesn't quite say many,
it's sufficient some days. Therefore, that might mean three years. If I just let me put it like
this, suppose I take a Greek verse in the New Testament, and for example, suppose I,
I don't know, suppose I take a Greek verse that says some days in Greek, and I translate that into
English with the phrase three years. Would you be able to use my English translation of the phrase?
My translation is three years, even though the original said many days. Would you be able to
use my translation to prove that the author met three years? Right. The Septuagint translation
has no bearing on what 1 Kings said. This is also another interesting fact. My buddy Stephen
threw this in there, and I love Stephen for this because he's so anal about particulars.
In Acts 27, in the same book later, you have Paul saying we sell, or it says we sell slowly for many
days. Are we going to now interpret that to mean three years? Did he sell for three years? I mean,
like, when do you stop? And it's the same Greek word. So in the same book, but he wants to run to
the first Kings Old Testament narrative to find a way to squeeze three years into many days. That's
what he's trying to do. My view on this is, you know, you can, as I was saying earlier,
you can reconcile anything. I mean, I was, you know, if that's your goal, you can literally
anything, not just in the Bible, just anything. You can do it if you work hard enough. And the
question is, why do you want to do that? So when I was a fundamentalist, that was my goal, because
I was sure the Bible was inerrant, and since there are no mistakes, there could not be mistakes.
Literally, there could have been. So there weren't mistakes. And so the goal was to figure out why
it's not a mistake. And if that's what you want to do, that's fine. If you want to understand the
Bible, though, you should let these authors speak for themselves instead of forcing your
meaning onto them. When Acts says, after some days, if it means three years, for one thing,
the chronology of Acts doesn't work anymore. But moreover, it misses the point of Acts, which is
right away. The first thing Paul did, he's went to Jerusalem to meet with the apostles. This fits
in with with Acts narrative, because he wants the apostles and Paul to agree on everything.
You also misunderstand Galatians, because Galatians one, the whole point Paul wants to make is,
I did not get my message from them. I wasn't even there for three years. By God, I'm not lying.
So, yeah, okay, if you want to mean, make him say, well, actually, I did go there right away,
right after Damascus, that's where I went, those three years later. So, no, he was in Arabia.
So you completely misunderstand what he's saying. You really want to misunderstand somebody so he
doesn't contradict somebody else. You're misunderstanding both of them for the sole reason
of supporting your view instead of letting them speak for themselves. Is that really how you
want to interpret texts? I think you know how it is, Dr. Airman. When you're coming at it,
you say this in every book you write, and I love that about you. You just laid out there and say,
this was everything to me. And so it's like the cognitive distance, knowing your wife's
cheating on you, but you love her to death or something, and you just can't admit that there's
possibly infidelity taking place, it's emotional. So I try to feel compassion and empathy, and you
do too. You do it all the time in your lectures, but there comes a time when reality has to set in,
and sometimes you just got to say, guys, figure out a way of Christianity that will work and
comply with the evidence that will work with the reality of the world we see and not
magical thinking. And so that's just my thoughts. But he ends this and concludes by pointing out
Luke's omission in Paul's itinerary. But what about the trip to Arabia? Luke is silent on it,
but does Luke contradict Paul's claim that he went to Arabia? I would place Paul's trip to
Arabia within the many days of Acts 9-23. Paul also informs us in Galatians 1-17 that he returned
again to Damascus, so it isn't surprising then that his subsequent trip to Jerusalem is from
Damascus. What do you think about the possibility that Paul took a trip to Arabia while the Jews
in Damascus were plotting to kill him? Well, what do you say? I mean, just anybody,
just read it yourself. Acts 9 verses 22 and 23. Does it seem likely to you that when he says
that Saul was in Damascus talking to Jews and that after a few, after some days went by,
does that suggest that between 22 and 23 he spent three years in Arabia? Does that make sense?
Interesting. Does Paul contradict Acts on the number of Jerusalem visits? This is the final
graph. And then what I'd like to do is ask you really down to earth, funny, I think it's just
amazing what you've done with your book Forge to counter forgery. All your literature is just
wonderful. And I ask everyone to go in the description. If you have not read Dr. Airman's works,
you have blasphemed the Holy Spirit. Okay, I'm just saying, like literally, this is just.
Yeah, I would not say that. I'm just teasing. I know. I'm just saying your audiobooks are fantastic
too, like on Audible. Any trip I take, I listen to it. I can listen to them again and I learn
something new every time. So final graph, and then my excitement on recent stuff I read from you,
and then I have to let you go because you obviously have another agenda here that's taking place here
soon. Does Paul contradict Acts on the number of Jerusalem visits? According to Paul, and I think
he's quoting you here, because the way we have a color, according to Paul's account, the Jerusalem
Council was only the second time he had been to Jerusalem. According to Acts, it was his third,
prolonged trip there. Once again, it appears that the author of Acts has confused some Paul's
itinerary, possibly intentionally for his own purposes. McClatchy asks a rhetorical question.
Where does the text say that this was only Paul's second visit to Jerusalem?
McClatchy continues, in fact, we learned from Acts 11 that between those two journeys,
Paul had gone to Jerusalem to bring aid to the saints affected by a famine. There would have
been no purpose in Galatians for Paul to have mentioned this trip, as it did not relate to
conferring with the apostles about the gospel he was preaching, end quote. It seems like McClatchy's
rhetorical question could be asked about his own assertion. Where does the text say that Paul's trip
to send aid to Judea was between those two journeys, the one that Paul actually takes care to mention?
What do you think about his apologetic strategy for harmonizing Paul and Acts?
Well, I think it's very common. I mean, people do this. And Paul's goal in talking about this,
I mean, you have to read these books, you have to read them and study them and see them in the
context. When you do that, Paul is trying to explain that he did not spend much time in Jerusalem.
He's trying to tell the, and it's probably, it looks like he has opponents who are accusing him
in Galatia, and it looks like they're saying, look, he's getting all this stuff from the apostles,
and he's changing it. You know, he's claiming you, you Gentiles don't have to be circumcised, but
he got his gospel from these Jerusalem people, and they say you do. So, you know, he's changed,
and Paul's trying to say, no, look, I haven't changed it. This is what Christ told me when he
appeared to me. And I did not consult with them. I went there once after three years, and then I
went back 14 years later. I didn't consult with them. So I'm glad you want us to think that Paul
delivered this offering to Jerusalem, and like he didn't look up the apostles.
Really? And it's very hard to fit that collection, by the way, this early impulse,
this is in Acts, this is after his first missionary journey. It's quite clear when you
read Paul, the Pauline letters. His last letter, Romans, is talking about when he's going to be
going to Jerusalem. And so it's at the end of his life. It's not right at the very beginning of
his ministry. So there are all sorts of problems with it. But again, look, if you, if your goal
in life is to make sure there are no contradictions in the Bible, you can do that. You can do that
with the Quran. You can do that with the Old Testament. You can do that with any biography of
Abraham Lincoln. That really is your goal in life. If on the other hand, your goal in life is to
understand these books, then I suggest you read them carefully and let each author say what he
wants to say instead of pretending that he's saying what some other author is saying.
I final question, and I'm going to let you, I have to let you go because you have an appointment.
We talked about this before the show. So thank you so much by, by this far, like Dr. Amin,
this has really been wonderful interviewing you and having the opportunity. So you writing about
forgeries, one of the funniest things you said in your forgery, counter forgery book that just,
I couldn't help but laugh because this was everything to me. This was like life, everything
to you is James is our pseudo. James is arguing against Paul in Ephesians and neither one of
them are really James or Paul. Yeah. That is so hilarious to me that these authors aren't really
who they are, you know? Well, yeah, it's kind of even more interesting than that in some ways,
because, you know, it was James and Paul, since the Reformation, since Martin Luther,
it's been thought that James is opposed to Paul, that the historical James, the brother of Jesus,
was opposed to Paul. And there's very good reason for thinking that James did not write
the letter of James. But I mean, somebody named James wrote it, but not the brother of Jesus,
for reasons I map out a good length in my books. But the interesting thing is that I don't think
they're contradictory. And you probably would expect fundamentalists or evangelicals to think
that I think that Paul and James are contradictory. I don't, because I think that James, who is not
the brother of Jesus, is actually conflicting with an interpretation of Paul that Paul himself did not
have. What he's contradicting is the understanding of Paul that you find in books like Ephesians
that Paul did not write. And so he's attacking a view of Paul that Paul would not have recognized.
Paul did not think that you were going to be saved without living an ethical life.
But you weren't going to be saved by living an ethical life. But if you were a follower of Jesus,
of course you're going to live an ethical life for Paul. James is attacking people who say,
it doesn't matter what you do. For Paul's letters, a third of each of his letters is
telling people what they have to do. So he really thinks it matters what you do.
And so James is attacking someone else and it's not Paul. And so, yeah.
This leads us right into Dr. Jason Staples' work. I'd love to get your thoughts on Romans 9-11.
One sentence. What do you think about his work?
Well, he was my student. He wrote this under my direction.
Did he convince you?
He came close to convincing me, which is more than most of my students do.
There you go, Jason.
Look, I think he has a very impressive book that is a thorough study of what it would mean for
someone like Paul to say that all Israel will be saved. It's a really difficult verse. We all
have our interpretations of it, but he has a very novel and important interpretation. And he knows
a lot about this. Connect me with him. Connect me with him. Thank you so much.
I'm going to just run him an email. Does he respond to it?
I am. He's a busy man, too.
Thank you so much. I really enjoyed it.
Okay, great. Thanks so much. Thanks, everybody, for listening in.
We are...
