Okay, we just finished editing another course with Dr. Richard Carrier on New Testament studies for
everyone. I hope you sign up. Get it now while it's early bird special. We will hopefully be doing a
Q&A in the not too distant future. And you're going to learn a lot of material in here. So let me
show you a few things about this course. Number one, you go to mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash
nt-studies. The link is in the description. It's also in the comments down below pinned at the top
so you can check it out. Go there and go to the bottom. You sign up for the course. It will
email you. If you already have a ThriveCart account, then you just log into your ThriveCart account
and wouldn't you know you have the course in there? So if you're wondering, well, where's the email?
Well, if you already have signed up for a course between Bart Ehrman's courses or us MVP courses,
you're going to be able to access it by just logging into your ThriveCart account.
Now let's go into the ThriveCart course to give you an idea what it looks like. My wife has put so
much time and energy into helping get this inside done here. Fattened it up with all sorts of great
information that Dr. Richard Carrier has kind of pulled together and there's an mp3. You can listen
to it. You can watch it. It's in 4k. Everything's in super high quality. I mean, it's just really,
really good content and you're going to learn a lot about how to get behind the languages.
You're going to be able to deal with things that you haven't really looked at if you're not someone
who's an in-depth studier of the biblical text and you get to see why scholars draw conclusions
or how they come to assess this information to find out more about the Bible. Under each course,
there's a lot of information that you can actually access and read and dive deep into understanding
what is the New Testament. How do we come to know this? I do want to show you in lecture 3 that I
found this was a really fun part of the editing. Dr. Richard Carrier literally goes into the Greek
and shows you how to use resources so that you can get behind knowing literally which manuscripts
have or don't have certain sayings and contradictions or issues that are there that are missing.
Some of the verses we see in our Bibles today are missing a lot of stuff that is in other
manuscripts. He goes in and shows you, takes a deep dive, letting you take a closer look into
how scholars would find out what's going on and issues. Was this originally there? What did this
originally say? Really high quality. I really enjoyed this. I learned so much even recording
it with him. I hope others will take the time to go and sign up for the course. You won't miss out.
It is 8 lectures. Lecture 8 here. There's a reading recommendation. There's bibliographies.
There's visuals. There's MP3. There's all sorts of extra stuff that is put in here. Eventually,
our goal is to lots of reading recommendations so that you can actually check that out.
Our goal is to do Q&A. That is our goal. We have more courses coming. I'm hoping that everybody
who signs up will be aware of that. We've got the Mark course with James Tabor. I'm constantly
working with Dr. Bart Ehrman. I have the M. David Littler course. We have the Delcy Allison Jr.
course. We have Robin Faith Walsh courses coming up. We have Kip Davis course coming up. Lots of
stuff we're working at here. This is the latest greatest. If you sign up today, you'll be notified
when we drop new courses. There will be deals for those who purchase courses to buy other courses
and things that will be coming. Right now, we have an early bird special for this one.
I hope to see you there. Now, let's listen to a little commercial by Dr. Richard Carrier.
What is the mainstream consensus saying right now?
These are the things that you'll find in this course. It'll prepare you to actually be able to
engage in these debates and not be hoodwinked by Christian apologists or anyone else.
