We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm the host, Derek Lambert, and today I'm having a discussion with a gentleman who wasn't always agnostic, but we're going to call anonymous agnostic.
And for the viewers who are watching, I have seen his face. I have seen what he looks like, but he has to remain anonymous because he still works in the ministry.
And we're going to be discussing his experience, well, pretty much his experience going from being a Christian and getting into the ministry and to where he's at today and what he notices.
So, welcome, anonymous. I hope you're doing well.
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here.
Thank you. So, yeah, where do we start? How would you like to begin?
Yeah, so your channel has been important to me as I've transitioned out of essentially as hardcore of a Christian as you can be. I'm a career Christian. I work in a full-time ministry still.
But over the last five, six years, I've been in this process of deconstructing, and now I would say I don't believe what the Bible says to be true, based on a lot of personal experiences.
But honestly, from my own personal, actually looking at the text, honestly, and looking at how that text and what the church says plays out in reality, there's a humongous disconnect.
And a lot of the questions I was asking, you know, you search in a Google search bar or you do it in a YouTube search bar, your videos pop up.
So, the reason really I wanted to come on here was to maybe help some people that watch your channel that are in my same position where we still work in ministry, despite not believing Christians anymore.
And we can't talk about it. We can't tell anyone. We can't explore ideas. And a channel like yours is really all we have.
So, we're sitting on the sidelines. We can't make comments. We can't like your video because who knows who will see that we did something like that.
So, I just wanted to help people that maybe find some relation to where I'm at, what I'm going through, and maybe discuss why I would stay doing ministry, despite the fact that I don't believe in what it's based on.
So, that helps.
Yeah, no, this is a really interesting, this would be interesting to talk. So, first thing I'd like to just say to the audience is now you know why he remains anonymous.
He doesn't want his identity shown. This is part of his livelihood as well. It's the way he makes a living, but we're going to get into more than that.
I'm sure there's more. If it was a bad thing, and obviously it was so bad, he probably wouldn't want to stay in it.
So, let's start from somewhat the beginning. Have you been a Christian your whole life? You got into this career ministry.
Can you take us into that? I don't need dates or specifics, too much specifics so you can remain anonymous, but tell us about your experience with Christianity and how devout you were and what happened, if you don't mind.
Sure. So, my mom was a very devout Christian. Every Sunday, every Wednesday, she came from actually the Catholic Church and she went to Christian camp with some friends when she was a kid and the camp experience turned her into a Protestant evangelical.
So, my mom was a devout Christian, came from Catholic roots, had a powerful experience at a Christian camp with a friend when she was young. She started going to Protestant and evangelical churches after that.
And so, she took me all growing up. My dad passed away when I was young, so it was just me and her. And I would go as a child and I believed it to a degree because the person I trusted more and loved more in the world believed it.
And then even the other people in my life believed it. So, from that point on, I mean, it's what you believe too. And then you get to a point in your life where you have to make your own decision, you know, it happens at some point of whether this is something that you actually believe yourself, not just because other people believe it.
And I didn't really believe it, I've discovered. And so, when I went into college, and I had some really bad experiences that some college kids do, right, because they're now exposed to a bunch of things they've never been exposed to before.
And that just actually further proved my mom's view, because I could see, well, when I was living under this certain belief system, I didn't have these sort of consequences in my life. But now that I'm away from it, I do have these consequences and things aren't going as well.
So, it just made me sort of retract back into Christianity that way. And so, I got involved into a ministry in the school I was going to, and then I got involved in what's called missions.
So, missions is where the church sends people, sometimes full, full time, sometimes, you know, on short term, sort of trips or things like that. And it was a very powerful experience for me because I saw the church doing relatively closer to anything else I'd ever seen before.
The things we talked about in church and things I read in the Bible, you know, you're serving the poor, you're clothing the naked, you're feeding the hungry, you're doing good, not just being good, right? And the doing good was a very powerful thing in my life and inside myself.
Without a doubt, there is human virtue in serving other people. But I just at the time recognized it as connecting back into Christian faith and God's power, where I literally believed God was sending these people to do good because of his love and his salvation.
And so, we are now motivated to go now and heal this world, right? So, by the time I got my degree, I, my whole worldview had changed. And so, I went directly into ministry. I got involved with one of, you know, a very large missions organization.
And that is specifically serves them for overseas. And we host volunteers, we take in millions of dollars of donations to do this work. And it's good work, like great work. I still believe that.
So, I mean, there are people that have all kinds of needs, great physical needs that barely are surviving. And the majority of people in the United States don't understand what it is to live outside of the United States.
It's a difficult world where people only eat one meal a day. They live in shacks. They don't have proper health care. They could go their whole life basically blind because they can't get reading glasses. You just, we go down the road here.
So, for a long time, my faith was connected to serving the poor. And it's a very powerful thing. But as I did the work, there would be things that would come up that I would be like, I don't understand how what's happening here, because it doesn't exactly jive with the Bible I know.
And the people in the church that have taught me what I know about my faith. For example, somebody would want to work for the organization that I'm working in. And they would say, the Holy Spirit is telling me that I'm supposed to work here.
And then we would go through the interview process and we would decide, no, you're not a good person to work here. So we have the Holy Spirit speaking to this person supposedly that they're supposed to work here, but we think the Holy Spirit is telling us, no, you're not supposed to work here.
Right. But you get this, you get this all over the place. If it's one spirit, why can't any person agree on anything? You know what I'm saying? So it would be things like little things like this that would just be like bothering me about the faith.
And the problem with being in something like Christianity is we're told that we're not allowed to lean on our own understanding because God's ways are higher than our ways. So we can't grasp total truth because we don't have God's perspective.
Right. So we can't really quit. We can't really go down the road of questioning and we're not supposed to doubt because we'll be like the sand on the seashore just splashed around by every wave that comes. So we're not allowed to question. We're not allowed to doubt.
We're not allowed to ask questions. And so we just don't approach it ever. You just keep going on ignorant of discovering what's happening with these certain things and issues in the faith that don't actually play out in your practical life.
And so I had a very traumatic experience about halfway into my career working in this organization. A loved one really close to me passed away.
And I remember standing at the side of the the bed as they were dying angry just totally angry because I spent my entire adult life at this point serving God and a good God.
And you've seen other people die around you. I've been around human suffering because obviously I've been serving the poor for this long.
But it doesn't really impact you the same way until it's your own people or it's your own family or your own friends or yourself.
And it just became real to me that how can God a good God allow or have created a reality where there is this level of despair and suffering and loss.
You know first Peter I think it says that Jesus was the plan since the foundations of the world. So if the plan was always Jesus to die on the cross and for God to glorify himself through Jesus Christ by that whole sacrifice.
We are the expense to that self glorification and man that was a hard pill to swallow.
You know someone else put it this way you know Christians of course will say you know it's all first glory but don't worry he works it off with the good.
But as some skeptics I've had on do say and this is an interesting point you're bringing up you can't downplay this like I'm going to take family from you I'm going to take this you're going to have illness I'm going to do this.
Oh but don't worry I have better gifts later it's almost like I'm going to steal from you now but then I'm going to give it to you later that's still not morally right.
You know I'm going to hit you now but don't worry later I'm going to make sure that I rub you down and give you a massage and make you feel happy.
Like no no would you abuse someone now and then cherish them later does that somehow make up for the abuse.
No we wouldn't say that but there that is the mentality behind this whole thing like like you're going to suffer now but it's all good it's all good because working all together for the good but you're going to get rewarded later.
And your experience of that really I think is you're saying it very well it just was too much for you to you had existential crisis here you were thinking very deeply about this issue and it did not sit well.
No I mean it's it just it was the very beginning of unraveling me starting to unravel everything you know slowly or you know the common word today deconstructing my faith.
You know it was if you look if you picture an hourglass and you flip it upside down and all the grains of same sand or were my faith like they just started to trickle down and down and down and down until there was basically nothing left.
And that's where I go back to the original thing I was saying like why I want to be on here and contribute to the channel is a channel your channel has helped me unravel some of this stuff right because I just when you don't come from a place where you've ever
questioned things you don't even know how to frame the question so you know and then before you know you're down at YouTube rabbit hole watching all kinds of people debate and discuss and so yeah it it was it was difficult because in the time.
I couldn't talk about this with anybody.
You know all of my close friends and family were all in the Christian bubble so and if you present yourself as being doubtful or having these serious issues in my case because I'm a career Christian it could cost me my job right.
So in my case I have a pretty high degree of influence in the organization I work for it would also cost me everything I've been building for over a decade so anyways when I arrived to the place that I could actually miss I don't believe this anymore.
Like I don't believe this anymore.
It became a very lonely place inside of the ministry I'm in and even inside my own marriage because I didn't want to have a negative impact on my my wife and what she believed.
You know what's strange enough is she she started down her own deconstruction process all by herself without me even knowing or me talking to her about where I was at just a couple years later.
And it was a really surreal conversation that we had had with each other on vacation we were on vacation we were letting loose and we were just talking one night and she finally admitted like I just don't believe this stuff and here's why I was like I don't know how to tell you this but I
I haven't believed this for several years you know it was a it was a crazy moment for my my marriage and it was one of those moments where I was like I feel closer to my wife and ever before because we were now touching the deepest levels of honesty here.
And so my wife and I are have been in this position where we are a part of this church culture and in ministry and everyone around us believes this stuff and we no longer believe it.
And there's a pretty strong juxtaposition on what now on what they're saying and what they believe versus what we notice what we hear what we have questioned what we when when someone in our in our ministry or in our circle is talking about giving God the credit for this specific thing.
We're like well no you know it's just this this person did this thing and that's why we are where we are it has nothing to do with God we're just you're just giving him the credit for everything right so but little things like that.
So we we now exist in the space and we we've tried to make a decision on do we continue working here, or do we leave, you know, and we've for the time being have decided to continue working here which may be shocking for a lot of people.
Because it may seem like okay well, you're now living a lie kind of or your, you're doing something that is hollow to you and in a little bit it sounds like that but there, there's an aspect to what I do specifically where we serve the poor.
And we address human suffering on many levels that I don't want to leave right and because I've been a part of it for so long in this specific organization I've been in.
I'm the most effective at it that I've ever been.
So to leave is to throw away this opportunity I have I have that I built for myself, even though it comes along with the gospel message, if you will.
So that's where I'm kind of at I love serving the poor, and I love the people in my life, even though they're still Christians, and they're in my point of view they're they're living under a delusion.
I don't want to sacrifice my relationships with them quite yet.
And I want to continue to do the work that we're doing because it's easy to, when you talk about this to just throw all negative stuff at the church and at Christianity but there are a lot of Christians who do a lot of good, like,
Oh, I agree.
A ton of good. We don't. And even though it's motivated maybe by a false idea or belief, they're still doing it. They're still doing crazy good things.
And this is the culture I'm in in the church, right? It's not just I go to church on Sunday and, you know, we're getting beat over the head about morality and whatever.
It's no literally how can we turn our own lives into serving other people and loving other people and helping other people who are suffering, right?
And that's why I'm still in the the ministry.
I mean, look, this is beautiful, because I think this goes right into our existence as a social creature.
Looking at it scientifically, if we've evolved as a social creature, there's something about helping another one of us.
There's something about giving and caring and literally helping those who are hurting and, you know, that's an honorable, noble thing.
And that's something that I think is useful and a good aspect of Christianity.
There's plenty of bad you can get into, but there's also really good stuff.
Yeah. So I love what you said here.
You've obviously made me curious as to things that you've discovered and learned.
But if you've watched my channel enough, I'm sure some of these things picked up and stuck and you thought, whoa, that makes sense.
Whoa, maybe this isn't literally true, but why is it so seen as true by many people?
And it might be because of these good characteristics that we find that are being practiced.
And I'm saying that modernly, because I'm not so sure it was always like this in certain ages or certain times in certain regions of the world.
Christianity might have been harmful in some respects and aggressively murderous in some respects.
By this whole, you need to accept the gospel, but here's the sword if you don't.
But the idea that you're getting at, I think our morality is also taking a different toll.
We are growing and learning more.
So I do appreciate it and I respect your decision and choice to stay there.
I'm glad your wife's on the same page that you and her both are like, okay.
And yeah, I get it.
You know, I really do get it.
And I know what it's like to help someone and then literally not just say, hey, thanks.
And they're, they're fine.
They're well off, but literally not have anything.
And you're the only thing that actually helps them.
There's some high that you get from that.
There's some.
100%.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's funny because the why it's why the growth of Christianity is so effective in missions is because it's through service and helping
and justice in the United States.
Our Christianity is mainly based on entertainment and feeling a sense of belonging.
But, but it's so powerful when you literally give somebody clean water or you put a roof over their head.
And then you say, I this, I did this because of Jesus, right?
Because he loved me first and now I love you.
And that's why it's so effective.
And this aspect is, it's still tough for me because, okay, I did this thing for you.
And now we're saying, I did this because of Jesus, right?
But that's not true now for me personally.
But I'm still, because I'm in this ministry, I'm still having to communicate that.
And that, that for me is the biggest hardship in this whole thing because that's where I feel a little bit disingenuous, you know, or is there an introduction into Christianity through the service.
I just did them eventually going to lead to hardship for them later down the road personally, like spiritually, and I just don't know that.
Right.
So it's tough there.
But what I would like to say to anybody that's currently working in a ministry right now, and they are it where I'm at.
I'm sure that you've noticed that everything that is done that is good in the people around you and in yourself, it's always given, we're always giving the credit to God, right, for that.
And it's a good thing that happens because of God, this donation that we got was because of God, this person that was healed was because of God.
And I just just allow yourself to take the credit for yourself and for the other people around you for the goodness in them.
Right.
That's, that's the hard part about serving in a ministry.
But not believing is because we're not allowed to celebrate ourselves in the goodness in one another.
We're just we're too broken and too sinful.
So it must be the Lord that accomplish this right.
But allow yourself to take pride in what you're doing and the overall love and goodness you have for the world that doesn't come from from God because it's coming from within you.
And that's that's what I would say there and and to don't get wrapped up in all the the current political environment.
Our faith is now more tied to politics than ever before, you know, and now that I don't believe what I used to, I don't.
I also don't believe what I used to politically.
Like I have evolving ideas and just don't get wrapped up in it with the people in your that you work with, because it's just it's not going to do any good.
You know, they're not going to not they're not going to stop believing what they believe because it's tied to their faith.
Right.
So you think of something that just happened in the last couple of days with the, you know, the children being shot in the school because of all the people that I follow on my social media platforms.
All the Christians are using it as a platform to support, you know, owning weapons and they're they're leaning into this conservative right wing Republican angle and not showing any love for the
for the people that just suffer greatly are going to suffer greatly.
And it's really tough to be in that environment when you don't believe it anymore, you know, and I would just say like you've got to you got to be able to separate the fact that their politics are tied to their faith and because you're not tied to the faith anymore.
You don't have to go along with it. You don't have to.
You don't have to just to be a yes man when people are in a discussion about these certain issues you can you can stand up and say what you need to say so.
Yeah, two questions I have what's kind of statement on the first one but kind of a question I think it's it's interesting that you know that if you were to look at the harm being done by a message rather than physical actual remedy I'm with you I think all day.
If someone it's it's like that teaching where Jesus says like no like if that person who's hungry and you fed that was me you fed that you know this idea that it's much better that you're actually doing something.
Then talk about I'll pray for you I hope things get better know make things better for them and and by doing that that is amazing whether or not the message of Christianity is having to be conveyed or not.
So even though you know that's what the message is as they're presenting it there's real teeth getting fixed there's real vision coming to people hearing is helping their illnesses they're they're not starving anymore they might have malaria they might have this they might have that who knows.
And you're actually physically changing their lives for the better.
I think I'd rather see that rather someone be a lifelong Christian than die because you can't get a message to him come on.
The other thing is is what do you from your experience in the Christian, you know, mission.
This is the deepest probably the most powerful form of Christianity that you can actually see actually change the world.
Being an agnostic being someone like me who's an atheist by definition.
What would you say we should do to to kind of help the world now that you see through Christianity and this is coming from someone who was deep into this the best part of it the best part is that changing real people's lives who need it.
What do you think that people are skeptics could do like should they start a humanist mission thing where there's somehow an income coming in where they could fund missions worldwide just for the sake of I love you as a human and I want to show you that I care about you because you are important and not having to give it to something else but to give each other.
Pats on the back and showing that we really care about humanity.
What do you think?
Yes, it's a tough question because it's even difficult to get the majority of evangelicals to participate in service and missions because they're just wrapped up in their own lives.
But for the small percentage of those who are involved in donating and building things and doing medical clinics and all kinds of stuff like that they're motivated strongly by their faith.
So, for everybody else that doesn't have that faith, I think that we need to expose ourselves more to human suffering.
I think we naturally recoil from it because it's uncomfortable and living in our country specifically in the United States.
There may be many more people that listen to you outside of the States that have seen it firsthand but in the United States for the most part we live in the land of Oz of wealth and opportunity and we have to go out of our way to expose ourselves to how other people are suffering.
It's in that where you gain a perspective on what people are going through that we can develop self motivation to help or solve the problem or be a part of the problem.
So, number one, you have to develop a quote unquote heart for the world that is suffering and from that heart, we can either look for opportunities to step into to to help solve some of the crisis in the world that are happening all over the place.
Or we can start our own initiatives. Right. There are plenty of non Christian organizations that that help all kinds of things. But what I would say is a lot of those opportunities are just domestically based because Americans specifically have a America first mentality.
You know, it's, you know, it's just how we are patriots. I got people that look down on me because I should be helping homeless veterans in the States, for example, versus Jose, who lives in a Hispanic country.
But it, you know, to me, we're one world. I think globalization is really shows that, you know, the fact that we are emotionally tied to what's happening in Ukraine, for example, is a good example of that.
But I would just say that, like, whether you decide to do do something or not, it does exist. It is happening to probably the majority of people on earth were affected by poverty. And I think it's our, our social responsibility to take care of this planet and the people in it.
And if you're whatever you're passionate about, or whatever you hate the most, go and work on that thing. You know, if you if you're a person who loves water for some reason, do water purification, or if you're somebody that hates the sex trade, right, you can go and find an organization that is trying to solve that problem and donate to them.
And so I just don't put your blinders up, allow yourself to see the world as it is, and then develop a heart and a motivation to love those from that.
So thank you so much anonymous agnostic. This has been an interesting discussion. And I really appreciate it.
Thank you. It's been, it's been amazing. So thank you for for taking the time.
Thank you. Keep tuning in. And I hope you enjoyed that, everybody. Go down in the description. You know where to help us out at and never forget. We are.
