All right, all right, it looks like we're live.
MythVision podcast, I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I've got Professor James Dete, we're joining us.
How are you doing, James?
I'm doing great, Derek.
You're a little earlier out there than I am,
but what is it, four o'clock Eastern here on the right coast
and you're on the left coast.
So, anybody?
Yeah, right.
Yeah, so we're going to talk about the mark course,
not so much just, I mean, we've talked about it plenty
and there's a lot of stuff out there,
but what I wanted to do is talk about this phenomena
that's taking place with the mark course
that I don't think takes place anywhere else.
And it could be some of your other professors
would want to model after this if they are willing to do it.
And some already have to some degree,
but let me, you know about a little of it,
but I don't think the group does, the audience.
You know, when you and I as creators, we go on YouTube
and let's say we put out a video
and it gets 10,000 views in one day.
And then you look at comments and it's like 236 comments,
you go, oh my God.
I go through them sort of like quickly and look at them,
especially when I first started.
But sometimes, you know, a video will have 1,000 comments,
but is it just the number?
Let's say you read the first 50 to get an idea.
Right.
What happens is, you know, the old expression
of Clint Eastwood, the good, the bad, and the ugly,
that movie, they're like really good,
like really thoughtful people
that notice things and are contributing.
Really bad, meaning not even on the subject,
they didn't clearly even listen.
Maybe they read the title.
Like, what do you mean creating mark?
You go, what, what, what, what, what?
Not like they dug into it at all.
Others are just wanting to promote their own stuff
so they'll put stuff up that has nothing to do
with the video.
Lots of people do that.
Oh, Tavar gets a lot of views.
Maybe somebody read my comment, I'll piggyback on him.
And then some are just nasty, just ugly.
And they'll say things very insulting to me,
not personally so much like, oh, is here stupid
or I don't like his face, not so much like that.
But more trying to tell me something
that is so well known or so obvious
and they're just so wrong on,
but like how would I ever address it, you know?
And remember when I first started,
you were helping me get the channel started
and I was like answering comments and you said,
I was like, you probably need to think that over
because if you keep it up, it's just endless,
especially if you have somebody who's antagonistic
because then they're thrilled that you got,
they got a response and then it's just back and forth
and then, you know, how it's all social media is like that.
It's just crazy.
So here's what we do in the Mark course.
We've had three of these.
We have these monthly Zoom meetings
and I can take up to 500, which we usually get 100
or I think we had 200 for the first one.
But anyway, but it's like 50 people on a screen
and I can vary the screens.
Instead of it being like a webinar where I go,
okay, I've got 20 questions I wanna answer
and you're just looking at me like now talking.
Right.
We're spread out in a kind of like stadium
of little thumbnails and you'd think,
well, 50 on a screen, you know what, it isn't that bad.
Just on my laptop, I can see everybody, you know?
And I can see their names down below.
And then if they raise their hand, they move up to the top.
It's so cool.
I just love it.
But here's what's happening, Derek.
Like you helped kick it off on the first one.
And that was more formal
because we were just getting started
and we'd already got the questions arranged and all that.
Well, now they've been sending in questions
and I'm distilling them.
And let me tell you, Derek,
these students are so sharp.
These are people,
and I know some of the people listening right now,
they've been studying the New Testament or the Bible
or maybe we're in a church
or even just, you know, intellectual study for years.
These people have background, they have depth.
And their questions are so good
that it's like you're doing an advanced seminar on Mark
in the Zoom session.
And I'm telling you, people are sitting there,
nodding their heads and following,
and you know, you don't have to speak.
You don't even have to put your camera on
if you don't want to.
I can play a video, I can put up things,
I can screen share, I can show them things.
Like somebody might mention a manuscript.
I could say, hey, wait, let me put that up.
You know, on the spot right there.
So this Sunday at noon Eastern,
my time, East Coast time,
which we kind of pick
because all over the world,
different time zones and so forth,
we're gonna do a live Zoom.
I think we went an hour and a half to two hours
on one of them.
That's a little long,
but I don't think we even lost 10% of the people.
And when it ended, you were like,
oh, that was fast, you know what I mean?
Yeah, absolutely.
And I used to teach classes that were an hour and 15 minutes
and I would get going and then students would jump in
and I would have 70 students.
It's actually giving me that feeling
of the college classroom.
Now most, like if somebody signs up today
or between now and Sunday,
you'll get the invitation.
It's gonna be on the course page and so forth.
James, just so everybody could see.
Yeah, go ahead.
This is what the course is.
And you and I put this together.
There's some visuals to follow on the maps.
Ryan actually put this together,
the queen of myth vision.
Let's go to the next one, upcoming live Q&A.
So it's already trying to share you the link
to do the upcoming live that's coming up, lecture one.
And in each of these lectures,
I mean, they're literally,
I'm gonna hit play just so people can actually see
the quality.
I mean, you go in depth and explain
what the gospel of Mark as Mark,
what this author's trying to do,
how to understand what this author's doing
without letting Matthew or Luke pollute it.
Because that's what happens when we wanna understand it.
We go, well, let's just go over to Matthew
because Matthew explains, these are angels.
No, Mark says they're young men.
Stop running to the angels.
Not young men, a young man even.
A young man, exactly.
I already messed up just trying to make the example.
You see?
Even though I've done several videos I did with you,
you know, being somewhat provocative,
because I believe this, that Matthew and Luke destroy Mark,
that's a strong word.
What I'm trying to get people to see
that if you overwrite somebody's work
and you use it as a source,
now there's Matthew and Luke,
they see Mark as material, right?
That is they have their creative project,
their theological projects,
and they go, oh, we got this source Mark.
That's the only narrative history of Jesus of Nazareth
that exists on the planet, right?
Think about it.
That's why I call it creating Jesus.
It's not everything we know about Jesus,
but it's the first creation of,
tell me the story of Jesus, right?
And Mark does it.
Now, Luke comes in, oh, I like that.
I'm gonna use that.
Now, you could say, oh, use abuse.
Well, it depends on how you wanna look at it.
My favorite example is Mark, some guy says to Jesus,
good master, he says, don't call me good.
Only God is good.
So what does Matthew do?
He doesn't put that in, he rewrites it,
overwrites it, rewrites it,
adds, subtract, multiply, divide.
So you're not actually getting Mark.
You get the, if you read Mark first,
and then read Matthew, and then read Luke,
you have a vague impression that you're getting Mark,
like, oh, I read this before, I'm getting Mark.
You're not getting Mark.
You are not getting Mark.
Mark is a tight, structured whole.
If you take this course,
you're gonna see this amazing outline that we follow.
And you know how outlines are usually really boring?
Like, we all hate it in school, like, oh, God, an outline.
That's gonna make it even more dense.
No, this is the outline of what I have come to
after 30, 40 years studying Mark,
of what the structure of the book
as an artistic, creative work actually is.
And I could be wrong on part of it,
but boy, I think I've got most of it.
James, I'm just-
I'm telling you, you're just like, wow.
You blew me away with it,
and that's like, you've kind of really
made my interest in Mark even more,
like, I really need to understand this book,
because once you get Mark,
then if you do explore to Matthew and Luke and stuff,
you can start seeing things you didn't really get
without that.
But also, I just wanna point this out,
like, for the course right here.
So if you do sign up this Sunday, you're doing a live,
and I'll let you explain what that is,
but I just wanna emphasize what you get
by signing up your help in Dr. Tabor.
You're helping MythVision continue to educate
and do these scholarly courses.
They're all in 4K, really high quality.
You get a lot of reading material.
There's seven lectures on Mark.
You go through the entire Gospel of Mark with Dr. Tabor,
as if you're a student in his college course, in his class.
He gives you reading recommendation,
and then there's past, we have the dates here.
There's already three live Zoom recordings
that have already been up,
so you can go watch the past Zoom recordings,
hearing the questions and the interactions
with Dr. Tabor and the students.
We have three there, and one that is coming up this Sunday.
So, and that link, of course, is gonna be in here
when you sign up for the course,
so you can go check that out.
I'm sure you're also gonna send an email out
to all the students just to remind
and to give them everything so they don't forget.
We also have an angel in your room right now
who's watching that took the course as well.
You've heard of Eden.
Anybody know Eden, the Garden of Delight?
This is little Eden.
I'm babysitting her.
She's 10 weeks old, and this was yesterday.
She's looking out the window
because my wife, Lori, was mowing the lawn.
Lori's the gardener of the family.
And when I took this, I thought,
she's saying, what's up?
Where's mom?
Like, why am I here with them?
And so anyway, but she has a collaboratoodle,
which means a border collie,
which is literally just the smartest dog on the planet.
Sort of, I mean, people can argue,
but you know how border collies,
if they see your thumb move,
they're like, you know,
because they have to look at,
you know, in doing the herding and all,
and then a poodle,
which is really a very smart dog as well.
So collaboratoodles are all the rage now.
Labradoodles, collaboratoodles, and all the doodles.
But anyway, this is a little doodle,
and she is just amazing.
She's sleeping at your feet right now
so that nobody knows.
She loves to hear me talk about Mark,
and who knows what she understands.
So yeah, this zoomed me.
On Sunday, I'm gonna take,
I'm gonna try to put a lot of things together.
So if you're listening now and you think,
oh, you've already covered so much,
first of all, you'll get the course.
You can start it right away.
And even if you don't have time to get it,
it'll be a good introduction.
Because I'm gonna try it,
since we've done, this will be the fourth one.
I wanna kind of put things together for us all
and see where we've come.
So this is really the one you don't wanna miss.
And it could even be a kind of a start for you then
to dive into the course as well.
But yeah, Mark is just so important and so neglected.
And that's why the subtitles, why Mark was forgotten.
I mean, just think of the power of Matthew
for almost 2,000 years,
because Papius says, you know, the Apostolic Father,
that it was written by Mark,
who was following Peter around writing down stuff
and all of this legendary thing.
And that Matthew actually was the real oracles,
you know, that Matthew really is the main gospel,
the first one.
And most scholars do think Mark was first.
And it makes all the difference.
So you get, I make the extravagant statement in the course
that Mark is the most influential written document
on the planet.
And I think the only rival could be the book
of Romans with Paul, you know,
because it influenced Luther and all that,
but that's theology, you know, let's face it.
Most people are not deeply into theology,
but the story of Jesus, you know,
what he did, just the basic kind of narrative,
Mark created that.
I don't mean he made it up.
He had traditions and things,
but he created the artistic presentation.
I agree.
And it is as artistic as a great director
making a film or a musician writing a symphony.
And you don't want to mess it up
by not listening carefully to the artist, to the creator.
And so we're giving him credit.
It'll change your perception of many things.
Mainly he'll just notice things that you never noticed.
Yeah.
Mark is the only gospel.
I'm not, I'm going to tantalize people
that have it, of course.
Mark is the only gospel that addresses
his readers directly in the gospel.
Now, Luke has a prologue,
but he doesn't address the reader.
He addresses a reader who we think is a patron name.
There is theophilus, but no,
Mark addresses you the reader.
Like when you take the course, Mark's talking to you.
And it's one place.
And I'll tell you what he says,
but I'm not going to tell you where it is.
Some of you will know.
He says, let the reader understand.
Wow.
And you know what the big thing in Mark is?
They don't understand.
They don't understand.
They hear, but they don't get it.
They see, but they don't get it.
They don't understand.
Understand is the biggest thing in Mark.
And you want to go, understand what?
And at one point in poor Matthew,
I say poor Matthew, it's kind of funny.
When he gets to that, he's like, I'm going to tell him.
Yeah.
Something goes in there and tells you what it is.
Is he right or not?
I'm not going to tell you that.
But he is right.
He screams it from the rooftops
every time he can in Matthew.
Yeah.
He does.
But it goes further because you start seeing things
that Matthew does he doesn't like
that Mark's saying or doing.
And like the way the treatment of the apostles
or the disciples really the treatment of the disciples
is like Matthew wants to, you know,
Well, about no birth story and no appearances
at the empty tomb at the end
and no resurrection appearances.
Wow.
Of course they didn't like that.
You know, you're going to,
let me tell you the story of Jesus.
And the first time he's mentioned as chapter one,
it just says, and Jesus came from Nazareth
down to the Jordan and was baptized by John.
It's like, yeah, who is he?
Right.
And then you find out that nobody knows who he is.
And that's part of the drama of the whole book.
And if you, it's called the messianic secret by scholars.
It was discovered in the 1900s
by several major scholars that wrote books
on the messianic secret.
So what's the messianic secret?
Now you say, oh, it's that Jesus is the Christ.
No, it's understanding what Mark thinks
that means to say Jesus is the Christ.
And the other big shock Derek and I've had a lot of fun
with this is that Peter finally gets it, but he doesn't.
And Mark, he gets it, he goes, I got it, I got it.
You're the Christ and Jesus is get behind me Satan.
What?
Why?
I'm not going to tell you now.
This is to pull you into the course
because you're going to love it.
So I think, you know, I hope it's not too late
to sign up for Sunday.
And you can go ahead and take a look at it.
It's instantly available, right?
Derek, as soon as you sign up, they can get it.
Yeah, as soon as you sign up, there's seven lectures.
There's a reading recommendation page.
You can download all of these 4K videos into MP3
in case you're on a walk or doing the grass.
You just want to listen, you know, driving your vehicle,
whatever you can do it that way.
You'll own it for life.
They are in 4K, so it's super high quality.
Another thing, James, we have three already Zoom recordings
that you've done sessions.
You've got this fourth one coming up this Sunday.
My question about that, just kind of letting our audience
know, like, what will we expect if we do sign up
and we want to join that Zoom this Sunday?
Can you do something different than I've seen
any of the scholars out there that do these kind of courses
where you're actually allowing them to ask, like, verbally?
It's not like they have to just type out the question.
You're actually having conversations with the chat
and they're able to ask you, like, Dr. Tabor,
and then they ask a question if they want, right?
It has to be, you know, it has to be limited to a certain area
because you could have over 100 people.
But what I do, they've sent questions and I'm going,
this session in particular is going to be more
trying to put a bunch of stuff together for us
that we've already covered.
So it'll be, like I said, a good summary.
Okay.
But what I then do once I cover, like, at first,
everybody's just listening and I'm talking
and you can do speaker view or you can watch everybody,
you know, look around or whatever.
Maybe somebody's holding their dog or whatever.
Maybe I'll be holding my dog, I don't know.
Right.
But then you do that and then people start raising their hands.
It's kind of like, you know, like any lecture
where people line up at the microphone.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Where you kind of line up at the microphone
and, you know, I have to be a good, you know,
kind of Larry King emcee, if you know what I mean,
where if people want to make speeches or whatever,
you know, I would say, well, let's get to your question,
that kind of thing.
So anyway.
Dr. Sorgill.
So Robert Sorgill, he wants to learn about Mark.
Yeah, okay.
He's a sign up for the course.
Yeah, Robert, most of these kind of things
are pretty well known to the scholars,
but unfortunately, I think we don't teach enough.
Mark is Mark, Matthew, Luke.
Like we have a course on synoptic gospels,
but you know what happens at the end of the course,
it all runs together in the student's minds.
Like most people couldn't tell you, like,
do the wise men come in Matthew or in Luke
and are the shepherds come in Luke or Matthew?
And some would even say, well, Mark, maybe Mark.
So, but when you just take Mark,
you almost like empty your head, you know nothing.
And you're going to take this course
and you're going to just read Mark.
You're not going to believe the difference.
Don't let anything come into your head like,
oh, but I already know it's this and that.
And I know that Mary Magland came and grabbed his feet
and I know that he went on a mountain.
No, you don't know any of that.
You don't know anything.
You don't even know who he is.
Right.
So don't say you know because you don't know
it's the mystery to understand.
I love that.
I really do.
I made a poll, by the way.
So I put it down in the chat.
Just I like to fill out the audience,
see where people are at.
Have you signed up for Dr. James Tabor's Mark course yet?
And it's been a successful course.
Several people signed up for this.
11% of the viewers out of 98 votes said yes.
27% said I'm thinking about it.
1%, I added this one.
Wow, signing up now.
And then 61% said no.
So I think most of the people who voted said they have not.
I like that.
That means we're not preaching to the choir then, right?
We're talking to people that can get interested
in this amazing document.
And you know, I always say polls may be one of the most,
certainly one of, but I would even argue
the most influential, like the Southern Baptist
just voted women out as pastors in the church.
And you know, a big, huge controversy
and been reading the news, maybe following that.
It's even been in the New York Times.
Paul, that's because of Paul, right?
Paul is so influential.
Some people love him, some people hate him.
But influence is important.
Well, Mark is very influential
because he has shaped the core Jesus story
for everybody for all time.
And we need to understand it.
And then again, you might think,
well, what a great mythological account
of this guy that never existed, okay?
Or you might think, wow,
Mark really understands the historical Jesus
or somewhere in between, which I would find myself.
Right, that's what I love about you.
If I might tease our audience again about our Mark course,
you leave the, you're the kind of professor
who doesn't tell people how to make up their mind
about this literature.
You let them make their mind up on their conclusion about it.
But you do carry this like, you don't go full myth.
You don't go full, oh, we're reading
a historical eyewitness account at all.
You're not even close to that.
This is a literary product.
But there's realism, there's something there.
There's something that can be touched.
And of course, you've done some archeological work
over there and we went on our tour up in the Galilee.
We went to many of these sites
that are mentioned in this gospel.
And I'm thinking, wow, this kind of does bring it
to life a little bit to think about.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I love it.
Mark is the only one, or I can't remember if he's the only
one, but he mentions, everybody mentioned Simon
of Serene carrying the cross, right?
Who is Simon of Serene?
You know, Serene is the northern province of Rome in Africa.
And yet there's an ossuary.
Mark says he had two sons, Alexander and Rufus.
And apparently the Markan community
maybe knows those people.
They could have been made up, but I don't think so.
And now this ossuary has turned up
that has Simon and Alexander from Serene.
It's at Hebrew University, I've looked at it.
So anytime there's something like that
that I can just add as background,
like I know what it's like to walk from Bethany
over the Mount of Olives, down into the Kidron Valley
and up into what was the Temple Mount.
And you do too, Derek, because you wore your legs off
walking with me trying to film you.
Trying to keep up with you.
And it's a tough walk.
That's like a five mile walk and he's doing it every morning.
So I try to throw a little of that in just to,
that it is a real place, it is real time.
There are references to things that we can check out
and kind of understand pilot's judgment seat
and some of those things.
So it's really, really great.
Also, I want to give credit to my teacher
at the University of Chicago, Norman Perrin, rest in peace.
If you go to my blog, JamesTaver.com,
there's a little in-memoria thing for people I love
that have died, teachers and others,
friends, colleagues, family members.
And one of them is Norman Perrin.
You can read about Norman Perrin.
Norman Perrin was just, I can't be him,
but I can bring you what I learned from him.
But when he would talk, he was British,
that helped with that wonderful.
He had that look as well.
He looked sort of like a cross between Sherlock Holmes
and Ernest Timingway or something.
He had his beard and so forth
and he would just whole forth on Mark.
I'm telling you, we grad students would just sit.
You could hear a pin drop as he's telling us
about the creativity of Mark and it was just amazing.
And I try to bring a little of that as his student.
And I love him so much.
He was such a great New Testament scholar.
I want to say thank you to the mods in the chat
for sharing James Tabor's YouTube channel videos there.
We have a couple of questions, Superchats, James,
if we could hit those.
Yeah, let's do it, yeah.
As we're wrapping up,
because I do want to see some people sign up.
It'd be awesome to see you there
and to get your thoughts on those courses,
letting us know what you think.
So first of all, we've got a super sticker from MNag,
always showing up.
Thank you so much for the support, my friend.
Constellation Pegasus.
Oh, right, our buddy.
Girl or gal, I don't know, I'm not gonna judge.
I got the course, but haven't gone through it yet.
I'm so burnout doing all this research,
I need to clear my mind to dig into it.
I'm emotionally exhausted.
All right, you know what?
I think you'll find it's actually refreshing for that
because it's got that story unfolding quality.
I'm not saying it isn't demanding
and might exhaust you a little bit,
but take some deep breaths.
Hey, cruise into the Zoom meeting if you can.
And that way, you know, you can just sit back and listen
and jump in with the, you know,
everybody that comes to the Zoom meeting
has not finished the course.
We had four or five people sign up today
even before we did this.
So obviously they haven't finished yet.
Right, right.
And Ryan's gonna put up the Zoom link.
I sent an email to the current students,
any of you who sign up between now and Saturday,
you'll get an email plus it'll be on the course link
when you sign up, so.
We're breaking up, James.
Okay, did you hear most of that?
We're losing you.
Okay, there you are, you're kind of here now.
Yeah, I don't know what just the internet maybe or what, so.
Might be my end.
Did you hear what I said?
Yeah, your end looks foggy or blurry to me.
You there?
Yeah, now you're frozen for me.
We should have a vote.
How many say Tabor's frozen
and how many say Derek's frozen?
Okay.
So if Derek makes it back, we will continue.
I'm sure he's trying to reboot or get back on.
If I was breaking up, I wasn't aware of it.
Those of you viewing will be able to tell.
So we'll wait just another minute or so.
Okay, really weird.
Yeah, I think somehow you just vanished
like Romulus into the heavens.
What in the world, my internet?
Maybe we should try and wrap it up
before my apotheosis completely takes off.
Yeah, but I think my answer to Constellation Pegasus
probably came through.
Okay, biblical research is not for the fan of heart.
Some of them must deal with the fall
and elect Shaughness to be pushed.
Yeah, you're right, it does.
And it depends on where you come from too
and your background and how intensive
you've delved into these things over the years.
We saw Robert Cargill pop on for a minute
and he did his little bio thing with you the other day.
It's really cool.
And you asked me if I would do one of those
and I absolutely will.
In fact, Robert and I might even do something together
on his channel to talk about that kind of thing.
Because I think where we come from
is so much a part of where we end up.
I mean, that's kind of obvious.
But especially when you're dealing with a faith
committed book like the Bible or the New Testament
that you might have been raised to think of in a certain way
and then how academics and scholarship get into that.
And you're dealing with big questions.
So I'm gonna start a little series on my YouTube channel
called Death and Afterlife in the Ancient World.
It's not a course, it's just a series
of slides I wanna talk about.
And that's tough for people
because for most people, that's like the question.
Like, what happens when you die?
Something or nothing, you know?
And I just wanna, I'm gonna get more philosophical
with people than I usually do.
I'm the Bible scholar, but guess what?
I think all of us think deeply about the cosmos
and about meaning and about consciousness
and about science.
And Derek touches on those things I know quite often, so.
Yeah.
Okay, do we have any more?
Yeah, we have one more.
And the series is for your thoughts.
Does 9ix9ine, Mark 9ix9ine highlight
that the secret nature of Jesus's identity was
according to Mark himself,
not known during Jesus's life,
but only after the resurrection?
Yeah, I think the, that's that
transfiguration chapter, I believe.
Double check.
Yeah, read verse nine specifically to me
because I don't have my Bible here.
But I think the answer could very well be yes.
You want it only in the King James
because that's the true untampered
with God.
I'll even take a very big one at this point.
And as they were coming down the mountain,
he charged them to tell no one what they had seen
until the Son of Man should have risen from the dead.
Right.
There are two things in there that are just so important.
One's in Mark 8, but this is in the next chapter, Mark 9,
is that they began to,
they want the kingdom in Mark 9.
We'll do this real fast.
They want the glory of the kingdom.
So he says to them in a really tantalizing way,
some of you standing here will not die
till you see the kingdom come with power.
So they're just totally intrigued with that.
And then they have this visionary experience.
And I do think that that verse nine
is Mark's way of saying,
the own nobody ever understood until the very end,
the real nature.
And right there, they don't understand the real nature
because they want to see the kingdom come with power
and glory and they want to take over the Temple Mount.
They talk about the buildings and all that.
So yeah, Mark is working very subtly with that.
And the tell no one is his way of saying,
don't go spread the wrong view
that most of you seem to have when you hear about,
oh, Jesus, the great divine man.
I'll hook up with him.
And then when I die, I'll have eternal life.
Mark actually is not gonna help you with it.
Oh yeah, don't tell him too much now, James.
Okay.
Okay, James.
Well, any positive words?
Disappearance, which we need to now explain
the true meaning of and the underlying implications.
I think we're good.
So I hope to see a bunch of people.
You'll get the Zoom invitation by email from me.
And if you are one of the new students,
just pop me back and email them.
Say hi to me.
I'll enjoy hearing from you as a new student.
Awesome. Take care, everybody.
You as well, James, sign up for the course
and just keep your ears to the ground for the near future.
I'll leave it at that.
Is that enough there, James?
Am I coming to your house in July
to record some things?
Yeah, we've got some stuff here.
Yeah, I think I see a plane ticket
somewhere on my desk here.
Yes, like Mark, we're gonna keep it secret,
but it could leak out here and there.
Yeah, I wanna do...
Mark's the foundation I wanna build on,
but I wanna do some other things.
I do too.
Like us beyond that.
You'll get to know.
Let's keep doing Mark through June, July.
We'll keep working on Mark
and then we'll see what happens.
Okay, great.
Thank you so much, Dr. Tibor.
Subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Get the course.
We hope to see you there and have a wonderful day.
Don't forget.
Take care, everybody.
Our myth vision.
