Critical thinking skills are one of the reasons I personally found myself outside of the Christian
faith. If I held on to any emotional attachment, I'd probably still be a Christian. But the
critical thinking skills that are required to find flaws in the Bible or maybe draw critical
conclusions on one's own faith, that's what you're going to witness today with Jen Fishburne.
Make sure you guys go check out her YouTube channel. You can find her on Facebook as well.
All that's down in the description.
We are Miss Vision. Welcome back to Miss Vision
podcast. Your host, Eric Lambert. Ladies and gentlemen, I've told you guys before that I was
part of this group that was called Full Preterism. You probably go, what the heck is that? What does
that even mean? Well, let's just put it this way. I was a Christian doing everything in my power
to remain a Christian. And I was so serious about this that I took every word of God's Word, the
Bible, and tried to understand what it really meant so that it could be valuable to me in my own
walk and experience in this world as a Christian. Today, you're going to meet someone that not only
I know in person and have met, but I've been discussing things with her on all of these issues
for many years. And I'm going to go ahead and introduce her to you. We have Jen Fishburne.
Welcome to Miss Vision podcast, Jen. Thank you, Derek. Good to see you again.
You too. People don't realize we sat down and ate pizza with Mike Ramiano and I think it was his
girlfriend at the time. Yes. And then we've also went and had lunch one day together and we were
talking about Genesis and we were just in love with the Bible and trying to understand what's
going on here. But I want us to back up. Today is not about you and me, even though we can talk
about that. Today is about you, Jen. You had a video, quite a few videos, I'm sure, that have
gained attention lately, but you've exited Christianity. And of course, I'm very outspoken
as someone who's no longer a Christian. That, like hearing that come from your mouth, that's
powerful. So let's back up and let's talk about the good old days when faith worked and what
happened and will go from there. So tell us a little bit about who you are, even though I know
some about you. And then we'll go from there. Okay. You want to know who I am today? You want to
know what your upbringing will go through like an airplane flyby on your back and upbringing. And
then what like denominations and things you might have gone through. And then your last stand will
delve into like the last stand within Christianity and then boom. All right. Well, the big picture,
I grew up in a Christian home. My, my dad was a pastor for a little while, got his doctorate in
theology. And then, you know, I ended up going to a Christian school in high school, I was on the
Bible quiz team, I memorized thousands of verses in the Bible. So basically, my whole life revolved
around Christianity, the whole lifestyle thing and going to church as often as the doors were open.
Right. So left that for a little while when I graduated from high school and left home. And
then, you know, came back to it, not to, you know, all those Bible verses are just in my mind, right,
going over and over and over, came back to it. And I've had a lot of experiences in my life. So I've
moved about 45 times. And so in all of those moves, I've met a lot of people, I've been to dozens
and dozens of churches. And so I determined that I wanted to use those experiences to understand
as much as I could about different aspects of the Bible. So I did study it. I didn't want to just
stay in my lane and stay in my little box. I did study it from as many different perspectives as
possible within non-denominational Christianity, basically. So along that route then, and I have
an in-depth story about this, you know, on my channel. But along that route, I started to
really, really think that I was not understanding the Bible correctly. And so I actively sought,
how can I understand the Bible better? And so in my journey, I had two people that were a huge
influence in my life. One was Kay Arthur. And she taught me how to study the Bible deductively. So
that's basically where you use logic. And then the second one was a theological professor at
Dallas Theological Seminary, who became my private tutor. And so he tutored me and basically
everything someone would learn at a seminary, but privately. And so he taught me also logic and grammar
and how to read Hebrew and Greek and hermeneutics. And so those were my two really, really big
factors that kind of changed my understanding. And then away from there. So are you wanting to know?
Well, no, this is good. And so this is a good part to say now you have some tools. So you weren't
just a Christian who was told by a pastor at this point, you're wanting to deepen your faith and
really understand, you know, something that's impacting your life so important, you know,
like the way that with me, Christianity, it was everything to me. Like it was the most important
thing. Now my relapses, of course, for the diction, which is a whole nother discussion, I couldn't
understand how I cherished and loved God so much in his word when I was clean, but then I'd relapse,
right? Well, when you in your situation, I wanted to ask is the various denominations, I'm sure by
now you've seen so many different flavors. Yes. You had to go, hold on, someone's wrong or they're
all wrong or someone's right. So now the curiosity, you know, killed the cat, so to speak. And it's
time to investigate. You're serious. You have your weapons now. I know how to go and do the study
on my own. I have a good understanding now. And is this when preterism enters the scene or a little
after this? So everybody has their, their first, the first step is the hardest for everybody and
no matter what the subject is, right? So everybody has the first thing that they kind of deconstruct
from in Christianity that kind of leads them down that journey. And for everyone, it's a little bit
different. So mine was actually not preterism. Mine was before preterism. And that was the law
of Moses. So I, at the time, I was in a kind of a Reformed Baptist church was not a nomination,
but basically was Reformed Baptist. And they only taught on the Old Testament. We didn't teach on the
New Testament at all. So it was very, very steeped in the law of Moses. And at the same time, separately,
like at night, we were in the Messianic Judaic movement. So of course, they're only teaching
on the law of Moses as well. So it was during this time that I really, really thought that we
were supposed to live under the law of Moses. And I sought to live that way and very much steeped
my whole family in the law of Moses. So there might have been, I suspect there's been some
problems trying to do that. You know, like there are various laws that seem, or at least they seem
like laws that are trying to say like, when it's the woman's time of the month, are you going to,
are you going to leave the city? Where are you going to go? You know what I mean? That was actually,
so the, Mike has the name of the professor at Dallas Theological Seminary that I met online.
And that was actually his very first question to me that got me thinking. And I thought, okay,
well, I'm not doing that one. How many other commands am I breaking? And that really,
that really confused me. But I was so, my whole life, I've been a truth seeker.
Yeah. And a truth is paramount to me. So it's more important than my presuppositions. It's more
important than my biases. It's more important than what somebody else is teaching to me. So I was
like, okay, well, if I am not going out in the backyard during my period, and my then husband
refuses to not shave the corners of his beard, right? And he refused to wear robes. And he
really didn't like it when I suggested we should be sacrificing chickens in the backyard.
So, you know, I had to really stop and think I wasn't tithing my spices. Well, there was no place
to tithe my spices. And I pastored in a what my tithe of spices. So that's really what got me
thinking. So that was, for me, the first step. And so it was, I had to step out of my presuppositions
long enough to say, am I out of my confirmation biases here? And you can see these two posters
behind me, one of them is on confirmation biases. So we all have a lot of confirmation biases,
right? Especially Christians, most Christians have a ton of them. And I had to be willing to step
out of that box long enough to actually consider. And so that was when he, he said that he would
do a Bible study with me. And on the law of Moses. And from the very beginning, I knew in my heart
that he was correct that we were not under the law of Moses. But because I had to understand it for
myself, I really, really, really had to do the study. So for 90 days, I studied eight to 10,
eight to 12 hours a day on just the law of Moses for 90 days solid. I couldn't get enough of that.
Eight slept and drank the law of Moses. Now, had he taught? Well, first question I'd like to ask,
because you, you learned some Greek and Hebrew, just like basics, I suspect, just to know how
to get around with it, right? How far did he take you in learning the language when you actually
went to go study the Hebrew Bible? Because I suspect that helps play a role when you're looking
into the Pentateuch and whatnot. Like, was it just basic level, like a basic level of understanding?
Yeah, he taught me basically how to use inner linears and Biblehead.org and go and be able to
read that and how to look at what was more important, the biblical definition, like by
Strong's Concordance, or the usage that they were using in contemporary usage of that day. And so,
of course, Strong's Concordance is very, very presuppositional. It just says the definition
there is just whatever Strong's wanted it to be. And sometimes it was completely made up.
And then, but there were other definitions, if you look farther on down, where it told
what they actually use that word for in contemporary usage, and that's where I learned to go.
So he taught me some basics on how to understand the Hebrew and Greek grammar,
and how to use those tools. So even though I couldn't speak any Hebrew and Greek or read
any Hebrew and Greek at that time, he taught me how to use the tools. So then when I went to
the University of Jerusalem and studied Hebrew, then I was already kind of a step ahead because I
knew how to use the tools. And then, you know, I learned quite a bit of Hebrew. And so that just
made it come to life for me. So this is interesting. You went from trying to be true to the Hebrew
Bible, or if you will, Pentateute, the Old Testament. And you're learning all this stuff,
then you, like I suspect at some point, was it the Christianity that actually made you go,
you know what, I'm not actually in that, because there's another story over here that I need to
focus on? Or was it the, was it kind of, it might be both, but the context of saying, who is this
law given to? I mean, this wasn't even given to my, you know, European ancestry here. This is for
the Israelites out in the wilderness that are, you know, coming out of the exodus situation.
Is that what ring the bell? Was it a mixture of saying, well, Jesus in the New Testament and Paul,
plus, you know. No, I had to get, I had to get to the point where I understood that we were never
under the law of Moses. And so that is what actually took me 90 days to just get to that
point of understanding that the law of Moses was never given to us. We were not under his
jurisdiction and it had no authority under us, no authority over us. So it was given only to
Israel and it never ever applied to us. And so that's what took me so long to have that shift
in my thinking, because I did have all kinds of biases, you know, that's, that's what I had been
steeped in for about seven years at that point. It's all that I did day after day after day,
all day long. I just studied the law of Moses. And so it took me a long time to realize, okay,
that was the key. Even though he said it over and over and over, we started by, there's 450
passages in the Bible about the law, 450. So I started by studying all 450 of them.
And so I looked at every single one and I couldn't find us in any of them.
Right. But I was sure that still I was missing something, you know, I was just looking for that
one passage. There must be that one little passage that I'm missing, right? That puts me there.
You're doing exactly what someone who's trying to keep the Bible, what I mean by keep isn't,
I've got a, I got a Bible here. I'm not going to sell it. That's not what I mean. But like,
keep, you're trying to keep your faith and you're like struggling to keep yourself in this narrative
somehow. At that time, yes. Okay. And then preterism came along. So what happened was,
so it's the domino effect, right? So when the first door opens, then you've got
other questions or you should have. Actually, I've noticed that many full preterists,
when they become full preterists, that's their first door and they kind of stopped there. And
they still hold on to everything that they've ever believed. They add full preterism onto it
and they refuse to look at anything else. I really don't understand that at all, but it's
kind of funny. Can you tell everyone what full preterism is so I don't have to always repeat
myself? No problem. So full preterism just means that the story of the Bible was that Jesus fulfilled
all the law and all the prophets in the first century and everything was completed by AD 70.
There's nothing left to be fulfilled and that, and there's nothing in the Bible that really
applies to us because it's its real story. That's it in a nutshell. So how did you get a hold of
full preterism? What happened? So it was actually one of us studying the law. So I've got this Dallas
Theological Seminary is a dispensational seminary, all right? So they're not like very open-minded
at all. But this guy, he was a little bit more open-minded than the regular ones. But now he's
taken me through this Bible study. Now he'd been doing the same Bible study for 35 years. He taught
lots and lots of people this. And I was the last person that he taught the study to before he died.
And he told me that I was also his most difficult student in that after 35 years of doing the same
Bible study, he had all the questions and answers memorized in his head and he could just spit them
out like this, right? But I asked a whole bunch of questions that he couldn't answer. And he said,
nobody's ever asked me these questions before. So one of them was in Matthew 5, 17 and 18.
It says that Jesus came to fulfill the law and the prophets. And so I said, okay, if Jesus has
fulfilled the law, which is what I just spent 90 days learning, then he has to have fulfilled the
prophets as well because it's connected in that passage. He can't do one without the other.
So if Jesus has fulfilled the prophets, then everything must be done. Well, he was at a loss.
He didn't know how to answer that. And then my second question was, we're studying,
when you study the law, you have to study the Covenant, right? The old covenant, the new covenant.
So the new covenant is for the house of Israel and the house of Judah. So which house do we
belong to today? If we're in the new covenant, then which house do we belong to today? Now,
I've asked hundreds of people this question. And usually people on Facebook just get mad when I
asked them that question. They don't have any good answer for it, right? But that was actually
what got me started looking at. And I didn't know that that Praterism even existed at this point.
And he said, you're asking too many questions. I don't have answers for you're on your own now.
Interesting. It's interesting that he didn't try and, well, I'm sure he tried to kind of like
answer them, but that you weren't satisfied. He literally said, I don't know. He told me,
he said, I predict that in 10 years, you will know twice as much about the Bible as I do today.
And I thought this guy knows more about the Bible than anybody've ever seen. So
no way, right? But so that was in 2007. And look at that. I gotta ask,
because the Israel only business comes up in that idea to house, right? Did you just stumble
across this and no one mentioned anything about to house theology or Praterism to you? Or did you
stumble across any of it? No, yeah, I was all just me reading the Bible. And because I had done
such an in depth study on the law, of course, I'm studying about Israel at the same time,
because every every context of the law in the Bible relates to Israel, every single one.
And so I saw that the law was related to sin. So sin was related only to Israel. I saw that the law
and sin were related to death. So death was related only to Israel. So the law and sin and death
are continuum that are only related to Israel in the Bible. They never talk about it with anybody
else. So there is sin outside the law, but it's not imputed. So and sin just means to miss the
mark. It's just the bullseye. It's an archery term that just means hit the bullseye, right?
So when we think about it that way, there is no death for anybody outside of the law of Moses,
because the law sin and death continuum only applied to Israel in the Bible.
So we're getting into and just for the sake of the argument, I really am inch or for the
interview. I mean, I'm really interested in hearing your thoughts, because
I might have a different take on some of this stuff. And we both have had disagreements over
years. People don't realize you and me used to debate a little here and there back and
forth. We've even gotten angry and blocked you one time. But that's because we get so into this
stuff. And I was still a believer, I believe at the time. You would know probably better than I
were. You definitely were. And so we're both outside. I might have differences of opinion
on some of this stuff than you do, but that's not the point of this interview. I say that just
because I want to know, as we continue, this is an interesting way of deconverting. Like,
you don't hear anyone say, Hey, I studied the law and the prophets. And I saw so much context
about these people that weren't me. I'm a European probably from Germany or something
else is in my ancestry. I'm just guessing. I'm just making a guess. I don't really know
where your ancestry is. But the point is you're not an Israelite. You're not a Jew. You're not
from the house of David or Israel or anything. And then you started to go into preterism. When
does this come up? Because you haven't even mentioned it yet. You just baffled some scholar at the
Dallas. He's like, Oh, stay away from me. What happened? So talk, talk, take me into the story
further. Right. So I have a friend named Brian. And so I was talking to him on the phone one day.
And I said, I'm seeing this thing in the Bible. And I don't think that I can possibly be right,
because if I am the only person seeing this, then I must be wrong, right? Trying to think that I
can't have something different. That's what we're always taught in Christianity, right? If you're
seeing something different from everybody else, then you're wrong. But I said, I can't understand.
And, you know, this theological professor can't help me. And he said, Oh, there's a name for that.
And I said there is. And he said, Yeah, it's called preterism. And I said, What? So I'd never heard
of it. Hold on this. Hold on. I'm sorry. I have to. This is interesting. This professor that
isn't a preterist mentioned it. No, no, no, this is a different friend. Okay. Okay. A different friend.
Right. So, so, so he said, he told me, you know, to look up Don Preston. And, and I think he told
me about David Curtis at the time too. And I gave me a couple of book recommendations and stuff.
And so I saw then I saw I'm trying to think what the name of the book is. It's not a common
preterist book, but it's a really good one. I can't think what the name of the book is,
because I've sold them all right now. Right. So anyway, I saw on the back of the book,
and a term about audience relevance. So I had studied for a long time, who said what,
and to whom they were saying it. But I had not ever heard the term audience relevance.
So I hadn't put as much emphasis on audience as this particular book was. The only thing I
read on the book was the back cover. I never even opened the book. That was really all that I needed.
It said, every time you read a verse in scripture, always ask yourself who is saying it and to whom
are they, are they either writing or speaking. And so I started applying that 100% consistently,
100%. And, and I noticed as I got into the Facebook groups as a brand new preterist,
that there weren't very many people who were very consistent with that. So people would be
posting some kind of a verse or whatever. And I would say, well, what about audience relevance?
And they would say, well, that doesn't apply because it's not a time statement. So David Green
had written 101 time statements, right? And so there's 101 passages that he has put together
in kind of a document. And, and it basically says that if you, if you read these 101 verses,
they all talk about the end of the old covenant age coming in the first century by AD 70. That's
the general just of it, right? You've read that document. Yeah. Okay. So, you know, we look at
audience relevance in those 101 time statements, which are well known in the preterist movement,
but they refuse to look at audience relevance outside of that. And actually David Curtis,
who I think is an awesome teacher in full preterism, he's the worst about that because he's the one
who teaches audience relevance better than anybody else. He's really, really, really good at teaching
audience relevance. But if it is a verse on Calvinism, he inserts himself right back into that.
And he says, those are the ones that actually apply to us today are the Calvinists versus,
which just floors me. It is just, it's crazy. Yeah. I'm with you now, like now where I'm at.
So I personally, right, I'm not a preterist anymore, even by the terms of being a non-believer
preterist. But because like I share more in line with like Bart Ehrman and other people who say
this was a fell thing, just like the Jehovah's Witnesses, they didn't go extinct when they're
felled, apocalyptic in didn't happen. But either way, because you can tell the difference between
maybe where I was as a preterist who de-converted to where I am as a non-preterist, de-converted,
either way, we are in the same page. I find it so fascinating that these preterist blend
futurism and futurism is the idea there's still something for us for the future. Now,
this is the thing, Jen, if there was a post-New Covenant utopia that was expected,
I still don't think that happened. I mean, even if we say the Old Covenant passed away and the
New Covenant came in, one has to say that means only for these people who went in outer space,
as you know, some of the groups talk about, which I'm going all over the place,
poor people who are watching. I'm so sorry for you. It's like, you already know,
you already know. But it's amazing what you're saying, because I didn't see that. I kept my
Calvinism, and I was at Michael Miano's church, and I was trying to like, how do I keep, you know,
doctrine? You was talking to them back there, and how does it fit for me? So I say that for
anyone who's watching. When you become a preterist, it's not just everything was fulfilled in the
past. Everything changes. So that's right. Yeah. My channel used to be called Preterism Changes
Everything. Wow. So we're hitting right on the nail. Okay, this is interesting. Yeah. So then I
looked up Don Preston, and I watched one of his videos. For me, that was enough. And really,
the main thing that I took from that, and it was kind of the key that just turned me on to full
Preterism instantly, was that the Old Covenant was about Israel. So the end of the Old Covenant came,
the New Covenant came, and he said, Well, that was about Israel. Of course, he's not very consistent
in that because he still puts himself in the New Covenant. But I have asked him, I have asked him
how we are saved today and get into that New Covenant with the House of Israel and the House
of Judah. And he won't like this. But his answer was, do you have any idea? I don't know. That's
exactly right. He actually told me, yeah, I don't know. Interesting. I could say a jab at it,
but that's not even the point because there's wacky crap going on, in my opinion, in the New
Testament too, that it's like, Oh, there is. I think they were having a hard time. I think there
was some hard stuff happening there early on. But anyway, yeah. So Don Preston, I need everyone to
know for ginsake, that's the guy who got me. So if you want to get, if you're a Christian and you
want to be serious about the Bible and you want, he was the guy that got me thinking like, our Lord
said these things, how come the church has never told me to say, Hey, this is what the Lord said,
this is what he meant, not let's convolute everything and make it vague and audience relevance
wasn't relevant. He made, he was the first guy who told me Jesus came back and I went,
he's on drugs. Hold on. I hit the next video and I started to get so curious because it made so
much sense what he was saying when I was reading the scriptures. I was like, he had to come back
and if he didn't come back, we have a problem. And I couldn't, I couldn't even see that as a
potential answer that he didn't. Once I realized he promised he would. So that was really got me
going. Okay. Well, he's not a false prophet. And at that time, he's God in the flesh, you know, so
you already see so many problems with all this stuff. So, yeah.
And just for the people who, who don't understand about full preterism, you know,
basically, because I didn't put that in the summary, but Jesus promised that he would come back
in his generation. And so full preterism just says that Jesus kept his promise that he did come
back in his generation, which the kind of, you know, CS Lewis says that's the one promise that
Jesus did to keep. And that was what really, really frustrated him. But for those of us who
dug deeper, we're like, okay, we're not frustrated by that anymore, because actually, according to
the story, it did happen. So, Jen's referring to this doctrine called the 70 AD doctrine, which
is the idea that the gospels, synoptics are all discussing the destruction of Jerusalem and that
that was technically where the parisea takes place. And of course, this isn't like so fringe
it hasn't been discussed before. James Stuart Russell, you know, 18th century, late 18th century,
wrote a book on this, the parisea. And he actually goes in trying to make a theological
exegetical case to say, look, he, and he did a really good job in that, Jen, because he wasn't like
some of the modern full preterists that are just like doing anything to make it fit. Like he even
says sometimes in the book, he's like, this either happened or it fails. And he's kind of saying this
to the church in the early 1900s, late 1800s, he's saying it either, it's like he didn't write this
to skeptics, technically, he mentions how skeptics pointed out that they thought Jesus failed and
all that. But he's making a case to the other Christians by saying it either happened or he
failed. So you better get with the, with the scripture. And that's what I liked about James
Stuart Russell's book is, but he was real well written. Anyway, I'm rambling, but I get excited
because this stuff like nobody knows about it in the church, it's like 99 points, 9% of the church
is all singing, and you'll return any day now. And it's like, wow, like basic, so like,
that is the social gospel, there's no depth to it, there's no exegetical deep research into this,
and they're not really considering what the text is saying. The only people that I know outside of
Christianity that do it other than preterists who are in Christianity is critical, critical
scholars are looking at this stuff, but they don't conclude what preterism is suggesting. So
that's a whole nother discussion, but you take us further. I apologize.
Okay, all right. So really at that point, then, when I was a brand new preterist, I'm on Facebook
a lot. And for me, that was a good place to, to really, really learn things from other people,
to see if I was doing things correctly or not. So I actively looked for feedback on
the, on preterist, and I did a whole lot of debating. I mean, on Facebook, I did a whole
lot of debating. So what I started noticing was that there were, I'm not just debating you too.
Yeah, we had fun.
Was that there were, there were only, at that time, there were only two other people who were
actually looking at audience relevance, who were preterists. And there were, and so if time
statements and audience relevance were what we base preterism on, then why weren't we looking
at audience relevance in all the passages? And so that's when I met a guy who calls himself
Rivers of Eden and Donald Hochner. And so they were the only two that I felt were being consistent.
Now, most everybody else hated them. And they said, they warned me when I was a brand new
preterist, they warned me to stay away from them. And I said, why? You know, and so when somebody
tells me that I'm going to do the opposite, right? And so I thought I'm going to see what they had
to say. And really, I found that they were just the only ones who were 100% consistent with
audience relevance in every passage. And as I started examining audience relevance in every
passage, I started asking questions like, where's salvation in the Old Testament?
Well, if there's no salvation in the Old Testament, why did salvation suddenly become necessary
in the New Testament? Where's baptism in the Old Testament? Well, if there's no baptism in the
Old Testament, why did baptism suddenly become necessary when John the Baptist came on the scene?
Right? Where's hell in the Old Testament? So nobody's going to hell in the Old Testament,
but suddenly everybody's going to hell in the New Testament unless they pray the magic
prayer and ask Jesus into their heart. Well, that didn't make any sense to me, right? And so I
started asking all of these questions. And then I started seeing that the words for Satan and
Devil were actually adjectives that they had turned into nouns and made it into, you know,
a boogeyman that we think of in church. And we blame him for everything. And some days he's
stronger than God. In fact, almost every day he's stronger than God in the Christian world,
because he makes Christians do bad things, or he causes bad things that happen to Christians.
And I guess God wasn't strong enough to help them to get through that, right? And so I started
really just thinking all of these different kinds of things. And so when I started seeing,
so all of these, all of these ideas I am looking at in terms of audience relevance.
So there's no, even in the New Testament then, okay, salvation. Well, when Jesus says you must
be born again, who was he speaking to? Do you remember? Obviously in John chapter three, yeah.
Nicodemus, right? So that wasn't about us. When Jesus says, you have not chosen me,
but I have chosen you, that's a famous Calvinist passage, right? Who was Jesus speaking to?
His disciples, right? He wasn't speaking to you and me. Nothing to do with that. And so
I started deconstructing through all of this process, basically one verse at a time,
one passage at a time. And as I would start to look at each passage in context with audience
relevance and all the other skills that I've learned, which is a ton of them, then I started,
you know, just kind of everything started just kind of unraveling. And so very, very quickly,
I realized that salvation didn't apply to us. It was just for first century Israel. And I think I
wrote an article on that maybe 18 months after I became a Preterist. So I quickly went from
Preterism to Universalism, you know, almost within a year, basically.
How long have you been a Universalist? Well, I would say that in a way, I'm still a Universalist
in that because when you deconstruct everyone's question, first question is, well, what happens
when you die, right? Well, my answer is the same thing that happens to you is going to happen to
me and Hitler is solid too. It's the same thing that happens to us. Whatever happens to us, it's
the same. So in that aspect, I'm a Universalist. We're all the same. And so once I dropped that
us versus them mentality, where I'm different from somebody else, or I'm better than you because I
believe the right way, you know, you know, that's such an arrogant, narcissistic approach that
Christians don't realize actually how judgmental and arrogant they really are toward other people.
And that was when I first learned how to love people. So I actually agree that you yourself know
that because you remember being a certain way as a Christian. Oh, absolutely. Same here. Absolutely.
Yeah. Yeah. So now when I see other people doing that, you know, I think, well, I can understand
where you are. I used to be that way. But I'm glad that I don't have that, that blame and shame
and all of that guilt and judgmentalism toward other people. Now, I don't think that I'm better.
I tried never to think that I was better, but you have to when you think that you pray the magic
prayer or you've done the if you think that your doctrine is better than somebody else's or your
theology is correct and everybody else's is wrong, or you think everybody else is going to hell
because they don't have the right theology, you know, then you do think you're better than other
people. Even if you don't say that you think that you say you don't think that we know the
difference. Trust me. Right. It's doing this. I always felt I was chosen. I was a light. Right.
It wasn't anything that I did. I was special. Right. Exactly. With everyone who's not special.
Well, I don't know that you're a reprobate, but you're not acting like you're not one. So you
might not be chosen. Yeah, like you just know how it goes. Yep. Yep. Yep. And then all the people
who just condemn you to hell, you know, well, I'm chosen, you're not, you're going to hell,
I'm going to heaven because God, God decided that, you know, that's just, that's crazy thinking,
you know. And so actually going into universalism is what freed me to actually love people more
than I ever have in my life. Can I say just to specify what you mean by universalism,
you've exited the biblical scene. So you're not saying it like a universalist Christian
necessarily. Who's like, Oh, well, the Bible teaches that everyone's going to the same place
type thing. But you're saying in the real sense that you believe whatever that means, you want to
love everyone the same, you want to have it equal to everyone. And whatever happens to me is going
to happen to you. So if there's an afterlife, we're all going to go to the same thing. If there's
a source, we all go back to the source. For me, I obviously am an atheist, a self-proclaimed,
like I just say it, meaning I don't believe in a God. I'm not going to say there couldn't be,
but I'm saying I'm not convinced at this point. And very many reasons to be skeptical. However,
like I personally am kind of like the old Jews, like we're all going to the grave, you know,
one day we're going to be in the grave and we'll remain in the memories and in the histories of
our ancestors. That's the best we have for me. Would you say that like that's what you mean by
universalism instead of like a biblical theological or philosophical biblical related term? Right.
So there's, yeah, so I don't think there's any salvation. So most Christian universalists,
they believe that everybody's saved. So I definitely don't believe that, you know,
everybody's saved, everybody's going to heaven. No, that's not, that's not what I think. So
it is interesting in the Old Testament, though, in Ecclesiastes, the body's going to go back to
the grave and the spirit's going to go back to God who gave it. Now, whatever that means,
it just means that the same thing happens to everybody, right? Everybody's body is going to
go in the grave. We all can agree on that. Now, what happens after that? Are we just dead forever
and become more food? Maybe. Is there an afterlife? Maybe. Is there, you know, will we come back in
another life? Maybe. Will we go back to another realm? Maybe. You know, we don't know. We have no
idea. But whatever happens, the same thing happens to all of us. That's all I know.
So something that comes, you're an interesting person, Jen. I mean, I don't mean that in a
funny way. I mean, that's seriously, just that you've studied and you keep studying.
Where do you feel you're at with biblical studies? Do you think,
are you still interested in the topic? Is it something that you said, you know what, I'm just,
I'm over this because a lot of people give up. Or are you still interested in thinking,
there might be stuff I don't know. Maybe I could be wrong about some things.
I'm still exploring critical scholarship to find stuff out about it. Do you get excited
finding out something was mythology or a story or like, or do you, are you done with it? Have you
washed your hands? So last July, I made my video on why I left Christianity. And at that moment,
that was like, this is it. I'm done. This is the last thing that I'm going to have to do with it.
And so I sold all my books and videos and, you know, everything that was Christian in my home,
the decorations on the wall, everything, right? I kept a couple of Bibles that I had written in.
But other than that, I just, I got rid of everything I said, I'm just done.
Well, as you probably know, when you make a video, people come on and they comment.
And they're like, have you considered this? Have you considered that? Have you considered this?
And so, you know, most of it was, you know, people just trying to draw me back in. And I
considered all of that. And I am 100% convinced that I am correct. Right. At this point, there's,
I would not have made the video. I would not have publicly come out and said why I left Christianity
if I was not 100% convinced on it. All right. So I have zero doubts whatsoever. But then I started
thinking, okay, so, and we're jumping way ahead, but that's okay. So if the Bible, I had studied
some of Bart Ehrman stuff. And, and I said, okay, so Matthew, Mark, Luke and John were not written
by Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Half of Paul's epistles, Peter, James, those are all forgeries.
So, okay, that takes most of the New Testament that is fake. Well, then where did it come from? Why?
You know, who made it? Why did they make it? Why do why do we have those kind of stories? And then
what about the Old Testament? Because Bart Ehrman just did the New Testament, right? So I read all
of Bart Ehrman's books. And that's when I decided, you know what? I spent my whole life studying
what the Bible says, but I have never looked at what about the Bible. I hadn't stepped outside the
Bible to consider anything like, is the Bible really the Word of God? Is the Bible really
infallible? Is the Bible really true? Because I had been taught that historical grammar
historical grammatical approach to hermeneutics, which basically means it's historical, right?
So that's what I had always been taught was the Bible was literal history. And I could give you
every single detail on why the Bible was literal history. I could, I didn't have any problems
proving the story about me, proving the story of Noah's Ark, proving the story of Jonah and the
way I had no problems with proving that historically, I could do it, right? Probably better than most
people because my uncle and my dad were biblical archaeologists. And so they were the first ones
to discover Noah's Ark. They were the ones who discovered Pharaoh's chariot wheels in the Red
Sea. And they were the ones who discovered Mount Sinai. Now Ron Wyatt eventually stole all their
work. He was one of their assistants, and he stole all of their videos and made them into his own,
and he claimed the world for his own. But so I have these things going on in my mind. And I'm
thinking, well, maybe the Old Testament is true because my family are the biblical, biblical
archaeologists who have discovered all of these things. And it took me my popcorn real quick.
No, I'm just gonna get good. All right, I love this, please. So it took me a while
to be able to understand. And all I did, and I've done this throughout my journey, when there's
something that doesn't make sense to me, I just kind of marinate on it. I just meditate on it. And
it may take, like probably when I was coming out of the law, I probably had to meditate on it for
five years. So it was a long time before I kind of came to, okay, I understand it now, right?
So after that, things got easier. But anyway, so I was like, okay, I need to really think about
this. So it took me about a year to think through those three archaeological finds that my family
had done. Well, since I had studied quite a bit about Old Testament history and found out, well,
actually, we have no evidence for Noah's Ark, we have no evidence for Moses even existing,
we have no evidence that the Israelites existed and that they went across the Red Sea and they
wandered in the wilderness for 40 years, we have no evidence for any of that. And so Mount Sinai
would have been, you know, I didn't care about some of the details, people are like, well, why did
did it take 40 years when it only takes 11 days to cross that? That didn't care, I don't care about
that. Because if I want to go for a walk for 40 years, I can go for a walk for 40 years, you know.
So those kind of details didn't bother me at all. You know, the point wasn't to get from A to B,
the point was that they were wandering in the wilderness, right, in the story, right. So I
thought, okay, I understood now, okay, if the only evidence that we have for the, for those stories
is what my family discovered, that's the only evidence, then could there be another
idea on what that evidence means? So I looked at Noah's Ark, all right, this is what I'm thinking
now. All right, so there was a flood. There were lots of floods. We've had floods ever since the
earth began, right? We've always had floods. So there was a flood, and someone had built a boat.
And we have all kinds of flood stories in, in our history. And who knows how much they've been
embellished. But let's just say that somebody found this Ark on Mount Ararat. They took measurements
of the Ark, and they made a story from the measurements of the Ark, right. So the measurements of
the Ark could exactly match up to what we have in the Bible, if it was written afterward, right.
If I went and I found a boat right now, I measured it, and I wrote a story about that boat, and I
made it, the story sound exactly like that boat. Well, it would make it sound as if I had evidence,
but in fact, it was written after the fact. And so that became very obvious to me, that that's
exactly what happened. So the story was written after the fact. And there, but there was a real
boat there. So there was a flood. It doesn't mean that it's Noah's flood. It's just that there was
a flood, there was a boat. Those are the exact measurements, but it's not that story. It has
zero evidence. If we were in a court of law, we could not prove any connection between that Ark
and Noah. There's no connection there at all. So all right, so that evidence doesn't work. It just
says there was an Ark, right. And then of course, and you may know that I did a debate on Noah's
flood, and I took the worldwide global position. Did you know that? I did not. Yes. So it was a
three-way debate. So we had, I was the worldwide, and then there was, I can't even think of the guy's
name, who did a local old earth position. And then Joel Edmondson did the meth position. And
actually, while I was doing that, it was a very lengthy debate. So while I was, we'd had four,
I think we had four sessions each, and each was an hour long. So it was quite lengthy. And while I
was doing that debate, I actually began questioning what I was saying at the time. Wow. And so I think
if we go into a debate, a debate, it shouldn't be that we're just there to prove our own point.
It should be to listen to the other people and to say, do I need to, do I need to change anything
of where I'm at? And so that's actually what I did when I went into that debate. And I know most
people don't do that, but that should, to me, should be the purpose of the debate. So I did change,
I started changing my mind during that time. All right. So then we've got Pharaoh's chariot wheels.
So in, in the Red Sea, at the Gulf of Aquaba, my uncle was the head archaeologist, Dick Ewing is
his name. And then my stepdad, Dave Smith, they were, they did a lot of study in, before they went
and looked for this. And they were sure that they knew the exact spot in the Gulf of Aquaba,
where the Israelites crossed. So the Gulf of Aquaba is a part of the Red Sea. And so they went there,
they got permission from Egypt, they went there and they looked for the chariot wheels. They actually
found a chariot wheel and they were pulling it up. And the Egyptians, the, the Egyptian army
actually came after them with machine guns and started shooting at them. And they had to flee,
they had to drop the chariot wheel and they had to flee. Yeah. So it was, it was kind of crazy
story. So I was thinking, okay, so, well, what about that? I mean, that's like pretty significant
evidence, right? You think. So then I started doing more study. And I was actually studying
a physics book. And, and I found out that there, that there used to be a couple of things. So we
know that the Nile River would come up and would rise and flood the area every year. And then when
it was the off season, right, all of the water would go away. So when the water goes away,
there is a land bridge between Egypt and Israel or Canaan, basically at the time. And during that
time, there would not be enough food in Egypt for people to have to eat. So it was very common for
people to migrate north to Canaan. And then in Canaan, they had animals on the lower areas.
And then they would grow food on the, on the mountains and the hills. So especially grapes
and stuff like that. And so during the off season, they would migrate from Egypt, go over to Canaan,
raise their animals because there was more water over there, and then go up higher and grow the
food. So it was very, very, very common for people to cross this land bridge that appeared every
off season, right? So it doesn't mean that Israel necessarily, a million Israelites or a million
Israelite men and all of their families and all of their animals and everything across the Red Sea,
and that Pharaoh and his armies were chasing them because we actually have zero evidence of that
happening, right? Right. So what does it mean? It means that people cross that, that land bridge
on a regular basis. And so to find a chariot wheel there would actually be, we would expect that.
We should expect lots of things there, right? Because people dropped all kinds of stuff along
the way. So that was actually a very common journey. So that one was pretty easy for me
to explain. And then, of course, Mount Sinai is just a mountain. So you know, it's interesting.
I didn't know this till recently. There's like a contradiction there because it's Mount Sinai
or Mount Korab. Which one is it? And are they the same? Well, yeah, of course, you know,
Christian's going to come on or Orthodox Jews going to try and make it make sense. But I've been
digging into that. I love that stuff. So I love this. The guy that you actually posted the other day,
he's actually going to be coming on here soon. I'm going to be recording live with him. He's
an ex-Jahovah's witness on the Flood narrative. You know the video I'm talking about that went
viral recently. And he's a really well-articulate individual. And he's going to be joining us here.
And so I'm super excited about that. His name is Harrison Cotter. It'll be interesting. Yeah.
So at this point, you're looking at the Bible and you're seeing the historical fiction. It's
been mythologized. It's been obviously enhanced. And who knows, there may not have been a million.
There might have been a thousand or a couple of thousand guys migrated at one point or whatever
to go up here and they enhanced the numbers and the dates and all that kind of stuff.
At this point, are you no longer a Christian investigating this?
Yeah, absolutely. So I haven't actually called myself a Christian since 2013.
Okay. So when I met you in New York, I did not even call myself a Christian at that point.
So once I understood a universalistic perspective, even in the Bible, I stopped calling myself a
Christian because to me, it's still promoted in us versus them mentality. So I wanted to get away
from that as quickly as possible. Okay. And then I guess since you didn't call yourself a Christian,
but you were still a believer. Yes. In this. What was the straw that broke the camel's back in
terms of you saying, okay, I no longer even believe these stories. I thought these were real
history. Was it all this stuff that? It was. Yeah. Bart Ehrman was, it's really funny because
and I'm assuming you've read most of Bart Ehrman's books. Yeah. All right. So Bart Ehrman
does an excellent job on talking about the authenticity of the various books in the New
Testament. Oh, yeah. And so when all of that just comes tumbling down, then I said, well,
if Matthew, Mark, Luke and John didn't write Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, and it was not
written by people who even were eyewitnesses and people even who knew him and knew him and
knew him and knew him, you know, it was quite a chain of events before it was written down.
Mark was written first. Matthew and Luke copied Mark and then John was just out in outer space
with his thinking, right? And so and then, you know, other things like like Mark very much
mimics Homer and they drew the Gospels were actually just a rewrite of the Moses and the
Elijah themes and they were actually written backward to show that prophecy had been fulfilled.
So, you know, when I started seeing all of these different things, then I'm kind of like,
well, does Jesus exist? Interesting. It's funny that Bart Ehrman has led more people to believe
that Jesus does not exist. And yet he actually has a historical Jesus, right, perspective still.
And it's his greatest fall. But I'm glad that he actually, you know, leads people out in that way.
So, I love his work. I used to jab at him because I was a mythicist. I was a hardcore
mythicist. Now I'm agnostic on the question. Ultimately, I have my reasons for why I reserve
being either or strictly. I entertain both hypotheses because it's so fascinating to
like dig into this myth and wonder, is there a guy or is this an angel that has now taken
flesh and he is hemorrhized? You know, so Dr. Carrier, like I'm trying to fly and go see him.
I actually have a GoFundMe app and like I'm letting people know, like,
help me get this GoFundMe. I'll fly to him in September. I'll take my camera here.
And you know how I have like a million videos with Dr. Robert M. Price? Like he lives an hour
from me. He wouldn't want to record with this guy. He's an encyclopedia. So, I'm going to Dr. Carrier
and I'm going to sit with him for two days and film. I'm going to do, he's going to be so tired
when I'm done with him, but I'm going to be like, all right, so another question. He's going to be
like, give me another coffee, you know, because I want to do everything I can with him. I want to
do that more because I love that we both ended up in the same, like we went like this. All right,
we left Christianity. Oh, we're kind of close to each other. We went to Preterism, but we were
still miles apart, even in Preterism and how we thought. And then we were like, okay, there's no
way Israel only, I'm not heading in that direction. You're heading this way. But at the end, regardless
of your thoughts, that's why I mentioned during the interview with you today, is I probably disagree
on some things that we get into about the details. But at the end of the day, at the end of the day,
we both found our way out of the book and we went, okay, I think it was the myth. And this
why I was trying to tell those guys is like, it's like breaking down the infrastructure
of the very fabric of the text, like Peter didn't write Second Peter. I mean, like, it's so, you
know, when you do that, that's what collapsed everything and made us see on the same page. So
this was wonderful. And we've got a few minutes. So I just want to ask someone out there right now
who might be watching this is a believer. And they're afraid. They're afraid, Jen.
We've been there and we love them and we know exactly what they're afraid of and why. Can you
speak to that person?
So I do, I do get that a lot. And for me, it's about being a truth seeker. So I had, for me,
truth is more important than somebody else telling me that something's going to happen to me when I
die, right, because they're afraid of what's going to happen to them when they're dying. That's what
that's why I studied all of those passages. I would encourage people what passages, first of all,
you got to look at audience relevance in every passage. All right, that's key. So then what
passages tell you that you have to be saved? What passages tell you that you are the one who's
sinning? What passages tell you that you are the one who has to repent? What passages tell you that
you have to be baptized? What passages tell you that there is a magic prayer that you have to pray?
You know, what passages tell you that Jesus blood covered any of your sins because that was only
the sins under the law of Moses, they were the only ones that Jesus blood actually covered, right?
What passages tell you what's going to happen when you die? Look in the Bible and try to find
any passage in the whole Bible that says what's going to happen when you die. You know, what
passages tell you all of these kinds of things and really try to take yourself out of somebody
else's story because this is really Israel's stories. The Bible is a story of Israel trying to
explain who they think God is and to develop a new religion. So they developed it out of
the pantheistic religions in the other nations that they actually lived in when they all first
started. And so it's just their idea of we're going to make our own God. And so when you start
looking at the Bible, really, really, really focus in on audience relevance and see if that
verse is actually about you or if it's actually to somebody else and be really, really honest with
the passage. Who is that verse about? And don't just say, well, Paul wrote all of these books
therefore there to everybody. No, that's not true. They're not to everybody. And those passages are
all within a certain time context. They're all within a cultural context. They're all within he
was writing to a group of Israelites. He was writing to a group of people who had become
believers in Jesus that came out of the old covenant of Israel. So really, really be honest
with who the audience is. And then those fears for me vanished because I realized that the Bible,
I was never in it. It never had anything to do with me. It was not to me. It was not about me.
It was not for me. It had nothing to do with me whatsoever. So if I'm not part of the Bible,
there's nothing for me to be afraid of, right? There's not even a single verse that says you're
gonna go to hell when you die if you don't pray the magic prayer. There's not a single one. I know
that's what they talk. People do take stuff and use it, especially the church has done that quite
often. 100% we hit our hour mark, but I want to say you and me will disagree on Paul's audience.
Either way, you and me will agree, and this will want people to see the differences in how we've
come to a different conclusion, yet we still agree on so much. You and me would disagree on the
audience of who they were ethnically, so to speak, but we would agree that Paul, writing in Thessalonians,
said he was going to even be alive. He's saying to them, look, those of us who remain and are alive
at his coming, like he was supposed to be alive. And so for me, I think we'd also disagree on
full preterism concepts on the text. I would agree with Airman. I think Dr. Price and
Kerry probably agree with this too. They think that it felt like the Jehovah's Witness thinks
he was supposed to come. It was supposed to happen. But I think, do you still hold that
preteristic concept that it actually, according to the narrative, all of this really did happen
according to the narrative? Or are you on the same boat as Airman and all those guys
where you say, look, they expected it, but it didn't actually occur and cognitive dissonance
kept the movement going. Then they started giving it to Gentiles more than Gentiles took over,
which is what we see happening in the church. And obviously, it like snowball effect became its own
beast. What are your thoughts? Yeah. So according to the story, which I don't believe anymore,
I think it's just a story, right? Right. I think the story was written backward to prove that all
of these things actually did happen. But yeah, I have written a fairly lengthy article that Jesus
did when he came and what salvation was was actually he came in judgment on those that
didn't basically accept Jesus and his kind of thing. So he did come. The coming was a judgment.
That's what it was. And so the judgment came in AD 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed. And that was,
I think, the coming. But it is just a story. I think it was written many years later. And
so it's easy to write something that happened in the past and have it all line up kind of nice
and neat. So for me, the Bible is just, it's always been a story about Israel. And then,
of course, the Romans came in and they're like, OK, Israel is, they keep rising up in rebellion.
So we need to create a new version of a Messiah for them because they keep looking for their
Messiah. We're going to give them a Messiah. They went back in time, created it. And then it looked
like it already happened. And now, and then things. You've been to do you. And we're rabbit
trailing off. This is an interesting little like end here. Because I mean, look, this is speculation.
Some of this stuff is just assumptions that we're making based on our research.
Do you think Paul's letters are written X event to the ones that are authentic? Do you think Paul
existed in the fifties? Or do you think Paul's fictional as well, and that all these seven epistles
are actually written as though they're in the fifties, but really later as though, you know,
because like, for example, Thessalonians, those of us who are alive and remain it is coming.
Right. He thought whoever this author is, either thought or the author who wrote this,
if you're if you're saying it was written later, let's just say, is looking back and saying,
all right, it's going to happen any moment during the life of this guy who's claiming to be
authoring this saying, I'm going to be alive. You guys are going to be alive. I know some of you
guys fell asleep, you know, some of you are dead. But at any moment during this life, he's going to
come back, we're going to be sucked up an outer space, we're going to be good to go.
Do you not really have a stance on this yet? Or are you like still like, I don't know. What are
your thoughts on Paul? Yeah, so, so I'm not 100%. I don't think that we can be. But I do think that
so I have studied quite a bit from Richard Carrier. And so I do think that he kind of places Paul's
writings in that same time period where the scholars generally do that they were the very
first writings that we have. And so they were, there was kind of a small little group of people
who, you know, had started this Christian movement. And then Paul's the one who was the promoter,
and he's the one who took it. And he had visions and, you know, all of these, you know, crazy
things going on. And he took it and he went with it. And actually, it's interesting that Josephus
writes about a man who went to Rome, and he said and did all the things that Paul said and did,
and he got in trouble. And, and he actually makes him out to be a really, really bad character.
And so I don't know if you've, if you've looked at that one or not, but it would be in the same
timeframe. And so if that person that Josephus is talking about is Paul, then it would be right in
that timeframe. And it does seem like that it is all the things that he talks about with this
bad person who was teaching. I need to look up the guy. I know there's a guy saw us, I think,
I think it is, that, that Josephus mentions. But I got to, I got to read, I guess, investigate this
more, because there's so many theories that I've actually been looking at that are just, you know,
you kind of like want to look at all of them. And Dr. Price thinks Paul was Simon Magus or possibly
Marcyon. There's definitely the Josephus concept. There's even people who think Paul was Josephus,
because he shipwrecks at the end of Acts, and Josephus was shipwrecked. And like, you know,
so there's like all these theories, I listen to them, I entertain them. I don't, like, I don't
put any concrete in any bags on any of this stuff, because it's speculation, but it is.
So the man, the man in Josephus is actually unnamed. So this particular one is, I can't
remember the location, I just saw it the other day. And so it was, it was, it was pretty interesting.
So it was an unnamed man who was basically teaching the Jews that they were no longer under the law.
He went to Rome, he took some friends with them, they got a shipwreck, you know,
they all went to jail for well, they let them out, they, they took a whole bunch of money,
they collected money from all of the people, they said they were going to send it back to
Jerusalem to start sending this message out. All this in Josephus? It's in Josephus, yeah.
But, but he actually ended up keeping the money and so they, you know, anyway, so he was a bad,
bad person basically, but he's an unnamed man in Josephus. I wonder, like, and for me, like,
I love entertaining this stuff, but I kind of wonder because we find these overlaps of
characters and things that seem like a parallel and they might be. But I'm very careful of,
like, drawing those conclusions yet until I have really solid reasons because, like, for example,
like, at first, when I heard things like this, I would jump on it. That's it. I'm sold, like,
this makes sense because I don't know anything else, like, at the moment. But then I found out,
like, the idea that Jews were already teaching that everything is spiritual and you don't have
to practice the law anymore. That was something that was beginning to become more common among
some Jews, especially Hellenized Jews. And I was like, hold on. So this was more common among them?
Like, it happened? And so when you go to guys in Josephus or some places, even Josephus says
that he doesn't think circumcision was absolutely necessary. From someone who told me this. And
I'm thinking to myself, Cole didn't think it was necessary. So he might not be the only Jew
that's going around saying this. But when you added the whole money and the Jerusalem and all
that, I'm like, okay, where's this at? I'm going to look at this in Josephus because we know that
there's some crap going on in Galatians, for sure. And Paul doesn't seem very happy in Galatians
when he's arguing his points. And he's trying to say, I got this from the man upstairs. Okay.
I don't need their say so. I got mine from God. And all I had to do was give him money.
All right. Yeah. You know, that was another kind of deal breaker thing for me when I realized
that Paul was actually no different from Joseph Smith and Mormonism. Paul is the Joseph Smith
to Christianity. He just doesn't sleep with all the women. At least we don't
at least we don't think women followers. But I'll give them the booze for the down. I'm not
going to use the bag. I can't prove it. Yeah. So you know, it's funny how we make fun of
the Mormons for having that. And yet Christianity is exactly the same. No different whatsoever.
Jen, this was an awesome conversation. I'm so glad that, you know, you've come this far. And of
course, obviously, I'm always thankful that I have come this far too. But I say that to say,
like, it's really cool to see that you've continued and you're still like interested in
the the topic, but not in the way that we used to be. Like, I'm here to to win my theologies
correct more than yours. It's more about like poking at finding out the flaws or the issues
of the development behind it. Christians don't do that. Christians only use the text, use the
Bible to interpret the Bible to know what the Bible like, we're looking at crap. Like,
why did they write that? Is this a lie? Who wrote it and why? What the hell is their intention?
And I still love it. I still love doing it. And I hope you don't stop all together unless
it's harm in your life. So no, can I can I add one last thing that that's really, I think,
key. And this is kind of what I've been studying more recently. But I think this is key also for
going back to the people who are living in fear. You know, can I even consider changing my mind?
And this is kind of what I've been asking people lately. So what evidence did we have for that
Jesus ever existed? So this is what we should have. We should have earth records. We don't.
We should have baptism records. We don't. We should have places of residency,
even when he was growing up. We don't. We should have death records. We don't. We should have
burial records. We don't. We should have trial records. We don't. We should have crucifixion
records. We don't. We should have resurrection records. We don't. So all of those are records
that we should have and we do not have. And then in addition to that, we should have
many, many, many, many accounts of where Jesus did all of these fantastic things because they
had news reporters in those days. And if we had somebody doing those things today, it'd be top
of the news. It'd be all over the news, right? And we should be able to see some of those things
in their old news records. We should have had eyewitness accounts. We have zero. We have zero
eyewitness accounts. That's a huge, huge, huge problem. We should have historical journals or
chronicles that kind of chronicled the things that Jesus did. We should have people who wrote
letters. So some of the people who heard Jesus or heard about Jesus should have written letters
to other people saying, you can't, you want to believe the guy that I heard about in Jerusalem
where I saw in Jerusalem, you know, he gave 5,000 fish sandwiches out for free today. And he just
like magically made them happen, you know? So we should have like evidence. And the fact that we
actually have zero of those is something that everyone should consider. If you really believe
that Jesus is your savior and that Jesus is coming back again, that Jesus is going to make
you rise from the dead and you're going to live in heaven with Jesus forever, why don't we have
any evidence at all? And I guess like, I think Richard Carrier is actually too generous in his
book, but he has to be as a scholar. I totally understand that. But I would challenge people
to even find one piece of evidence, just one. And if you cannot find one piece of evidence
that Jesus ever existed, and the Bible is not evidence because those books are proven to be
Matthew, Mark, Luke and John are proven to be forgeries or fake, basically, then what are you
putting your faith into? Are you putting your faith into a fictional character? And it's kind of
funny that Jesus says, I am the way the truth and the life, right? And he's actually a fictional
character. The irony is incredible that people put that Jesus is their standard of truth. And yet
he doesn't even exist. Yeah, now you're going to have the people who still want to hang on to Jesus,
but they don't believe he's historical. And this has happened, by the way. And they want to make
him a spiritual vague concept like a Zen or would have Christ within, you know, and they want to
do that kind of stuff. Because it's interesting, people who don't believe in Jesus, historically,
they don't believe he existed. There are people who actually believe in our Christians and don't
believe in historical Jesus. Now, they're not Orthodox Christians. They're more the esoteric
type. That's a whole other topic, right? Yeah, that's a whole different conversation. But nonetheless,
I want to top on what you said there, if you're okay with it, is that, you know, with what you
said, regardless if he existed or not for anyone watching, you're willing to like rest all of your
hope and faith and trust in this. And the point that I think you're bringing is like the evidence is
like not evidence you would like you wouldn't trust your child's life if you were sending them off
somewhere and you knew I'm not sure who the teachers are. I'm not really sure where this is
going to be. I'm not really sure. Like you're going to need to know something if you're going to trust
your child's life on a school bus that comes by to pick them up and take them somewhere. Well,
the same way with your soul or with your life, like you're going to trust it on things that we
have plenty of points we can bring up that are issues. And you're going to believe that this
guy actually rose out of the grave and you've never seen anything like that yourself. It's all
right. I feel it in my heart. You know, we did too. Trust me, we did too. Yes, I did. I want you to
know because it's a long time to unfil that from our heart. So this has been wonderful. Let's do
this again sometime in the future and thank you so much. I appreciate it. Well, thank you for
having me on, Derek. Good to see you again. How could people get a hold of you before we go?
All right. So I have a YouTube channel, Jen Fishburne, just like my name there.
And then I've got, I guess, my email, a lot of people email me. So it's just my name,
JenFishburne at gmail.com. And then if you want to look me up on Facebook, that's fine. And I do
have a Facebook group called Life After Christianity. So that one people can join. And we talked about
what happens after you leave Christianity. How do you live life? Because there's a lot of questions
there. And people don't know where to go, what to do, how to live life. Interesting. Interate your
own risk. Battery's not included. No, I'm just kidding. Thank you so much, Jen. I appreciate it.
And ladies and gentlemen, if the cognitive dissonance is just too strong, I'll help you remember,
we are Jen Fishburne.
