We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to be crucifying the Bible today.
And with that being said, my guest is Deborah Grace, the author of the book, Crucifying
the Bible.
Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you.
I'm happy to be here.
Yeah.
I'm glad you are too.
And it seems like we have similar journeys in many ways.
And you actually wrote a book on exposing oil and water.
And what I mean by that is, is like how the Bible really does not make sense.
It does not connect.
On so many levels, we'll get into a lot of these today.
At first, I'd like to ask, first of all, your book, can you tell us a little bit about
this book briefly while I have it here popped up on the screen?
Let us know.
Yeah.
Something about it.
So my husband was the one that came up with the title.
So I have to give him credit for that.
It was brilliant.
It's metal as heck.
And it just kind of grabs you by the shirt and pulls you right in.
So it was great that I had that ability to sort of catch people's attention and then
share my journey.
So I went into a very long preface.
Sorry about that.
But it kind of gives so much background into my journey, my walk, 41 years in religion,
and then finding the little cracks in the foundation, so to speak, that led me to say,
wait a minute, wait a minute.
The Old Testament actually doesn't support the New Testament, and here's why.
And I had been doing so much for Christianity, called myself an ambassador for Christ, and
the most godly woman, that was my mission.
That was my identity, my whole identity.
And then finding out all this information, I was like, all my years of writing and all
my years of research, let's not let it go to waste.
And I'm glad I didn't throw any of that away or delete it.
And I didn't know why until I started writing the book.
And so here we are.
Yeah.
And you also have it on Audible.
So if you're not able to read a paperback version, which you have recommended to me,
I highly recommend it.
I do get the paperback because there's a lot of charts and visuals for people to kind
of latch onto and to be able to see, especially when you're dealing with scriptures and you're
trying to compare things, it's good to see them side by side.
So you do that.
But if you're driving down the road or on a walk and exercising, you can get it on Audible.
And it's really an interesting book.
I tell people, as you're deconverting, this might be something that solidifies those questions.
You may not have the answers for, but that's the point.
It creates more problems than solutions in terms of biblical.
This leads me to the point of where I felt like I needed to get some other thing to fill
my life up with and realize that the Bible wasn't going to be enough.
And then...
Yeah.
Oh, go ahead.
Oh, no, no.
It's fine.
I was just going briefly, for those who don't know, I've got the Patreon.
They all support us here, tons and tons of videos endlessly that have not been released.
Very few do get released to YouTube lately.
I mean, I've got more back here for anyone who wants to help support us.
I highly recommend doing so.
So Debra, sorry about that.
I just want to get people acquainted with ways in which they can get the book because
I was listening to it on an airplane, on airplane mode in the sky.
I can't remember where I was traveling from, but I'm listening to the book.
You go through a lot.
It's mainly what I noticed is comparing the Hebrew Bible with Jesus, with the New Testament.
Where do we begin in such a discussion?
Because you go into so many things.
Where would you like to start?
Right.
So when I first found the cracks in the journey, I was actually challenged by somebody on Facebook.
They were ostracizing a series of videos by Scott Schubb, and he has a YouTube channel
called Be It To Fellow Productions.
And he has a series about the New Testament and the New Testament Messiah.
Is he?
And when I first listened to that video at work, I probably turned at 10 shades of white
and went home, told my husband, I need you to see this video.
But if you don't see what I'm seeing, our whole marriage could be done because I knew,
you know, you can't be unequally yoked or if you are, it's very challenging.
You know, I know people that make it work politically, but when you have such stark
religious beliefs, it's super challenging.
And then I went into deep dive because I had to know without a shadow of doubt.
I'm a researcher just by nature and I just had to find out.
So I went and when the first part of the series that Scott Schubb went into talked about the sacrifices
and I went even more into that, no, he went into prophecies, sorry.
And then I went into the sacrifices and I'm like, wait a minute, there are specific caveats.
There are specific requirements for sin sacrifices.
And to violate every single one of them in the crucifixion is that's that's huge.
So the whole first section of my book is comparing and contrasting.
It's juxtaposing the Old Testament next to the New Testament and finding out what actually makes sense,
what doesn't make sense.
And the New Testament is, it turns out almost entirely ad hoc rationalization, arguments and fallacies.
And so they don't match.
They don't mesh.
And when you you don't have the the prophecies fulfilled, you don't have the sin sacrifices right.
You made up things like baptism.
And then I went into the Old Testament and I'm finding there's 10 just in in the Old Testament,
not including the pseudopigraphy or the apocrypha.
There's 10 other forms of atonement that don't require blood.
And so then I'm like, well, why was there a sacrifice at all then?
You know, and then I'm looking at, you know, is Jesus God?
And well, if he is God, then why not just forgive everybody like he did with Nineveh?
You know, there's no point in in this sacrifice.
And it just it when you put it all together and you look at everything that's there,
it just looks like a book that's full of witchcraft.
It's blood magic, it's incantations, it's water magic, it's curses,
and blessings that those are things that you find within
stereotypical witchcraft.
And so I'm just like, wait a minute.
So that that's it brings up a really good point.
I mean, as a Christian, I never once thought like using these words, I never once thought
me being baptized in water was magic.
Never.
You never use that word, that word did not.
That's a bad word.
That's a no, no.
That I mean, unless you mean it like it's just a joke or a trick or like,
you know, you're not really doing real magic is just just getting people to think
you're doing an illusion or something that as a Christian, I didn't have a problem
with people being magicians like that.
But like people who thought they had real magic, that's a no, no.
There's kind of there's clear passages that I thought where it condemns this even
to put them to death, you know, in the Hebrew Bible.
So I'm like, this is no.
But the idea that something does magically happen, all right, when you're baptized
or when a sacrifice takes place, that's that's pretty heavy stuff.
It is.
If you think about it, and I don't think Christians even think about.
Right.
Oh, I'm just being dunked under water and carrying on the tradition.
They don't realize that this is magic.
This is actual magic, but it's endorsed within their bubble.
So they don't call it magic.
They this is just baptism and God's spirit comes down and this is all that.
And it's like, no, like an outsider from another faith would call that magic.
Just like you would call that what they're doing magic.
Right.
We could there's there's several really, really strong examples.
For instance, when God sends an evil spirit to Saul,
he's basically possessing Saul.
When you have the magic temple dustwater that is supposed to cause an abortion
for, you know, a woman who's cheating, that's earth magic.
When you have the red heifer that is supposed to purify.
So the instructions are you take a heifer, a red heifer, and you burn it
and you create ashes to include the dung, the pope of the cow is included
in these ashes and then you add running water to it and you sprinkle
these ashes and that's supposed to purify.
That sounds like a lot of witchcraft to me right there.
Yeah.
Yeah, we never really think like that.
That's the thing.
It's weird when you're in the bubble.
So I got to take it back.
What made you see this?
Was it was it listening to that podcast where he's like, this is magic?
Is that what is that?
Oh, no, he didn't.
He didn't know he didn't even touch on what he was just talking about
that the prop the major prophecies in the Old Testament don't line up to
what, you know, the Messiah, see, these prophecies are written as a litmus test
to prove you are who you say you are.
Yeah, we don't have those prophecies fulfilled in Jesus.
He didn't he didn't usher in world peace.
He didn't usher in worldwide knowledge of God.
He didn't rebuild the temple.
In fact, he's talking about you tear this temple down and in three days,
I'll raise it up again.
And, you know, according to the New Testament, that's talking about his body.
But there's three chapters in the Old Testament with physical dimensions
of the new temple, and he's saying this, standing in an existing temple.
Right. So it's changing.
That doesn't make sense.
Yeah, it's clearly changing something.
This is where this huge rubber hits the road thing for me on the inclusion
of Gentiles and potentially cognitive dissonance on explaining why it didn't happen.
But this has to be the Messiah.
So like, if you have to have him be the Messiah and he dies and how do we explain this?
Well, we must not have understood it.
Plus, the idea that Hellenism plays a role, which I know I'm going a little
outside the Bible, but the point is, is that there's this Greek philosophy
that seems to start taking the kingdom from this earth
to a platonic type realm or something else otherworldly.
And that is not Hebrew.
That is not biblical.
If you get right, that's the biblical.
So they're doing something new for whatever the reasonings are,
whether purposeful or ad hoc in some sense to try and justify what happened
to my recently claimed Messiah or I thought he was the Messiah.
So now we have to make sense of everything.
I mean, make his make his crucifixion a sacrifice.
Well, that doesn't quite add up with what we're reading here.
So where did you get the magic stuff, though?
Where like, where did that stuff start coming up in your mind?
Thinking of every little ritual they do is really witchcraft or some form of magic.
There's a couple of memes out there that they've talked about, you know,
prayers, just meditation, you know, and and I went a little bit further
and a little bit further as I as I was coming out of this journey.
And, you know, I have some friends who were into Wiccan and
and I just was like, you know what?
It's there's a lot more to the Bible that is all about magic.
And, you know, it's it's not just the the little things either.
It's some of the big things.
It's, you know, dark blood magic and the whole exodus with regard to the plagues
that are poured out by God.
And then you look at the bowls of wrath that are poured out in the in Revelation.
And you're like, that's all witchcraft, too.
There's so much.
Yeah, I never really thought of it that way.
So you you're starting to make me like pay attention to things
I didn't really pay attention to when I read your book.
It was it was like I had read these tons of times, but never really stopped,
paid attention and thought about them like that.
So that's why I highly recommend people get crucifying the Bible, because you do that.
And now I'm going to have the hard copy.
So I'll be able to actually see the examples side by side.
Getting back to the prophecies, some of the things you mentioned in the book
is the idea is that this isn't even what it's talking about.
Like it's clear.
We've said many times on my show that when you look at the references
that are being referenced, that has nothing to do with what the New
Testament authors doing with this.
It's it's like, no, that had nothing to do with a virgin birth, you know,
or that had nothing to do and you're referencing the Hebrew Bible showing.
No, it's not talking about Jesus.
Did was that one of the big eye openers for you or?
Yeah, so the further the my journey progressed, the more I saw.
And so when.
I had to open up a fake Facebook account
so that my 93 year old grandmother wouldn't have a heart attack.
So while I'm doing that, I'm I'm processing all this information
and I'm having these online debates and somebody is like,
oh, what about Isaiah 53?
And I'm like, let me look, hold on, I'll get back to you.
And and so, you know, throughout the whole book of Isaiah,
you have so much there, you know, 714.
It's talking about a virgin birth, but that whole prophecy
is fulfilled in Isaiah 813, right?
So and then it's the prophetess, right?
So talks about the prophetess Isaiah.
Well, you don't get that name, prophetess,
unless you have already consummated the relationship.
So she wasn't a virgin.
And then to to make a double prophecy or a shadow prophecy,
that's all made up terms that, you know, pastors use to try to make
this ad hoc rationalization argument.
And then you go to Isaiah 53.
And it's like most of its past tense, folks.
You know, verse eight is using the Hebrew word, Lamo, which means them, not him.
You're talking about a backwards parallel that, you know,
Jesus was crucified with two criminals.
But Isaiah 53 is talking about the death with the rich.
And then the burial with the criminals.
And Jesus wasn't buried with criminals.
He was buried with rich.
So it's completely backwards.
Yeah, I was going to say what's interesting is he dies with thieves.
Like why would rich people be thieves?
It doesn't make sense if you see what I'm trying to get at here.
Oh, well, I had people try to to make that claim.
Well, rich people are thieves.
Well, yeah, but that's kind of silly.
The only way that they have a justification is to argue
that him being buried in Joseph of Arimathea's tomb is.
And that's what the New Testament is actually trying to do.
Is there's a rich guy, Joseph of Arimathea.
It's like, dude, you literally died with two thieves.
And then the fact that you had a rich guy named Joseph of Arimathea.
That's a huge question mark.
Did this guy even exist?
What is it? What's really going on here?
But that's so silly to like connect those little dots.
There's far more problems than there are solutions
to the New Testament doing this. So. Oh, yeah.
Then then you have.
Like all of of chapters one through fifty two,
they use the suffering servant as all of Israel.
And then from fifty four on to the end, it's all of Israel.
But this one chapter in the middle is
we're going to change the meaning for this one chapter.
Well, come on, people.
That's like taking a truck ride in the middle of a marathon.
It's cheating.
It's part of your ad hoc rationalization argument again
and trying to to fit a square peg into a round hole.
I just come on.
Let's let's look a little bit more critically at these texts
and and and be intellectually honest with it.
I'm loving this. I'm loving hearing how you actually started
because because this is the journey I can imagine in our minds.
We don't give up everything all at once.
It's too difficult to go from like believer to unbeliever, like completely.
So what would happen? That makes your brain hurt.
Yes, I can imagine that you felt the pressure here.
So you probably started going, well, hold on.
The the Hebrew Bible does contradict the New
and there are many places you go into this in your book on the prophecies.
But then did you start to think, well, maybe the Hebrew Bible is right.
Judaism might have something to it
because you're so used to that milieu of believing in this God, right?
That the Christians just came later and they're wrong
when the earlier people might be right.
So you started to entertain that and did you find problems?
I'm just asking.
Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
When I when I discarded the New Testament,
I started watching your dear friend, Tobias Singer.
And I was addicted.
I was absolutely addicted to his teachings.
And and that was very hard for me because.
I absolutely love the guy.
I am.
You can tell he's a real sweetheart.
He really is.
He's just I love.
I just love listen.
He's such calming.
And but I was trying to figure out, OK,
so my husband and I were both considering converting to Judaism
and wrote him an email and in such sweet fashion,
he responded and he's like, welcome home.
Right.
And I was just like, oh, my gosh, oh, my gosh, I was so moved by that.
And it was it was painful to to see this this person
who so sincerely believes in the Old Testament.
And for me to say, OK, well, I did this with the New Testament.
I have to do this with the Old Testament, too.
As much as I didn't want to, I needed to be intellectually honest
with myself and do the homework on my own, improve all things true.
And, you know, we are tested.
There are several times in Deuteronomy where it says, you know,
here's how you will know you need to do this, you need to do that.
And if these things don't line up, then you have a problem.
So, yes, I had to to go through the Old Testament, too.
And for me, it was like, OK, well, without this ad hoc rationalization,
now we have new problems.
We have inconsistencies and contradictions just here.
You have places that say, you know, do this and that for sacrifices.
And then other places that say, no, I never wanted sacrifices.
And I'm like, what are we doing here?
Yeah. Yeah.
What? Where's the truth here now?
I don't understand.
And. And then, you know, critically looking at Genesis was the biggest thing.
So that OK, great.
Let's go where your where your head's going here.
So Genesis, was it the creation myth and the whole Genesis went to 11?
Or what was it in Genesis?
Because you seem to be interested in details that I never really took this path.
It wasn't a path to me to go into sacrifice details and Deuteronomy
and like getting into what is the Levitical Law say about holiness
and this like you're getting into those things.
Whereas for me, it was like this myth is definitely borrowing from
or at least indirectly or directly using the Mesopotamian mythology
of the creation with the enuma leash and things like that.
Like that was my path, whereas it sounds like your path is different.
So tell us your path.
What was it in Genesis that got you thinking, huh?
Well, while I'm looking at Genesis, I'm also, you know, finding
I have friends who are on the same journey as I am at the same time.
And they're going, oh, have you looked at this?
Have you looked at that?
Have you looked at this?
And I'm I'm finding out, you know, just little pieces here and there
about the enuma leash and the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Ammonepony.
I always think I say that wrong.
Anyway, it's OK.
I'm looking at the 42 the 42 laws of my aunt
and the the Emerald Tablet of Thoth and the Egyptian Book of the Dead.
And I'm finding all these little pieces here and there that that do that,
not so much with the Greek mythology, but more with the Egyptian mythology.
And as I'm doing that,
I'm I'm seeing that that the
Hebrew Bible has pulled from that as well.
And, you know, I'm hearing a little bit about the Greek mythologies, too.
But that wasn't where I was researching.
I was going into Genesis and not even the creation account,
because I understood the creation account didn't make sense.
How do you have a day without the the
bodies of light, right?
You don't have a night and a day without the stars and the sun and the moon.
You don't have that.
So while those are completely out of order and backwards,
I am going at.
Wait a minute.
How is the original sin original sin?
If you don't have the knowledge of evil, which is sin.
And I'm like, where is the the who is the guilty party really here?
Because you have this God who's supposed to be omnipotent
and all knowing, you know, all everywhere,
all the time, you know, all these things.
And he's supposed to know the future and the past
because he operates outside of time and space, you know, per some of these Christians.
Well, OK.
Then he had to have known that mankind would sin.
And he had to have known that there would be a covenant.
And then let's just beg the question here for a minute.
Then you have this Jesus Messiah who comes later.
Why wait for one?
Why have such a flawed concept of the process from the beginning?
You he planted the tree right in the middle of newbies, told them, don't do this, right?
And a lot of people are like, well, even kids know what no is.
OK, but do kids know what death is?
Do kids know what sin is?
No. So you're giving basically it's like me opening up
an IKEA box and the instructions are in German.
I don't know German.
So you're telling these people, don't do this or you're going to die.
And then they don't.
They don't die right away.
They, you know, either immediately or eventually they don't die
because you had to kick them out of the Garden of Eden so they don't live forever.
So which is it? Like, who's the guilty?
Are they going to die or are they going to, you know,
there's a problem with the whole thing straight from the beginning.
And for me, I was just like, if the very beginning is wrong,
how can I trust the rest of it?
Yeah, this is a good point.
So so you bring up, first of all, they wouldn't have known sin
if God did not have a tree there that they weren't supposed to touch.
OK, so this gets back to a whole like when you talk like philosophy with people
and they go, well, if they go, God created everything.
And you go, well, who created God?
Well, God always was. OK, almost like that is a must.
There is no point. You should not question it.
You should not doubt it.
Well, I see no reason why we shouldn't question.
Why did there have to be a tree there? OK.
This is why Calvinists actually go the full length and say,
look, this is part of the plan.
This was what God wanted.
And then that's a whole different pill to swallow, right?
So now it's like, OK, sure.
And that's where I went. I went that path.
Eventually, first, I was like wrestling with this.
Like, I cannot imagine that God plants a tree.
Giving free will doesn't want us to fall.
Yet knows we're going to and still does it anyway.
It's ridiculous. It's stupid.
Well, and then curses mankind and curses women and creates this problem
with women are dirty and they're the worst of the worst.
And they are the reason for mankind's fall.
They are the reason they are the ones who test men and tempt men.
And women have to conform to X, Y, Z to make sure they don't get any.
That's in Judea. Yeah.
That is that is the patriarchal system of Abrahamic faith.
That is something that is instilled in the whole thing.
Even the rabbis with their prayers.
God, I thank you that I was not born a woman.
I mean, it's like, wow, OK, do you really want that?
So yes, I'm with you 100 percent.
And I love rabbi. I love rabbi. I do.
I don't agree with his worldview, but I tell you what,
the guy does know his stuff when it comes to looking at the New Testament.
So even if I have books, yeah, I got both of them over there and both of them.
Yeah. Yeah, I love him to death.
And maybe one day when I get to Israel, he'll take me on a tour guide.
But I love the approach you're taking here, because it sounds to me
you were such a fundamentalist like I was, right?
This is good. I know that sounds bad for people who might be not in the faith.
But you got to understand the mind of someone like us.
She's stuck with the Bible.
So like when I come up with a new malish or try to argue the book of dead
or bring anything extra biblical, the person who's in this
will not and cannot even consider that and says, I don't care.
And even when they do, they must have borrowed from the Bible.
They must have borrowed from the Bible.
They cannot imagine the Bible using that.
So they don't even allow that to enter their mind.
So how do you defeat these arguments for them?
You use the Bible to defeat the Bible.
That's the only way you can do it.
And your book, Crucifying the Bible, is exactly that.
It takes. Yes. It's like, hey, OK, see this.
That's in the Bible. Oh, see that.
That's in the Bible. What do you do with that?
You can't look at the problem and you start to make them pay attention
to these details.
What really got me really interested not too long ago, I was looking
into this documentary hypothesis thing, Joel Baden.
It's more technical scholarly, but like he was like contradictions
that are so obvious.
Like who's Moses's father-in-law or what mountain did they get the laws from?
Is Mount Horeb or Mount Sinai?
The Hebrew Bible says both.
They're not the same mountain, though.
So like, right.
How do you get him getting commandments from two different mountains?
You got to get this story right.
Something's not something's not adding up.
You know what I'm saying?
Oh, yeah. Well, one of the ones that I came up with,
and it just it right before the book was published, it just hit me like a ton of
bricks. So I was like, wait a minute.
So, you know, you have this this this restriction that God puts on David.
No, you can't build the temple and you can't build the temple because you shed blood.
Got it. Wait a minute.
Moses shed blood and he built the tabernacle.
So what the heck?
Yeah, it's kind of that's it's that's an interesting point you bring up.
I always wondered about that.
He wouldn't let him build it, but he did give all his riches to Solomon in order to build it.
And then Solomon being the wisest man turns into this lunatic
alcoholic at the end with a thousand wives.
I think it was like 700 concubines or 700 wives and 300 concubines.
I can't remember. It's some number.
It added up to a thousand, I think it's something like that.
But oh, yeah.
And then there's one of the commandments that you're not supposed to have,
like a whole crap ton of horses.
And he does and you're like, OK.
Yeah, you're looking at details that I did.
Yeah, a lot of details. Yeah.
Yeah, this is this is the one who played Bible trivia as a child.
And you always won, I'm sure.
No, no, my mom always won until we were older.
And then I and then I got her a couple of times.
Yeah. OK, let's see.
We went to Judaism, because now you realize Christianity didn't work.
Now you realize there's problems with this to begin with.
What happens from here now that you've been exploring,
you even contacted Rabbi and you were interested in Judaism
and you did this examination.
What what happened once you saw these problems?
Oh.
Oh, so I was spiraling.
It's it's a jarring paradigm shift to
to really have a identity crisis.
When you go from I'm an ambassador for Christ,
I'm a child of the Most High King to.
Wait, who am I?
You're your brain hurts and.
I had to get away.
My husband didn't have the kind of problem that I did.
He didn't have quite as strict of an upbringing.
But he was very heavy in the Hebrew ritz movement with what same as me.
You know, he was in African countries, we're in C.C.
So, you know, he's a he's a consultant
for projects overseas in Muslim countries wearing C.C.
So he was pretty hardcore, too.
And.
And but he didn't have the problem coming out of it that I did.
And I did.
And I said, I need to get away.
So I went to a minor body retreat for a weekend.
And that was that was really, really helpful for me.
And I came back and decided, OK, I'm just going to be zen for a while.
I'm just going to, you know, recenter myself.
The the anxiety and the panic was.
Gone at that point after that weekend.
And it just allowed me to live.
And so I just said, OK, I forget about, you know,
forget about, you know, all this identity, everything,
every egg that was in that basket, let's just live one day at a time.
Let's just step by step and.
Figure it out.
And so that's kind of what I did.
I didn't have an expectation as to, well, who are you?
I'm just like, I'm going to figure it out.
I'm just going to figure it out.
And so about a year and a half, I think went by and.
I hadn't thrown away the the the Bibles,
the many Bibles that I had the strong
in accordance, the A&T, the Jewish Bible, the Chronological Bible,
the the, you know, King James, the ESV that I had, all of them.
I kept them all, including the 1611 Bible, which was my favorite.
And I started pulling them out after I had a single day that kind of changed
my course and and responding to a text that my sister had trying to parallel
revelation to the coronavirus pandemic and what was going on there.
And so I started doing this response and said, oh.
I think I just started a book and and then I pulled it all out and said,
here we go. Let's I got something.
I got something to say I know enough about this and I think it's needed.
I think it's definitely needed in in the in that market.
There are a lot of wonderful books out there that I'm finding out now.
You know, when you're in your religion, you don't know what's out there
because you're told not to look over there.
So now I'm finding out all these wonderful authors and and what's out there.
Your podcast and and so many others who are doing amazing work.
And I said, I think I have a space in there.
So let's go.
And my husband was on board.
He said, you're going to if we're going to do this, we're going all in.
And I said, all right, let's do it.
Yeah, you did a fantastic job of taking like I can imagine the fundamentalists
like us wanting to really examine what you're saying and go into that
because for someone who's like not a believer who's like,
let me read the documentary hypothesis or they're just trying to like get into
highly critical stuff, they even I highly recommend read this
because they would learn a lot of details.
They probably never paid attention to on maybe why this is oil and that's water.
They may not care as much like the Christians, the one who's going to go,
no, can't contradict the can't be the can't be problems.
Well, read Crucifying the Bible and you'll see plenty of them.
I mean, it's clear and I've been saying this for a while.
I had someone actually the other day comment.
I won't say their name out of respect for them, but they commented on a video
that I did with Bart that Bart only mentioned three contradictions,
three of his favorite contradictions, Bart Ehrman, Dr.
Ehrman and in the comment section, you know, someone had to pop him goes,
I looked into these and these just don't seem like they're really contradictions.
And I said, I responded.
I said, I'm sure you'd say there aren't any contradictions anywhere in the Bible.
Well, that's what my research has shown me so far, politely responding back to me.
That's what my research has shown me so far.
And I'm like, I'm thinking to myself like, I know I used to say what you say.
I know exactly why you're doing this.
It's right.
And it's so sad that I know psychologically exactly why you're doing that.
And I'm going to tell you, you're absolutely full of it.
You are absolutely full of it and you don't even know it.
And you may think that's rude of me to say, but it's so clear to me.
It's like it frustrates me.
It's like the drug addicts and I have to use myself as an example.
I went through drug addiction and I hear the drug addict making up the excuses
for why they were going to rehab or why they can't get cleaned today or whatever.
I said all of those things thousands of times before I finally committed and got clean.
The same thing comes with this.
Oh, no, I've never my research has lit.
Well, you have not been researching.
You do not know what you're talking about.
That's it.
Bottom line, I have Christian scholars who come on my channel who say there are
contradictions in the Bible point blank.
These people have not hit the enlightenment.
This is what they say.
These Christians that you're talking to that say there are no contradictions
have not hit the point of enlightenment.
They're there 400 years in the past.
They don't even know what they're talking about.
Now, when you have Christians saying that on your channel about other Christians,
I think it's time Christians wake up.
I think it's time that they consider it now for whatever reason these Christians
still believe they still have their their ontological position in Christianity
or someone who might claim to be a Jew, right?
There's I have friends online who still claim Judaism as their practice and what
not, but they're they're open to the contradictions and the problems in the
documentary hypothesis and all that, but they still believe in the God of the Bible.
And I'm like, I guess, OK, I'm not, you know, whatever.
Just for me, I don't that I cannot see why I once I discovered all this would
want to believe in that anymore.
How do you feel about that?
There's such an emotional attachment.
I mean, psychologically, when you have such an emotional attachment to anything,
it's hard to get past that cognitive dissonance.
And like me, you know, when I was in it, I was fighting for misogyny.
I was fighting for the arguing for the genocide that God had commanded.
You know, that was right.
It had to be right because God commanded it.
That's not an excuse, but I was fighting for the land theft and the destruction
of infants and I was arguing for those contradictions.
And it would, you know, when you're when you're in it and you don't question it,
I can see why there's such a problem with people who make those type of comments.
And no, they're not doing your research.
They're not looking at it.
I had my blinders on, especially with the going to have a chapter in it called
the Bisexual King.
I would not look at the relationship and those scriptures talking about
David and Jonathan.
I would not read anything about it because I didn't want to know.
I didn't want there to be that in the pedigree of Jesus.
Right.
It was that was blaspheming to me, but it is there.
And when when you can finally have that honest conversation with yourself
and and others and be an honest interlocutor, you can finally see the the problems
and the contradictions, but it is painful psychologically for people.
And so, yeah, I don't think they look.
I don't think they want to look until they're ready.
That's the point.
They really don't.
They want to find ways to solve it.
They want to find ways to keep it at all costs, even if it's dishonest.
They assume it's honest because they start with the Bible is true.
So if you start with your conclusion is that the Bible is true, then anything
that's contrary to that can't be true.
So I have to flex and rubber band stretch and do whatever I have to do to make
the Bible be true because while we started with this thing is true.
If it's already it's true, then all of your contradictions that you point
out in this book and I mean, there are hundreds of issues.
Every one of them, they will somehow find a way to make it work.
And it's point blank, obvious that it doesn't.
But when you believe you do what you got to do.
So you brought up the bisexual king.
I guess it'd be a hot topic to end on to leave people with a cliffhanger
because I really want to have you come back and let's get into more details
that we didn't discuss that are in your book and everybody better go get that
book.
I mean, it's it must get especially if you're like me and you're driving get
audible because I know that you'll be able to listen to it and get through it.
And it's not too long on audible so you can actually get through it.
It's not too long to get through.
And I have I have a promo code for audible too.
So that's on my Facebook page.
So check it out.
So you get the discount.
Oh, awesome.
Awesome.
So go to the Facebook.
I'll put that down in the description for everybody so they can go and follow
you and get the book.
What's up with the bisexual king?
I mean, is this something I've never really dug into this myself, but I have
seen you post on it recently and it's probably going to get a lot of people
angry.
Oh, of course.
I know that John I know that David loved Jonathan and it says pretty clearly
if I'm not mistaken more than any woman that he's ever known.
Sure.
What have you found research wise and have you had like any backup on this
from others that have said like, yes, this seems to imply more than just
the really best buds.
Well, there's so much more than just that one comment because that was that
was several chapters after the initial covenant.
Like they make a covenant with each other.
Right.
So David and Jonathan make a covenant with each other.
Then they strip and you know, he removes his sword and his bow and his
girdle and they kiss and they Jonathan hides David.
And so all this time.
Saul is angry.
You know, he's been trying to kill David.
So why does he give David his daughter as a wife?
If nothing else than to separate David from Jonathan.
But then David abandons that wife to get away from King Saul who then
chases him for nine years.
Hey, he's and he goes to the to the town of knob where priests had hid David and
he calls the Levitical priests, Benjamin.
Well, that's really interesting.
Why would you call Levitical priests, Benjamin?
Oh, wait a minute.
The entire tribe of the Benjamin was almost completely wiped out for their
homosexuality and support of it.
What?
Hold on.
Oh, yeah.
Hold on.
Okay.
I didn't know that.
Um, so this is clearly something that I remember.
Clearly, I remember watching a like video, old Bible video where they pulled
out bows in the temple and they shot the Levitical priests.
They like literally kill them in the court right there in front of King Saul.
So that was that image then technically.
They just obviously didn't tell you, Oh, by the way, these guys support LGBTQ.
No, I'm just kidding.
You know what I mean?
Like these guys are pro homosexual.
Yeah.
He calls all the Levitical priests.
You Benjaminites.
That doesn't make any sense.
They're Levitical priests.
They're not of the tribe of Benjamin.
Right.
Uh, but then, you know, then there's this one outburst that, you know, started
me my whole journey on this.
It says you son of the perverse rebellious woman.
Do you think that I do not know you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own
confusion and unto the confusion of your mother's nakedness?
Why would you say that to somebody if it was just a friendship?
You're going to bring about women and their nakedness.
If it's just about a friendship song new, he absolutely knew that his son
and David were having a relationship, a very intimate relationship.
There's more in that chapter that goes into it in more detail.
But I think that should say enough reindeer.
Yeah, definitely.
You got to get the book.
You know, it may, there's a lot of questions that come up and this gets
into like one of the scholars that I have interviewed.
When you look in due to Rana mean, uh, and I'm totally bad.
Eden Dershowitz, Professor Eden Dershowitz.
I've had him on and he thinks and I might be butchering this.
So don't take it to the bank.
You got to go to him.
So don't don't take it out on me if I'm mistaken here.
But I did an interview on on the whole homosexual laws in Deuteronomy
and he thinks that originally it seems that these were not about same sex.
These were about incest and this was about like do not sleep with your
mother or your father or like things like that.
And then it became like pro like absolutely no male with male, you know,
that kind of stuff.
So I wonder, and especially when we look at like Josiah, right?
We have and he rediscovers the law, things like that.
Um, really did he rediscover it or did they then in create the law?
There's different questions of when these laws come on the scene and when
it developed, but I wonder if these implications by David and what happened
with Jonathan David and potentially saw if there is a kernel of historical
truth to it.
Don't know.
Big question mark.
If there is, did that play any impact on the development of the law?
And I wonder if it did.
I don't know.
It's just just throwing it out there.
Like it's something to think about.
Right.
So it, but the big thing for me is like, it just puts kind of a different
um, spin on the whole Bible, the whole narrative.
And, you know, now we see, and for me, it's, it's actually a beautiful story.
It's very painful.
Um, when you read the whole thing in context, you know, all those chapters
that encompass the story.
Um, it's such a tragic, um, love story between the two and then to see
how much he grieved for Jonathan when he found out.
And, you know, what he said in that grief is, is beautiful and it's
so poetic too, but you find this is, this is the pedigree of, of Jesus.
And to me, it's just, it was important to put it in the book because
there's so much bigotry.
There's so much hatred.
There's so much, uh, intolerance of, of same sex couples.
And if they're two adults and they're consenting, no one should be saying anything.
And now Christians don't even have an excuse.
Now that's a good point.
Don't be like King Saul, right?
Uh, a man's man who wanted to try and straighten the issue out and get him
to do what he wanted.
So his firstborn would be the King and whatnot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's a big, this is, gosh, you should write Netflix.
Like there should be a whole series of Game of Thrones just based off the Bible.
I said the same thing about Islam too.
Like if you get into Islam and I'm not saying for those same reasons, but
like, oh my gosh, I listened to this book by Leslie Hazelton and it's
called After the Prophet and it goes into like his marriages with his wife's
and his favorite wife.
And, and like once he died, what happened and the fighting over who would
be the caliph and like the, the civil wars and the bloodbath of family
members killing each other and the things that happened.
It is game of thrones.
I'm not kidding you.
So I don't know why someone's not writing it other than the fact that they
don't want to get killed, uh, you know, for, for Islam, you know, so,
but the Bible should be touched.
There's people who are allowing this and I think all of it should be,
but the point is we could do that and they wouldn't probably get like turned
off or anything.
I don't see why King David couldn't be, that would be amazing to go into
that story.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I actually said that in the end of the book.
I said, you know, the Bible is incredibly full of so much action and drama
and romance and comedy and, uh, you name it.
It's all there, sci-fi even.
I mean, we have teleportation in the Bible for goodness sakes.
Yeah.
Book of Acts.
There's teleportation.
There's so much.
Doesn't Elijah get like teleported to a whole different location as well or
something at some point?
Right.
So it's Philip that it literally says he, you know, came up out of the water
and Philip was transported to, uh, uh, I forgot the name of the town sources
and a, um, Azotus, I think anyway, um, but you have all of this and it should
be just utilized for entertainment purposes only.
And not just that, but there should be a, like a cigarette style warning
on, on the Bible says rated R.
You can't peel that off or something.
Do not do this at home.
Right.
Right.
Right.
This is not to be taken literally objects in the mirror closer than they
appear or things like that.
Oh, that is great.
That is so good.
Wow.
Yeah.
Look, ladies and gentlemen, I can't tell you enough.
Let me go ahead and pop it up for everybody to see again.
Get the book.
Crucifying the Bible.
I know it's really small.
Let me, let me fix that.
Crucifying the Bible.
Gotta get it.
Um, audibles here, the audio book, paperback, you can get it on Kendall.
There are many ways to do it.
Go to her Facebook page right now.
Go get the little code, get the hookup and go read this book.
You're going to fall in love.
We've got so much more to get into Deborah, uh, that we haven't even touched on,
but, but we definitely touched on a big one there with David.
I think that's a huge, uh, that'll interest people.
I think they really want to check out what you say on the topic and you
support it with the Bible.
Like you actually are showing this is what it says.
Yeah.
All the references are there.
All the scripture references are in the tables.
So, you know, fact check me.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, uh, I hope you go do that.
Deborah, thank you for your time.
Any final words?
Um, Merry Christmas.
Right.
Yeah.
We still, uh, enjoy these holidays.
You know, there's, we don't have to believe in order to have an enjoyment of
seasons and things and stuff.
So, um, someone out there struggling, they're doubting and they're looking at,
you know, where do I go from here and how do I know what I'm saying,
what I'm looking at is true or not.
And they're looking at your book.
What would you say to that person?
Um,
there was a proverb that my mom lived by and it was actually her words that,
um, allowed me to write this book and she says, you know, you, if something in
the Bible doesn't line up to what you think and believe in, in your mind,
you're the one that has to adjust.
You cannot twist the data.
And it was very similar to the Russian proverb, uh, that you'd, you know,
you know, I'd rather be slapped with the truth than kissed with a lie.
And I, you know, it takes courage to look at your faith critically.
Um, but if you do that, you're a badass and I applaud you for that.
Absolutely.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you are out there and that's you and you're
that badass, feel free to join us in the chant.
We are.
Myth vision.
Yeah.
