Why would she not like your position?
She did not like the position that I was taking.
And I'm pretty sure that's a difference too.
Really interesting modern exam.
This is really the big battleground.
From the perspective of critical scholarship,
this is literally within like a generation.
This is just in our conversation.
There's just no question about it.
If I remember correctly, the Arabic stuff is not written in the first person.
Christians will read this a face volume ago.
Yeah, Daniel lived in Babylon.
How'd you get it?
The book of Daniel is used by several evangelicals today
as a way of proving prophecy is true.
We even have some people a little bit different,
very strange ways of trying to push this book off
like it has no context to 6th century, 2nd century BCE.
You name it, it's just purely futuristic, which sounds silly.
I mean, the way Jews handled it, none of them ever handled it that way.
They all tried to think it had to do with them or their time and stuff.
So tell us about Daniel, Dr. Joshua Bowen and Kip Davis,
Dead Sea Scroll Scholar, a seriologist.
She's written several books, the atheist handbook to the Old Testament
that goes into a lot of this stuff.
And you were actually one of the first people who said,
you need to get with John Jay Collins, who's the man when it comes to Daniel.
And I did.
And when I did, you were like, well, I didn't know that was going to happen.
How'd you get it?
You have a course that, well, you have a couple of courses
that we're putting out here on MVP courses.
And Kip, you have a course too, huge course.
You can count that as multiple courses.
And the last lecture is most like half of it's about Daniel.
Right.
Apocalypticism and you use the walking dead and other things
that are really interesting, modern examples.
Tell us about Daniel from a critical scholarly standpoint
and what it's about.
When is it talking about?
When was it written?
Let's get into some of the textual stuff.
I think when we start, I just have to say that before I started making
content on YouTube, I think some of the first stuff I saw
from Josh was his responses about the book of Daniel.
I'm pretty sure you did at least one or maybe a couple to S.J. Thomas.
Yeah.
Who was like going crazy at the time about Daniel.
But yeah, it just, so that was, I don't know.
That's where I think that's one of the first places I got to.
She did not like the position that I was taking.
I've had some interesting arguments.
Why would she not like your position?
Well, that is an excellent segue, Derek.
You know, sort of broadly here, the issue that I think evangelical
or fundamentalist, fundamentalist face, whether they be scholars or lay people,
is this interpretive framework that is driven by the inspiration and an erency of the text.
If you hold to that, at least in a particular way, when you come to the book of Daniel,
the way that it presents itself as it's written by this essentially sick,
written in the sixth century by a guy named Daniel.
And he's reporting on events that he lived through, right?
And this is so critical for this interpretive approach, because one of the things that you
see in Daniel, particularly in the chapters two and seven and eight, nine, 10, 11, 12 is
these visions, these dreams or whatever that describe things that are going to happen in the
at times very distant future for him centuries later.
And this type of predictive prophecy is incredibly important as an evidence for the
authenticity of the inspiration, the divine inspiration of that text.
And of course, starting way, way back.
So when we think about critics of the book of Daniel, let go back all the way to people
like Porphyry. Very early on, it was recognized that, wait a second,
the way that the book of Daniel is structured, the things that Daniel gets wrong, the things
that Daniel gets right, and the way that those things sort of play out in the book led scholars
all the way back to Porphyry to say, this is prophecy X event too, right?
It's prophecy after the fact. But this is really the big battleground, because evangelical
fundamentalist scholars need this to be predictive prophecy. Whereas, again, the consensus view,
even among most evangelicals that I run into at least, would say, yeah, this is second century,
but that doesn't negate its value to us as well. But that's where the fight is.
And maybe I think it's really important to spend some time talking about the structure
of this book too, right? Because on several levels, scholars for a long time have recognized
that this is not just Daniel sitting down and recording what's going on from chapter one all
the way through to the end of chapter 12. But what is actually taking place at a minimum
is the combination of at least a couple of different types of texts. And one of the dead
giveaways in this is the language. So Daniel starts in Hebrew. And the entirety of chapter one,
where it introduces Daniel, and he's part of the, he's part of the second exile to Babylon.
He's living, you know, in the court of the King Nebuchadnezzar. And this first chapter
establishes him as a prototypical ideal Jew is one of the overarching themes of this book. So
this is all in Hebrew in chapter one. And then chapter two starts, and Nebuchadnezzar has a
dream, and he's very upset by his dream, and he can't remember his dream. So then he invites
his magicians and his dream interpreters and his religious entourage to him, not just to interpret
the dream, but to tell him what it is. But it says, you know, he tells them, you need to tell
me what's going on here. And then it says in the text, and they responded to him in Aramaic.
And then at that point in the text, the language switches, and they respond to him in Aramaic.
Now, this is something that takes place in other texts in the Hebrew Bible. Like in the book of
Isaiah, there's a place where courtiers from Egypt or from Babylon come into Israel, and it's,
and you know, there it's like, and they said to them in Aramaic, and the quotation is in Aramaic.
But then in the book of Daniel, you know, they respond to him in Aramaic, but then the text just
keeps going in Aramaic. And then all the way through chapter three, four, five, six, seven,
it's like this block of Aramaic text. And then in chapter eight,
it's Hebrew again. And eight, nine, 10, 11, 12. These are all Hebrew oracles. So
like scholars look at this and go, well, you've got two different literary traditions.
And you can, and you can divide it. It's not just the language either. They're just, they're just
completely different types of literature. Those, that whole Aramaic section are the stories of
Daniel and his religious piety of being a prototypical ideal Jew living in the diaspora.
This is the overarching theme of all of these court tales, tales about Daniel living in the
Babylonian court. When you get to the Hebrew stuff, suddenly it's visions, visions of the end times,
visions of the last days, visions of things that are to come in precise exacting detail.
Right? So scholars have looked at this and gone, you know, the response has been, well, we've got
this, this core of material that's Aramaic, this Aramaic literature that has obviously
been appended with these, these Hebrew texts featuring the same character, probably known from,
you know, they knew this Aramaic literature and these stories of Daniel living in Babylon. So they
constructed these visions and set them, you know, in the first person. And I'm pretty sure that's,
that's, that's, that's a difference too. If I remember correctly, the Aramaic stuff is not
written in the first person. Christians will read this a face value and go, yeah, Daniel lived in
Babylon. But as I've interviewed John Collins before, and I mentioned Daniel was this figure,
almost a mythic legendary figure from the Babylonian mythologies that there's, there's this, I think
it's from Babylonian mythology, but Daniel was this like mythic figure in their, in their stories
or in their literature. Do you think that's where they're picking up creating the narrative of a
Daniel figure from? So you have an ale in Ugaritic texts. Ugaritic, okay. And I, it's been several
years since I've looked back at the, at the data. So I don't remember what most scholars say about
the connections between them. But I like you do seem to have also known in, in the book of Job,
I think it's Job in Ezekiel. You, you sort of have these ideas of,
as, as you're pointing out, like these more archetypal, you know, sort of pristine
people that are, characters able to be drawn up on, in that sense. But I mean, I do want to
point out that from a Christian perspective, and this is something that I think we all really
need to wrestle with is that these sections are written in Aramaic. And, you know, Jesus probably
spoke Aramaic. And, you know, parts of Daniel are about Jesus. So I mean, like coincidence.
So we have this weird Aramaic Hebrew combination in this book of visions. And then you got stories.
Some scholars think even some of the stories might. So while we think this is put together
in the second century BCE, or roughly a decade before like any final predictive when things
will actually end kind of stuff. Some of these stories may have stemmed back an oral tradition,
Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, like different things like that may have come back from Daniel.
Something else we need to say here too is that there's so much more than just what's in our,
in our Bible about Daniel. We've got the Septuagint, the Greek translation, which preserves
additional material. You've got a story of a story called Susanna, which is a really,
really great story, actually, featuring Daniel as a young man. And it's in your, in the, in the
Septuagint, it's kind of, Susanna is set right at the very beginning. It's right before the book
of Daniel proper, almost as like, almost like a prequel, like an introduction to this, this young
man, Daniel, who, you know, solves this great, this, this, this great, this great, it's like a
great legal caper. He solves this, this, this mystery of this, it's like a, like an ancient
crime drama where he solves this case of, yeah, these, these, these men are wanting to, wanting
to have sex with this, this woman, these Jewish men, and they devise a plan to, to, you know,
I'm not going to go into it, but it's, it's, it's a great story. And it's kind of set at
the beginning. And then there's right in the middle of Daniel, there's a whole big chunk
called the prayer of the three young men, which is, which is a prayer text that's set in the
mouth of Shadr, Meshach, and Abednego, while they're in the fiery furnace in chapter four.
And then there's, there's stuff at the end. There's, there's, there's Belle and the dragon,
which is a story of, it's, it's two stories, basically. It's a story of the, the, the temple of
the God, Belle. And, and then there's another story of a dragon that lived outside of, of Babylon,
and Daniel plays an integral role in, in, in basically, he's, he's like the, the Jewish hero
in these stories showing how, you know, how silly those, those Babylonians are kind of thing, right?
So there's all this other material featuring this figure, this, this Daniel figure. One of the
exciting things about the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls is that there's all sorts of
additional material featuring Daniel. And the really exciting thing about this stuff
is almost all of it's written in Aramaic. And so you have, you know, these, these texts, a couple
of these texts are called pseudo Daniel, because they, you can see Daniel's feature by name,
but then it's another kind of one of these kind of court stories. It's too fragmentary to know
what's going on, but you can recognize that, that it features Daniel, you know, in the Babylonian
court, very similar to the stories that appear in our biblical texts. There's another story called
the, I think it's just called the Four Trees. And it, it again, it features Daniel and he's,
you know, it has something to do with, with a prophecy of trees relative to kind of in the
similar vein as the visions that appear in the Hebrew portion towards the end. But again,
written in Aramaic, maybe the most famous of these texts is something called the Prayer of
Nabonitis. And this is a really, really exciting text because it's, again, written in Aramaic,
it's written in the first person by, purportedly by Nabonitis, who was the last king of Babylon. So
he's, he rules after Nebuchadnezzar's grandson, he's not a popular king in Babylon. But you've
got this, this very interesting text written in the first person in the mouth of Nebuchadnezzar,
where he talks about becoming ill, becoming very sick, and nobody's able to help him. And then this
unnamed anonymous Jewish wise man comes and looks after him and, and prays for him and heals him,
and it's a miracle. And the text of this Prayer of Nabonitis, when you set it alongside the story
of Nebuchadnezzar's madness in Daniel chapter four, you can see a very clear textual parallel,
which has convinced scholars that the Prayer of Nabonitis is actually
like an old, independent form of this story that ended up getting incorporated into the
book of Daniel. The anonymous Jew is then given a name. The main figure is changed from Nabonitis
to Nebuchadnezzar. And the story is developed slightly from this sickness to Nebuchadnezzar's
madness. But it's a facet, what the Dead Sea Scrolls has have really, really helped us to do
is to explore on a fascinating level the very clear development that's taking place within
the book of Daniel and the existence then of this whole wide range of literature. All these, like,
who knows how many types of stories were being circulated, you know, during the
Persian or at least the Hellenistic period featuring this this figure named Daniel.
So it's pretty clear from this that Nabonitis was historically actually sick and Nebuchadnezzar
went insane. They're both historically accurate. We do know that Nabonitis was actually,
he did suffer from an illness. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is historically legitimate,
like he was legitimately, he left. Well, I guess maybe we don't know for sure, but one of the
thoughts is that Nabonitis famously abandoned the city of Babylon and went to live out in this
other town while he was the king. And one of the thoughts that the, one of the thoughts are the
reason he left is because he was going to try and treat himself from some sort of debilitating
sickness. So yeah, I mean, like, what, you know, from the, from the documentation that we have,
a Paul Alain Bouillot wrote, like, published an entire study on looking at the documentation
that we have from the period of Nabonitis. And it's probably a little dry for the average reader,
but I talk about it in volume on an atheist handbook. But essentially, like what we know
is Nabonitis, as Kippus pointed out, was not a terribly popular figure among the, like the
priesthood of Marduk, because what he did early on, and it started developed throughout his reign.
He started to pull away a little bit from the worship of Marduk and move more toward the worship
of sin that the moon got. And that developed as time went by and became like more substantial to
the point that when he left, he left his essentially left his post and went to the Oasis of Tehima
and left his son, who shows up in the biblical text as Belchazar, as like, like an under he's
not quite the role of king. There are certain things that remain of the responsibility and
a prerogative of Nabonitis, even though he's actually outside of land. But one of the things
the king was required to do, or at least as far as the tradition was concerned, was each year he would
take part in the Akitu Festival, which utilized the text, the Enuma Eilish, which is, you know,
the ascendancy of Marduk. And if the king was not there, they could not celebrate the Akitu
Festival, and they couldn't like, you know, do that, and that whole ritual. And it was a huge
problem. Anyway, but part of the part of the thing that we need to recognize, I think about the
book of Daniel from the aspect of this debate about, is it written in the 6th century? Is it
written in the 2nd century? Is the like the historical analysis of the data points that we see
presented in the text. And, you know, as Kipp is just pointing out, this confusion of Nebuchadnezzar
and Nabonitis, like, we know that Nabonitis was Belchazar's father, not Nebuchadnezzar. And so
if you listen to Christian apologists, what they'll say is, well, well, well, maybe, you know,
Av, you know, or Semitic, the word for father in Semitic, doesn't necessarily mean father. It could
also mean grandfather, even great grandfather. Daniel, is it five or six? End of five. End of
five. Yeah, Belchazar is explicitly identified as the son of Nebuchadnezzar. And they make this
argument, well, you know, maybe it means like grandson, right? Because that's possible in Semitic.
But the problem is, maybe he married a daughter of Nebuchadnezzar. Because that's the next thing,
right? Well, it's like, okay, fine, let's say it's grandson. He's not his grandson either, right?
And so then it's like, well, you know, maybe, so Nara Glisser was one of the kings in the
New Babylonian Empire, and he married one of Nebuchadnezzar's daughters. So maybe Nabonitis
married one. It's like, okay, well, I mean, like, how far do you want to go with this? Is it possible?
Sure. But the problem is when you have texts that are explicit, that have these things attributed
to Nabonitis elsewhere, it's like, oh, okay, so there's confusion, right? Or intentional or
unintentional, you know, changing the names. And when you see this sort of thing, even with the
figure Darius the Mead. It does the same thing. And when Darius, you know, you have Darius the
First, and Darius the First has certain things that he did, you know, setting like reorganizations
and the satrapies, like these are things that are attributed to this Darius the Mead, that, you know,
scholars are pretty, pretty emphatic nice, looks like it's a confusion with Darius the First, who
is not, there is no Darius the Mead that we know of. And so at any rate, the point is that when you,
when you come to the text and you look at the historical data that are presented there, you
see a pattern. And the pattern is that things that are described that would have happened back
during the actual life of Daniel, they're very vague, right? And wrong, or and he gets some of
them wrong, right, which is, it's bizarre, some of the things that he gets wrong. But, you know,
if that's all we had, maybe, but the problem is that when you get specifically down in the
chapters 10 and 11, now you have the prophecy section, where it's talking about historical
data points that are incredibly specific, you just read through chapter 11, and you'll see like,
you know, this specific king goes to the north makes this alliance and then the daughter, you
know, and they, they come with the uncle and it's like, oh my God, like this is great, it's not just
like this kingdom will ring, right? And, and he gets all of them right up to verse like 35.
And at verse 35, it makes what scholars have determined are genuine predictions
that are wrong, right, they don't come to pass. And so anyway, the point is this,
that when you have early on during the life of the supposed prophet, they're general,
get things wrong. But then in the future, very, very specific gets them all right up to a very
certain point. That's what leads scholars to say, we need to revisit this and see, maybe he's writing
during the spider period. We've got, we've got, we've got the issues of history. We've got these,
these, these two different types of literature. Now we've got this expensive collection of literature
that's all appears to be air make. There's all this data that accumulates to, to, to, I think,
demonstrate without a shadow of a doubt, what you're dealing with here when it comes to
the book of Daniel. And yet, time and again, the response from Christian apologists, especially,
is that, no, no, no, no, no, this is all stuff that, that traces all the way back to the sixth
century. And it's super important for them, because these latter, what scholars will call the
X event two prophecies, these are prophecies written after the fact that appear in the
last chapters of Daniel are far and away. These would be like smoking gun, best examples of
fulfilled prophecies that are contained in the whole Bible. This is why these are so important
to fundamentalists and to evangelicals. And now I think it's, it's something, something that,
that we will often hear then in response from the evangelical side of this argument is,
I mean, I talked a little bit about, about some of the different types of Daniel literature in
the Dead Sea Scrolls. Very importantly, there were also six fragments from six copies of the
book of Daniel that were discovered in the Dead Sea Scrolls. And evangelicals are very keen to point
to this stuff and say, you know, it dates, the earliest copy dates to, they'll like to say to
like 120, 130 BCE, which would be late second century. From a critical, from the perspective
of critical scholarship, this is literally within like a generation of when these texts would have
been written, right? It's very, very close. A common talking point among Christians are,
this is just too close. You can't, they would never have accepted this as scripture if, you know,
it was, you know, if it, if it wasn't already very, very ancient. So it has all like, these
manuscripts actually show us that there's a, here's a community, a Jewish community that
believes that Daniel is scripture and they could have only done so if it's already hundreds of
years old. They never would have adopted this, you know, this, this late literature. So this is,
this is, is, I would say problematic from this perspective on the one hand, I think it's exciting
as a scholar on the other hand, just because of what the actual Daniel manuscripts show us
about the book of Daniel at Qumran. For one thing, I mentioned we have six copies.
I believe it's only two of those appear to be like the whole thing, Daniel chapter one through,
through chapter 12. And these are not the early texts. These are, these are all from like the
first century. So the time of Jesus. Now you're dealing with, with stuff that's
like 150, 200 years after the, you know, the composition of the, of the Hebrew portions of
Daniel at the end. So very interestingly, the early manuscripts only preserve certain parts
of the book of Daniel. And the earliest one that we have for Q Daniel,
as I think it's for Q Daniel, C or D. Yeah. So it's, it's, this is a, this is a very interesting
manuscript because we have texts there that survives from chapters 11 and 12. But when scholars,
and it's, it's, it's basically it's like two or three single fragments, when scholars are able
to reconstruct what's there, we can see how big, like how many lines there would have been
in a column in this manuscript. And based on that, we can tell this is a very small manuscript.
It's too small to have contained the entire book of Daniel. It looks like it's about the right size
to have contained all of chapter 11 and all of chapter 12. So as a scholar, what that tells me
is this is something, this is a manuscript that predates even the combination of these texts
all put together as like a single book of Daniel. So again, we have evidence from the manuscripts
themselves, which show us this developmental picture. And then I'll just mention one more.
Or another one of the very early manuscripts is just a single, no, it's, it's like two or
three tiny little fragments that survive from the first part of Daniel chapter nine.
Daniel chapter nine is, is the famous passage where Daniel is reading Jeremiah's prophecy.
And then he, he, he sees Jeremiah's prophecy of the 70 years and he gets upset because he
doesn't understand what's going on because, you know, why are we still in captivity? Why is this
still happening to us? And then he, there's this long penitential prayer that he delivers
to God. And at the end of the prayer, Gabriel, the angel appears to him and gives him the right
interpretation, right? So we have a, a, a, a couple of these little fragments, which preserve parts
of this penitential prayer. But interestingly, what is this? Is this a copy of the book of Daniel?
Or is this just a copy of this penitential prayer that was a standalone
composition, a proper prayer that people would recite that then ended up getting folded into
the book of Daniel? So, I mean, we don't know, but what we, what we can be certain of
is that these fragments on their own, as they have survived, they don't,
they, they don't readily lend themselves to having been associated with Daniel in any way.
He's not mentioned in them. And, and there's no indication that they would have been part of
this larger work. Yeah. And I think it's sort of, to sort of tie this up maybe from, you know, looking
at this and, and dealing with this apologetic argument. And this is what I like to go to.
Apologists will often want to go directly to Daniel in mind 24 to 27. They want to say,
okay, look, 70 weeks, right? This is from, you know, the destruction or the rebuilding of the
temple down to when Jesus rides in on the donkey, right? To the day, who was it that put that? Is
it Harold Honer that, or is it Sir Robert Anderson? I can't remember who, the coming prince. Yeah,
I can't remember, but they've been calculated down to the very day. Lots and lots and lots of
problems with that. But the thing that I do is I tend to just shy away from Daniel 9, 24 to 27,
not because I don't think there are good answers for it, but because I think those answers are
a little complicated. But the easiest thing to do if you're engaging us with an Christian
apologist who's trying to say that Daniel's predicting Jesus is just go to chapter eight,
go to chapter nine, 10 to 12, even chapter seven and say, who is the final kingdom, right?
What's the final kingdom? Because in eight and 10 through 12, it is explicit, it's Greece. I think
even in one of them, it explicitly says the final kingdom is Greece. And when you make
linguistic connections and lexical connections between these four visions or passages,
you see things like this figure that's supposed to come at the end, the one that abominations
of desolation and that type of language. There's consistency among the four where you can determine
that this final person, this figure that's supposed to come is Antiochus the Fourth Epiphanes,
period. There's just no question about it. And so the reason that that's so significant,
if Greece is the end before the final kingdom of God comes, real problem for it being Jesus,
because we know that the kingdom of God didn't come after Greece. Well, this is why in second
estros, I remember where chapter 10, maybe somewhere around there, it talks about the book
of Daniel that says, essentially paraphrasing, like Daniel thought that it was Greece, but God
didn't reveal everything to him. So now I'm going to reveal to you. I had to guess who it actually
is. It's actually Rome, right? But there's a reason that that had to be written. And it's because
clearly Daniel's writing about Greece. So like this is a, it's a showstopper. The apologist,
I've never met an apologist that had a reasonable response to that. What they always have to do
is go, yeah, yeah, yeah, but look at Daniel 9, 2040, 2027. And even there, you can just say to them,
look at the language. What's the abomination of desolation? Look in the other chapters,
look in the other visions. What is that, right? Who is this final figure? And it's Antiochus
the forth so it has to be. Yeah, that's why that person that keeps coming up with other names on
YouTube right now, who is an apologist who's, you know, a lone wolf on this whole prophecy game,
they, they see these problems. They know, they see what you're saying, right? So instead of going,
okay, yeah, it was Greece. No, no, no. If I do that, that's wrong. We know that. No, that's wrong.
No, no, no, no, no, no. It's not wrong. Because if I do that, we got a problem. Right. And they
do the same thing with me in Revelation and talking about the city on the seven hills and it's like
ubiquitous at this time. That is Rome. It just doesn't say, we're talking about Rome. Right, right.
You know, and also why are they speaking, you know, symbolically when it comes to the beast?
This is Nero and we know from the Sybilene oracles, Nero was also called the beast and
there's some significance to this connection to what was going on. So all of that,
ignore the historical criteria that's near and contemporaneous to tell us what this is.
No, no, no. What if all scholars are wrong? Okay. All of you are wrong. I'm listening.
If all scholars are wrong and it's in our future. Yeah. And it's like, yeah, because that's the most
probable and likely solution to this. It really fixes this problem that, you know, everybody got
it wrong. Because well, why did Jews then start saying it wasn't Greece and it was Rome? Because
they were wrong. And so this is what happens is you want to recontextualize what an interesting
point that you brought up about the whole fragment thing, right? Is I thought about what you said
before you even got into Daniel found, we found, you know, nine and 10. We found this little prayer
thing and none of it has Daniel's name in it. And this is the early stuff. We don't know, but the
late stuff has the whole collection and we're talking about a century or two, century and a half
later before you even see the whole book as a book of Daniel. But I thought about this two
things that I thought were relevant. And one of them is, let's just pretend we did have them whole
and it was 40 or 50 years later. That assumption, they wouldn't take it serious. How do you know
what they would have thought? So I, you know, I should actually point out that there is and
I've talked about this a couple of times before there is a there is a project
ongoing right now at the University of Croningen in the Netherlands called
the hands that rolled the Bible. In a nutshell, they're trying to track, they're trying to set
better precision on paleography by using machine learning artificial intelligence. And they've
conducted a bunch of new, new carbon dating for a number of the the Dead Sea Scrolls.
One of the manuscripts that they have dated is this, this old copy of Daniel 11 and 12,
that, you know, has generally been dated to about 120 to 140, 120 BCE. The carbon dating on
this one now suggests that it could be as old as like 170, like it's for 180 even. Now, bear in
mind, there's a 50 year range, right? This is where the middle is. So, but it looks like it
could be really, really old. And the leader of the project, I was just at a workshop in Helsinki
and he was presenting and he threw this out there. He's starting to suggest, do we maybe
have the very first autograph of any biblical text? That would be amazing.
We don't know, right? But I would laugh, though, if they carbon dated it to like 250 BCE, because
then I would be like, okay, they're incorporating this literature that predates when we would say
this literature was written and they're just kind of bringing in these stories, you know what I mean?
I would say praise Jesus. I probably would too at that point. But I mean, it's wild, right? Yeah.
It might be an autograph. But the other thing I wanted to say about this, and that would be the
most amazing thing is the one book we can really nail down as felled prophecy has its
autograph. Like we have an actual, that'd be amazing. The other thing is I thought of Enoch,
right? So we have this weird character that goes way, way back into like, you know, pre-flood
times. He's this mysterious figure and all this literature comes spawning up. And it's written,
Enoch is written as if Enoch's writing this material and Enoch's the guy. Enoch is also written
in Aramaic. And here's the question I have for the same people who posed this whole 40, 50 years
later. Are we supposed to believe that the scribes who wrote that material were just like
completely making it up and then like pawning up? Oh, I thought maybe they did. Maybe they did. I
don't know. But like the communities didn't accept this. This could be a year ago that
Scribes wrote this and said, we found Enoch writing and like, oh, wow. And they believe it.
Who's to say that they didn't do that with Daniel or something? Because it's like pretending that
people in that Enochian, I'm going to call them Enochian community because they don't seem very
mosaic. They have their own Torah kind of thing. They take Enoch serious and did it take 40,
50, 60, 70 years for that literature to finally be taken serious after it was written? I just
don't buy that. It's an assumption. I'm trying to think of a place where somebody like went back
into the claws of the temple and said, hey, I found the book of the law.
So Daniel's a fascinating book. It sure is. And it's just tying up loose ends here to make this
point. This isn't Daniel related. This is just in our conversations because you're having to drive
all the way back home, Kip. And this has been a cherished time we get to spend together. And I
hope we can do this in the future is that the more we learn the Dunning-Kruger analogy you bring up
with the whole narrow pathway and we're 50 feet away and then we're 40 feet away and we're like,
but not much has changed on our perception. Then we get in the door and you're like, whoa.
I'd like to think on some things I might be peeking through the door on,
on other things. I know I'm down the hall and that's cool because I depend on y'all who I know
are way closer peeking in the door. I have to depend on experts who know their stuff.
But I'll tell you this, getting to that door, at first it may have looked and others people might
have said, look, he's just anti this. He hates the material. He just wants to debunk it. I've
actually grown to love it even more now, but from a secular position. It's like falling in love with
the Bible without the dogma. And you're like, okay, I can actually love this.
There's suddenly like 15 more questions to answer and problems to explore.
I think it's exciting. It's neat. You can love transformers and not have to worry about things
like how did Optimus Prime actually engage those rockets on his back? How did that happen?
But some people really do worry about it. That's true.
Yeah, because he really did activate those rockets on his back in case you were wondering.
Thank you, guys. You have courses. You have YouTube channels. You have books, lots of them.
You're eventually going to put out more books. You already have one out, but it's not...
I mean, yeah, my monograph is my dissertation that was published and I have a bunch more that
I've edited, but they're all super expensive and very... Yeah. So find those ones for free.
They're out there. And subscribe to their channels. Check out the courses. Get the books.
Kip, we're trying to grow your channel, man. We've got to keep boosting those numbers. You
know what I mean? So thank you. Awesome. Thank you.
