Very be
Popcorn smells good. Mm-hmm real good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, welcome to myth vision everybody
I'm so glad you're in the audience tuning in today. I've got professor kip Davis here on my right
Doctor kip Davis
PhD kip Davis well you taught as a professor. I thought no, but a professor is actually a position at a university
I thought this is an assistant professor. You're an associate professor. You're a full professor. I was never
Uh, I was never tenured. This is going downhill quick. Yeah, we're gonna start over. We'll see in 10 minutes
Derek Bennett is joining us as well. You know when I'm wrong. I'll admit it. I was wrong. How about that?
It's a good quality. It's a good quality to have, you know, I made a mistake. I called you a professor
Did it make you feel good at least?
It makes me feel cheap
Oh, seriously, I appreciate everybody tuning in what we're going to be doing today is we're going to be discussing a
video response
To a response that was by a response that was a response to originally came out of a video that I did on top 10 dying and rising gods
And one of those gods that gets compared to jesus is Osiris
So Derek a theologica was responding to a video by our friend
Michael jones inspiring philosophy
In this video Derek's going to be responding to dr. David a falk who is an egyptologist
For those who don't know who haven't kept up with the news
We're not going to be dwelling on what recently happened
Much, but I figure why not get everything off our chest. What do you say?
I think that's fair. Okay, so
Um, I am a dishonest
Didn't keep my verbal agreement a year and a half ago. I agree dirty dog. I know
Dishonest dirty dog. I made an agreement when crap was going down with josh and
kip and
michael jones at the time and then of course david a falk remember when all the stuff went down
There was a lot of drama if you will and I contacted dr. David a falk
We had an hour conversation and there was not a part of him that wanted to try and make things good with josh and kip
But we walked away and I said look i'll avoid making critical content on you
vice versa he agreed
And then he crossed the line just a few days ago making a misogynistic rant against a friend of the channel
Francesca stavro capullo, which is why you see the videos coming out this week. She deserves that bump that boost
and um, what do you think about me breaking that?
Your your blood oath. Yeah, the blood oath that my soul is like
Going back on your covenant
with
David a falk. Yeah, what do you think of that? Well, um, I mean
My opinion is that all agreements no matter what they are
Should be provisional
And I think it's rather telling that much of the blowback that you've been getting we see them
Uh, we hear them from david falk. We see them in uh in the comments on his
On his community posts and you've heard them from from other
Evangelical apologies not all but but some
I think it's rather telling that uh, this the the proponents of this
This religious movement of love and peace
Also tends to have the ethics that are most valued by the mafia
Like loyalty
Is above all so the ethical grounds in which he broke
Is like the and I've got you broke that's far worse than anything. He said right the fact that you
You have uh proven yourself disloyal
Yeah to somebody who's not my friend and that's that's
But I thought you wanted to be his friend so bad Derek. No
No, we were trying to be
Pete bring peace and in fact I talked to rob rob low about that and trying to make things right. He couldn't
No, the uh sentinel apologetics to try and make things good with falk falk is
Pretty stern in in his positions and as you see right now like doubling down with a fake apology
Not really doing it and he needs to do it
I highly recommend so today
Oh, I don't know. I should we should we just kind of kind of clarify here with the timeline was for all of this
so
folks
Q&A video was published Friday
um, I watched them all
I scraped them
For content because I just I love you people that much
Trying to do my best to uh to protect the community from his nonsense
um, we discovered to our
utter shock
the uh, the
The comment on saturday
uh contacted uh dan who seemed like the right person to to contact
With this being uh, francesca starica polo student
um dan made the video response on
And published it sunday morning
Uh folk apologized
That day had an exchange with you. Um, where the blood covenant was brought up
and then uh as of uh yesterday, I believe um
A uh a petition two petitions
Were circulated within the academic community
Among uh biblical scholars and ancient historians the one uh sent by mark luchter
Of temple university to vancouver school of theology, which was the last institution
At which folk was affiliated
Uh was is currently
Has over six pages of signatures
It's been signed by over a hundred academics as well as uh, uh members of the uh the the biblical studies
Community and as of yesterday afternoon folk had lost have his all of his
his faculty privileges or his uh
His uh his his privileges at the bst revoked
So that's where we're at. Yeah, and by the way, I had nothing to do with any of that
But when I saw the petition, of course, i'm gonna sign it
Uh if you know and participate in what I think is ethically wrong
So me making a verbal agreement with somebody is not worthy of me
Remaining silent
Look i've listened to some of the stuff you said over the last year and a half and there's plenty
I could have criticized on I've kept my mouth shut and now it's time that we stop keeping our mouths shut and we discuss
Especially when you were going to do this presentation on your channel there
instead
He's like, let's do it on your channel at this point. Yeah. Well, here we are and so I figured let's play a clip
Or should we do my intro real quick then play the clip? What's um
Do your intro and then we'll play the clip. All right
All right, welcome to myth vision. Let's have some fun. So i'm going to share something here and uh, we'll comment on it. You think it's like 10 12 15
Well, we won't do a deep dive into it just yet, but yeah, go ahead and share that sucker. Okay
Yes, osiris died and rose again
But in the amduat
the netherworld
He did not rise in the land of a living
But in the land of the dead
This is not physical resurrection
This is resurrection in the next life to continue life in the afterworld
Okay, so there you have it
right
Yeah, it's it's um, I I can't help but get the feeling he's very close to crying
when he's
Stating this and it warms my cockles
um, but what he basically says is that because osiris
Uh goes to the amduat. It is therefore not
a
physical resurrection
um, believe it or not
David Falk is not the only egyptologist out there
And there are others who would most certainly disagree and take issue with what he's saying, but
We're going to get into that
Yes, so stay tuned everybody in the chat. Good to see you all here with the super chats
We will get to them. We will address them during q&a. I want to allow derrick to present
Without me harassing him because I do it all the time
And you can oh you haven't harassed him as much as I have so
Um, but we'll allow you should I grant you the golden popcorn grant me the hey only only the popcorn knows
The secrets of the kernels
All right, here we go, let's do this
I'm gonna get this shared screen up
And keep you on the side here derrick and just so you know when you go full screen to play it
It's it's gonna fill up. All right. All right. We'll get out of your hair. Here we go. Where's the mouse?
Now what you're doing back here making faces at you so definitely feel um, that's gonna hurt my feelings
Yes, feel subconscious about this because we are going to
Really try to distract you. All right. So this is brought up the presentation is here. So go right here. All right
And then you're gonna go play presentation. All right
Excellent you are good to go now. Can I I'm gonna escape for just a moment while I speak to you guys on camera. So
um, this will be my response to david fox response to me regarding
The resurrection of osiris and ancient egyptian myth and legend
um
For some time I figured you know, I thought I would just
Go through the entire video of his response just picking apart going piece by piece responding to every little thing he says
Um, I don't think you guys are interested in that
Nobody wants to sit for a couple of hours and watch a whole he said
She said type of thing. So what I'm actually going to do is just cover the main points
We're not even going to play fox video here
I will share with you in this presentation what it is that he essentially says
And I do hope I'm still manning him as such
But we will be including the link to
His video in the comments here in in this video. So if you want to check it out for yourself
Watch his video. See what he has to say
Uh, compare that to what I'm saying
Um, have at it if you're a true truth seeker, there's nothing to fear
in uh checking everything out for yourself and absorbing as much as you possibly can
Um, I must say that uh, david falk appears to think that he has the advantage here because he
Is a credentialed
Apologist or excuse me. Excuse me. It's probably a slip. He is a credentialed egyptologist
he is a credentialed egyptologist and me i'm just a
A lowly autodidact someone who's actually studied this material for
But I do have a communications degree, but i'm someone who's on uh, who's studied this
material independently
For the past 17 years. So I tend to know what i'm talking about and the sources that I cite
Are academic and primary source texts
David falk in addition to being an egyptologist is also a christian
Apologist and this matters is absolutely relevant
Christian apologists by and large
Are hell-bent on defending their faith
And as we have observed for so long, they will do it by hook or by crook
For instance, we've seen william lane craig
attempt to defend
genocide
in the hebrou bible
There is no
There there's nowhere they won't go. There's nothing they won't say
In order to defend their prior faith commitments and this causes a problem
This makes them must I say not terribly reliable sources
because
Yes, he's a credentialed egyptologist
But in order to defend his faith. He has to stretch and distort
and misrepresent
And i'm going to demonstrate that
With this presentation
Much of what falk does and of course we'll be getting into those two is the old classic apologetic x is different from y card
When it comes to comparative religion my goodness
West side story is nothing like romeo and juliet west side story takes place in new york
romeo and juliet is before new york was even a thing
And yet clearly
These are two very similar analogous stories. In fact the one appears to have influenced the other
i'm pretty sure west side story is essentially a
Recapitulation of romeo and juliet
It's like saying my goodness
family guy
Has a talking dog and an evil baby. It's nothing like the simpsons. There's no talking dog an evil baby in the simpsons
And yet sath mcfarland will tell you
That he absolutely was influenced by the simpsons when creating the family guy now here. I'm not even arguing for influence
All the only case i'm making is that we are dealing with
analogous
similar ideas within the
history of religions
That's literally all i'm trying to say
With these apologists they always play up the differences and if they don't see everything in common
Then they see nothing in common
Which is ridiculous
and clearly fallacious
And sensible reasonable people know better
Let's get into it
All right
So the title is osiris and the terrible horrible no good very bad david falk
It's a pretty clever title
Glad i came up with it
So let's begin by defining resurrection, you know, always important to actually define terms
This is a definition of resurrection that I myself supply
And i'm not doing it for ad hoc purposes in order to say that osiris was resurrected
I am doing this so that it can also
um
include
all right
The resurrection of jesus you'll see what i'm talking about my definition of resurrection is death
Followed by
bodily restoration to life
That's a pretty straightforward definition if you take issue with that
I don't know what to tell you
This is not the platonic
concept of mere soul survival where the body dies and the soul nearly floats away
We're not talking about that. We're talking about death followed by bodily restoration to life
Excuse me, I am getting over a cold
The body dies and is restored to full and active life
Henceforth residing either on earth or in another worldly realm
This is important because if we don't accept this
Then we can't even accept that jesus was resurrected per the earliest christian preaching
We can't even accept what paul says when he says that jesus was raised or resurrected
So death followed my bodily restoration to life
Regardless of where they go from there
The risen body may retain its original form or be transformed into a new state
So long as it is the body that is raised
Okay, and it either retains the same form it always did or in most cases it's transformed into a new glorious state
Pretty straightforward
We'll get to why we must adhere to this definition of resurrection if we are to accept what paul says
So the resurrection of jesus per the earliest tradition
Christ was raised in a new heavenly body as the first fruits of those to be raised from the dead
This spiritual body was not a body of flesh and blood
Implying some other divine material. It was a spiritual body
Now paul just tried to wiggle their way out of this problem
By saying that flesh and blood when paul says that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of god
He doesn't mean flesh and blood literally. He's talking about this is more
Than flesh and blood. This is human
Corruptibility human perishability
That's right
Precisely because it's composed of flesh and blood
What we're talking about here is sonecta key in which a part or parts are a stand in for the whole
So flesh and blood is referring to a corruptible
perishable human body
It's the same as if you say all hands on deck, right?
You don't expect just the person's hands to come scurrying up to the deck. They are to bring their whole body with them
But in so doing do they not also bring their hands with them?
The most integral part of the body and doing the work that needs to be done on deck
With sonecta key what's true of the whole must be true of the part. That's the whole point
So yes, it is about human corruptibility and perishability precisely because
It's a body composed of flesh and blood and paul is saying it ain't that kind of body
It's a spiritual body a body of some sort, but not a body of flesh and blood
Jesus's new body was immortal. It could never die again death. No longer has mastery over him
He was highly exalted and appointed the son of god in power by his resurrection. In other words, we're talking about
Apotheosis, he's not really raised again to normal life. He has raised to divine life. This is just what roman's one force says
And lastly and perhaps most importantly
His resurrection was first conceived as a direct
Exultation to heaven with no intervening sojourn on earth
For the passages I list here and we're going to dive into those
David Faulk attempted to address this in this video with nothing but a very pitiful poo pooing
Without actually getting into any details about this. That's okay. He's not a biblical scholar
Neither am I for that matter, but I actually study the damned scholarship
The resurrection of jesus early tradition continued
And being found in appearance as a man
He humbled himself by becoming obedient to death
Even death on a cross
Therefore god exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name
That is per paul in philippians 2 8 through 9 the philippians creed
Uh, clearly the notion here is that he dies in the cross, but he is raised again to be at the right hand of god
It's a resurrection
Exultation now
The next two verses hebrews and Ephesians most scholars agree. These are not written originally by paul
but what they say is that they
Continue in the tradition of paul
They are most likely written
More or less contemporary with the gospels
So they are later. There's nothing controversial about this unless you're a christian
Um, yet they continue in that pauline tradition. So they retain the pauline notion of resurrection
But when this priest had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins
He sat down at the right hand of god hebrews 10 12
And then Ephesians speaks of the mighty strength god exerted when he raised christ from the dead and seated him at his
Right hand in the heavenly realms
These clearly suggest or imply
a resurrection
That is synonymously
Simultaneously an exaltation directly to heaven
This is from awsweep the ascension of the messiah and luke and christology and this is pretty much
uh, the standard
notion among
Critical secular scholars of the new testament including bart airman and james taber in david litwa
As he says the important point is that in the primitive preaching resurrection and exaltation belong together as two sides of one coin
hence the designation
Resurrection exaltation and that it implies a geographical transfer from earth to heaven
Hence it is possible to say that in the primitive kerygma resurrection is
resurrection to heaven
To summarize the general conviction and the earliest christian preaching is that as of the day of his resurrection
Jesus was in heaven seated at the right hand of god
Resurrection and exaltation were regarded as two sides of one coin
resurrection meant resurrection to heaven or
Resurrection from grave to glory
So this appears to be what the earliest christians believed about christ and his resurrection this uh story these stories
Where he is walking around spending time on earth
Whether one day a week or 40 days
Do not appear until the later gospels and acts
And yet paul still considers this to be anastasis
Resurrection why because he is bodily restored to life regardless of where he goes from there. Are you catching my drift?
Apologists of course will uh
Interject with first carinthians 15 and the appearances
Let's get into that as zweep says before we proceed with our inventory
We need to consider the question of the nature of the post-easter appearances in the earliest preaching
If in the earliest stage of tradition resurrection and exaltation were regarded as one event
An uninterrupted movement from grave to glory
We may infer that the appearances were ipso facto
manifestations of the already exalted lord
Hence appearances from heaven granted that the act of exaltation or enthronement took place in heaven, which of course it did
paul seems to have shared this view
He regarded his experience on the road to demascus as a revelation of god's son in or to him galatians 116
That is as an encounter with the exalted lord
He defended his apostleship with the assertion that he had seen jesus our lord first carinthians 91
And did not hesitate to put his experience on equal footing with the apostolic christophonies
That is the appearances of christ to the other apostles
All together
There are four lines of reasoning as to why the early christian tradition is best understood as a simultaneous
Resurrection exaltation complex one
The simple fact that the aphor mentioned texts naturally read as a simultaneous resurrection
Exaltation complex such as the mighty strength got exerted when he raised christ from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms
I mean, what's the inference to the best explanation here? There is no
Mention of an earthly sojourn precisely because that's not how the earliest christians conceived it
to
The fact that paul places the appearance to him on equal footing
with the original apostles as he says am i not an apostle have i not seen jesus our lord
what sense does it make for paul to
To
Claim this kind of clout if he saw jesus in an utterly different way
From what the original apostles supposedly claimed
Three the fact that paul alludes to the hebrus scriptures as the revelatory
Source of the resurrection just as he says in first carinthians 15 3 through 4 that christ died for our sins
according to the scriptures that he was raised
according to the scriptures
And these passages themselves speak of heavenly exaltation or enthronement such as psalm 110 and isaiah 52 13
There's a great likelihood that early christians looked to the suffering servant of isaiah and isaiah 53
in order to explain
What jesus's death on the cross meant in terms of a sin atonement
If that is the case they would likely have also noticed in isaiah 52
13 which is part of that same passage that it says that he was raised and lifted up and highly exalted
This is basically an exaltation
type of motif
And so it figures that that is how they first conceived of jesus's resurrection
And lastly number four the fact that paul depicts all those raised in christ's image as likewise being taken up into the air
Where they will be with him forever
first
Thessalonians 4 16 through 17 you cannot read revelation into paul's letters
There doesn't appear to be any kind of earthly
Sojourn
Rather they are taken up into the sky into the heavens to be with christ forever not
on earth
I know we get different ideas later in the new testament
Probably because it's not actually a divinely inspired source
Now the comparison with osiris
If jesus can be said by paul to have been raised a gegeirti or resurrected anesthesis
Despite his taking up a new abode in an otherworldly realm instead of an earthly sojourn
Then logically osiris can be said to have been raised or resurrected despite the same
This is not to say that the resurrections of jesus and osiris are identical
This is just some pretty straightforward logic here. All right
If jesus can be said to have been raised despite no earthly sojourn going to an otherworldly realm
Then logically so can osiris
Each figure is bodily restored to life after death
Despite they're taking up new residents in an otherworldly plane
Thus what sgf brandon said is correct
Jesus is not related to have resumed his life on earth in contemporary judaea
But to have ascended to heaven where he was believed to live a supernatural existence. There is therefore
justification for a phenomenological comparison between the deaths and resurrections of osiris and christ
Each is raised to life again by supernatural means after an unjust death
But each is transformed into a new mode of being that is neither osiris nor christ resume their earthly lives
But pass on to another world
That's per sgf brandon
redemption in ancient egypt and early christianity
Instead of addressing the actual validity of brandon's statement falc
Merely disparages and dismisses him for having written this in the late 1960s
Asserting that no egyptologists will agree with him without providing any explanation as to why
Dismissing the author without addressing their actual point is a flagrant ad hominem fallacy
That is fallacious dr. Falc
Are you a real doctor or are you a doctor the way dr. Pepper is a doctor?
Egyptian resurrection was a bodily affair
falc asserted that the egyptian conception of resurrection was not bodily and that the academic sources i provided were not qualified egyptologists
now i
find that ridiculous
Such as with john granger cook for instance
Um, no, he's not an egyptologist, but he is an expert in religious studies. Um, I think uh in falc's case
He just doesn't like what they have to say. So he's got to poo poo the source
at any rate
Here are undeniably qualified egyptologists
Remarking on the bodily nature of egyptian resurrection
quote
Just as osiris was killed and rose to new life
So the dead king identified with osiris
Through the recitation of the spell is made alive again
In other words, what we have here is the bodily resurrection of the dead king. That's from egyptologist
luya zakbar
quote
The resurrection in which the egyptians believed was a bodily resurrection involving a physical entity
Which had been justified that is examined and declared to be free of sin. That's from egyptologist mark j smith
And finally quote resurrection is a proper term for this idea
Because the dead king is constantly summoned to rise
Raise yourself is the typical address to the deceased and it means not only to get up
But to ascend to heaven
Per egyptologist yawn osman. So as yawn osman notes. Yes in some of these cases
Particularly with the pharaoh the idea is that one ascends into the heavens
We I fully acknowledge that yes
In the ancient egyptian
Notion of the afterlife. They do go to the netherworld. I understand that perfectly
What we're saying is that despite that it's still
bodily
physical resurrection
Falk makes the mistake of saying that if they go to another world or to the amduat
It is therefore not physical and that is false. It's a non sequitur
And actual qualified credentialed egyptologists
disagree
But I guess you won't hear that from falk
Let's talk about resurrected life in the underworld per another egyptologist
Mummy bindings had to be removed at the moment of resurrection
mummification prepared the body for resurrection in the underworld
And protected it in its journey to that mysterious space
The thoroughness with which the egyptians are wrapped makes
Such special prayers as the one written on a coffin in the metropolitan museum of art in new york
Directing the goddess isis to free the mummy from its wrappings at the moment of resurrection
Oh, my mother isis come that you may remove the bindings which are on me. This is physical
Removing the bindings from the mummified body which has been raised
Representations of the process of resurrection are depicted on ceilings of royal tombs in the valley of the kings
Some of the dead are still in mummy shrouds others have arisen and are standing upright
Clearly visible as nude males and females still others move their arms
While a few already wear their new garments of the hereafter
The egyptians did not cherish an idea of paradisical nudity on earth not only food and drink
But also linen cloth was offered to the dead and in the underworld the dead receive among other offerings from the sun god food
drink and clothing
During the one nocturnal hour that the sun god visits the department of the underworld the dead in that department come to life again
And live a lifetime
The resurrected see the sun god face to face. They jubilate and adore him
They behold the glorious sun boat and all its divine occupants
They repeat life also in other respects as may be gathered from the typical scenes of daily life in theven tombs
cultivation of the fields
fishing and fouling
Playing games music making and dancing
banquets together with wife and children and other members of the family and friends and many other scenes of daily life are repeated
Repeating a lifetime in such a nocturnal hour
Flooded by the light of the sun was diverting and recreative
The old people with their new bodies in the bloom of life enjoyed doing once again what they did on earth
This life in the underworld does not seem to have the toils and faults of earthly life
And even if some of these appear it remains an idyllic life on the whole
That is from egyptologist
Herman Tavelde in mummies and magic the funerary arts of ancient egypt. So as you can see
Yes
Granted they are in an underworld. They're downstairs and stuff upstairs
It is nonetheless
bodily activity
That's taking place here
Taking place in a world that is
conceptually phenomenologically
similar to the christian notion of heaven
Not identical with it
Not suggesting that it this has been borrowed or plagiarized by christians
But that phenomenologically conceptually this is something along the lines of the biblical heaven
Where they live a lifetime
bodily doing
Recreative activities not merely plowing the fields and being osiris's slaves as
Falk misleadingly suggested
Eternal life in egypt
As we've seen the renewed life of ancient egyptians in the netherworld was physical
corporeal and fully active
Incorporating all the past joys of their former earthly lives
Thus does egyptologist james p allen state that the related texts are not about death, but about life
Specifically eternal life, which every egyptian hoped to attain after death
Thus does egyptologists yawn osman state that osiris remained in the netherworld, but he was resurrected and alive
It really helps when you have some actual context from the scholarship, doesn't it?
And when you're not being misled
By a hack apologist
In order to believe falk you'd have to read this line from the pyramid texts
Osiris awakes the god wants slack rouses the god stands up the god has power in his body
and think
That this does not refer to physical resurrection
Regardless of where it takes place or where he goes from there
That
is some special gaslighting
To be told
That this does not convey
bodily resurrection
Only an apologist can argue this way
Divine conflict in heliopolis
Falk completely misrepresented and strawmaned my statement
About osiris having been depicted in the pyramid texts as active and alive in the official's enclosure
Of heliopolis. I did not
Suggest that osiris lived out the rest of his days in heliopolis fly fishing hunting and talking about cup sizes
only
That he was depicted alive again on earth in the official's enclosure of heliopolis
Where he confronted his murderer seth and was deemed justified by the gods of heliopolis
prior to
His ultimate destination in the netherworld
From the pyramid texts, which falk didn't care to read to you. He just glossed over while criticizing them
Here's what they actually say
Raise yourself teti hasten you of great strength and sit at the four of the gods and do that which
osiris has done
in the mast enclosure in heliopolis
Pretty clear what that means there
that osiris
Alive is justified in the mast enclosure in heliopolis, which was on earth. He was there temporarily
This peppy is a clean one of horus justified in what he did as one justified in the official's enclosure
In heliopolis
Of course peppy is taking after osiris. He is doing what osiris did being justified in the official's enclosure in heliopolis
As osman notes the texts culminate in a scene
Where osiris is restored to life
To such a degree as to be able to confront his murderer seth
So that's where this goes down. He is justified and confront seth
on earth
In the mast enclosure of heliopolis
Osiris of course does not remain on earth, but he did vanquish death and was given life in the other world
Falk suggests that
um
Osiris would have died
well before
The enclosure heliopolis the city of heliopolis actually
Existed in ancient egypt that is not the point
No one here is attempting to argue
That osiris was a figure who historically actually died and rose from the dead
So granting there even was an historical osiris. He can die well before heliopolis is a thing all he wants
Nevertheless, the ancient egyptians project
Once heliopolis does exist in ancient egypt. They project his
justification
on earth
in heliopolis because these are human beings partaking of
human
Imaginatory type things
In no way does that prevent them
From viewing this having happened on earth
The point is the salient point is that according to ancient egyptians
They actually did believe that osiris was at least temporarily on earth
in heliopolis
Whether that's actually true or not, which is not what we're trying to argue for
It's a trivial point. Anyway, we don't need this to be the case because we're talking about
Conceptual similarities analogies and the idea is that one is raised or resurrected
As long as they are bodily restored to life regardless of where they go from there
Just had to clear the record regarding
fox straw man
And misleading nonsense
A salvific resurrection
This is from egyptologist mark j smith
There was one important difference between these gods and osiris unlike them
He had triumphed over death and the ability to do likewise could be conferred upon his followers
The colophon of pyramid tech spell 561b states that whoever worships osiris will live forever
Showing that already at this date those who devoted themselves to the god might expect to share in his resurrection
Tell me that doesn't sound familiar
But the crucial significance of osiris for them lay in what he personally had done and undergone
His life death and resurrection were perceived to be particularly momentous in relation to their own fates
And thus they figure more prominently in the textual record
Then do accounts of the exploits of other divinities moreover
Because so much importance was invested in the fact that these were events actually experienced by a real individual
And not merely abstractions
Personal detail was essential in recounting them
As we have seen the colophon of pyramid tech spell 561b states that whoever worships osiris will live forever
Moreover since the worshipers of osiris were in the in the first instance divine beings themselves
That is ceased by participating in his worship acquired the same status as them. So it was not just eternal life
But eternal life in divine form that osiris bestowed upon his followers
This link between worshiping osiris and attaining the status of a god is made explicit in colophon tech spell
789 this is from egyptologist mark j smith
Notice the similarities with christianity, and i'm not even attempting to argue for influence or borrowing
I'm saying that these are conceptually similar ideas
In christianity one is mystically identified with christ in his death and resurrection
And as a result they become divine beings themselves. They inherit spiritual bodies
Which are not
prone to death
In the ancient world immortality and divinity were closely
Associated with one another so in christianity this notion of theosis
Which the greek orthodox church does not deny for one moment is very much alive
And it's a very similar thing happening here in ancient egypt per
An actual non sectarian egyptologist mark j smith rather than a hack apologist
Osiris lord of all a prominent theme in hymns to osiris at filet is the god's royal status in particular his universal kingship
Osiris was ruler of both the living and the dead in the first half of the first millennium
A scene on one of the architraves of the pranaos of the temple of isis
Emphasizes osiris's universal kingship over the sky
The two lands and the underworld hyrule glyphic inscriptions from the island of vega
Likewise stressed the status of that god as ruler over everything
So his power in his rule is not merely limited
To the netherworld
In addition to the one described in the preceding paragraph
These include monuments constructed for osiris the giver of life
Osiris lord of life who grants jubilees osiris lord of life osiris tall lord of life osiris ruler of eternity
Osiris the rescuer of the afflicted osiris the savior
As we saw in section six dot one two dot one one important development of the first half of the first millennium bc
Was the increased emphasis on the royal aspect of osiris concomitant
With a growing tendency to regard him not just as the ruler of the underworld
But as the ruler of this one as well
He was not seen as a distant and unapproachable king more over
But as a powerful patron or advocate who could be relied upon to defend the interests of his subjects as a result
Both the living and the dead felt confident in turning to him for aid in times of trouble
This development is reflected in the proliferation of small chapels and temples
Where osiris was venerated with cult epithets like the savior
Rescuer of the afflicted and the one who rescues his servants in the underworld per
Egyptologist mark j smith
Now this particular the passage is one of my favorites and you will see why very shortly
I'm going to take a drink of water here
To cleanse my palate
So I titled this slide raised to godhood. This is a goody
The idea of the dead assuming a vicarious role with osiris is common in the funerary texts
But where a vicarious association is a proxy act coffin texts
755 seems to suggest a mystical union
Or a kind of transfiguration where the body of the deceased shares in
Or merges with the body of osiris himself
That could just as well be about roman 6 3 through 5 or philippians 3 10 through 11 concerning christ
Can I get an amen?
While vicarious association is evident in these texts
The attributes of the deceased become those of the god because they are made from pieces of the god
To the degree that the deceased is knitted together from pieces of the divine the deceased becomes godlike
Hence what the texts like the cannibal hymn where the king consumes the divine
Where have I heard that before?
He is in fact assimilating the power of divinity and facilitating his transformation beautifully said
Coffin text 519 takes ritual transformation to its ultimate form
OPN raise yourself upon your metal bones and the gold of its limbs that is of a royal god
It will not become moldy. It will not putrify. It will not perish. This is an imperishable body
This text parallels the resilience and strength of metals with the abolition of decomposition
But more importantly it shows ritual transformation of the flesh into gold
Which is said to be the flesh of the gods becoming godlike
Ritual conversion is essential to the understanding of apotheosis in egyptian eschatology
ritual conversion of rot and decay into myrrh and precious metals
precedes reconstruction into the divine form this transformation is more than mere resurrection in fact
So it's not just resurrection. It is more than mere resurrection
Purge fluid and stanchal replaced by special oil and incense flesh and bone are replaced by gold and iron
The belief in apotheosis is reflected in funerary practice as anthropoid coffins and even the mummies became gilded in gold foil
This belief was probably the response to the fear that decomposition created a liminal state where the dead were vulnerable
This funerary practice probably provided a kind of insurance for the dead by accelerating apotheosis
by none other than egyptologist david a
falc
Well done david
You see this is actually a piece of scholarship
This shows you that david falc knows how to behave like a scholar when he wants to
Pretty far removed from his behavior on youtube
But he is making precisely the point that i am making
In his youtube response to me david said that this is nothing like what you find in christianity
It's different
Because their bodies are made of gold and metal
He is missing the point
It's more of this apologetic x is different from y-card
The salient point is that they become endowed with the bodies of the gods of the gods themselves
They inherit imperishable
Bodies that are not capable
of decomposition
Of corruptibility
These are new divine bodies
Essentially
Conceptually phenomenologically. That's what's going on in christianity
If only david
Could bring to bear actual legitimate scholarship like he's done here
To his ridiculous apologetics channel
On the nature of comparison this is from m david litwa a scholar of Mediterranean religion
He's not an egyptologist mind you
I'm pretty sure
What he has to say is still relevant
The first rule of comparison is that it does not assert identity
We're not saying that these stories myths legends motifs are identical
As a result there is never an exact parallel
Difference will always remain a comparison if the comparison is going to work
And if it is going to be interesting
Consequently we need not search for an exact parallel between different stories to speak of their similarities
due to common cultural
conceptions
ancient
excuse me
Ancient jews and christians even if they assumed an oppositional stance toward the dominant
Mediterranean or Hellenistic culture
We're still enmeshed in the ideational world of the okumine
No big ugly epistemological ditch removed them from the basic cosmological
Anthropological and theological assumptions of their time many of which were simply taken for granted
Such assumptions formed not so much the content of thought for ancient mediterranean peoples as its framework
They were the loom on which the warp and wolf of thought were woven
They formed a set of givens shaping how the world and the gods were perceived
From m david litwa, the asus dios
The early christian depiction of jesus as a Mediterranean god
Every time these apologists play up differences
They demonstrate that they don't get it
That they couldn't reason their way out of a paper bag if their life depended upon it
We know there's differences. We are talking about conceptual and thematic similarities
On the nature of comparison
These are my words
Lowly autodidact that I am I've only been studying this material for 17 years
And I have a communications degree from ball state old testicle tech mind you
Appealing to differences is a red herring
When what we're actually talking about are conceptual and thematic similarities not carbon copies
Archetypes and motifs are bound to take on distinctive features shaped by time and place
History and culture
Whilst sharing common elements some of which are striking in their similitude
As we are all human beings responding to the same general stimuli and existential crises
That generally speaking ancient egyptians could conceive of a risen god
A divinity who defeated death and passed on to another world
Ruling all of creation casting judgment upon those and the hereafter and conferring his resurrection apotheosis and immortality
upon his worshipers
Demonstrates that such religious ideas are well within the scope
of human imagination
If ancient egyptians could conceive such theological ideas without divine inspiration revelation or occurrence
Then so too
Could early christians
That is the salient point here ladies and gentlemen
For what it's worth
Some egyptologists actually do posit egyptian influence upon early christianity
Quote notwithstanding its superficial rejection of everything pagan
Early christianity was deeply indebted to ancient egypt in particular
The lively picture of the ancient egyptian afterlife left traces in christian tets
Thus among the cops and later in islam
We encounter a fiery hell quite like that of the egyptians per egyptologist
Eric horning and yes, we find this imagery in the gospel of matthew and in the book of revelation as well
Including the lake of fire and a second death
pretty big coincidence
quotes
Salvation and eternal life are christian concepts
And we might think that the egyptian myth can all too easily be viewed through the lens of christian tradition
On the contrary in my opinion christian myth
Is itself thoroughly stamped
By egyptian tradition by the myth of isis and osiris which from the very beginning had to do with salvation and eternal life
egyptologists
yawn osman
Are you gonna poo poo these guys too dr. David falk?
Because these are legitimate egyptologists and you aren't even anything on their shoe
I'm not even trying to make the argument that there was influence
I'm simply saying that these are conceptual and thematic similarities that they are analogies
But it's worth noting that some actual legitimate non-sectarian egyptologists
Actually do think
That yes, there was egyptian influence upon early christianity
If either you or david falk or one of his minions
These two passages have got to sting
But jesus is different
Cry the apologists
Let's be real
And let's get some water
You gotta at least take one bite
Oh after those two, yeah
Oh
Oh
David is so good
No one knows the secret of the popcorn
No one knows the secret of the popcorn
In the kernels. You're a funny man
More
That's good stuff emperor palpatine
Ladies and gentlemen, let's be real are we all adults here or not
The story of jesus's resurrection smacks of ancient resurrection and apotheosis legends from the time
Such as osiris, which we've discussed romulus asclepius heracles iristius
See my presentation resurrection and apotheosis
In pre christian antiquity for all of the sources on this you can find it both here
On the myth vision podcast and on my own channel a theologica
Even there i'm not making a case for borrowing plagiarizing or copycatting as these
idiotic apologists continue to straw man
I am simply saying
That these are this is the kind of thing we would expect
From the mythic consciousness of the ancient mediterranean world
The story of jesus's resurrection arises from a pre scientific gullible and superstitious lot in antiquity. That is a fact
That's not to say that there weren't sophisticated minds in antiquity. There most certainly were we have their very writings
And i'm well aware of that
On the whole however, yes, this was a pre scientific gullible and superstitious lot
Go figure the story of a resurrected man who shoots up to heaven
Stems from that time and place in the world
Is wrapped by numerous inconsistencies which betray literary and mythic embellishment
From resurrection to heaven and the pauline corpus to a full 40 days on earth in acts
From a spiritual body without flesh and blood in paul as we've explained to a body of flesh and bone
in luke
The story morphs and grows in the telling
The resurrection of jesus is supported by zero first hand eyewitness reports other than a zealous preacher named paul
Who've never even met jesus compare this to multiple first hand reports of the appearances of the angel and the golden plates
In mormonism and yet that steel
stretches credulity
These guys as any good mormon apologists will tell you even after the the first three witnesses even after they
Parted ways with joseph smith. They never once
recanted
their testimony
And as soon as joseph smith died they had themselves either baptized back into the church
Or created their own offshoot religion from mormonism. They kept the faith
Multiple first hand reports. That's better evidence than what we have for christianity
And it's still complete hogwash
The story of jesus's resurrection places the risen and immortalized figure in an unseen celestial realm
Just like all of the risen and immortalized figures above of course
This is what you must do if you're going to claim that someone was raised from the dead to live forever or immortalized
Because naturally if you tell me bob has been raised from the dead and he now lives forever
I'm going to want to see uncle bob
Oh, but you don't understand. He's not here anymore. He went up. He's up
He's upstairs where you can't see him. Of course. That is how you make such a claim unfalsifiable
Go figure they do for jesus exactly what they do for these other legendary figures osiris romulus esclopius heracles
They go
Away into an unseen celestial otherworldly realm
That's a red flag
And finally the resurrection of jesus was wrought by a 11
Storm god who sniffed burning animal carcasses and fought fire breathing dragons and sea monsters
Guys, this is mythology if you're going to fight with us. I must implore you to grow up
This is clearly ancient myth and legend and no these are not metaphors. What is the metaphor?
In a burnt animal carcass creating a pleasing aroma to the lord. What's the metaphor there?
Clearly he was an embodied
corporeal
big man
Who liked the smell of burning meat? This is an archaic
primitive god
Who does not exist and therefore cannot have raised jesus from the dead if that's hard to hear
That's tough
Falk's faults
Falk blithely dismisses academic sources
He doesn't like with ad hominem attacks
Such as sgf brandon rode in the 60s and nobody would agree with him
Bob briar is only a paleopathologist. Excuse me. He's also an egyptologist
John granger cook and glennas holland aren't qualified to speak on egypt logical matters though
They are both experts in religious studies
And francesco stabrica polo is only renowned because she's an attractive woman
And anyone who appreciates her work is doing theology by cup size
That's disgusting
No, this is not faux outrage dr. Falk and for you to insist that it is faux outrage goes to show
That you don't get it. You're not grasping why this is legitimately horrible
This is an oxford trained
brilliant scholar
And you are minimizing her you're saying that her only value is that she is attractive
And has a
I can't even say that's so disgusting
This is legitimately horrible and it goes to show the kind of desperation to which you will resort
When you come across a source that you don't like
Just as you did
When dealing with my video only not nearly as egregiously
Falk interjects into his interlocutors words without allowing them to explain things fully such as he did with
my video
Listening to Falk you'd get the idea that I somehow never acknowledged that ancient egyptians lived on eternally in the nether world
When I expressly acknowledged this multiple times in my video
This is deceptive. This is misleading apologetic hack behavior
He engages in armchair commentary without actually checking the site of sources or what they actually say
He blithely assumes that because he's an egyptologist. He simply knows by default what the sources must convey
That's where that's what arrogance gets you
More water more popcorn
Hmm. It's good. Hmm. The secret of the kernels
and finally
Falk demonstrates complete incompetence
concerning biblical criticism
Appealing to axe depiction of jesus on earth for 40 days
Which is an obvious embellishment on the earlier narratives. Heck
The gospel of luk chapter 24 has him sticking around for one day
That's clear from a natural reading of the passage. It grows in the telling. He's completely unaware of this
and he hypocritically
Speaks on biblical matters when he is no expert himself
On that subject while demanding that anyone who says anything about ancient egyptian beliefs must be
an egyptologist
That folks
Is hypocrisy
That is the behavior and the tactics of a hack
Falk's faults continued
Falk knows how to behave like a legitimate scholar when he wants to as demonstrated by the passage from his work in this presentation
But on his youtube channel, he behaves like a typical christian apologist
Twisting distorting misrepresenting attacking and maligning his interlocutors and any sources
He doesn't like while committing flagrant fallacies including ad hominems red herrings and straw men
Falk like so many christian apologists is in the business of defending the indefensible
Which requires desperate and unscrupulous tactics
Getting to the truth of matters is not his ultimate interest
His modus operandi is defending his christian faith by hook or by crook
Even if it means engaging in vile misogyny and outright sexism
Philosopher douglas walton states that argumentum ad hominem is not always fallacious for in some instances
Questions of personal conduct character motives, etc. Are legitimate and relevant to the issues
At the end of the day
David falk is a hack apologist with no real integrity or intellectual honesty
This informs his conduct as we have seen and is absolutely worth expressing and exposing
End of presentation, let's have some popcorn
Wow you went on and man you went in let's get our chairs over here
Oh
The secrets of the kernels david
i was gonna say you're digesting the god there aren't you
But it's different
But it's not there's differences see
So yeah, that's not identical then there's there's no there's nothing similar where they have no
That's logical. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense
Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Now we're gonna go to q&a session in just a minute
But I want to allow you to comment if you want about anything that you particularly want to before we
You know dive into like answering and taking stuff. Yeah, sure
So this isn't this isn't my field and I I mean, I don't know
I know even less about egyptology than I know about the new testament and that's
That's telling
Um, but I this is the second time I've seen this presentation and I mean, I thought it was clear
Uh, I thought it was uh well argued
Um, I really particularly thought and I mentioned this to derrick earlier today. I think it's very important
um that
Derrick has pointed out
specifically that folk
Uh can do good scholarship
when he wants to and
To me what this illustrates most importantly is that his his shtick
On youtube is just that it's it's a shtick. He's playing a role
He's playing a part. He's playing up to an audience. Look
I'm
I'm a um, I'm a biblical scholar. I'm also a youtube content creator, but at no point
am I abandoning
my scholarship for the sake
of clicks or views or
um, you know to to um drive up
Content on my page the
And I think it should I I think that uh any of us who
Even outside of just my you know, my small little world of biblical studies or ancient history. I would imagine that any
Um academic who is also a content creator on youtube?
I expect that they they take this stuff as seriously as I do
And I think it's a it is appalling
That uh folk has demonstrated that he does not
And I I mean even in the latest so I would love to see nothing more than him actually humble himself
And do everything he can in his power to make amends
for harming and speaking the way he has and actually
Observably knowing we'd look and go we can tell like this guy's actually
You know
Realizing how messed up this isn't what he did not just so that he isn't in trouble
But much more of a of a conscious awareness of what he did in how this actual remorse, right, right?
And so um, you can see in the comments that he made on the community post where he was defending himself doubling down
And then he made statements that kind of pander to his audience again
Like you're talking about kib where he said the atheist mob or the atheist and it's like wow, you know
What's interesting the most I did honestly here is make this video and then mention that I have some stuff coming up
When I did that little 10 minute clip where I was mentioning we've got your presentation coming up
We've got the course we're working on and I'm going to be responding to some christian apologists who misrepresented me
But the people who actually were writing the letters
We're actually christians liberal progressive somewhere academics somewhere. Maybe not christian, but we don't know their affiliation
But they're not like atheist so you could tell it was to his audience
I'm sure some of them are I don't know some people never tell their position and that's fine. They're academics
But his audience saw that way
There's that tribalism, right? So we want to get to the facts. We want to get to the data and
Yeah, I don't know anything else
No, good way to go man. Thank you sir. Thank you. Uh, I think I
Let's answer some questions by god
Yeah, I enjoyed that like there's a lot of good things there and I hope people
Are you out? I got water. Okay. Okay. All right. We're about to chip away at these. I really appreciate the support
I hope that everybody um, doesn't mind we're having stavrak a pulu night stavrak
I say stavrak, but uh stavrak a pulu and um, it's been mispronounced. So I had to fix the pronunciation
And yeah, so this is her week in terms of uh chipping away at those previous interviews because her scholarship
and her eloquence and in her intelligence
Now for him, it's his bicep in his beard, but you know, what do I know?
Constellation pegasus is there jealousy because of the myth vision success. I'm lost on all this
I can't read his mind and I'm not going to make assumptions that
He made his
You know his jab at francesca because of jealousy. It wouldn't shock me if deep down
Well, I didn't get attention, you know, but I can't make the assumption to read anybody's mind
That I'm I'm with you
Okay, it wouldn't surprise me in the least if if there is an element of jealousy at play here
Can't know that of course. Yeah, but uh, it would make a heck of a lot of sense
Yeah, for sure max the confessor soy vision price falk sarcasm
Thank you for the super chat. Hey, uh, yeah, I know there's there's something to
This analogy I've been trying to tell, you know, I've been talking to michael jones and
And uh other people and saying like the same thing the difference is
While price never apologized
He didn't threaten and like act like in some way he's going to you know, get back and do this and that, you know
and I think that gives me an opportunity to speak on uh, dr. David falk
You you um, you would appear to be surprised
A little thrown off by the fact that people want you to do
Popcorn reviews of their videos. I don't know if you're aware of this
But I before you ever did it
Wanted you to do a popcorn review of my video. I heard from a
um
A friend a fellow apologist will not mention any names
That someone had sought you out to do a review of one of my videos
So I went and checked you out watched a couple of your videos got a pretty good grasp of who and what you are
And I absolutely encourage them. Yes, please for the love of no gods
Have him review do a popcorn review
I wanted it others want it. Yeah, if you don't understand why
Well, maybe maybe I can say that uh, folks popcorn reviews have uh,
sort of entered the same realm of
Of uh entertainment as uh kent hoven's wagon atheist
That's an interesting analogy. They're not identical though
No, they're not the same though. There's differences. Robin has charisma
The reason why dr. Falk is because you are an embarrassment and a hack
And we think it's funny when you do popcorn reviews of our videos. So please
continue doing them
All right. Thank you for that sentinel apologetics. Apparently I'm always low for you derrick
Is it row because there's rob low and there's rob row
I I don't know. I don't mean to rob low was that good-looking actor. Okay. Okay. He's still good-looking. He's like 60 years
Are you judging someone based on their looks? I'm just saying the only reason rob low got where he got was because he's a handsome
son of a baby
Helljumper explain child sacrifice in the Torah
Didn't we use that I feel like there's somebody who asked me that on our patreon by the way, but I could be wrong
um
well, uh, yeah, maybe maybe I should um
um say something about that so
um
to be clear
There is a there is the the um
Oh, yeah, we're just talking about the Torah here, aren't we? Yeah. Okay. So, um
The biblical text
Largely
condemns child sacrifice
um, and the reason for this is because
Uh, and scholars are are pretty unanimous about this. There are layers and layers of editing
of
traditions many of which
Have been overturned or corrected or clarified over time. So oftentimes it's not so easy
to find or or to see
the these natural expressions of child sacrifice or or an
an approval of child sacrifice, but they are in there. Um, and uh, uh also importantly
um
It you can you can get the sense that the the text itself is is is arguing
uh with
itself in large part because of this these editorial layers, which oftentimes are not that easily easy to
um extract from one another. Um, but I will say we have uh, we have a story of a child sacrifice in
uh, Genesis chapter 22 the akadah the binding of isek
um
commanded by Yahweh and uh, yes while in the text the uh, he he doesn't
Abraham never actually has to go through with it. He is certainly right. They're ready to do it
This is precisely what Yahweh asked him to do
There are later
rabbinic traditions in the midrashin, which uh, which actually say that the isek died that uh,
Abraham killed him and he was
resurrected
bodily
um, so there's one
um in the uh, book of exodus
There is an there there are instructions about saving the uh, the firstborn
son
uh, and sending him aside
for Yahweh
The text gets more explicit
Uh, I'm I don't have the references off hand. Um, I've talked about this before on this channel
Um, I will be talking about this more in my course through mvp courses. Um
But there there is another there there is a more explicit instruction in exodus
uh to uh
Uh, offer to me or give to me
Uh, the firstborn of your sons and also
of your flocks
Um, this is uh, this is a pretty clear indication to most scholars that this is an instruction
This is a request for a sacrifice
um, so there are a number of other texts
Scattered throughout the prophets and and there's instances within the uh, deuter in a mystic history of
kings who, uh, offered their children as
sacrifices
King Josiah
Literally sacrifices all the priests on an altar in Bethel
to Yahweh
So it's it's, uh, replete
throughout the text what has happened is as
um
time passed in the Babylonian
After the Babylonian at Loni in exile when these texts started to become
combined and redacted and edited and put together
When uh, Jewish religion really began to emerge and uh, these people became right pulsed by the idea
Of child sacrifices really when you saw
um, lots of uh, these sort of changes these this softening of what happened
in the distant past and in out of uh, a feeling of embarrassment and out of a
sense that this certainly
Certainly couldn't have been something that that Yahweh wanted but
I see a word about what are we going to do with it?
I see a trend with that because
It's not only that it's Hebrew Bible
You see this with the Greeks and they're philosophizing of Zeus and things like that
So the Zeus didn't rape these people resistance to this
It's an allegory part and parcel of the ancient Near Eastern and Mediterranean world
Scott Duke what has David Falk said about Dr.
Karakuni supposedly in the same field as him giving her since she's super chatted a good shout out for her book uh good kings
And she is a brilliant mind Egyptologist
So for those who don't know I think I might have to interview her again
Not just on the book but to dive into some of the stuff you discussed today there
Absolutely. Yeah, did she actually super chat?
Uh, no, she didn't stop did asking
I wouldn't be shocked if he's had something to say about her if he's clearly got something to say about actually in in one of his
clarifying comments about how
About what a great champion of women he is he did say I noticed that that he has commended the work of
Oh, really? Okay. Well, maybe it's because it's bible, right? So you're touching a sacred area for him
Don't talk about my my my my special sensitive belief system
That's probably the case. I don't know
I don't know. I mean, this is a guess on my part. Well, as long as you appreciate some women
It's okay for you to malign others. Yeah, of course
That's the way it works, right max the confessor. When do you date the first attributions of immateriality to divine beings?
In material that's just not something that I do
Yeah, if I had to take a stab at it that would begin more or less with uh, plato or Pythagoras
um, they appear to be the first ones to apply this
idea where um
Where it's not the body
That lives on and the hereafter it is it is a disembodied soul because the body
um
And what's funny about this is this actually is something on par with what paul is talking about
Though for paul it's almost a greco-judaic hybrid, right? It's still a body, but it's an imperishable
You know incorruptible spiritual body. I think as geese of her may she said that paul is more or less combining
um, Hellenistic ideas of his reader with his own jewish legacy
But um, but yeah, that begins with more or less with uh, plato or Pythagoras the notion of
The trends migration of the soul
The the the disembodied uh, the rebirth of a you know of the of the individual by the soul's release from the prison of the body
And so when we look at ancient egyptian beliefs about the afterlife a lot of people
Are looking at this anachronistically
Bringing platonic notions to bear on ancient egyptian conceptions of the hereafter
Which multiple egyptologists have pointed out that that is faulty
They absolutely believed in a monistic notion of man and they did believe that uh one lived on
in the netherworld with physical
corporeal
bodies
It was resurrection in the sense that they were restored to a bodily corporeal life
uh, so that kind of
Weaves nicely into uh precisely what i was talking about in this presentation. You can't read plato or Pythagoras
Into ancient egyptian religion. That's anachronistic things change over time
And in fact, I wouldn't even call it when we say immaterial that makes sense, but the idea that it's
non
Like almost it's like a spirit and has no, uh physicality to it
Even that's wrong with middle platinism because there's still a substance there like numma is breath and wind
It's spirit. It is something. Yeah, and they believed it was some form of a material
But not the same stuff that we have here. So it's very complicated philosophy
Or really a science if you will for them for any issue for sure changes over time. Thank you so much max
Zerg says question most christians do did believe jesus died physically was resurrected physically and walked around on earth
Not the underworld or heaven after his death matthew 28 8 through 10 luke 24 13 43
Okay, why disregard this we'll keep that in mind follow up to my previous question
If Osiris is resurrected in the underworld and jesus is resurrected physically on earth
Aren't they more different than similar?
So I don't know if this q&a came out before you may have. Yeah
See the first one first. Yeah, again in the later gospels
Yes, that is the idea that jesus is raised to continue an
impermanent existence
On earth prior to his ascension into the heavens
What we find when we look at the the earliest
um
Basically the the the pauline corpus the earliest stratum of the new testament is that the original idea
Was a resurrection exultation complex. So instead of this two-step process
Where he's raised from the dead hangs out with his buddies on earth for a little while and later ascends to heaven
The original preaching has conveyed by some of these texts is that he was raised directly to heaven
He spent no time on earth. He was exalted directly to the right hand of god. So my point was
If that qualifies as resurrection for them for those earliest christians
Uh paul refers to it as anastasis from the greek anishtimi to get up
If that qualifies as resurrection and why shouldn't it he is bodily restored to life
Despite the fact that he spends no time on earth afterwards
Then why shouldn't it also qualify as bodily resurrection for osiris?
Even though his is not an earthly soldier and either he passes on to another world
That is thematically or conceptually similar to the christian notion of heaven
But he is nonetheless bodily restored to life
So my point is that yeah, these are i mean the notion of a
Divine man or hero who's bodily restored to life
Passes on to another world
Uh becomes a judge of those uh in the hereafter or at the eschaton as it is in christianity
Uh and confers his resurrection apotheosis or immortality upon his followers
um, I would say despite any differences that this is uh a pretty clear
Analogy something and that is most certainly
Similar that is worthy of comparison when doing comparative religion
And just to add a note in this super chat. You notice something missing
um reference wise
No gospel mark
Yeah, I was thinking that I mean there's a point that we're trying to nail down
And if you haven't taken the mark course in vp courses where dr. Kipp's course is going to be as well on the real
Ancient israelite religion you don't want to miss. I know it's going to be good. Um marks missing
Mark's missing and the reason is the ending of mark is not there
The women were afraid and told no one the 12 did not get the message. This is a post war document
hint hint jerusalem and the church in jerusalem is off the scene
They didn't get it
But paul did and so there there's a good reason why you have this issue not coming up. It's an empty tomb
He's no longer in it
Gone ascended so there's a building up that takes place
And appearances happen later with romulus, you know, you have stuff like that. So there's a whole bunch we can get into but
Absolutely. Um, I think that answers both of zerg super chats, which are really interesting good questions to
Nail down the point that derrick's been trying to make in this episode. I really appreciate that
Moving on to the next super chat
Really appreciate those super chats. They help support us and keep us going
If it even if it is for our looks, you know
Constellation pegasus falc has to know about
Cities with the dates that continued before and after noah's flood
Does falc have any apologetics on those to me?
This is all by itself destroys the old testament and does christianity as well
Thank you constellation pegasus for the super chat. I don't watch
Much, I mean I've probably rarely watched anything you on the other at this is you know where I was going with this, right?
What is the question? Sorry, so I'm asking someone who actually watches
Ancient embarrassing. Yeah embarrassing
About cities which with dates that continued before and after noah's flood
Um, this is not something specifically that I remember ever coming up
um
I mean and I
Yeah, I would be guessing and I probably shouldn't about
About about uh, david falc's. Yeah, because I don't know about the flood. I don't know where he's
I don't know if he thinks it's a local if he thinks it's legend. Who knows where he's willing to go with it, but
Yeah, I'm sorry. I don't know. Yeah. Well, uh, dr. Faulk
We would love to see you do an apologetic on that one
I gotta tell you the three of us have had more fun in the last few days
Watching your videos and listening to you
You had purported that I was initially
furious
When your video first came out and that should tell you how the telephone game works, right?
Perhaps apply that to early christianity because uh, I sat and watched that in my bed in kentucky prior to moving here to the state of
Washington and I laughed my
Off would you laugh off my my booty?
I was not furious. I found it hysterical because of the number of fallacious
misleading arguments
Well, you know what if he is an egyptologist and only an egyptologist could really comment on such a thing so
Yeah, I take it back. Why don't I have why don't I see what's what's stored within the kernels of the park?
What
Thank you so much
Shannon q just showing support for exposing misogynistic clowns for what they are play stupid games win stupid prizes
Yeah, I
I would love to see people change
Of course, but in reality, that's not always the case and it's shown so far
That's what we saw in the chat with the sentinel apologetics was like why wouldn't you wait?
Why are they already doing all this give them time to apologize?
He did his follow-up and in fact all of this took place after he gave the fake apology
And guess who sent him a four and a half minute
audio on messenger trying to sway him this guy tried to save your butt dr
Should I play it?
Should I go right ahead?
I mean, I feel like everybody needs to be on the inside of this
The problem is nobody changes until it hurts so badly that they have to yeah, that's the reality
I'll play it swearing like a sailor. No. No, I don't at all. I don't think I maybe there are a couple words. I don't know
Hey, David, I just saw the apology on your community. Don't judge me. I'm trying to meet people where they're at. Here we go
And I appreciate I'll say it's a half apology
I appreciate the way that you're heading on this and I just spoke with michael jones
I'm friends with michael jones about this and I honestly think just
humbling and owning up to that
Making the accusation because even in the apology that you have I would rework this
And just accept and own that what was said was out of character because it still assumes in this
um in this apology
That francesca's work is not good and it's only because of her looks and her attractiveness
That she's brought on so you're trying to still say that in her case. She's not eloquent and spoken
She's not brilliant as a scholar
She's not a serious academic that people see as a bright mind in the field
But really it's just her appearance that still got her on bbc or any documentaries that she's done
I think it'd be just the best thing possible to honestly just say I made a mistake
And I personally don't find her scholarship good
But the remark I made in making assumptions about her intelligence or her scholarship sucking
Really shouldn't have said oh well
I think maybe she looks good and therefore a documentary is going to pick her up and it's not that she's got great scholarship
Many people in the world think her scholarship is excellent
And that she's top notch and she's great at what she does and it isn't just that she's a pretty girl
I mean she is a pretty girl, but it's not just that so if the comment was look, I get it
She's well spoken. She's taken serious in a field that kind of thing and it helps that she's not bad to look at
Well, that would have been far less quote-unquote sinful
Then making an outright she has horrible scholarship
And the only reason she's on this is because she looks good
And so I appreciate you making an attempt for an apology
but in this apology
you still
single her out as
Not the qualities that actually
Help her to want to be on a documentary because she's intelligent smart well spoken and knows what she's talking about
Rather she looks good and it has nothing to do with the other things
That that's how it comes across so you're you're you're still singling her out and trying to say I'm not speaking for all women
But this one I'm still I'm long winded. So I am working with this dude. I sent this to my everybody
I sent this to everybody. Dr. Josh. I sent this to people who are on his side
And they were like well said
people who agreed with him
were saying well said and they they hoped that he
gets it and
That's when I saw that he had you know, he was commenting
Harding people's comments in the in the post beneath like doubling down even further making up stuff
It was like, okay. He doesn't get it
It doesn't get it and let's clear the air about something else dr. Falk
You stated that the atheist
Horde is coming after you that is nonsense, but unsurprising coming from you
No, many of the people who have signed this petition
are actually from what christian
Actual christians themselves actual like from seminaries as well. Yeah, yeah, that's a signage from seminaries. Yeah
Yeah, I didn't even need to sign it but
You know, you can erase my name. You're still gonna have hundreds of signatures
I mean from real actual accredited people who you know are scholars and in fact
Some of them are from the same institution. He was from. Yeah, I saw at least one
So
Thank you. Shannon Q. We love you. We appreciate you. We hope that bubble bath is treating you right
I I feel like taking one right now. So, um pat lowinger in the house celebrity death match. Bring it on, baby
Bring it on. Well, I'm no dr. Falk, but
I think he uh, you do martial arts. Is that right dr. Falk?
Yeah, yeah, I think he does I think we all have two of us have as well. Yeah
Uh, Scott duke note none of falk's body parts were mentioned
This has been a pretty
Well, I was trying to keep my popcorn down. So
Thank you so much Scott duke appreciate you callin in thanks all for this myth vision
We highlighting a professor stavrak kulu's work
Uh exception exceptional work hoping god an anatomy book sells go through the roof as a result
I agree
And that's actually why i'm doing what i'm doing this week. I am putting her on the pedestal. She deserves it
She did not deserve that comment. I don't think she even knew this guy existed
So I'm sure she's a big fan now. Oh, yeah
Yeah, I think she's probably like, oh my gosh, here we are again
You know, she's had this happen before. Thank you callin
Zerg last one. I promise I just wanted to thank mr. Bennett for his in-depth explanations and myth vision for the great guest over the past few months
Thank you so much. You're very welcome zerg
Yeah, now his biceps are really what impresses us. That's why we have him
You don't know anything but you know
Constellation pegasus seeing folks emotions are leading to desperate defenses. He's a victim the way jahovah's witnesses are
Phd or not. He doesn't evidently have a clue. He's a victim of his faith pretty clear cut here
What do you say that 100
You agree
Thank you. I really appreciate that stupid horror energy. Thank you for the super chat
Dr. Falk is the dude that once said israelites are amorites
Do you know about this? No, I don't know about this either
Interestingly, there's people who watch him more than I do which is surprising
Wow
Well, I wonder why we did didn't he have a live stream last night? Yeah, wouldn't he talk my amorites?
Uh, he was I wasn't he was talking mostly about
So I guess yeah, maybe he's saying abraham was an amorite or something. Yeah, he did say abraham was an amorite
So technically the descendant and that's uh, and yeah that the whole point of the live stream last night was with the discovery of these
these new amorite tablets
He figures it'll overturn
the entire
Consensus regarding well, I find him very reliable. So if he says so
I'm on board
I'm here. Thank you for the super chat. I have better hair than kip davis exposed
who?
I don't I there's no picture. Do you think so? I don't know we tell from that picture
I'm not gonna lie. Your hair is pretty pretty amazing though. I figured it was coming
That's why I put the tube back back on you knew this person. I knew it. I knew it
Wow, I was I was ashamed
Thank you so much for that super chat
Pocket locker 86 jay in the house. Go subscribe to pocket locker for real jay. Thank you for the super chat
Academics across disciplines need to stick together and call out apologists for putting their faith ahead of their academic integrity
more frequently
I could not possibly agree with that more
You know who else would probably 100% echo this and I don't think probably I know they would richard c miller
Spoke to him recently. He said even in academia
This is a big issue. So like even real credentialed scholars. This is a serious issue
So jay, I really appreciate the love and uh, thank you so much. You're going to be doing a biology
We're going to be doing evolution at least evolution and sex in another course in
March sometime. I think maybe april
Either way looking forward to that two-time phd here that just super chatted. So
Um max the confessor how old is the reading of transmigration into ecclesiastes?
You know, no idea
I don't know either. No, but I take it that uh, because I think ecclesiastes, uh, does include the idea of
Of the release of the disembodied soul
Which is something you find in hellenism?
Uh, which kind of clues us in to the the likelihood that ecclesiastes is probably from the hellenistic period. Yeah
Dude that
amazing
Somebody named digital hamarabi
says
Dr. Josh
Atheologica, I like you more than a friend
I'm too. I'm too shy. I'm too shy
I'm gonna tell you
Dr. Josh while I can't figure out the presuppositional foundational metaphysical
presupposition of the presupposition and why knowledge and everything exists
And uh, why we exist why there's anything at all rather than nothing you ground your ultimate reality
Exactly. I have no grounding like you shouldn't really listen to me
I want to say you have not only
Your you and megan are not only in this is serious. I'm joking with the first part
Are are some of the nicest people I've ever met in my life
um when I went to your house
And I asked you for this very mac that me derrick and kip are looking at
Can I buy this from you since you guys had it down in your basement and nobody was using it?
I mean you guys might have turned it on once every month
And uh, you said let me ask her and then you went upstairs came back down and says
Now we're not we're not selling it
You're gonna have to take it for free. And I was just like
what?
um
You know, you didn't have any plan on putting that on twitter. In fact, you never did you never put that on a social media
You just helped a person out someone you see as a friend and when I heard the way that
Falk came at you in the past
I wanted to do anything I could to try to
Mitigate to try and stop that from happening now kip didn't care
You know, he's kind of dead inside somewhat. Yes. Okay. Yes, and he he really didn't care
He's like let falk say what he wants
I'm gonna hit my heavy metal and then just smash his ridiculous biblical nonsense that he tries to bring up
And I knew that you have a heart. So I was like, let me go try and stop this from happening
So that's where this all began really including me in it. But thank you so much for uh,
pointing out my flaws on
epistemology you can't even
instantiate the necessity of the preconditional
Ultimacy ground for all being for provision of all possible
Impossibilities of essential. That's what I've been saying this whole time. That's exactly what I've been saying. Yeah
I mean, everybody really believes in god. They just some will say they don't but really right pressing suppressing knowledge
That's pretty much the point. Yeah, isn't it dr. Josh Bowen?
I just have to say that having the opportunity to speak with you directly
the other day and then
Spending all of this time with kip davis
here in the house, um, it's
It's been a huge disappointment. Um, I was
I was expecting a lot more
Wow
Thank you, josh appreciate you. I really do a mirror again
pt 561 c it says the person worships osiris
And makes a spell and remains alive forever in the afterlife spells were accessible to elites. Everyone else was screwed
That's false
um, this idea that so initially, uh, I think in the old kingdom
um, it was only the pharaohs the kings
who uh, were allowed to be assimilated to osiris and thereby be raised to eternal life
Whether in the sky or in the netherworld below
um
over time this process was democratized
So that literally anyone who could afford the basic, uh, necessities
Could that's why we have the coffin texts for instance. This, you know
Over time it became democratized to where even commoners
Uh, could experience this apotheosis or resurrection in netherworld via the death and resurrection of osiris
so, um, that's I once had a uh, I took a
A master's level course in magic and mysticism at the university of
of uh, or university of southern indiana some years ago and my
Professor had actually stated this that it was only it was restricted to the kings. I had to correct my professor
I was like, no, no, no, that's actually not true
um
Greetings scholars like sgf brendan and murch aleate and others
This was democratized over time so that even the commoners or anyone who could afford the basic necessities
Could become an osiris. I wanted to take it to biblical for a second and point out
Uh, yonatan adler and others are like starting to realize these texts while they're very old often and uh, they seemed at least predate when
Common judaism the religion itself for people
Rises it makes me want to kind of analogize here and think
Were these texts really in elitist priestly religion and not for the common folk?
So in one way it's go ahead. So I just I just recorded a lecture today
in which I go into
the uh
I go into a basic, uh history
of the text
um
Which most scholars I think would uh, would agree that uh, the the layers
within the hebra bible that actually do
stretch back into
uh, the first temple period
um, are part of a royal religious program
This is all very much restricted to what's going on in the jerusalem chapel
I even called it the jerusalem chapel the jerusalem temple, which is little more than a royal chapel
It's connected to the house of the king. It was erected. It was built by the king in an effort to
um consolidate his his power as a as a ruler as a as a leader
But the reality is that for most of the people who lived in the area who were properly
um
israelites or judaites, uh, they they
likely never even set foot
Inside the temple never even saw the inside of the building
Most of them may not have even entered
Into the city of jerusalem. So when you read texts like in, uh, joesah
Sorry, uh, second kings chapter 23 when joesiah is undertaking his cultic reforms
um, it says that the whole nation
came and gathered
at the temple to listen
to the reading
of the uh, the book of the law the the sefer hakrota. Um
Think about the uh, think about this in practical terms. I mean the temple mount is big
but
You're not getting the whole country in there
You're probably not even getting the whole city in there. And if you're not in there, you can't hear
what's going on
No, most of this stuff happened in this tiny little little square patch of land
On top of the mountain where the acropolis in jerusalem stood and that's it
Just a shout out. We do have an ma
In egyptology
And we've been noticing this while you were doing your presentation
Deviant outcast and they have been praising you this whole time by the way physical resurrection the whole nine right in a body
Pt pyramid text old kingdom and end of the old kingdom circa 2400 2300 bc
The reference is correct. The conclusion's wrong Derek's on point again
Thank you. You've been vindicated
Really appreciate that my friend. Please email me. I'd be happy to
Dive into egyptology and educate people on more mythology
Dalai Lama. I have no hair, but I still mosh like a fiend. Yeah, man life
You do it
I really really appreciate that
Seriously, okay, so we've caught up on any q&a. I'm gonna turn off the thing just to round up here
Uh, whether it be in a if you feel like super chatting feel free to but we're kind of the end of the uh, the stream here
Resurrection
That's really the topic that you deal with today
bodily resurrection
There's a in in this spot that you specifically pointed out
There seems to be a place on earth at one point physically in the body before he goes to the netherworld. He's justified
Right. So the point you're trying to get at is whether or not he was there for one day 40 days 100 days
The gospel say one day eight days or seven and john one says 40
One says one day one almost says instantly from the tomb up after he dies and is buried
The point is it's not about the sojourn here
Grant the sojourn in any mythology. Cool. There might be differences there. Got it
You're saying the point is they're no longer here. They're going to that other
Place they have to right or else. How do you explain they're not being anywhere around?
You know
Asclepius has been raised by Zeus and immortalized
Well, you can't go to his temple and see him unless he appears to you
From his exalted status from heaven Romulus
Appears to proculus Julius and then ascends on high
They all have to be taken up
Right into the heavens or go below into another world either which way it's phenomenologically
The same kind of idea
If you're going to claim that someone lives forever
But they're nowhere on earth where you can actually see them then in order to be able to
retain that belief
You have to make the the belief
Unfalsifiable
By suggesting that they have gone to another realm. It happens for jesus. It happens for romulus. It happens for osiris
It happens for osclepius
It's the same kind of
Motif that is required
In order to retain that unphosphiable idea
I definitely second that
They all have that right the moses actually was taken up into heaven
Elijah Elijah you name it enok
All them anyway. No, sorry. I was just gonna say I just love listening to derrick say realm
Realm. Yeah, I'm like realm. I'm always like to another realm realm. You're like realm realm. I'm from kentucky
You know cut me some slack. I am a slack job idiot and I left my overalls home
Shad man, thank you for the super chat much love derrick any thoughts on genesis 1924
Remind us of the uh, do you know this is uh, yeah, I just pulled it off this is um
This is the verse which uh
um, this is in the story of um
The destruction of sonam and gemora and this is the verse
When uh, yaqui rains down fire
uh from the sky
On sonam and gemora
Hmm
So any thoughts on that would don't you get into this part actually in the course a little bit about oh, yeah
I have a stranger's I have a hole
Uh in in one of my lectures. I have a whole section
Where we go in depth
into the story of sonam and gemora
it's my uh
It's the homosexual gang rape lecture. Hmm
So yeah, it's the the course is going to be quite
Um, but hopefully good. Yeah, I'm just saying like it's not like you're not like holding back
You're really putting in so and I I should say too like this is a so this is a course that I taught for
um
A few years at a at an a christian evangelical university
um, so I've uh, I've redeveloped it and uh, this is the first time I'm presenting it for a non
Uh non-confessional audience, which is pretty exciting because it does provide me the opportunity to
um
Explore I guess different uh different areas that I was not necessarily
Encouraged to do when I uh when I used to teach
Absolutely. So real quick here
Make sure you subscribe to a theologica. Derek Bennett busted his hump
Did this presentation?
Um, he's got a lot of material on here one of my favorites till this day
Is your is your origins of yaoi video that I always love going back to?
The origins of y'all it's got the most views. I think on your channel too, doesn't it? Uh, yes
56 000 views now, but of course
This is a very fringe idea that I'm bringing to the table that yaoi
Was a storm god with a body. I mean you don't find that anywhere in scholarship. It's just odd. It's it's odd. It's odd
but people really like it because um, they're doing theology by uh
Cupsize I guess I was gonna say theology by artwork. So they watched it. It's because it's got like probably
Just beautiful images in it. They don't care about what you say. It's just you know, that's really what's going on
I pinned this uh youtube channel up um in the chat and i'm hoping everybody watching will subscribe
I also put it in the description
And I do want to try and grow his youtube channel. We got to get derrick way more than this
He hasn't been able to do this full time in the past. He was working part time. Um, was it a stripper or what were you
What were you working as? Yes, I was working for uh, um, oh god's what chippendales. That's right
They they uh, they fired me for being um, hotter than the rest of the guys. Exactly. Exactly. I was I was too attractive
Was the issue and then you'll have that once you've got the fog. Yes, please subscribe
Let's grow derrick's channel help support what he's doing. I also want to plug kip here
Kip you got some stuff working here as well, man. You didn't have to join us, but I was like, please join us
um
You've got some stuff growing man 7.29. How many subscribers did you grow since we did? Uh over 200
Wow, okay. So we're growing. Yeah, okay. And what do you have coming up with your? So, uh part two
of the uh, Dead Sea Scrolls
Unapologetically is dropping this week
And that one's on the patreon right now. So if you don't want to watch the patreon now
Um, so if you can't wait join the patreon, but uh, but I will be publishing it on youtube this week
Speaking of which you got a patreon as well
Please absolutely whatever you can contribute
To my patreon and to in order to support my ongoing work would very much be appreciated and um
I need to make a point of of interacting there more and I think I'll have more time to do so now
That uh, derrick has given me an opportunity to just go at all of this stuff full time without the concerns of a part-time job
Getting in the way. So uh, I'll uh, I'll I'll bring you all some goodies like Santa
Constellation Pegasus said I had an elder say enok was killed by jojoba
Because the crowds were going to do bad things to him a mercy killing of sort. Well, that's interesting
Never heard of that. No, no, that's
Not very consistent with the text
right
Hmm
Seriously go support both of these guys
You already know I plug mine all the damn time and I really want this to be about not me
No, I really want this to be like I want to grow these guys. I want our community to stick together
I am quite impressed with what recently took place and how we really bonded really quick to support
The ugly acts that were taking place
against friends of ours
People who've been mistreated a lot for the for the very same reason, right? They look good. They're not smart
I disagree with the scholarship. They're women
Yeah, I mean like really so, um
That infuriates me if anything not any of your popcorn reviews. It's what you said
and
Guess who's getting front row seats the whole week
professor francesca stavrakapulu
So thank you all hit the like button drop a comment share this with somebody
Go check out these guys and subscribe to their channel. Tell them you came from myth vision
Let's change the world together. You know what I mean? You got to do it one mind at a time
Thank you
We're gonna do an outro. What do you say?
outro outro
music
music
