We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
We're talking about Scientology, yes, the cult of Scientology.
And I have a veteran, someone who really knows the inside story when it came to Elron Hubbard,
and it's development, this cult back in the day when she was living on the ship with Elron
Hubbard.
And that is Karen Delacarriere.
Welcome back to MythVision.
How are you?
Derek.
Derek, it seems forever a mystery.
A mystery.
You as well.
I really hope everybody takes the time to go and subscribe to your YouTube channel, surviving
Scientology.
You got a new banner up here, letting everybody know to go subscribe, hit the videos, make
sure you subscribe, hit the bell, but check out the videos.
There's some videos that we've done in the past.
If you missed them on our channel, you can check them out on her channel.
Really fun stuff.
I mean, it goes on and on.
And in fact, bumping into you, I didn't realize, I mean, I realized that Scientology was a
little bit nutty, but I didn't realize it was this intense.
So please, Karen, there's this figure who showed up in 1986, standing at a podium, pronouncing
that Elron Hubbard had left this body to enter into what?
My research.
Yes.
And who is this man that we call David Muscavige?
And you know, take us into this if you don't mind.
David Muscavige was a kid who always had asthma.
And his parents brought him into Scientology because book one kind of says, you know, we
can kill headaches.
You got migraines, you got asthma, bad eyesight, piece of cake, we can handle that.
So his parents brought him in and he came to St. Hill as a youngster.
He didn't do schooling beyond like 12 years old.
However, he got into the Scientology doctrines very, very well.
And I need to tell you a quick little story because the rest of his life followed this
same pattern.
He was known as a child prodigy at 12 years old.
He could do counseling and do the exact procedures.
Nowadays, there's cameras in every counseling room recording everything you've been watching.
In those days, 1972, 1973, there was no such thing.
And guess what?
He punched his own client, his own piece, they call it Pre-Clear, his own, the girls
sitting there to get Scientology counseling got punched violently by the counselor, unheard
of, unheard of, and St. Hill was the pinnacle.
There was no flag, land, basin, play, water, there was no free wind, it was the place you
went to and it was an earthquake.
It was, it literally shook the foundations and she came out, doubled up after this counseling
session with David Rescavige.
And a camera crew was following him around because they had a monthly magazine called
An Afternoon at St. Hill.
That's the campus.
They were following him around, he said, 12-year-old, look, look what Scientology can even make
a 12-year-old be magical.
After this incident, the camera crew folded.
There was no magazine, and in fact, the whole magazine went out of publication, An Afternoon
at St. Hill, after David Rescavige punched his own client, his own PC.
So the urge to punch savagely was in him, even when he was 12 years old.
That's the reason I told you this.
His mother, whom I counseled, Loretta, she put up some pictures of the family, Loretta
used to call him Little Hitler.
Can you imagine the nickname of a youngster in a family, Little Hitler?
What?
He was called Little Hitler because when he would go off like a firecracker, he could
beat, punch, slam.
He went wild like a guy in wrestling or boxing.
You couldn't stop him.
He would punch, punch, punch, punch, punch.
So Little Hitler was just sort of an analogy of a violent person who wouldn't stop on
any limit, had no limitations.
So this guy, at 12 years old, Scientology allowed, has always allowed youngsters to join
the SEAL.
He joined the SEAL without schooling, no college, no university, nothing like that.
Youngster, like 13-40, youngster, got into Hubbard.
So the monster we have today, who's brutal, is the exact result of Scientology doctrines.
You got a comment?
You got a comment, Derek?
Oh, I mean, it just, you phrased it before like he's just a mob boss.
And typically, you wouldn't think, like, all right, let's just use a modern example.
If we found out a 12-year-old did something violent today, hurt somebody, we might go,
now look, okay?
That's not good, okay?
But you're not going to carry that the rest of your life.
You made some mistakes as a young kid, maybe you have anger problems, whatever.
It's when you start to find out there's a pattern here.
And once we see that it goes on into more examples, then it becomes a huge issue to point out.
And you know what's also hypocritical about this?
I bet anything, I'll bank on it, that if a kid today were in Scientology auditing somebody
and did that, he'd boot him out on the street, publicity.
But he can do it, and don't worry, it's okay, because it's him.
It's one of those people can get, they're above the law, so to speak, they can do whatever
they want and get away with it.
And he seems to be this figure.
So yeah.
Well-spoken, Derek, very succinct, well-spoken.
I was right there when I didn't, I wouldn't say, but I was right there.
Same day, you were in the same building, you were right nearby.
I was at one intern at the time.
And the intern supervisor said, now, we all know what happened with Ms. Kavich.
There is to be no more gossiping about this, we're going to put it in mothballs and end
it.
There's not going to go on and on and on.
We're going to put it to rest.
And I want you all to know, you are forbidden to keep discussing this very unfortunate incident.
We were ordered to shut up and not speak about it.
And the very next day, Ron and Ms. Kavich, whom you interviewed, the father, took it
a couple of days late.
First, they were banned from the campus.
The family were told to stay away.
And in a couple of days, they went back to Philadelphia because they were only in England
for Scientology Services.
So they were kicked out of the world.
Who's the family?
Just to make sure we're on the same page.
Is this the family that David at 12 punched?
It's father, mother, and sister, brother, because the siblings, the whole family was
humanism.
I sent you a picture of the family.
You can put it up there.
Now, one day, I was having dinner with Marty Rathburn, who was the second-in-command under
David Ms. Kavich's henchman for 20 years, who then came out and did whistle-blue and
went to Tampa Bay time.
Marty became a huge...
Now he's flip-flopped again.
But I was having dinner with Marty and I told Marty the story.
And I said, you know, Marty, I'm not going to post this because people will say, ah,
she was punished severely by Ms. Kavich.
There was six months.
She's got an extra crime.
She's just embellishing something, blah, blah, so I'm not going to post it.
The very next week, somebody in Australia who was at St. Louis at the time posted the
whole story.
And I went in immediately under that time and said, I was there.
I was from...
We were all forbidden to...
I was right there.
We were forbidden, muzzled, and gagged to talk about it.
So then I told my version and then other people jumped in who were there.
So the story was corroborated by people.
I wasn't the first to initiate whistle-blue.
I only corroborated.
See, Australia banned Scientology.
It was banned.
So a hundred Australian families left Australia and went to England to do Scientology.
So it was flooded with Australia.
That's why these Australians...
Can you imagine?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's that serious that the whole country was not having it.
It was bad.
It was bad.
It's not good.
It was just bad.
But you know, you wonder, Derek, you deal in all kinds of religions.
How does a small little cult of 30,000 members, how does it bubble up to government level?
I'll tell you why.
They treat people so incredibly, hideously, that people run to their senator or their
congressman or their councilman, they run and report what happened.
Yeah.
This eventually climbs up the command chains where people get, I mean, hundreds of congressmen
in the United States have received letters of how they are bankrupt because Scientology
ripped them off.
If people write, they write letters, they complain.
So eventually it becomes a government issue.
What is this?
What are we allowing here?
Right?
Okay.
So that was David Rizkiewicz as a youngster.
Now, L. Ron Hubbard demanded $1 million in cash weekly in a suitcase we sent to him when
he was hiding.
$1 million every week.
This has been corroborated in at least six different books by different authors who fact
checked $1 million.
So David Rizkiewicz would scam off cash from all these and he was serving Hubbard.
He was delivering a million dollars a week to put in the ranch where Hubbard was hiding
out from the IRS.
So he became a favorite of L. Ron Hubbard, $1 million a week.
He accomplished it.
I don't exactly leave Scientology for him to leave the dictator, but he certainly didn't
handle it.
He would put out a kind of triage that churches for technology had to manage RTC, RTC had to
manage.
There's a labyrinth of networks and there were checks and balances.
David Miscavige threw all that out the window once Hubbard died.
I mean, that's just unreal.
It's so crazy how this, it just blows me away how this movement stayed alive in light of
this.
That's what really gets me.
Yeah.
It really, it really, it's had survival, no question about it.
But a lot of things have had huge survival.
Right.
Right.
Who was the guy who had millions of dollars who was slaughtered, not the Syrian, who was
this guy who was butchered on the streets of, they got him Middle East.
Are you talking about butchered on the streets?
They absolutely, he was, he had billions of dollars.
I'll give you the name to just add it to the text.
So you can have billions of dollars and you can still come up proper.
Look at Jeffrey Epstein.
Yeah.
He had, didn't he have a few billion?
Wasn't he a billionaire?
Yeah.
He's a billionaire.
Yeah.
And he's in jail.
And he lost it decades, 20, 30 years of daily pedophilia and he lost it.
So you can't have a shelf life, but you do have an expiration date.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So how many, how many times would you say that he's done this violent act?
Because we hear people seeing documentaries.
I've heard many interviews where they talk about this.
And when they're saying it, you know, I try to be skeptical even of them, these people
who are trying to say he did this or he did that, but when you see it and you're watching,
I can't imagine that these are actors.
These, I mean, like these people seem legit.
And I'd say that as someone who's never been in Scientology, has never met this guy, whatever,
because I try to, you know, be cautious when I hear things.
But hearing you tell me that this is what's going on when you were in the movement, knowing
people who went through this, it's like, without a doubt, there has to be truth to this.
I can't, I can't see any other way of looking at this, but that there is a reality to him
being physically and verbally abusive to his fellow Scientology followers, or if you
will, people who are in Scientology.
Let's put it that way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
About 12 different people who were personally punched or body slammed to the floor or punched
in the gut and stomped on by David Miscavige, went to Tampa Bay Pines on video, on camera.
Knowing they were off and retaliation, they still did it.
And CNN, I guess, media watched each other, got so intrigued that they did a whole show
called Scientology, a History of Violence.
And it went on, it was a serial, day after day after day for 10 days, Monday to Friday
in the fall, Monday to Friday.
I've got every show on my YouTube channel, but again, these people who already talked
to Tampa Bay Times, then told Anderson Cooper of CNN about the meetings.
And Lottie Rathburn, second in command, said, at in-place, there was a meeting every day,
every day, Miscavige believed in management by punishment.
Right.
But not punishment, just, I mean, he would give a lot of, the first thing you got was
sleep deprivation.
You weren't allowed to go sleep in your bed.
You had to go sleep in the field, in the wilderness.
And to punish people sleeping in the wilderness, Miscavige would order other stuff to turn
on the hoses and water them down.
Huge hoses would go off to people who have no pillow, no blanket, they sleep, they're
exhausted, they're sleeping, and water showers them so they're French and what?
This is the kind of, this is Scientology conduct, this is Scientology punishment.
What?
I think Hubbard would throw people overboard into water.
So water torture or water punishment at some point became Scientology culture.
You know, one thing you said that really stuck out to me as an outsider is, you know, if
you're trying to be skeptical, as my audience is very skeptical, think about what Karen's
saying here.
There's a law of retaliation.
She said that and immediately this is one of those like big red flags that came to my
attention is like, they, like you would imagine, for example, Michael Jackson, right?
People are going to come out and they're going to have fake stories.
Some might be real.
Some might be fake about allegations towards what he may or may not have done.
They're going to do it for the publicity and they're going to do it for attention.
With Scientology, you're not asking for that kind of publicity.
In fact, you're not going to get what you would in a situation like Michael Jackson.
You're going to get wrath.
You're asking for the worst and they know that.
So why would they make this up to go and get absolutely hung on a cross and crucified
on purpose?
To me, it just seems counterintuitive and it seems more probable that these cases in
all effects are real because these are the very people who have been fair-gamed as well
for these actions, for what they're saying.
So they're being punished for doing this and yet they still come out and speak out.
So I'm quite impressed with their courage to do that.
Scientology, well spoken, that's good, that makes sense.
Scientology is maniacal regarding passion.
It seems like there's no negotiation.
There's no sitting you down and trying to talk it through to say, you know, this wasn't
so good.
Can you try this?
There's no problem.
There's only a whip down, you dog.
We'll teach you to not do that again.
There's only a piece of trash and the vulgarities that David Muscavige used, oh my God.
They were posted over and over again on Marty Rathman's blog, even my friend's blog.
Oh my God.
He would use the female genitalia on women that she's an effing sea, you know what I
mean.
And talk about body mouth, every text he would write, you mother effing, just the language
was of a monster and yet he tried to say unequivocally to the pope.
He would try to say the crazy article, but he talked like the dirtiest, the language
was used, the foul language, and it would be so unnecessary.
So David Muscavige took power, Hubbard died, and then became the age of brutality, just
brutality.
But by now people were locked in, they had left their families, they lived on campus
in the base, and there was a meeting every day, Tampa Bay Times.
I have a lot of, I mirror some of the Tampa Bay Times.
These people just came forward and talked about it.
The very first book that revealed all the meetings was by Mark Hedley called Blown
for Good.
Blown.
See Blown?
Blown.
We define blow, escape, Blown for good means he's gone for good, right?
And he leaked a lot of these stories and then people say, write a book, write a book.
So he wrote the book and he was interviewed by major media all over the world.
And he, you know, the book is right there, the cult has never been able to stop the publication
or the distribution or anything.
So that's the Bible on the meetings called Blown for Good.
And Ms. Kavich needs protection like any good mobster.
So this exploiting money and getting every dime, getting the gold out of your teeth if
they could, give it to them, give money, give money.
It's to pay to firewall him with many law firms and private investigators to protect
him and give him power and sustainability.
That's how he's protected.
Derek, you think of some poor district attorney in his budget and the thought of taking on
a cult with $3 billion and 11 law firms against, do you see why a local DA won't get into it?
What is his budget compared to a huge, and Scientology is known to be litigious, right?
So however, the Department of Justice has like 1200 lawyers, Department of Justice
and you would say, why on earth do the irons give them taxes?
I know people who worked very, very hard because they felt Scientology is being wacky.
They're off the rails because they owe the IRS a billion dollars back taxes, blah, blah, blah.
Let me help get them tax exemption.
And once they get it, they'll all relax and they'll become good guys again.
All this endless punishment and this, this agitation that all this madness will stop.
That's what people believe.
There's one.
Once they've got tax exemption, the punishments will go, ire, wall, they were now untouched.
They didn't lower the punishments.
They escalated the punishments.
Any comment?
Wow.
Just, I mean, I'm already seeing him when he was saying, we did it, we won.
I can see him talking about, we won the war.
Like, he's a militant.
He's called a war.
You see his mindset.
Yeah, war, battles, violence.
The win-win.
Yeah.
He called it a war, a battle.
He thinks in terms of combativeness and how he can beat and bash the other person.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Now, the one thing that we see this picture as we're wrapping things up for this episode,
because we really could go on and on about David and this is, you know, the picture you're painting, right,
is the behind the scenes reality of what's been done to many countless people.
But then there's this video that we want to play.
So before we play that video for everybody to see here at the end,
what would you like to finish off this episode by letting them know?
Well, I want to say how Miss Kavich, in a way, helped me exit Scientology forever.
I said something I should not have said.
That's all.
I just verbally said something.
What I said was a couple of very high executives, Jesse Prince and Vicky Esmeralde,
were removed from post.
I told some of that.
My punishment was to go to In Base, the hierarchy, because I was located in Los Angeles.
And the chief of security told ABC TV, I was ordered.
David Miss Kavich came to me and said, that de la Carrière, cunt,
and I love to say that for them.
He said, work how manicured fingers to the bone.
That was the order.
Chief of security knew what that meant.
We didn't have to say work are like a slave or a dog.
He said, work how manicured fingers to the bone.
That meant cut her down to size, right?
And I had six months of the most horrible existence this lifetime.
Hard labor.
Hold out a bed at two in the morning for interrogatories.
It was, it was, it was bad.
It was rough.
I was separated from my two year old son.
I was a new mother with a two year old.
He was in Los Angeles.
I was two hours away from Los Angeles.
And he had been sent to Germany.
My husband at the time.
The international person because Germany was just simply blowing up.
They didn't want Scientology in Germany.
I was blowing up to high head.
So he was gone.
I was forced to meet at the hierarchy in base doing manual labor torture.
And my two year old, I didn't know who would take him up from the nurse who would even,
he was a two year old orphan.
Scientology could care less.
They're going to punish you.
You come here.
You donkey slave down.
So I had a two year old completely separated from his parents.
And this went on for six months.
But this was the beginning of the end for me.
I realized.
Whatever pipe dream I had.
And Miss cabbage personally ordered all of this.
So when I reveal stuff and people say, oh, she just has an axe to grind.
No, I'm speaking truths.
Go look up just Google Scientology.
David Miss cabbage.
Go, go, go, go, Google on YouTube.
Scientology.
They have teams of people were moving at one point.
If you Googled David Miss cabbage assault and battery.
You got something like 7,000 hits.
If you put David Miss cabbage meetings in Google.
You got 3,900 hits.
Google would tell you how much this.
His meetings were reported.
They have teams of people on mission.
Handling these websites and deleting and doing takedown.
All they were doing was protecting his image.
He's very, very much wants a good image.
So over to you now.
Yeah, reminds me of how he treasures his image.
Here is the video of him treasuring his image again.
Small man syndrome thinking he's bigger than what he is and he has to hurt others in the process to remain that way.
But check out this video and just look at his face when he gets these compliments and you hear the applause of the people.
Thank you.
Now, I thank you Mr. Cabez.
Now I need to thank you Mr. Miss cabbage because I consider that teaching by example is not just a way of teaching.
It is the only way and you are the best example.
I express a huge recognition to my husband Vadim who was always with me in the most difficult times.
I want to express my gratitude to the entire team of GKPCH Russia, the team of international GKPCH, the staff of the Moscow Organization of Moscow and Los Angeles, and also the chairman of the CRT.
Thank you.
Without you, we would not have achieved what we have now.
I want to thank my husband Vadim who was always beside me when things got rough.
I want to thank all the CCHR Russia team, the team at CCHR International, CRT members in Moscow and Los Angeles, and COBRDC.
Without all of you, we wouldn't have accomplished what we did.
Thank you.
This boy ain't even warmed up.
I'd like to thank my wife and family for their help and support.
I'd like to thank staff of all missions, orgs, C-org, RTC for keeping the tech pure, and you Mr. Miss Cabez, for everything that you do, sir.
Thank you.
And thank you so much for checking out this episode.
Be sure to like the video on your way out, and go subscribe to Karen's YouTube channel.
If you want to help support us, you can also join the Patreon. There's so much more.
We are MissVision.
Thank you.
