Does this mean everything I've believed in for so long has all been a myth?
Oh my god.
It'll be a voice that shakes the very foundation of the pit itself.
And it'll hear a voice that stops the fall.
It'll hear a voice that shakes hell.
It'll hear a voice that hell responds to.
It hears the voice of the maker, the master, the creator, the lord of the universe.
And hell itself begins to rise.
Higher it comes, up to the surface.
All for a fleeting moment.
The soul has been burning for a thousand years.
May have one moment of thought of respite.
Possibly I can be forgiven.
May be God has changed his mind.
Or maybe an opportunity.
I'll repent.
Oh Jesus, I'll repent.
I'll repent Jesus.
But it's too late.
Oh shit.
Music playing
Music playing
MythVision Podcast
Hey guys, Derek Lambert here.
I'm one of your hosts and Dr. Luther G. Williams, as you all know, is working on his book.
I wanted to talk about deconstructionism, right?
A little bit of thinking outside of the box with the text of Scripture.
As we deconstruct, as we start to exit and question the whole validity of the Bible,
the whole validity of whatever the text may be, New Testament, Old Testament, whatever,
as we deconstruction, I want you guys to kind of get, and a lot of you watching this
are probably already well past what I'm going to discuss here.
However, I'm going to mention it just so that you guys can kind of get where I'm going
from what I mean when I say I'm deconstructing, okay?
For example, I don't buy the narrative.
What do I mean by I don't buy the narrative?
I'm going to give you an example.
A man named Jesus Christ came to earth, right?
He came to save his people from their sins.
According to Matthew, the Gospel, chapter 1, verse 21, he shall save his people from
their sins, right?
It's this idea that he legitimately came to die for the sins of his people.
The narrative makes it seem that he came to die for his people, and that's it.
He died for their sins.
Well, Christianity's foundation, according to Paul, was that Jesus was crucified, died,
and rose again.
Not going into what that means or what that is, okay?
The narrative usually is espoused that this man named Jesus came, and he actually died
for the sins of his people.
And I hear people who are in deconstruction as well who use this against people who believe
by saying, look, he only came to die for the elect.
That would be like a Calvinistic predestinarian type concept, right, a limited atonement,
right?
There's also the Israel-only-proponent position that says, look, he only came to die for Israel,
and that's not what I'm here to talk about today, okay?
I don't deny that the text is limited in scope in so many ways.
You can run to scriptures that sound universal, but then you see these scriptures that are
very limited, and you go, well, what the hell, did he only die for some or all?
Anywho, I'm not dealing with that.
I'm not going into the theology of the text.
I'm saying when you start to exit the box, the whole deconstructing your mind from what
you once believed.
I call it drinking the Kool-Aid.
When you're done drinking the Kool-Aid to get tipsy off the text, okay?
You now question the validity of the text.
You look at the text and you say, was there really a guy who came on the scene and says,
look guys, I'm going to be lifted up on a cross to die for your sins?
Do you buy the narrative?
If you don't, now we're getting somewhere.
You actually believe these miracles really occurred, that a man actually healed the blind
with spittle.
He took a little dirt, spit it, rubs it in his hands, come here my friend, and he rubs
it on his eyes and blah, go wash your eyes and you'll see at this pool.
He goes and washes his eyes and people looked like trees, but then they began to look like
men.
Okay?
Do you really buy that narrative?
And I say that because even Vespasian, you know, he was part of his own cult and there
were followers of him and Vespasian the emperor who reigned during the destruction of the
Jerusalem temple, which I think is so central to the gospels and the narrative of the New
Testament.
Anywho, he heals a man, a blind man with spittle as well.
Did they both heal blind men with spittle?
Which one's a lie?
Which one's true?
I digress.
The point is, looking outside of the box or thinking outside of the box is saying, what
is really going on here?
That's what I'm looking at.
I stopped looking for supernatural explanations because to me, I want to try and find a natural
explanation before I try to assume a supernatural explanation.
So for example, if you're dealing with a full preterist, for example, which is more
akin to me in terms of the where I came out of, that was the furthest I got within Christianity
was full preterism.
And you recognize that the text gives you time statements that are relevant to a certain
situation which had to happen within the first century.
Anything beyond that, you're stretching the text.
You're really stretching your own assumptions into the text.
You're trying to make something to come.
It looks like it's all about to happen very soon.
If it didn't happen, then it's a false prophecy.
However, there are those who are like me who say, this had to be written after the fact.
This is why the Gospels were written after the fact.
They know too much about the temple's destruction.
So they had to be written after the temple destruction.
Well, people call that prophecy.
I call that retro-officy is written after to look as though it is prophecy.
It's like writing about 9-11 right now.
I write about 9-11 in prophetic terms by utilizing some type of religious text, preferably
the Old Testament, for example, as they did in the New Testament.
When I create this narrative, I end up talking about 9-11 and the two towers who are owned
by the eagle that collapse and they collapse because of this and that, and I talk about
great detail of the day that this happens and what happens and stuff.
Well, I know a lot about what's going on with the towers.
However, I act like I wrote this during the reign of the president, Bill Clinton.
Whoa, this shouldn't happen because the temple hadn't been destroyed yet or the two towers
have not fallen yet under the reign of the president, Bill Clinton, who had the scandals
with Monica Lewinsky.
I did not have sexual relationships with...
Anyway, I digress.
When you look outside of the text and you go, eh, what's the natural explanation?
You have to ask yourself some more questions.
Paul keeps saying he's not a liar.
Is he?
Is he not?
Why is the person who's authoring these epistles claiming not to be a liar?
Over and over, it sounds like he's being accused of being a liar.
Whatever that means, do with it what you will, but too many people who even just now escaping
Christianity are coming out to be more skeptical, they still buy the narrative.
They're looking at the text and they're going, well, Paul said it.
The Bible says he came to save his people from the sins.
Jesus died for only his people, or Jesus died for the sins of people.
Did he really?
Think about these things.
Think about the kind of way I'm looking at this.
Read between the lines.
You know, let's read between the lines.
Why is Paul going against Torah?
Or at least it seems he's saying there's going to be an end to the law.
Jesus talks about not one jot or title shall pass until the new heavens and new earth,
which is an interesting thing because you could talk about that and what that means
new heavens and new earth.
The end of the age.
What is that?
Is this so diacol?
Is this precessional dealing with the precession of the equinoxes?
Does it have something to do with that?
Probably.
I say the end of the age happened there at the first century.
Anywho, I say all this stuff to say, look at the text in a new, fresh way.
Deconstructionism.
Okay.
Dr. Robert McMair Price does great at this.
He talks about things like how pretty much if you're looking at the narrative, there
are things the author shouldn't know before they are supposed to happen as if he knew
they were going to happen or as if they knew they happened.
These are little things or these are not cleverly devised myths as some would suppose.
Well, Dr. Bob says that's an interesting point.
Why is someone defending in one of the letters that these are not cleverly devised myths
as some would suppose?
Are they cleverly devised myths?
I am not a liar, Paul says.
Is Paul a liar?
Why is it that Torah is being removed?
Why are they wanting to say you don't have to worry about circumcision?
Someone will say because the mission is coming to an end.
The end is near so they don't need to worry about all the knick-knacks of this whole thing.
They need to just focus on getting ready for the end, get as many people in.
That's all that matters.
I look at the natural explanation today and say, why would someone want to write a document
to a people telling them not to sweat the small stuff called circumcision?
That's not small stuff.
To a Jew, that is the central point of showing that you are a covenant son of Abraham.
It is the sign of being a child of God according to the Old Covenant.
That's not small.
That's big.
Paul's saying don't worry about it.
What new fresh revelation really happened to tell people not to worry about being circumcised?
Do you get where I'm coming from?
What's the natural reasoning for saying don't worry about being circumcised?
I'm just going to go on a hunch and say a guess.
The guess would be, look, the Romans and the Israelites, these Jews, aren't getting along
very well.
A lot of times there's the war that's about to take place between them as a matter of
fact, and a lot of people aren't able to eat with their friends that are Roman.
There's a Hellenized message in this.
Don't worry about the law, okay?
It's the new law of Christ concept.
Don't worry about that.
Don't worry about dietary law.
Why do you need to worry about that?
And if it is a sacrifice to idols and demons, don't ask.
Don't ask what it's been.
Guys, gals, that's kind of what I'm saying about deconstruction.
I would be skeptical of the text.
If you're really wanting to look at the text, be skeptical.
I am not encouraging cynicism.
I'm not encouraging to be a cynical person.
I personally don't take the path and pattern of running after those who believe who are
drinking the Kool-Aid.
I drank the Kool-Aid long enough to know that I know where they're at and I'm not going
to come off as an offensive jerk.
But I have my opinions about these texts and they're going to have their opinions.
And they really believe it, even though they disagree or don't believe in all the other
texts of different religions and their religious claims of their creation accounts, of their
religious miraculous supposed events, et cetera.
I'm not going to waste my time trying to convince someone whose presuppositions prevent them
from coming to where I'm at right now.
Now if you've made it to where I'm at, that's kind of my encouragement is to keep delving
deeper into seeing what the motivation of the text really is.
What is the political mindset behind this text?
There should be some type of political mindset, in my opinion.
That is kind of what we're seeing with this, don't worry about Torah.
You don't have to follow Torah.
And I think that's an important point to bring up.
It really is.
All that you're finding in there, there's a meaning behind the face value of the religious
spiritual that the text is proposing.
That's my opinion.
And a lot of the stuff that's interesting prophecy or connections to the Old Testament
is probably mid-rash.
What they've done is they've taken a lot of the Old Testament stories, they've rewritten
them and applied them in the New Testament.
I think that a lot of it's astrothiological nature.
I think that what we find is a lot of celestial myth concepts.
I think there's a lot of commonality between the New Testament stories with the Old Testament
stories, but also commonality with the Old Testament stories and older, other myths and
maybe newer myths.
I'm not saying that Christianity is the last myth on the block and that these other myths
didn't borrow from that as well.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
I have to say, which came first, the chicken or the egg in this situation?
To me, both of them are speculative systems that teach you to drink Kool-Aid, okay?
And there's a lot that can be gleaned that's positive from these things.
But that's not what I'm going into here.
A lot of it's a harmful, in my opinion, to have people locked in a box of thinking and
this is why we have so much division when it comes to the religions of the world.
There's going to be division, period, no matter who you are or what you think.
But I've seen it be harmful in my own personal journey.
It's been a subjective experience for me.
It's been helpful and harmful.
Christianity's taught me a forgiveness that the world doesn't naturally teach from what
I've seen, okay?
It's all subjective, in my opinion, but it's also taught me how to judge and be very judgemental
over being a thought police.
Think like me.
You need to believe like me and think like me.
And I want you, my goal is to have you think like me as a Christian and I create a box
and say, if you don't believe Jesus was born of a virgin, born, lived, performed miracles,
was a perfect man, he died for your sins, rose again from the dead.
If you don't believe that, you're not a Christian, okay?
So you put me outside the box.
Oh, by the way, it's not that you're just not a Christian.
We're not just saying you're not in our box and you're not part of our community.
You're not drinking our Kool-Aid.
We're going to tell you that you're going to be punished or there's a place for you
or there's repercussions in this life, even if they don't go into the afterlife.
Most of them do.
There's going to be repercussions for not believing in this.
Interesting.
So I encourage deconstructionism.
Check out the text and find out what the text is actually saying, not what the face value
of the religious agenda of the author is trying to say.
There's lines between the lines you have to kind of evaluate.
Stop for a second and say, why is he saying that?
What's going on?
That is my opinion.
We should be checking that kind of stuff out.
And that's kind of where I'm headed in my direction of my walk.
You know, just being Derek Lambert, free thinker, and I encourage you to do that as well.
The end of the day, I'm not trying to tell you what to believe at all because it doesn't
matter to me.
I hope that helps you guys and I'll keep giving you updates.
I think of things that I want to discuss, but it's kind of my journey to have people
who are coming out of the box don't keep using the tools of the box the way the box is.
And a lot of them, it seems, are trying to go toward those who believe and they're using
the Kool-Aid to try and help people get off the Kool-Aid.
Really, it's like, eh, I think there's a different motivation behind the text.
I don't even waste my time going out there trying to proselytize people to be thinking
like me.
You like my show or you don't.
You want to hear what we got to say.
You want to hear the guests that we have or not.
I'm not going to go out of my way to try and push it on you.
So in that being said, think what you want, drink what you want, enjoy life, okay?
Because I'm not going to stay stuck thinking the way I did, judging other people, thinking
I had the correct understanding of all this shit.
I don't.
And I'm still learning.
So maybe you could take something from that.
Maybe you don't.
And if you don't, that's cool too.
It's all good.
Derek Lambert here with MythVision Podcast.
I'll see you guys again.
Thanks for listening.
Peace.
