We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and tonight,
I have a special guest, Dr. Jeff, or Jeffrey Tripp.
Welcome to MythVision.
This is your first time.
How are you?
I'm good, I'm good.
Thanks for having me on.
I'm glad you got to join me.
Dr. Tripp, I know you have an extensive,
not only biblical background
in terms of understanding Bible studies,
but you're like a mathematician.
Am I mistaken here?
No, I mean, my day job is teaching math at a college,
and that's my background.
And fortunately, I've been able to occasionally work that
into my biblical studies, too, either bringing
sort of a different perspective on things, say, math history,
or being one of the people who's
willing to use quantitative methods
to answer a question in biblical studies.
What is your background for our audience so they understand?
Well, I started life as a math teacher,
but I always had feet in two different ponds.
So I started as an English major with a math minor,
and then two years in, I switched
and became a math major with an English minor.
So the English side of it is I always
wanted to study literature, like I enjoy studying literature,
especially to enjoy studying stories.
So when I, in my mid-20s, started
moving into biblical studies, I was always
attracted to the Gospels and Acts and Revelation.
So I like a story.
I like to break down how somebody tells a story.
So I've continued to teach math through the years,
even when I did my doctoral work at Loyola, Chicago,
and was working on the Gospel of John.
I was still teaching math all that time,
and boring my readers of my dissertation
with occasional little sections in there about p-values
and what the likelihood of something would be.
And then so I'm fortunate in that with biblical studies,
for a lot of the questions that you work on,
what you need is a good library.
That's what you need to do your research,
unless you're doing something like text criticism
or any sort of archaeological work where you actually
need to go out into the field, a lot of what I need
is just access to a lot of information.
And teaching math at a college, then I have that access.
So my poor librarians know me that they're just
as likely to get a request for some totally obscure German
biblical studies book from the 1930s,
as they are to get a request for anything to do with math.
Wow, so you have a passion here.
I want everyone who's tuning in.
If you like what you heard, of course,
always test drive the vehicle before you buy.
Go check out his academia page, where he has written on this.
He also has done a YouTube series.
We're going to get into these videos, if you will.
Sounds like BS.
And you come from Rock Valley College.
Obviously, you said you're a math teacher.
Go follow him on academia.
I follow him.
And anytime something new comes up,
sometimes academia and just refresh his stuff
and send you an email to remind you,
go read that guy you're following,
that girl you're following, or whoever that.
Also, he has a book he's written,
Direct Internal Quotation in the Gospel of John.
Can you tell us briefly about this book that
costs an arm and a leg?
Yeah, the Direct Internal Quotation.
So John has this weird tick when he tells a story.
He likes to quote, like the narrator will quote something
that somebody already said, or a character
will quote something the character already said.
Directly, he does it like 60 times.
The closest any other text comes is Acts at 28.
And if you look at the synoptic gospels,
they do it maybe 10 times.
So it's not that common in other literature.
Revelation does it once.
So it's not a common tick to have.
It's a weird feature of John that I wanted to look at.
So I looked at it in a few sort of settings.
I looked at it through the lens of paraphrase,
which was an exercise that students in Greek education
in the first century would have had to practice.
And essentially, it demonstrates that when
John has these quotations, they're almost never accurate.
There's a couple in there that are like two words.
So Jesus says, I am in one verse.
And then the narrator quotes him as saying,
I am in the next verse.
Well, OK, swell, that's two words.
But of the 60, almost all but three or four of them
are paraphrases of what actually was narrated.
And this includes when Jesus quotes himself.
He doesn't quote himself exactly.
When the narrator re-quotes Jesus,
he doesn't re-quote Jesus with the same words he used before.
So there's some flexibility there.
And I wanted to explore that.
And what I ultimately ended up concluding
is, one, he's not doing it haphazardly.
The paraphrases serve a rhetorical purpose in the scene.
Two, he's using it to establish this idea of testimony
because there's a sort of trial motif going through John.
And that's the only other type of literature
where you see this many direct quotations,
is forensic dialogues, trial literature, that kind of thing.
And then the other thing is that he's
using it to incorporate traditional material.
The material you see parallels to in the synoptic gospels,
in the letters of Paul, sometimes
in some early patristic writers.
He's taking something that is traditional
and quoting it in a more traditional way the first time.
And then when he re-quotes it, he sort of moves it
into the Jo and I dialect so that he can play off it
and sort of unpack meanings that he finds in it
that maybe you don't find in that other literature.
This makes me wonder about exploring Christologies as well.
Is there earlier primitive versions where, after Jesus
is resurrected, for example, he becomes an adopted son of God?
But then within the same gospel, you
might find a higher Christology where he's called God.
And he's not deified after his resurrection,
but he had this baptism, son of God, spirit of God comes in.
You kind of wonder if they're unpacking because later Christians
and even the centuries after the debates that happened between
was Jesus subordinate to his father?
Was he equal to his father?
And they're like gleaning.
They're squeezing a net for an elephant.
And they come up with these ways of doing it.
I wonder if that happens within this kind of point
you're bringing up.
But maybe we can.
I mean, John has all sorts of little internal contradictions.
So I and the father are one.
But on the other hand, the father is greater than I.
So he plays it.
But it's weird.
The theme that he actually plays with the most
is issues of eschatology.
So when people talk about John, they talk about it
like realized eschatology, like the end is now.
But he doesn't deny that, well, there's also
kind of an end that's coming later.
And he uses these quotations to play off
of those different senses, the ways you
could understand a single phrase.
So there's a whole cluster of them in John 16
where the decitals are sort of fumbling over this statement.
He's like, well, in a little while, you won't see me.
But then a little while longer, and you will see me.
And they misquote him.
And then he re-quotes them, but adapts what they said.
But he adapts their misquotation as the actual saying.
Just tells you he's an author.
Yeah, so he's just playing off it.
Because in my way of understanding John,
he has this sort of inclusive interpretation technique.
So if you're like, well, do you mean that the end is coming
now?
Or do you mean the end is coming in the distant future?
He'd be like, yeah.
Yes.
I knew you were going to do that.
I knew you were going to be like, yeah.
So he wants you to understand that.
So he reiterates these sayings in different ways
in different contexts.
So sort of underline that point.
That like, totally he's not a valid thing.
But I also have a valid thing.
You remember when Jesus is like, hey, don't worry about how he's.
If I want him to remain until I come back,
what is that to you?
You worry about you.
And the rumor went out.
And did he say that he would not die?
No, he didn't say that he wouldn't die.
He just said, like, what if, you know, Jesus wanted him to remain.
You know, like, and I've always felt like that was backpedaling
the felled apocalypse in some way.
But it was also still leaving a wiggle room like, OK, well, who
knows, you know, like, like it's, I don't know.
But well, I mean, most people would say either the beloved
disciple is dead or dying.
And either way, the phrasing couldn't could approach that.
But then you get these sort of backpedals like people fighting
against John in that because he's correcting them.
He's like, no, I didn't say that.
I said this.
And yet you have, for example, the tradition of John ascending to heaven.
So in the second century, you have this tradition
that John ascended to heaven that way.
He's basically like Enoch or Elijah.
Yeah, he's not around anymore, but he also didn't die.
That way we have our cake.
You need it to find those sources.
I want those sources, by the way.
Oh, well, acts of John is the main one.
And you see this carry through.
You can see that it follows through because in the 14th century,
the painter Johto paints John ascending in the heaven.
Like, so it's still been popular enough in the church
that he knows about it, you know, thousand years later.
Also, you have traditions of John as this sort of wandering immortal.
And this was actually an anthropologist studied a bunch of these
in 19th century America, where he collected all these stories of people
telling stories about how John visited them in their house one day.
And they were all through the American sort of wilderness.
And then this gets adapted into Mormon scripture.
So there's three Nephites who wander the countryside just like John does.
And so the four of them are out there trying to convert you.
And it's like, well, we're going to just...
We really don't like this last line, John.
We don't like this correction, so we're going to...
We're going to still have our immortal John out there somewhere.
I think that's so great how we can see this stuff develop and how it's fun.
It's fun. I also want everybody to know, please,
not only go get this arm and a leg for a book,
also check out the YouTube channel, make sure you subscribe.
And one question I had as we're going into this, this is your first interview with us.
So we'll follow whatever you want to do here.
Doubter's commentary.
I got to say, to me, that speaks volumes for some reason.
Maybe I'm interpreting this, the name of your channel,
but maybe I'm reading too much into it.
But the question is, are you a doubter?
Are you somebody who is more of a skeptic?
I'm inherently a doubter.
So the Christianity I was presented with as a kid was,
here's a bunch of propositions.
If you believe these, everything's fine.
And then, well, I'm like, well, what if I have trouble believing it?
Well, you just do it. Just do it. Just believe it.
And I couldn't believe them with the certainty that I thought they wanted me to have.
And for a while, I just thought that meant,
like, OK, then I can have no association with Christianity
because this is what it is.
You believe these things.
You have a list of things you're supposed to believe.
And it was only as I got older that I was like, oh, no, there's a lot more to it.
And I'm more comfortable in my doubt.
So if you give me any proposition, so you say, well, the Bible is inspired.
Well, first of all, what do you mean?
And second of all, like, there's a lot of ways you can mean that.
And second of all, how do you know?
And I'm going to my brain is going to immediately start asking those questions.
And just as I've gotten older, if you have more comfortable with that.
So the idea of the doubters commentary actually came out of like the first.
I mean, these videos, like, started off as you'll see if you look at the ones on John,
they started out as me goofing around during quarantine.
And so, like, the early ones, very unprofessional, just me, like, sort of goofing around.
But I wanted to talk about what I wanted was an easy to understand commentary that
wasn't devotional, because when you look at commentaries, you either have academic or
so academic critical ones or devotional ones, but the academic critical ones are
very rarely easy to read for just a lay reader, who's just like, oh, I wonder, I
want to learn more about this.
Like, they're very technical.
They get a bit of Greek and all these things.
If you want an accessible one, though, it's often then taught from a specific
church's perspective, and it's, it's sort of sponsored by church.
Often the person is a church leader of some sort.
And I sort of wanted to just get more into, okay, if, if anybody is curious
about this, and they have their doubts, okay, fine, you have your doubts.
That's okay.
If you're a nonbeliever, if you're a disbeliever, if you're, if you're a Christian,
but you just are curious, often, or you're just, or you're just really mature
and progressive in your thinking.
And I don't mean that in a political sense.
I mean, that like, you're not a fundamentalist.
You know, this is a place, I think it's a home.
In fact, MythVision has become that kind of place for a lot of people.
I have Christians who financially support what I do.
And they know my ontology and my like conclusions are different than theirs.
They don't follow me all the way where I just label myself an atheist and all that.
And they're like, yeah, we can do without that.
But I can't do without scholarship you're bringing and the great ideas and stuff.
And I think we find a lot in common.
So I want people to subscribe to your YouTube channel for sure.
Let's hope get those numbers up and we will be doing more episodes with you again.
In fact, you and me have had so many wonderful talks already.
We haven't even recorded.
I'm like, there's too much.
We have so much we could talk about.
So I figure we get into this presentation today and let everybody get an idea
of something to do with biblical numbers.
And all I know is I regret I did not get any caffeine in before we started.
But if you're watching, I hope this isn't too over our heads.
I'll try to keep it, you know, I've tried not to get too bogged down in the weeds.
The first thing I want to talk about is and here's my little plug for our upcoming volume.
And the reason I really want to plug it is it's a festress.
And I don't know that people outside of political studies have festress,
but it's a book in honor of Edmondo Lupieri.
So GameBerry Party and I edited it.
He's our both for both of us.
He's our doctor father and he's just an amazing guy.
And if you want to talk to somebody who knows something about everything,
he's the guy like his expertise is in apocalyptic,
but he's he's written on just about everything.
And what's he if you Edmondo Lupieri and he's the the Cody chair at Loyola, Chicago.
And he sent me that one. We're done.
Yeah, he's I mean, he's just he's somebody you can have a conversation with
and he'll just come up with the craziest and be like, well, in this one eighth century
text, it's also talked about this.
And you're like, OK, I didn't know I that was completely out of my, you know,
some weird Syriac texts that I've never heard of.
And you know, the details of but, you know, so much of this, like
the little details that I throw in to my work come out of working with him and just his excitement for
he just always wants to learn more.
So he always encouraged me, you know, if you have
a footnote you want to put in about immortal John wandering the countryside,
and you should put that in because people will like that people or at least I would like it.
So so yeah, we wrote as we edited this in I contributed a chapter in honor of Edmondo.
And so it's a great collection of a lot of international people.
We have chapters in German and Italian and French.
And so he would be happy about that.
He grew up in Northern Italy.
So he's he's very sort of snobby about, you know, everybody should read multiple languages.
So he'll be happy that it's multi lingual volume.
But so this is this is where one of my like so my my next piece that's coming out.
And it has to do with a one offline in John.
So in John 21, the disciples are apparently bored, you know,
like you are after you received the spirit, you're like, I don't know, what are we going to do with
and so they decide to go fishing just to kill some time.
And they don't have a good night of fishing.
And all of a sudden Jesus appears on the shore and says, well, cast your net on the right side of
the boat. And they do and they catch 153 great fish.
And 153 has driven everybody crazy for thousands of years.
So I mean, we start seeing comments on it in Augustine.
Augustine is, you know, it has like 12 different solutions to what the 153 represents.
You also see it in Jerome, Jerome had the like most influential.
He thought it was an illusion to the number of species of fish in the world.
And he says, you know, if you read this poet opium, he lists all the species and there's 153.
So John is keen new into that to say, this is all the species.
So this represents the disciples converting all of the world.
And it was only until the 20th century that somebody pointed out, well, if you actually
read opium, he says there's countless species and he lists 150.
So there's nothing about 153 in opium.
So then he lists 157, you said he lists 157 and claims there's countless.
So he's already abusing the sources in a way to kind of fit into his, his position.
Yeah. And you, you see that a lot in the work on this, even in the modern scholars,
but where if you get close enough, like they, they just pounce on it.
So it was like 157, well, that's roughly 153.
Maybe you lost count, I don't know, but because I mean, imagine reading a poem.
So first of all, let's just appreciate this.
It's a poem about fish that lists 157 of them.
So it can't be the best piece of literature.
And, you know, so you can see a losing count, but yeah, so it's imprecise.
So it sort of, once that was pointed out, it put modern scholars on this like real
Jones to figure out what 153 meant.
And they did it through two ways.
So one has to do with triangular numbers.
So if you want to go to the next slide.
All right. This is the one I'm showing a screenshot of.
Yeah. So I mean, the most common triangular number that people would know is that 10
is the triangular number of four.
So if you look at either a bowling set of bowling pins, or if you've played beer pong,
if you do one plus two plus three plus four, you get 10.
So that's the most famous triangular number.
So if you think about it like we talk about square numbers all the time.
So if you say two squared, then you don't, you know, that's four, three squared is nine.
What that has to do with is first century education.
When you started to learn arithmetic, you would use pebbles and you would arrange them.
So if you had say three pebbles.
Okay. Now I'm going to square it.
So I'm going to do three pebbles on each side.
And I'm going to get nine pebbles.
So that's why we say it's three squared.
By the way, the pebbles, a pebble in Latin is a calculus.
And so this would be calculating the square of three, but they also had triangular numbers.
So one plus two would be a triangular number.
So three is a triangular number.
If you add three, you get six.
So six is a triangular number and so forth.
Well, New Testament and apocalyptic literature really likes triangular numbers for some reason.
So they pop up a few times in Acts, they pop up in Revelation, they pop up in 1st Enoch.
For whatever reason, early Christians were really into triangular numbers.
And then you get into this whole question, well, who cares?
And you read some commentaries and they'll give you some crazy interpretations about,
you know, oh, this is the divine and this is this and that.
But all of the mathematicians they're citing are from like the fourth or fifth century CE.
They're way after John.
So either John was like the Albert Einstein of his day, or he wouldn't have known that.
If you look in the context, so you can see this in Philo, which is a good,
you know, much closer source to compare to John.
So you can see this in Philo.
You can see this in the comicus of Garassa, so in Palestine, a mathematician in Palestine
in the first century, Theon of Smyrna, so a mathematician in Western Asia.
So both good places for John to maybe be exposed to these ideas.
You have this idea that the root is the potential and the triangular number is the actuality
or the realization.
You even have a lot of discussion about whether one is a triangular number or not.
And then you get some really like sort of language that perks your ears up if you're a
Bible scholar.
So they, the both the mathematicians, the comicus and Theon, talk about one as the
the potential using dunamis, which is Mark's favorite word for miracle.
So the potential, the seed, sperma, or beginning, first principle, archae, in the beginning
was the word, the first principle of the rest.
So you also have John, John having Jesus declare that he and the father are one.
And then in John 17, him declaring that he and the disciples are one, so that they could
be the beginning of whatever 153 means.
And 153 represents the actualization of that.
The problem is, of what?
That's, that's the big discussion is like, well, what does 17 mean?
Because 153 is the triangular number of 17, right?
But what, what's special meaning to 17?
It's a prime number.
It's, you know, like what does that allude to?
It's, you know, like what does that allude to something that we should know?
But then you have all these different attempts to figure it out.
So Augustine sees 10 commandments and seven gifts of the spirits.
Right.
Okay.
But if we're adding things up to 17, then we can, there's all sorts of answers we could come up with.
Let me ask you this.
It just to give you, give your thoughts, because you have like,
I can't imagine how many endless hours.
Looking at this.
Okay.
Do you think there may be either a community or a particular original audience in which this
actually made sense?
They knew the meaning of this particular thing, kind of like a mystery group.
Litwa, M. David Litwa thinks that there were early mystery, mystery religions.
Like it was similar to what you would see in L. E. Sinian and other types of mystery religions.
Do you think that this number game is something that the initiates who were
brought in would have been aware of the meaning of?
I don't know if I picture it so much through a lens of mystery religions as
I, in my understanding of how a gospel like John sort of grew,
I don't see it as an individual effort where he's alone in a room slaving away and he just
comes out with a squirrel and or a codex and it's like, oh, I think it was very much a communal
affair.
I think he interacted and maybe even like test ran stories.
I think I almost see the gospel writers more like comedians where, you know,
a comedian will go out on the road at small clubs, try these jokes out and see what works.
And then once it gets down, it's like, okay, now I'll go on Netflix and do the thing once I have
it worked out. So I see them as sort of that where they're doing it in front of an audience
to try to test out these stories and they they evolve over time.
And then once they get it to the like, okay, this works, now what's going in writing,
now it's going to be submitted in.
So what I see in in something like the 153 where we're like, we don't know what it is,
it's entirely possible that early on it was like, well, but John told us the other night.
Or whoever the author was, you know, like he was he was explaining what the one we asked.
And he was like, oh, 17 connects this and 153 connects that.
And you could unpack it because it was always sort of done in an oral situation,
a communal situation.
Whereas the the sort of image of silently reading the thing alone on your own
was I think a much rarer occurrence in the first century. So it could just be
that John could share whatever understanding he had with his audience.
And then read the chapter and everybody understood it.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
He could have gotten it though. I mean, like if you're looking at where
this is is very much centered, it is in the eastern Mediterranean where you see it either
down in Alexandria, or you see it in Asia Minor.
And both of those resonate with John, because traditionally, the gospel was written in Asia
Minor. And there are a lot of sort of Alexandrian themes, especially in the prologue,
that resonate with, say, Philo's writings that look like he's been at least exposed to that
kind of thought. So it could have, I'm open to the idea that has a much deeper meaning.
Where I get weary, and where I get sort of critical in this chapter is we then need to have
criteria that could falsify an answer. So if we have some answer, we need to have to run it
through a ringer to see like, does this pass through all these things so that we should
consider it? And that's not what I see a lot. So this is, I end up finding around 60 different
solutions that says, this is what the 153 refers to. And it's like, that's too many,
with 60 is too many. So we need to now start working on how do we start cutting them out?
How do we start ruling out certain answers so that we can focus on the ones that have
a decent shot? Okay, awesome. All right, I'll bring on the next one. Yeah, bring on the next one,
because then the other thing that people look to is comatria. And so here's my little math lesson
for this part. In the ancient world, we have a separate set of symbols for numbers than we
have for an alphabet. They didn't in the first century. So if you wanted to record numbers,
and this really comes out of business, and just making recordings, or the military, if you want
to record how many soldiers showed up, you have alpha would represent one. And sometimes what you
would see is it over struck. So you would see a line over it so that you would know this represents
a number, not not the letter alpha. But you have comatria. So it, since you recorded things
using letters, it didn't take long, people very long to realize that like, Oh, well, my name
adds up to a certain number, or this sentence adds up to a certain number, and it was always
addition, it wasn't ever multiplication, subtraction, anything else, it was always addition. So they
started equating people's names with the number that would come up. So if you if you think about
like, Well, why would you do that? And there's basically three reasons. So if you go to the next
slide, one reason is, I don't want to state the name outright. So these are graffiti that were
found in Pompeii, which were, you know, unfortunately for the Pompeians, but fortunately for us. So we
can actually just see the graffiti. And they're saying like, I love her, whose number is 545,
or the number of her honorable name is 45. So I want to say it, I want to point to the person I'm
infatuated with. But I also want to write her name on a wall, because Pompeii and graffiti is just as
vulgar as art and graffiti. It's a whole lot of like so and so head anal sex with a, you know,
friend here. Yeah, public restroom, and you'll find like someone puts their telephone number up
there and stuff. And it's like, what in the world, you know, exactly. So you don't want for a good
time called Jenny on the wall, if you like Jenny. So so then you do this so that you hide the name,
but maybe she knows the number of her name. And so she could see this and see it as a token
to her, but only she would know. So that's one reason to use Gamatria. And if you go to the next
slide, that's often the reason people point to with 666. So he underlines it, let the one who is
understanding count the number of the beast, it's a number of a person, and his number is 666.
I do want to point out, like I put the Greek letters there, because
they're not all the same, like they are in our number system. So you would have three different
letters, one for 600, one for 61 for six, but the so the repetitiousness of it is not as strong
in Greek as it would be in our not like when we say 666, it's literally 666, just so be
exactly. Yeah. But the most common solution to figuring out who the beast is or what the 666
is referring to is Nero Caesar. And if you just blatantly said Nero Caesar, that might get you
into even more trouble than being exiled to an island, or it might prevent the document itself
from pat being passed around. Right. So if the document is banned, nobody gets to read revelation.
So there's a reason he has a motive to hide Nero Caesar's name. So at least fits with what we
know about Gamatria. So that's one reason we have to hide a name. Second reason is Providence.
So if you go to the next slide, there's a prophecy from Lucian in the second century
in Alexander or the False Prophet. And so he basically spells it out. He's talking about a
this prophet, by the way, in the story. Alexander is spreading this prophecy around
because he knows he fulfills it. But it's from the Sibyl. So the claim is from the Sibyl.
And it says after the foremost unit, which would point you to Alpha, and three times 10 lambda,
he will show forth five more units, epsilon besides, and a score told three times old over. So
you end up getting the first four letters of his name listed out. Then the last line actually
starts with his name inverted. So you have Andros Alex Eteros, Andros Alex Alexander.
And so it's pointing you, it's sort of saying like, we have this prophecy that predicted Alexander
would be this prophet that would show up. And he'll be amazing. He'll be in Synopee and it'll be great.
And the thing is though, Lucian is poking fun at Alexander the whole time.
And it depending on how we date the Christian Sibylian oracles, he might be
parodying Christian literature because we see the same thing in the Christian Sibylian oracles.
So if you go to the next slide, you have the Sibylian oracles. So again, the Sibyl telling you this
and spelling out Jesus's name. So it says, well, he's got four vowels and two consonants and the
sum is 888. Well, Jesus has four vowels, two consonants and the sum is 888. So it's possible
because Lucian does know about Christianity, and he writes derisively about Christians. So it might
be in coming up with his false prophet, he's parodying the Sibylian oracles in this sort of
prophecy. But even if it is parody, it's pointing to the fact that this is how the matriarch might
be used. So you say, well, it's almost embedded in his name, the numbers tell you who is going to be
this person. He's saying in here that Jesus is a false prophet. I think, well, his character is
Alexander. I think he's teasing, he's using elements of Christianity, because he doesn't
like Christianity. So he's using elements of Christianity to craft his character of the false
prophet. And now the difference, of course, again, being that in Lucian, it's Alexander who's trying
to slip this prophecy to everybody so that when he shows up, they're like, oh, it's Alexander,
we've been waiting for you. And that's not Jesus. But there are cases like this where you're using
Dematria to sort of say that he was always destined to be this great figure. If you go to the next
slide, that might be what's going on in Matthew's genealogy, because you have this odd structure
of 141414 that also doesn't quite work, because he only has 41 generations, but it's supposed to be
42. But it may come from the fact that David in Hebrew adds to 14. And David has such a strong
place, it's talking about Jesus as the son of David. And then you have all the generations from
Abraham to David 14. David is Babylon 14. And so David's mentioned five times just within
this unit. And it probably comes from the fact that David is 14. So Matthew's trying to make this
argument that it was providence that Jesus would end up in the 42nd generation, 314s. And so this is
probably an early example of this. There is a little problem with this. And here Edmondo would
probably be snickering at me. Notice I'm using Dematria from Hebrew in a Greek text. And we
don't have any firm evidence of that kind of translinguistic Dematria. Now with Matthew,
it is possible that David just became associated with 14 early on. And he's not actually doing
the math himself. He just knows that David's associated with 14. And that's how he builds his
genealogy. So it's not too bad with that one. But when you look at like Nero Caesar in Revelation,
then you have to make an argument that John of Revelation would know Hebrew letters and
Hebrew numbers that well, that he would not only be literate in Hebrew, but numerate in Hebrew as
well. And that's maybe a taller order. And then there's one more reason. So if you go to the next
slide, it's called isopsy. And it's when two things have the same sum, you sort of see it as them
linked in essence in some way. So in Suetonius in his book on Nero, he points out that Nero and
he killed his own mother, both add up to a thousand five. So he sees that as sort of providential,
but almost like you can see the truth of it in the fact that these add up to the same numbers.
Now, there is the problem with applying this criterion to John is we don't even know what
one of the answers is. We certainly don't know what the two answers are. So
like you would need two things sitting by side by side to use isopsy and we don't even have one.
So I would be weary of bringing this up in John, but you could you see some solutions where he's
either trying to hide the name or you see some solutions where he's it's basically fulfilling
a prophecy. So those are where they kind of go. So there are some legit ones in Greek. So if you
go to the next slide, I mean, Rebecca adds the 153. And the problem there is who cares?
Like, like John doesn't seem to John doesn't ever bring up Rebecca or any theme related to Rebecca.
So like that seems like coincidence. I think more importantly is the Magdalene adds up to
153. And that has just appeared in John three times. And not only that, Maria adds up to 152
in an isopsy, you could be one off. So so the fact that her name is isopsisopsophic,
however you would say that, that her name is so close in some at the beginning in the end
would strike people. So my Magdalene would be 152, 153, which is practically an isopsis what
you're describing there. Yeah. So so that would strike people. And I think that this has been
under examined. Margaret Starberg wrote a book in 1998 that really hammered this home.
Unfortunately, she relies on a bunch of questionable scholars in terms of math.
And those scholars rely on much later mathematicians medieval mathematicians. So it's not clear that
any of the stuff they're saying would have been true in the first century.
And it's really the hammer home sort of a defingy code sort of theory of Mary Magdalene.
I would like to see other people pick up on this and sort of run with it in a more grounded in the
first century way. So there are some legit but already we're seeing we we've got two solutions
and one that's really close on the second one more than the first. Yeah. Yeah. But what it tells you
is that like if all you have is the 153 and you don't look at any other things about the context
or whatever, I mean, Rebecca would just be just as good as the Magdalene. I mean, if you have to
sort of do a little more digging to start ruling things out or Rebecca would be perfectly fine
and we'd run with it. So if you go to the next one,
Gottlieb Linder in the 1800s just started finding a ton of these in Hebrew. And so
he found Prophet King at the 153, which he did as the Passover land sort of pointing to
behold the land in the beginning. But it could just as easily just point the Passover
and high priest of Judah. So he sort of gives an explanation in these three articles about why that
would resonate with John's gospel. What he ended up doing almost inadvertently though is showing
how easy if you start using multiple words and things like that, how easy it is to get the sum
with things that look like they could be important. So I mean, I think Passover is very
important in John. I think Prophet and King are both applicable to Jesus and John. He's called both.
But then how do we decide between them or do we need to decide between them?
And then the other issue is by incorporating a second language, we've just doubled the
possible solutions. So as many as we can get in Greek, now we have twice as many because we're
incorporating Hebrew. So it then becomes like how we need to start eliminating some of these.
We need to have a methodology too. That's kind of, yeah. Yeah, some sort of criteria for, you know,
based on how we see geometry actually used that we can rule somehow. So I mean, these are all fine.
But like then what do we do with them? Not all of them are fine. So if you go to the next slide.
So Oakman wanted to find, and this is a pretty recent article, he wanted to find
something like in Revelation, he wanted to find Nero. So he looks at 153 in Hebrew digits.
So that's what that is on the first line. And he looks at them as initials in Hebrew.
But initials in Hebrew that are transliterated from either Greek or Latin.
So now we're in initials. So if you have initials, oh my gosh, you're like all over the place.
You've just like multiplied your number of solutions by like five.
And you're taking them from transliterations from two other languages.
So you know how they call it parallelomania when people are looking for parallels?
There's got to be another mania type of term that is utilized for this.
Dematromania.
Dematromania. Like it has to be. You could do this endlessly. We might even do it in English now
and find out holy smokes. Oh yeah.
And if we can, you know, anyway.
I don't know. I haven't read the Bible code that that closely, but I'm sure at some point.
But yeah, so it's it. If you start doing this, you're just multiplying the number of solutions
you have by so many times and you're just it. And this is I guess this is five years old. So
it's not like it's, you know, 1940 or 1898. So it's it tells you how much a taste for these
sorts of solutions people have. And yet how far they can kind of stretch it. We don't have any
precedent for this kind of gamatria. We have nothing that like points to this as a thing that
people did. If you go to the next one, sometimes and what's fascinating here is these three people
all right, where you want to add one and none of them sites each other. So it as far as I know,
none of them know each other like none of them know Cardwell, who is the first one.
But they they all try to add one. So Cardwell at least justifies it. Cardwell points out that Jesus
is cooking a fish on the beach. So there aren't 153 fish. There are 154. So he thinks you should
be looking for 154. And the one extra fish is alpha. So it's like, Oh, okay, so we're adding
an alpha. What are we getting? Now, he also what I admire about Cardwell is he offers day
as so, hey, Mara, hey, Mara, as his solution. But he also admits that this is problematic,
because he's like, well, you do see this as a Christological title in the patristic age. So
starting with Dustin, getting in the Clement of Alexandria, even in new CVS. But he's like,
you don't ever see it in John. And you don't ever see it in the first century. So
he admits like this is problematic, but he offers this idea that well, there are actually 154 fish
present. Should we consider whether the one at the end that Jesus is already cooking?
Does that count? When you look at Michael Parsons, he focuses on the fact that one of the
no men soccer, a no men's soccer room of Jesus, a holy name of Jesus, like way they wrote it
in manuscripts would be like this. So just the Yoda and the Ada, and to highlight that it was a
no men's soccer room, they would put a line over it. The problem is, that's also how you would write
the number 18, because you would put Yoda, Ada, and then you would put a line over it. So Parsons
points out that in Luke 13, there's a story about 18 men getting killed. And in both, whenever it
says Jesus, and when it says 18, you just have IH, you have Yoda, Ada, with a line over it,
it looks identical. So Barnabas picks up on this. And when he's interpreting the 318 men
in Genesis 14, he says that 18 refers to Jesus. And the 300 is the letter tau, which is the shape
of the cross. So Barnabas also notices, like associates Jesus with the number 18. So what
Parsons solution is, is that 17, the triangular root of 153 is one below that. So it's important
to him that it's not 18, that it's one less, so that it's just below, like you haven't reached
the disciples are not at the level of Jesus, they're below Jesus, but just below it.
If this is the case, I mean, I just want to throw this out there. This is some wild,
numeric word play. And like, we're so far removed from this context and this insider type of language
that the authors really were trying to get at. Wow, I'm not going to rule it out. I can't say this
isn't true. I'm just saying like, it's really complex. And it's like Christians really don't
know what they're reading. No one really knows what they're reading beyond this. You get what
I'm trying to say like, yeah, the problem is like the problem I see is, is take that complexity
that you're talking about. And now go through it and highlight all the parts that come from John.
And you're going to highlight like four or five words of it. And the rest of it is from us making
connections to all these other things. It's, it becomes like, what can we justify from John, not
from, okay, well, if it's this and this and that and this, what can we actually justify from John?
And as just one more, and just to highlight an acronym. So Tovar in a Spanish article says,
he actually, I like him because he actually reads the word as it's written, which is spelled out.
It's not written in digits. So it's, it's, and he takes the first letter of each word.
And it's almost seven. It's almost HEPTA. And he says, well, you know, you would just need
that one more to get up to HEPTA, which would be completion. So it's almost completion.
And he uses this, this method is actually a Kabbalistic method of taking the first
letter from words in succession and getting another meaning out of it.
He never acknowledges though, or, or even, you know, puts it in a footnote, the fact that the
Kabbalah is millennia later than John, like has any of this been developed in the first century.
And he hasn't read Cardwell. So if he had read Cardwell, he would have had his alpha.
Is it to be the fish sitting on the, on the beach, but he hadn't read Cardwell. So poor Cardwell
needs a, I thought it was interesting that like taking the narrative of John,
like Jesus performed seven miracles, like he legit actually, or is it seven I am
statements as well? Like it's, it, I, I, the number seven does play a role within the internal
context, but here we are again with like a who knows, you know, and, and, you know, and to me,
it's like, it's a, it's, it's relevant in that it's Jewish, I guess, but it's not,
it's so far after John that I would be much more happy if it was something that was
relatively close to John. Like another scholar has a solution, and I can't remember his name
off the top of my head, but he has a solution based on apash, which is a, an encoding thing that
you see in Jeremiah where you take the alphabet and you read it backward. And so Babel becomes Sheshak.
So you take the, instead of that, which is the second letter, you take the second to the last
letter and, and replace it so that you can talk about Babel without saying Babel and
getting in trouble. So he talks about Sheshak in two places. So that's at least, I mean,
that's as far back as Jeremiah. So that's a relevant technique. I just also don't, the,
the solution he comes up with is a bit stretched. So, you know, it, it's historically grounded,
just not a solid solution. Now, if you go to the next one, I have to say the, the one that has,
because I, after being so negative about all this, I have to, I have to get, you know, props to one
that, that gets the best support. And it probably has the most scholars in support of it.
In that there's a, a prophecy in Ezekiel 47 that really resonates with John 21. And it talks about,
you know, people will stand fish beside the sea from Manketi to end Aglain, these,
these springs. It will be a place for the spreading of nets. Its fish will be of a great
many kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea. So obviously a thematic similarity to what's going
on in John 21. And you could, and John also alludes to Ezekiel 47 earlier in, in John 7. So,
if he's already alluded to Ezekiel 47, he could be doing it again here. So now we're
starting to ground it. And this is literature that's actually available to him. It resonates with
themes that he, he's already brought out about living water flowing from the temple and things
like this. And the two springs add up to very familiar numbers. So Getty adds up to 17 and
Aglain adds up to 153. So if he were, if he were literate in Hebrew and numerate in Hebrew,
then he may have noticed that important resonance of 17 and 153 in the prophecy.
And then it would fit into that idea of that second use of Gamatria, that it's prophetic,
it's providential. It's once you notice the sort of numerical links, it, it tells you exactly
what, like how this is a true fulfillment of the prophecy. So he may have put the 153 there as
with men fishing in nets and things like that. And you can, if you're willing to go later,
if you go into like the Tosefta and things like that, it gets, it literally gets tied to the Sea
of Tiberias. So sort of transliterated into Aramaic letters, but the Sea of Tiberias instead of the
Sea of Galilee, which John calls Galilee, the Sea of Tiberias at the beginning of John 21. So there's
all these like thematic resonances with Ezekiel 47. So it could be just him using this as almost
an illusion to remind you of Ezekiel 47 and to highlight that this is the fulfillment of Ezekiel
47. I like this one. Like you said, it works not only with like the topic and the scenery and like
very similar features, but also the numbers. The problem I have is a skeptic, and I'm not saying
this doesn't make sense and this could work, is why the heck didn't they just use the Septuagint?
This is literature. If they did, like if they did use the Septuagint, this would be sold. I think
everybody would be like overwhelmingly convinced. This is the answer, like without a doubt, but
that's the trouble is like, did this author who seems to be extremely, as I hear some people say,
and is this because there's multiple layers to this gospel, is this author anti-Jewish? I mean,
I've heard that like they're not fans of Jews in many ways, and would they even care with an audience
to like come at this? Would the audience even get this? Like you said, maybe they said, hey,
just tell you what, and in Hebrew, you know, it says this, but like it's a very complex,
difficult thing for me to swallow completely. Well, and it also raises another issue that, so one,
yeah, the Septuagint and a guy named Peter Ackroyd tried to fix that and find spellings of
Nkedi and Neglaim in Greek that would add to 153. So they don't individually do it,
but if you add them together, like 133 and once 120, the problem there is the two spellings he
uses never appear in the same manuscript of the Septuagint. So it's again, stretching. It's like,
okay, well, you know, if I take this one from over here and this one over from here. So, you know,
and then it actually raises a much more banal possibility if you're going to go to the Hebrew,
because if you look at Nkedi and you move the dollop to the front, it becomes dagi, which is
a pluriform of fishes. And there's also the word that Ezekiel uses in context as a singular
feminine form for the multitude of fishes. And that also adds to 17. So there's a really banal
possibility that all you have are similar themes that as soon as fish were involved, 17s are going
to pop up because the words for fish add up to 17s. It's entirely possible that he's not even
thinking of Ezekiel 47, but the themes are just so similar that there's this association between
fish and 17 anyway. So he does, you know, it's pure coincidence. But Richard Bakken doesn't want to
say that. So go to the next slide. So Richard Bakken, so in this article that he writes,
he's actually arguing, and I feel bad. Okay, so I want to say because I just wrote an article,
a separate, on a separate issue, where I also was critical of one of Bakken's books.
I have nothing against Bakken. Some of his work I really like. But on these two things,
I had to poke at him. But he wants to argue that John 21 is original to the Gospel. So you just
mentioned like redactional layers. Right. And he wants to argue that, no, John 21 was always there.
And he wants to use these sort of numerical patterns to prove that John 21 fits in with the
rest of the Gospel. So he says, first of all, there are 276 words in John 21, 1 to 14. And
276 is the triangular number of 23, which, by the way, is one less than 24. But he doesn't
point that out. But the 276 also shows up at the end of Acts, there's 276 guys on the boat with
interesting ball. So again, like a, you know, ocean theme or boat theme and
and same kind of it. So then he says that Getty is 153, 153rd word in Ezekiel 47. So
it points again to to Getty. And then he says, like where he wants to connect it to John's first
conclusion, which is in at the end of John 20. And he says, well, look at the important words,
you have sign semi on shows up 17 times, believe Pistuo shows up 98 times, Christos 19 times,
life Zoe 36 times. And if you add all those up, there's 153. So is he pointing back
to the telling about the signs so that you believe in Christ and have life is the 153
pointing you back to the original story. And he concludes, he says, well, John 20 30 to 31
concludes the narrative of the signs. So the 17 uses of the word sign, the epilogue. So John 21
depicts their effects in the mission of the church up to the Parseus. He doesn't ever sufficiently
explain why a separate author couldn't make the same observation and then play off of it.
But this is his argument. If you go to the next slide, though, there are many problems.
So there are rarely 276 words in actual manuscripts of John.
There are 276 words in a 27, the critical edition of John that he was using. But if you go to the
earliest manuscripts of John 21, sometimes there's 278. Sometimes there's 284. It depends on what the
variants are in that manuscript. So we don't see any control. Like if 276 words was important,
you would think that the variants would be controlled in some way so that we always have
276 words. We actually only have one manuscript with 276 words. And it's because it actually cuts
two words out by saying instead of selling out 153, it just gives the digits. So it just gives
the row noon gamma and it eliminates two words. So it's got 276 words, but that's a one manuscript.
So I have an issue there. Like he's trying to highlight the triangular numbers are important,
but stretching. He says that Gaddy is the 153rd word in Ezekiel 47. And do we care in the first
century? Because it's like, well, you know, 1600 years from now, this French guy's going to add
chapters in here. And this will be the 153rd word. This is kind of Bible code-ish. I'm not going to
lie. It's a very sophisticated way of doing it. Not sounding as ridiculous. Like skip every 29th
letter and you're going to find the Twin Towers. But this is a form of it. And I get it because
he's trying to stay within the milieu and sound like he's within the thing. But it does sound
Bible code-ish. And I'm not saying Jews didn't do Bible code-ish stuff because they were
Peshir and they were doing this and that. But you're right. If there's no methodology and we
can't really show the criteria and you go like one document, I'm starting to like think like,
is this kind of an apologetic in a sense? Do you feel to make, I don't know.
Well, I think he wants to read. Well, we'll come back to that. The other thing is like in John 20,
the first ending in John 2030 to 31, are you arguing that words like Jesus, Son, God, and name
are not important? So he said those other ones are the important words and they add to 153. But
these also seem like really important words. I just want to show them.
So we had sign, believe, Christ in life, add up to 153. But I feel like Jesus, Son, God, and name
in the Gospel of John are really important words. But he sort of blows past them because they don't
have help add up to 153. But it's like, you can't just ignore those words. Like what's your criteria?
For saying these are the important ones. And then textual variants, like throw off the counts of
those words too. So like even the words he does use like believe, there's one variant where it's
like, you know, so you will know and understand instead of so you will know and believe. Well,
if you had no one understand, then you wouldn't get 153 out of it. So and it's almost like,
I don't mind that there are variants. It's that like, if this is what was going on, and anybody
knew about it early on, then wouldn't you see control of those variants? When you see people
will like, you can't mess up the beliefs, man, there's got to be 98 of them. You know, like,
but you don't see that. Now I did want to point out, they lose it or something like they lost the
true meaning. And then it's like, Oh, okay, well, okay. So I will say, you know, you said, well,
no, actually, go back. I will say you said about like a possibly apologetic. I mean, his argument
is that it's all one author. And I think that is important to some people. So looking at at some
people's reaction to say, you know, lately Von Walde, but back to Boltman and earlier German
scholarship saying that there were multiple layers of John. Some of the reaction is like,
but I don't like that you have just three random guys contributing to this text that I really adore.
And I want one author so that I can say he was inspired, not three different random guys were
inspired. Right. So I do think there is a an apologetic, not so much for Jesus, but more for
their, their understanding. Yeah, like they want to revere the text. And so you need it's that makes
you more comfortable if one person wrote it, right? If everybody's in the cannon. But I will say,
okay, so this comes out of a previous conversation we had go back one. Because you mentioned 17 and
19. And so I wondered if you would think that was interesting. Semi on is 17 times and Christos
was 19 times again, ignoring textual variants. I mean, honestly, no, at this point, I am so
like numbers are starting to make me think like you can find them anywhere in any way shape or
form because the context I mentioned 17 and 19 was talking about Plutarch. Was it?
Yeah, Plutarch in his own Isis and Osiris was talking about Osiris dying on the 17th day
and then he's resurrected on the 19th day. And you know, it's inclusively three days, if you will.
But like, you know, I'm thinking to myself, nah, nah, at this point, it's just you can numbers
become unless you have a very good like going from the context of the time that we can look at
this literature and the sources or at least some early attestation to see a good reason to do this.
I mean, it's like Play-Doh, it can be anything. That's how it feels like to me right now.
You're blowing my mind, by the way, but it's still like, what the heck is going on? I can't
trust anything right now. I got a good methodology. You've already done it like 10 times. Like, yeah,
yeah, that would make sense. Mary Magdalene, hold on, hold on, that would make sense. Nope,
they don't make sense anymore, man. I don't know what to do. And this is part of the problem. Like,
there's so many solutions that if you're at all aware of all the like different solutions, you're
going to start getting the impression that like, oh, okay, so we're just grasping at things. And
that's why I feel like we need to narrow it down. And one really easy one and one that eliminates a
lot of them, surprisingly amount of them, if you go to the next one after there is we should not be
using digital arithmetic. Like, 153 and 315 have the same decimal digits. But in Greek,
there's nothing in common about them. Right. Because there's no link between 153 and 315.
Nobody would spot any similarity between 153 and 315. And if you look like at the bottom,
the order doesn't matter because place doesn't matter. All of those made up of the same three
letters have the same sum. It doesn't matter what order I the convention is to put the biggest one
first and then descending order from there. But you can put them in any order you want. And you'll
still get 153. So place doesn't matter. Whereas in our arithmetic, we really simplified things down
to 10 symbols instead of 26 symbols, like in the Greek, we have 10 symbols and place matters.
So the reason I read that first number as 153 is because one is in the hundreds place. I know
something in the third place should be read as a quantity of hundreds. And something in the second
place should be a quantity of 10s. So I'm conveying meaning not only through the symbols, but also
through place. This is relatively recently in Biblical, a pretty decent journal. But in 2009,
Rastvan wanted to use, he wanted to find church. And this is the only way I can put this, he wanted
church. And he wanted it in Hebrew, because I don't know, people wanted it in Hebrew. Well,
I guess it's a three letter word, and he had a three digit number. So he thought he could get
from the three letter word to the three digit number by scaling them according to their place.
So since the 100 comes first, and it's in the first place, like in the hundreds place,
I'll leave that alone. I'll just leave it be 100. But then in the next one, it's in the tens place.
So I'm going to divide it by 10, and get five, so that I can get a,
and then in the last place, I have three, but I don't like three in the Hebrew alphabet.
So I'll scale it up by a factor of 10. So I can get 30, and get a limit. So it's,
he's multiplying some, dividing others, because he basically has a three letter word he wants,
since I mean, most roots in Hebrew are three letters. And he has a three digit number. So
he wants to have them line up. But he does this according to place, as if place mattered.
And it would matter for another like nine centuries. Like that's way later than John. And
it's weird for us to think that way, that place didn't matter, because it's just so intrinsic
to the way we use numbers. Had no meaning at all in the first century. So there are a surprise,
I'm just, I'm picking on him as my one example. There are a surprising number of them that will
turn 153 into 153. So one plus five plus three is nine. There are nine, nine letters in the
name Simon of Jonah. Okay, do this all day long. Yeah. Or there are too much time on their hands.
One of them, I thought it was there are nine people. And this is a really nice guy.
I think his name is Kylie. And he, he had nine people at the beach that day. But in order to
do that, he had to count the beloved disciple as not listed among the seven initial ones. So it
was like, he lists seven and then, Oh, by the way, the beloved disciples there too. So there's
eight plus Jesus is nine. So that one plus five plus three is nine. And it's like,
so you're, you're doing all this work to get nine when nobody would have done that in the first
century, right? If you added them up, you would have, if you added the digits, you would have gotten
153. Like that's what they're there for. So it's, it's, that's the, the point of my chapter is sort
of narrowing things down. So the two that I would think are worth pursuing is the Magdalen under,
under the strength that it's a word, a term phrase, because there's an article that appears three times
in the chapters leading up to it has to do with testimony. She's sort of the apostles of the
apostles and, and John, I don't know what meaning you would get out of it exegetically, but that
at least has a solid Christian and Joe and I foundation to work with. Right. The other one is,
is Ezekiel, um, because of the thematic resonances and, but the, what I wouldn't do is
stretch so far to look for supporting evidence that, okay, well, if we do this and we do this and
do this, and again, I'm picking on Bacchum as an example, he's not the only one that I could have
picked on. I could have picked somebody else. Um, and we would have seen the same sort of
contortions to get it to, you know, link Ezekiel 47 more strongly to John 21.
It could be just a simple illusion. And that's maybe the, that's maybe the unsatisfying part.
We want like, ooh, revelation when it's like, it could just be a simple illusion to Ezekiel 47,
reminding certain members of his audience that it's an illusion. And then it could just not be
anything but a triangular number. Um, one, one, uh, person put in a footnote and I thought this
was one of the best explanations that it could be that he needed around 150 fish because that
would be a really big catch and Christians really done triangular numbers. So 153 is the closest
special number to 150. You could go down to 144 is 12 squared or, you know, you go up to 156,
I think is a rectangular number because there are rectangular numbers. Um, but, you know, it could
just be the closest one. And so I, I'm not sure I, my job in this chapter was to say,
you know, you can't just follow any path you want. And especially when your solution ends up
reflecting far more of your own creativity than evidence that you find in the relevant time period
and in the tax. Right. Interesting. I'm following you. Uh, I mean, this is a lot. This is a lot.
Do you want me to keep going? Sure. Well, the other one, so yeah, the next one's about my,
my minor agreements paper. I don't know if you're, if you have the endurance. Oh, okay. I'm sorry.
Okay. So no, okay. So we've wrapped up on the 153. We're about an hour and 20 minutes in. We might
want to continue the other one and do another episode. Okay. This is something that, um, I
wanted to bring up in light of a video I did on dying and rising gods, dying and rising gods. Let's
put that to the side. A lot of people go, the category you're Christian, you're kind of using
Christianizing language and like there is this sense of like over comparison, parallelomania and
like you're kind of poo pooing on the content of other cultures and their particular milieu and
their particular focus when you do this. But I also feel like sometimes we may put over specialization
on New Testament for special pleading reasons and not see a broader picture from the Greco-Roman
world. And I think that there's a damned if you do and damned if you don't. But I brought up the
153 just to say like I hear that Pythagoras is into math. Okay. Okay. Did Pythagoras know that 17
was a triangular number? Probably. He's a mathematician. They found numbers to be sacred to
the point where I heard and I don't know how true this is. I read somewhere that they killed someone
who found numbers that weren't. What was it? Say what? Oh, sorry, you froze. Yeah, I lost you
for a second. I repeat that last phrase. It's Pythagoras knew of triangular numbers and I've
heard even in the accounts that were so sacred and so holy about numbers that some man found
numbers that didn't. I can't remember what they called those numbers but he found numbers that
didn't match. They killed them or something. It was so serious. Irrational. Irrational numbers.
So a rational number can be expressed as a ratio. So it's not rational in that it uses
rational thought or something. It's a ratio of whole numbers. So like 1.5 is 3 over 2. So
he basically gave a proof that, so the story is, he gave a proof that the square root of 2
is irrational. Which it is. But it's such a part of Pythagorean understanding that everything
is the ratio of numbers that the story, which is probably false, but the story comes up that
they would execute if you even claim that, say, Py was irrational. I mean, Py is not only irrational,
it's transcendent. We have a different category for Py in mathematics because it's like so
irrational it hurts. But yeah, they were very much into that and they would know about
triangular numbers. The problem then becomes, again, in looking for the meaning, and this is
where I go back to looking at, are you losing me? No, I said I get it. I get it. Okay. Yeah. So in
looking at going to mathematicians that are actually around the time. So that's why I go to
like Nicomachus and Theon because they're first century mathematicians in relevant geographical
areas. And they both comment extensively on triangular numbers without any of the esotericism
that you see in later Neopathagorean mathematics from like the fourth and fifth century.
So I don't have any evidence that they were doing that kind of thing already in the first century.
They would have known about triangular numbers totally. But they wouldn't. I have no evidence
that they would have had all the esoteric interpretations that you see in some of the
the sort of more popular oriented texts about 153. Another thing is like,
you know, the there's a way to construct the square root of three with the vesica pisces. So
the vesica pisces is like the Jesus fish that you see, you know, like on people's cars or whatever.
Yeah. So that you can use a construction like that to construct the square root of three like
geometrically. And so here's put the put a pin in that. And over here, Archimedes, when he gave an
approximation of the square root of three again, can't be irrational. Can't just say it's a square
root of three, whatever that is. It's like, it's got to be a ratio. So we find two ratios that it's
in between. And one of those ratios is 265 to 153. So 265 to 153 is a decent approximation.
He gives this other approximation, and he says it's somewhere in between these.
In Starbird's book, she then like goes on about how the vesica pisces is the symbol of, you know,
divine femininity. And then, you know, and so connecting it to the square root of three 153
is one of the most sacred numbers in sacred geometry that is, and I trusted her when I read it,
I was like, Oh, this is interesting, I'm going to go look all this up. And it's hard to find 153
anywhere, because it's a big specific number, right? Like the numbers you see are small. They're
like under 20. If you see 153, and there's one example from a Neopathagorean in like the sixth
century, where he squares 153 just as an example of how to square a large number.
That's it. Like he doesn't read any like big, you know, deep meaning into it, he just uses 153,
and that's five centuries after John. That was one of the few times I could actually find 153
in any mathematical writings. So I just want to bring up something that I think is relevant,
and I get it. This could be Parallelomania or even assuming something beyond. There's two things
that come to mind. You know how we did the Ezekiel thing, and we were like, Okay, there's either
Mary Magdalene, right, which is pretty contextually that that I'm not I mean, even now, I think back
at it, and I'm like, there's something, I feel like there might be something to it. I can't prove
it. Like I don't have any way of like it. But I also think of the Gospel of Thomas, I think the
relevant, and I think this beef that goes on probably between John and Thomas, I'm not so sure.
Thomas Dedimus, the twin, and like there might be some I don't know, it's speculative, that is
speculative as well, but it's like, it's fun to think about. The other thing is we talked about
Ezekiel, and it's like, here they are on the sea, they're dealing with fish, they're dealing with nets,
they're dealing with this, and it's like, ooh, there might be something here. But when I look at the
story of Pythagoras as well, right, here's another story where fishermen catch the fish. The difference
is, rather than eating and killing them like Jesus does, he is, he's a vegetarian, he's saying, no,
no, no, no, no, no, if I guess the number, will you let the fish go? So it's kind of a reversal
of this thing. So there's problems right there, right? They're not identical. My question is,
is it potentially the case that there is a general? Let's scratch the narratives, right? We
could play around the narratives, if you even probably see a possible like, maybe there's
something with the story, they just don't say the number. There's no number here. But Pythagoras
is so big on numbers, I figure, here is a narrative, and it's a significant number. Does Ezekiel play
with this kind of triangular concepts, or is Pythagoras more prone to be a mathematician type
or whatever? And I kind of thought maybe that would give it credence, I can't prove any of this,
I'm speculating that this is what we've been doing all night. But I'm having fun. So the other thing
I had was this, when we talked about dying and rising gods, and I want to use numbers as the
analogy, when they talk about let's not Christianize all these other mythologies, by giving the context
of Christianity, and not your interpretation when you read these other myths, like Odysseus,
or you might read Dionysus, or Athena, or Zeus, or whatever it might be, try to compare and you're
looking for parallels. We all die. It's part of life. And I think, hmm, when people die,
they don't wish they were dead. And in fact, it's even a common natural phenomenon that people
experience their loved ones after they die, whether you're a naturalist, or the hardcore
theist on the extreme side of I know God exists, doesn't matter. We all experience this stuff.
And I wonder if there's a trope or a common theme that mathematics is used universally.
These numbers are used universally. The idea of people dying and being alive after they die
is something that we see in every single one of these cultures in some way, shape, or form.
And so parallelomania is wrong, but there is some type of parallel,
even if it's not identical, even if it's not genetic. What do you think about the approach I
took with the Pythagorean thing, though, and the idea of him being a fish? He's trying to release
the fish, though. Do I make it with some case here? Well, the one pushback I would give is what
so I'll make two points. One is, like you said, they never mentioned the number.
So whatever John is doing, even if he knows the story about Pythagoras,
and this is a sort of story structure that's around, and it sort of attaches itself to Pythagoras
at one point, and attaches itself to Jesus at one point, whatever he's doing there,
you also have to, like he came up with the 153. So we'd still have to decide, well,
what is he doing with the 153? The other thing is, we don't have evidence of that story
until the third century with porphyry. And so then you get into,
porphyry, of course, says, well, this is an ancient story, it goes back to Pythagoras himself, but
you know, that's what you say. So you never know. That's the thing about mathematics,
especially like ancient mathematical rhetoric, is you actually don't want to be the discoverer
of anything, because if it's new, it's not as trustworthy. So you want to
somehow attach it to the ancients. So you want to attach it to somebody like Pythagoras, or attach
it to somebody like Archimedes. If you make a discovery, it's like, oh, he hinted at this,
at least. And then I just did this one thing. It's a very different rhetoric from what we
have now in math, where you're like, I came up with the new thing. So it's also, do you trust
when, say, porphyry says, well, this is a very ancient story? Is it possible that porphyry is
actually using a commonly known, is he aware of the Jesus story? Does he know?
That's an excellent question. And it's a question that's not often brought up by
classicists or historians of mathematics, but it's almost like, I feel like New Testament scholars
are very willing to have all the rivers flow into the New Testament. And you rarely see
then people sort of point to like, oh, no, the New Testament flowed into this other thing,
like this idea that's in the New Testament in the first century is the origin of this thing we
see in the third century. And I think it would, what we'd have to do is look for, are there,
where was porphyry writing from? I don't know. Where's there a large Christian population there?
I mean, by the third century, it's pretty, it's got a solid dance. And especially like with Lucian,
does, do we have any comments on Christians anywhere? Does he complain about Christians or
talk about Christians? You see these little comments every once in a while, like you read
Galen, who's a medical writer, and all of a sudden he's commenting on celibacy, and all of a
sudden he brings up Christian women. And he says, well, here's the effect it has on their body. And,
you know, like, is there anything like that for porphyry that would attach it? So I mean,
there's still would be work to do. But yeah, you also do have a similar story in Luke. So there's
this whole inter-gospel scholar issue of, is John taking a call story that's like in Luke 5,
and then Johnifying it in John 21 and turning that into a resurrection story, because it looks
very much like the story in when Peter's called in John 5, or Luke 5. And so is only their Luke's
just like there were many fish. He doesn't get himself into trouble. Or if you're like Mark
Mattson, does Luke take a resurrection story in John and then turn it into a call story in Luke 5?
Because he thinks Luke is dependent on John. So the, what's the relationship there? Or is there
a relationship? Is there just a vague memory? Or like, like you're saying, sort of this vague
structure of Jesus participating in an event like this. And especially if it were a common type of
story you tell, then it would make sense that it would attach to Jesus pretty quickly, since he
hung out with a bunch of fishermen. He was always by the lake. And are Luke and John just doing
something different with that story? Luke's like, oh, we need to turn this into a call story. This
is how he got Peter on board. And John's like, no, we need to turn this into a resurrection story.
And I guess how he got Peter back on board afterward, because then he has the whole scene
with Peter. There's a lot of cool things that you said. And it's, it also sets me to be more
academic in my thinking, because we can go off centuries outside of the context of time and
which seeing which things are written. And it's easy. Like I've even been guilty of going, look
at Inanna 1800 BC, you know, and like she like literally takes her clothes and layers and her
her elegance and like cast it off and then becomes a corpse and is hung on a hook. And literally in
three days is made alive again. Now I'm going to myself. Now did the authors of the New Testament
know about Inanna, right? It's possible. We don't have any reason, though, to go, you know,
their playbook was Inanna. And they were reading ancient Mesopotamian literature in a language
they don't even know, right? So you got to ask yourself this question that's very complex. And
that's why I love getting into this stuff. And I don't just focus on New Testament scholarship,
but I like to listen to classicist as well, because sometimes I feel like you need to balance
both. We can get so caught up on zooming in as New Testament scholars and not even be aware of
mythology in the Greco-Roman world, because our New Testament scholarship will tell us, well, you
know, there is this very defined mark between being a Jew and being a non-Jew. That's Hellenism
doesn't go through porously. And academics like Hingel and others like Individu and others are
sorry. The Hellenism is very porous. Jews were Hellenistic. Sure, there were maybe varying
degrees in which they were impacted by the Hellenistic world, but everybody was Hellenistic.
Even the writings in the Dead Sea Scrolls show signs of being Hellenized. So I'm like, okay,
hold up. And I'm asking these questions. I'm just wondering, and you brought up a really good
point about 153. I just want our audience to also follow in that path with me, because I came from
a very conspiracy kind of mindset of like, it's all manufactured and everybody and it's like,
how do you not know? I mean, three days is a common motif in the Hebrew Bible,
but should we only be pulling from the Hebrew Bible? This is why I favor people like Dennis
McDonald, Litwa, others that are like, at least grabbing both and are saying, okay, it's probably,
we should look at our Bible first because they were using scripture. We know that. But we shouldn't
limit it when we have weird things that definitely seem beyond the Hebrew Bible or the
Septuagint as a source. And John is a big gospel for that. Dennis writes a book called the Dionysian
Gospel. I don't know if many scholars have paid attention to this. I mean, they kind of,
they think he's a complete outcast anyway. They don't really take him seriously. And I think he's
on to something at least in terms of the watering to wine motifs that we're finding things like this.
Dionysus, the mythology is prevalent anyway. And that's a, that's another good example of where
people will nitpick about you comparing Jesus to, to Dionysus because, well, you know, it was in the
context of a, a festival led by priests. It wasn't or well, priestesses, not in the context of a wedding
and it's like, oh, sure. That's irritating though too. Yeah. But fundamentally, I think
a sort of undercurrent sometimes of that. And you get this more when you're like chatting with
people at conferences. So it doesn't appear in their, their articles all the time. But like when,
you know, my, my old teacher, Tom Tobin was like, well, you, you get a, you get a little whiskey
in me and I'll, I'll tell you what I think. So it's like, so it's in this idea that like,
in the case of Dionysus, they don't believe it actually happened.
Okay. So, so Dionysus didn't actually turn water into wine. We know that for a fact.
That doesn't happen. But Jesus at least might have. And therefore, it's almost like cognitively you
sort of separate it out. Like this has to be two separate things. And then you start focusing on
these details. I, I think going to either extreme is going to give you some false statements. So
either saying that, well, because we have a vague similarity with a ritual in the Dionysian cult,
therefore that explains everything in John two, and he's just adapting Dionysus in like this.
Well, I don't think the way I understood the argument from Dennis, no, I'm just saying that's
one extreme. And then the other extreme is like saying, well, no, there's no similarity whatsoever.
And I'm having a hard time. That's the thing. Like if I'm going to impact the culture
in America, let's just say I want to convince a bunch of Trump's follow Trump followers to like
lead away from Trump. Okay. And I want to convince him to follow my guy. Let's say my guy is something
else. I'm going to co-opt. I'm sophisticated enough to co-opt. I'm going to think and utilize at least
a common theme for my audience. I'm not going to come at them and go, I know you have really very
little clue about all of this extremely Jewish material here that I'm going to be bringing.
And it's purely Jewish here. So unless you want to argue that they're so that the Septuagint has
become so prominent that Gentiles have been immersed for centuries in this idea of reading
the Septuagint themselves. And they're acquainted with the narrative. So culturally speaking,
they are just as Jewish in a different way. They just haven't cut the peckers. I'm saying like,
it makes me wonder like, I think about what Dennis is saying. And he goes, well, Jesus is a God
in these texts. I mean, a demigod at least. I mean, in some form he's divinized. And you would imagine
that in the Greco-Roman world where you're trying to like bring this as not only the Jewish fulfillment,
but God above all gods, like the true one God to Gentile audience and whatnot, is that you would
want him to be a better God than any of the other mystery cults than any of the other options that
are out there. And I feel like there's something to that, even if you don't follow his full genetic
mimesis connection idea, you might go, I don't fully, but I can't imagine that. Well, because
I think it might also be an assumption. I've heard some scholars say that like,
we're not sure that all the Greeks actually believed in these gods. We have a good feeling that some
actually did believe Seuss existed, or these other deities did exist. They may have actually
believed that the Sclepius temples actually brought healing. And Jesus needed to be a better
healer in some respects. And of course, we get like later Christian traditions that are like
him with a wand and all that cool stuff. I'm just throwing spaghetti at the wall to see what sticks
here, but it will make sense. Well, think about, I mean, one thing to think about is it's written in
it's written at a level that of popular literature. It's not Hebrews, which, you know, is very
difficult. Yeah, and it's certainly not the the patristic theological writings, like right,
it is, it's popular literature, it's written at the level of like the Greek novels. And
and that I think is often where you have to sort sort of focus because then you're writing for a
popular audience, you're writing to be accessible to as many people as possible. Right. Would you
have some sophisticated stoic or stoic influenced readers who were like, well, yeah, I mean, like
Dionysus doesn't actually exist. It's just an expression. It's a way of getting the masses
to worship the true God. Sure. But you're also going to have a lot of people for whom Dionysus is a
real, right, objective generation. And you have to think about, well, what are the rhetorical
sort of moves that you make with that are you're not going to put off the stoics by
by writing a Dionysian story about Jesus, or maybe playing up some Dionysian aspects, you're
like, well, there was this incident with the wine, but I like I want to key into this a little more
to get this audience on board. The same thing with the dine and the rising. I mean,
like I think of the heroes, the men who are brought up to Olympus in some way.
And then even the fact that especially because that is also parodied, it's a common enough trope
that you have a story about Alexander because his body was known, like he his body didn't go missing.
And where he's he's sick and he tries to throw himself out a window into a river. And that way
his his attendants will come into the room and find no body and be like, oh, he must have gone up to
heaven. And one of his attendants walks in while he's trying to throw him out the window and catches
him and brings him back into bed. And he's like, you've just stolen Godhood from me.
And so it's I mean, it's even made fun of it's a common enough trope. So now I mean,
there's other questions that's later than the New Testament, blah, blah, blah. You know, it's like,
or I think it's an early second century story about Alexander. But the the issue is like,
yes, is the exact same thing going on with Jesus, especially, especially within its Jewish context,
and especially because it's relating to somebody that at least some of these people knew it's not
relating to somebody 300 years ago or something. Right, right. Sure. Sure, you have to take that
into account. But there's a story structure, I think it's fair to say there's a story structure
in which somebody dies, and then there's an apotheosis. And, you know, we have depictions of
these people in statue and, and things in literature where it's, it has definite echoes. And you can
almost see this, especially when you you look at like museum descriptions of it. And it's like,
by the way, guys, this is not Christian. It's like, they know their Christian audience is going to be
like, Oh, Jesus has wings. And it's like, No, that's not Jesus. Somebody else going up to heaven.
And you kind of imagine that some of that even may have been Christianized after. So like the
impact, which way is the river flowing? And I think it depends on when and where and like, and,
and it's not a one way street, I think. But I like the open mindedness. I also, I recommend people not
to be too closed off, because I think we're going to learn more as we keep going about stuff. We'll
keep figuring out how the stuff works. And scholarships trying their best to get to that.
And I think using better methodologies to get to it, trying to figure it out. It's always good.
You know, you made me think of, rather than going to Alexander, Alexander the Great, where he
tries to die and doesn't be stole my godhood. I hear there are multiple counts, by the way,
of his death. That's just one of them. So like this is like a comical, sophisticated elites
probably sat around drinking going, you know, but then there were others that were probably
maybe even convinced of Romulus. I'm not saying the elites didn't, there's probably
somewhere out there where they're like, nah, but Romulus gets taken. Now, they don't know. And
there's different accounts that said it killed him. And then there's other accounts that think
this, there's other accounts that think that something his body was taken. Whether his body
was taken or not, doesn't matter whether he was killed or not, doesn't matter to me. This trope
of a hero dying in some sense or taken in some sense in some way. Look at, you know, Hercules or
Hercules where he jumps on a pyre and boom is and then after he goes to heaven, he's having babies
and stuff like that. So like he has a body of some kind. And I just, I look at Plutarch, I think
Plutarch's worth looking at to try and compare because it's contemporaneous to Jesus. Like this
is the stuff like I'm loving lives of the Caesars with Suetonius, the birth portents,
things like that. And I want to look using that like, what was this little window of time about?
I think focusing on the Caesars is important because of the Gospels, the Colts there, all of
that stuff is a good thing. And taking away what you're describing today from the 153,
and made this bigger than the 153 at the end here. But the point of this whole thing I feel
and correct me if I'm wrong is that don't like, it may sound good, it may look good, but like
pick that thing apart and get other minds and thoughts and say, how is this wrong? Tell me
how this is wrong. Get the minds to do it because numbers can really trick you, words can trick you,
themes can trick us. And like, how do we know with our methodology that we're not practicing
Parallelomania or Parallelophobia? What the heck do we do? Yeah. And, you know, when I talk with my
students, it's like, we always say, you have to think critically. And it occurred to me once,
like, we never tell them what that means. And it's like, just do it. We told you to think critically.
And so, you know, I list out four steps, basically, I'm like, do these four things and you're on your
way. I'm like, so you make a claim first, what's the evidence? Right. Second, what's the logic
that links your claim to the evidence? Because it's evidence is never just a mirror image of your
claim, your, what logic links the two together? What's the counter evidence? And then, is there a
better explanation that accounts for the evidence and the counter evidence at the same time?
And like, so do those four steps and you're on your way to thinking critically. And that's,
I think, what happened in a lot of these things with the 153, I think for, I mean,
people are having fun. They're like, oh, that's cool. I can do this and do this and you know,
like, and they're just having a good time. So on one hand, I sort of feel bad for being critical
of them because it's like, yeah, dude, have fun. But on the other hand, they're also getting
published in like high end journals, including JBL and things like that. And then you're seeing
them quoted and say commentaries where they're like, well, this is what's going on here and
like without any comment. And so it does sort of need to be reined in. And one of those things is
like, well, what's the counter evidence or what at least what's the counter argument? Like, think
of the opposite side. What are, you know, and this is something I think a lot of us do when we're
writing, it's like, okay, I wrote my draft. Now I'm going to read it like, I'm like the
biggest prick reviewer I can imagine and just tear myself apart and see what I come up with. And you
find stuff, you find stuff in your own writing where you're like, oh, this sucks. I can easily
come up with a better explanation of that. And then that helps you because you're like, wait,
I just came up with a better explanation of that. So I'm going to use that better explanation.
I, I can't tell you how much this is a blast. I learned a lot tonight. And I think, I think
I'm going to be cautious as I approach. And really, I, I feel like because I'm not the pioneer of
some of these ideas, I'm so busy producing content that what I do have is access while I'm doing
this is to study and learn from various other academics. And even if everyone was wrong,
if everyone was wrong, I at least know the playing field. I know what the,
I know what's on the field. And I could see what the greatest minds have tried to do in
assessing this information to get close to what they think is true. And I can see the radical
spectrum of like, hell no to, he might be onto it, you know, and go from those spectrums and learn.
Hmm. What do you say to that? You think that's a good?
Yeah, because I mean, that's, that's the scientific method. Yeah. Like, I mean,
there's not only worth and successes, there's worth and failures too. So you, there's, there's
value in looking through it. And that's sort of one of the goals of this chapter is just to
sort of pile it all together in one thing. So you have every reference you need to 20th and
21st century solutions. And, and that way you can see, I'm saying, I don't agree with this. I
here's the flaws I see in it. But here's where you can check it out if you're interested. And you
might come to the same conclusion I do, but then you at least know what not to do. And, and so
there's value in failures as well. And so, you know, I never go into writing anything being like,
and I solved it. You might feel like you got something, but you know, you're not like,
I'm going to stand on the top of the hill and wave my flag, you know, it's like here, I've,
I've taken as good account of the evidence as I could through the lens of whatever hypothesis
I have. And, and I'm putting it out there. And if you tear me apart, and it, you know,
if the next time I'm cited, it's because it's like, Oh God, this guy sucks. He's totally wrong
about this. At least you're, you're preventing somebody from reading my crappy article.
Well, everybody go subscribe to his YouTube if you want to hear what sounds like BS. And of
course, learn a lot more about the Bible because I've actually watched some of your videos. And
there's something about you in particular that I don't find common in a lot of academics. A lot
of academics are, they have a certain tradition of scholarship that they live off of or they,
they speak from and they, they're not, how do I put this? They're not going to give you options.
They kind of, they kind of say, Oh, well, you know, like Bart Ehrman's known for being like,
All right, this is what's up. And this is how it is. And like, and he's good at that. And man,
he's authoritative, like a pastor would, and you're like, Okay, Bart's right. And don't get me wrong.
Bart is the bomb when it comes to some of this stuff. He's really good with some stuff.
But then again, I like to hear the people who go, Oh, and by the way, here's six other theories,
like hypotheses, if you will, about this particular explanation. And to be honest with you,
no one really knows. Like we can't be dogmatic or evidence isn't great. That sounds like you,
and you are really trying to figure out what makes the most sense for the model of the synoptic
problem. What is John up to that you are looking at things with a magnifying glass, getting into
the letters and the numbers and the just taking things very far. And I hope our friends will go
subscribe to you, our audience subscribes to you, go and get, well, you may not be able to afford
the book, I get it. Have your book, have your library order, right? At least write an article,
is there somewhere they can read somewhat on it? Well, you got, Oh, no, this is the PDF here.
So that's, yeah, that's my first chapter. And the, the, the Bacchum article also like expands on
that, but applies it to a different, applies it to a different sort of question. So expands on
that methodology by it. Does the Bacchum argue that the Gospels are eyewitness testimonies? Like
they're all like, it sounded more like. Yeah, either eyewitness or people close to them. So
John was written by an eyewitness. Mark and Matthew were written by associates of an eyewitness and
Luke went around and interviewed eyewitnesses to, to get his. So he's somewhat in the church tradition.
Like, like, oh, you know, Peter's companion probably wrote Mark or something like that.
No, it's Peter's commanding. Yeah, that's what he would take. I'm very, very, I must be frank,
I'm extremely skeptical of those assumptions, especially when we look at the church fathers
and what they're up against. Like the back and forth of like, it's like the competition to
fabricate our, our guide did that. And, you know, like, there's so much competition. And I just
don't know. I can't see behind the veil of history with we don't have the data. Like there's a lot
of problems. The first person I think that quotes or mentions John was a Gnostic. Like,
what the heck is this like a Gnostic version? They dug John. And I'm not saying John was a Gnostic.
I'm just making the point like, I don't know what the heck I really don't know the answer to
here. There's so many interesting things to think about. But please, please let's do this again.
And is, is there anything else I go to this academia? Is there any final words you'd like
to say to our audience? Well, I hope I wouldn't didn't bore you to death with my math and my
numbers. I know, I know, you know, math is not the most exciting thing. But hey, at least we didn't
do any of my quantitative analysis. But which I have a few that my contribution to the synoptic
problem is quantitative analysis, statistical analysis of some of some of the quantitative
claims that people make, but then don't check. But yeah, I mean, I think the history of mathematics
is there. It's its own cultural manifestation. And in part, it's us math teachers who have
misguided a lot of people because of our rhetoric. We present it like as well, once the system has
been developed, these things have always been true. Sure, but somebody had to discover them.
And there's a history there. So understanding that there's, you know, this sort of other cultural
influence, and appreciating what their education was, like, I love learning about their little
calculator. And that that's what calculus comes from and calculate, like that's you're using
little pebbles to calculate things, that they didn't have a system of math. Like if you can do
your times table, you can kick the ass of any ancient Greek, pretty much. They focus so much
more on geometry that arithmetic was like next level for them. So it's its own little history.
And I'm glad I got the opportunity to sort of incorporate it with my biblical scholarship.
I think it's going to be useful as we continue forward, at least getting some
putting in some ideas and weighing options and thinking about them. It may not ever give us
the answers, but it can maybe help us guide us as an instrument to find out,
are we on the right track? Does this make sense? And anyway, I really appreciate you. Please go in
the description. If you're on Patreon, you're watching this early, and I hope you enjoyed it.
And never forget, we are MythVision. Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos
that I have worked hard in the high quality content that are not in public domain. They're
only on the Patreon. You also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas,
or just want a private chat. You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do more
traveling to educate people from more academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on
MythVision. This is a full-time gig, and you're helping the community by joining. I'm trying to
put together more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're
harming society. We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient
texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do. So please, I could use your help
and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
