Please consider joining our Patreon to help us grow, as well as like, share, comment and
subscribe.
Demons
Michael S. Hyzer
What the Bible really says about the powers of darkness.
Guys, this is going to be a great show.
I've been a skeptic, as you all know, watching my channel.
I'm a very friendly guy, though.
I can communicate with many people from various backgrounds, world views.
Michael Hyzer has a different world view than me.
Dr. Hyzer presents evidence, though, in his book, based off the biblical narrative that
what the ancients actually believed about their own worldview is described quite well,
I believe, in his book, when it comes to Elohim, demons, refi'im, giants, the whole thing.
Fallen angels, the demon, possessions, and exorcisms.
You name it.
He also draws off other sources.
I was shocked to read this in his book as a skeptic myself, where most Christians are
shy from going towards extra biblical material.
You guys will really enjoy this one.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back, your host, Derek Lambert.
I have a special show today.
Let me go ahead and introduce the gentleman.
We're going to be talking about his book, Demons.
Be sure to go into the description.
Get this book.
It's not only readable for layperson, but it has some scholarly depth to it.
Dr. Michael S. Hyzer is the executive director for the Awakening School of Theology and Ministry
in Jacksonville, Florida.
He is the author of numerous bestselling books, including Angels, The Unseen Realm, Supernatural,
and the Bible Unfiltered.
He earned his PhD in Hebrew Bible and Semitic languages and holds an MA in ancient history
and Hebrew studies.
I've watched this gentleman years and years ago on YouTube.
He shot down some of the ancient alien concepts, but he piqued my interest on what's going
on in the Bible in Genesis 3, Genesis 6, and other areas.
With that being said, welcome to the show, Dr. Hyzer.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
Thank you.
You wrote this book, Demons.
When I started open, I said, wow, this is a lot of information right on one topic.
I mean, is this just going to be focused on demons itself?
And there is a history to this.
You need to really kind of go back and take a trip back, and you talk about something,
and anyone who reads your book, which I truly recommend.
I got it on e-book.
If I had it hard copy, I'd be bragging right now showing it to everybody, but it takes
us through three, if you will, catastrophic events that happen in the biblical narrative.
Genesis 3, Genesis 6, Genesis 11, finalizing at the Tower of Babel, and this worldview
permeates in Deuteronomy 32, and the whole biblical narrative on top of Second Temple
tradition utilizes these concepts.
And so with that being said, if you would launch us off into an introduction here.
Yeah.
I should ask you first.
Have you read Unseen Realm before you read Demons?
No, sir.
Okay.
Well, for those of your listeners who may have, I should orient them a little bit.
Unseen Realm is sort of the book that I'm most known for.
It is a Genesis to Revelation run through.
Basically it's a systematic dot connecting.
It's building the matrix or a framework for understanding scripture for you, but it's
a Genesis to Revelation work that unfolds the biblical metanarrative, the biblical story,
story of biblical theology with a specific eye toward how the unseen world intentionally
intersects with our world.
So my taglines for that are typically things like, you know, I want the Israelite living
in your head when you read the Old Testament.
I want the first century Jew living in your head when you read the New Testament.
I don't want to hear about interpreting in context anymore, unless you're willing to
do it.
Okay.
And I'm talking worldview.
So if you're filtering the Bible or interpreting your Bible in accord with, you know, 21st century
evangelicalism or the charismatic movement or the reform guys or, you know, all of these
things are post biblical contexts by definition.
They are not the context for the biblical writer and his original readers at any point.
So of that, you know, well, it's, it's the, when you think about it, it's, it almost sounds
dumb because it's the simplest thing in the world.
Okay.
It's very obvious.
They weren't us.
News flash.
Okay.
You know, they, they weren't.
And so if, you know, if you're, if you have a lot of Bible under your belt, but you sort
of have always suspected that there must be more to it.
There must be connectivity to it that you can't see the parts must relate to a whole.
Like it's supposed to make sense.
So why doesn't it?
Your intuition is absolutely correct.
Okay.
Now, what you're missing is you're missing the framework that I tried to give you an unseen
realm.
Now, angels is a subsequent book.
Demons is a subsequent book.
And those are drill downs, like into the framework of unseen realm.
If your listeners don't like to read books with footnotes, I recommend supernatural,
which is a distillation of unseen realm.
I take all the footnotes out, all the academies and all that kind of stuff.
I mean, you can read a, you can go to Amazon.
I've got almost 2,200 reviews of unseen realm and it's a book with footnotes and it has
sold, you know, we're probably pushing 150,000 copies, which is unheard of for a book.
It's very rare.
But what it tells you, if you read the reviews, is most of the people there are not scholars.
They're just people who like the Bible.
So it's very readable.
And I hope the other ones are readable too.
I mean, I had good editors.
But demons, what I decided to do with demons, angels was first and the title for that was
intentional.
And the subtitle, you know, the book is called angels.
That's what will come up in the search engine.
And then the subtitle is what the Bible really says about God's heavenly host.
And that telegraphs something.
It telegraphs the fact that not all members of the heavenly hosts are angels.
Angel is just a job description.
It's a term that describes what a member of the heavenly host might do.
Take a message.
Okay.
It's all angel means, Malach and Hebrew, Angoloss and Greek.
Well, demons is the same way.
Demons again, that shows up in the search engines, but the subtitle is important.
What the Bible really says about the powers of darkness.
That means I'm trying to telegraph the idea that not all the powers of darkness are demons.
They're not.
Right.
Demons are actually low level players.
If you had a conversation and you had in the room a principality and a demon, the principality
might look down on the demon for not being fully divine.
I mean, we'll get into why this is, but there's a pecking order that we are completely basically
unaware of.
What we think we know about demons as students of the Bible or Christians or anybody who's
serious about the Bible really, unless you have to go through grad school, because all
the stuff I talk about is sort of fundamental discourse for scholars and grad school.
If you don't mind me poking in here, because I really, really appreciate you saying that
there's a pecking order here.
I love that you are critical and you're honest about this, no matter who it is, what names
on it, no matter what their faith or the particular denomination is, you're like, look, here's
what I've found.
This is the evidence.
I'm not here to shoot at anybody and I'm not here to endorse anybody.
You're just going to the text.
Right.
I have this wacky idea that I should care about what the text can sustain.
If we're going to claim our theology as biblical, it might be a good idea to actually trace
it somewhere in the text, as opposed to church tradition.
As much as church tradition accomplishes that that's good, it's not a sinister or awful
thing, but it is not biblical theology.
There's a lot of overlap, but the demon, the powers of darkness world is a classic example
of how we think we know certain things and they're really not biblical.
My favorite example is, well, what about before the fall, when Satan fell and he took a third
of the angels with him, that's where we get the powers of darkness?
You actually answer that in your book too, you're going to.
There's no verse that says a third of the angels rebelled with Satan, zero.
There isn't a single verse that says that, and if you actually, if you have like a concordance
or software program, if you look up three or third with the word angel or demon, they
only occur in combination one time and that's Revelation 12.
If you read Revelation 12, the war in heaven there is in response to the birth of the Messiah.
That has nothing to do with before Adam and Eve.
We teach this, there are multitudes of Christians walking around and this is in their head as
doctrine and it has zero attachment to the biblical text.
So again, what I try to do is I try to get people to read the text closely in the original
context of the writers and their original audience and they are far removed from us.
Not only in chronology, but also in worldview.
So getting into the subject matter of demons, here's how I like to introduce it to, you
know, if I'm talking to somebody or if I'm on a show or whatever, because this comes
up a lot.
You know, what's different about this book?
You know, there are other books on demons and there are, well here's how I answer that.
If you walk up to the average Christian and you asked, hey, can you tell me like theologically,
you know, biblically, why is the world such a mess?
Why is there evil in God's world?
Why is there such chaos?
Why is there all this sin and depravity?
Why is everything just a mess?
And the answer you would get is probably an expression of surprise because, well, don't
you know?
That's the fall.
Haven't you ever read your Bible, Mike?
That's the fall.
Well, if you ask the same question to, again, a literate Israelite, somebody who had access
to a Hebrew Bible, a first century Jew, who had access to their scriptures and were very
familiar with them, that is not the answer you would get.
And we know that because of things like the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We know that because of things written in between the Testaments, how they're thinking
about their sacred scriptures, the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament.
That is not how they view things.
And so what I'm trying to do in demons is I'm trying to recapture how they would answer
the question.
And when you answer that question, then out of that emerges who the powers of darkness
are, you know, what the pecking order is, where they come from, how they're different.
They're not all the same.
So the answer would be, well, there's actually three reasons why the world is such a chaotic
mess with all this evil, both human and supernatural.
And that is initially there was a rebellion entered into the world in Genesis three.
That's the fall story.
I'll try to abbreviate this as much as possible where you have.
Yeah, please do.
Yeah.
I mean, I just get wound up.
Okay.
I love that.
You have a rebellion, a supernatural rebel that later becomes known as Satan, and you
have human rebellion, a violation of what God wants, you know, from these human children.
And that rebellion brings forth estrangement from God.
It severs the relationship for at least in terms of what it should be, what God wants
it to be.
And it also brings death, which is a serious problem.
And this is why later on, the Satan figure sort of gets preeminence, because by virtue
of what he did, he essentially has the title to everything now, everything dies.
Everything is going to cross his doorstep or wind up in his dominion, which is the underworld,
you know, shield, all these terms that the Bible uses, the realm of the dead.
Everything dies.
So that's our first problem.
And you go on and, you know, God doesn't annihilate the humans because he loves them.
And this is what he wants.
And he's committed to working with them as they are, as they were created, sharing his
attributes with them, one of which is freedom.
He also shared his attributes with supernatural beings that he made, his heavenly children,
the heavenly sons, children of God.
They have freedom as well.
And this is why we have evil, you know, and you say, well, didn't God, you know, foreknow
that?
Like, couldn't he tell?
You know, didn't he know that was going to happen?
The answer is yes.
The answer is yes.
God isn't a moron, okay?
He knows that when he shares his attributes with beings who are like him, but who are
not him, that there's going to be a potential for failure and a potential for rebellion.
But what God's choice in doing that tells us is that God would rather have a world.
He would rather have us in a world that has to deal with all that than not have us at
all.
I'm going to say, if you don't mind me poking in here, because we've got some thicker questions
in terms of a theological or even grammatical things, because you're a scholar in the languages
and I'm not.
I have a few friends that love to study this stuff who are huge fans of what you do.
So I'm going to share the screen and hopefully you can see this image here.
And then I'll read you the question so you can kind of get a taste of what we're, what
I'm asking.
All right.
So this, if you could see that, I hope you can.
I can see it.
He says, well, my friend here, he says, Dr. Heiser, the original Greek word for demons
denoted low-level polytheistic gods, lower case, with the masculine form diamond.
I would correct that immediately.
Okay.
Diamond could indicate God-like beings and it depends what you mean by a God-like being.
In the footnotes to both unseen realm and the demons book, there's an article by, last
name is Rexine and it's on daimone in Greek literature and you'll find out there's basically
half a dozen possibilities for what a daimone meant.
One of which would be like a deity figure and then there are different gradations.
There's ghosts.
There's the internal spirit of a person.
I mean, all of these things could be daimone.
So it's actually a very neutral term and the curious thing about it is that when
it's used in the plural in Second Temple Greek and in the New Testament, it's always
of evil beings.
That is not true outside when it's used as the singular.
I think that's why his question was going to get into you because he says this term
took on a negative connotation of the Bible with the neuter form daimonian.
For some reason, later Skybes and Byzantine tradition changed several instances of daimonian
to the older form daimon, but in the critical text, the form daimon only occurs once in
the whole New Testament in Matthew 831.
The term is used to describe what are characterized in Marcus' unclean spirits, which you go into
in depth in your book.
Everybody needs to read your book first of all.
The term occurs more than once.
He might be referring to the singular there.
I'm not sure unless he's going daimone versus daimonion.
He actually goes and says where Matthew has the masculine daimon, Luke has the neuter
form daimonion, which he also uses in Acts 1718, where the Athenian philosophers describe
Paul's gospel as preaching foreign demons.
Do you believe these alternations in the form used by the biblical authors and by later
Skybes are significant?
What was Luke's point in having the pagan philosophers characterize Paul as preaching
foreign demons?
Well, in Acts, what is it, Acts 831?
Is that the reference?
1718.
Yes, sir.
This actually sounds more familiar.
It's right where he was preaching and they were all like, what's a strange teaching and
stuff?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the term there, you know, he's preaching, ESV has foreign divinities.
Okay.
And so, again, even in that instance, it doesn't necessarily refer to a negative thing.
In other words, Paul's talk, they're accusing Paul of talking about foreign gods for, you
know, in other words, gods that were not theirs.
If it's a foreign God, it's not ours.
Right.
And who would Paul be talking about?
Well, the father and then Jesus, okay, because in Paul's thinking, you know, Jesus is God
incarnate.
That's the easy path.
So, you know, what they're talking about is they're responding to, they're essentially
saying, we don't recognize these gods.
Like who are they?
You know, like, you know, they're not our gods, you know, so what's this guy talking
about?
You know, what you have going on is you have the use of a term that itself is neutral.
In chapter two, or is it chapter, I think it's chapter one, I have a couple chapters
on vocabulary in the demons book, because this is a, it's a problem.
I wouldn't call it an insurmountable problem as far as, you know, what's going on.
But Greco-Roman literature tends to lack a lot of the nuances, just generally that you're
going to get with Semitic terminology, like from the Hebrew Bible.
When the Hebrew Bible gets translated into Greek, the Greek translators tended to use
these umbrella terms, like Daimon or Daimonion.
They didn't care about the nuances, you know, between, in the angels book, I actually show
that there's three buckets to this, for members of the supernatural beings.
There are terms that describe what they are by nature, ontological terms, that's the first
bucket, things like spirits, Elohim even, that's a generic term for a divine being.
Then there are terms that describe rank in hierarchy, sons of God.
Okay, this is a term drawn from the royal court, God is king, you know, so we use this
royal court kingly, you know, imagery to describe certain levels of the divine bureaucracy.
Okay, and then the third bucket are terms that describe role or function, you know, basically
job descriptions.
Here's where angel comes in, an angel is a messenger, in either Greek or Hebrew, Greek
or Semitic, that's all it is, it's a messenger.
So it's a supernatural being that takes a message, okay, God.
You know, this just side note, I love this because there are a lot of rationalists that
want to take these things you're doing, and your whole book really is kind of like, you
really need to read this guys, because they want to rationalize, they want to look at
stuff like the sons of God and make it human, they, not divine, and you really do a great
job actually criticizing that view, you really cut through it.
I think it, you know, somebody just has to point to the elephant in the room and say
there it is, somebody just has to be honest, because what we have is we have, let's just
talk about, you know, Christians, for instance, we have a lot of Christians that are selectively
supernatural, and they don't understand how this undermines their, their apologetic position,
really.
Right.
And that is somehow it's respectable.
It's not too weird to believe in a trinity, and an incarnation, and the hypostatic union
of the two natures of Christ, okay, and, you know, these sort of core fundamental doctrines,
virgin birth, you know, that somehow that's intellectually fine in debates.
But let's not be looking at Genesis six.
Let's not affirm with the biblical writers that the gods of the nations they believed
were real entities.
That's just too weird.
Well, you know, I'm, you know, how does Genesis six work with the, you know, sons of God
and the daughters of women like, how does it work?
Huh?
Well, here's my answer.
I don't know.
I don't know how it works because just like that, I don't know how the incarnation works.
I don't know how the resurrection works.
I don't know how the trinity works.
Can I make a comment here?
Because I, we do have limited time, and so I think this is very, your time is valuable
to me, and I want to make sure we get to the things we need to get to, but I loved how
you delved into the Babylon situ or the Tower Babel, my bad, which you say might be a ziggurat.
And so in this particular narrative, though, the confusion of languages go in and elaborate
on, these are actually allotted Elohim.
And most Christians don't even recognize that.
I feel like most Christians are stuck with the situation of there is no other gods and
they can't even permit the concept and worldview of Elohim in the framework.
This is exactly how I start the book, you know, unseen realm and it's for exactly the
reason that, that you describe, and it's also because this, it involved an episode of me
where God had to providentially, you know, poke me in the eye or basically take me down
a few pegs, you know, from where I was, you know, I, before I go into that, you know,
I don't want to leave your friend hanging, but anyway, in the,
Oh, we got more questions.
Don't worry.
Well, with, with, with Daimonion, again, you have a transition.
It's really a Greek issue, Greek translator adopting a neutral term.
And then when that term gets used in second temple literature, it is most often occurring
in, in, in, in books that are referencing the Genesis six event.
And that's why you get this sweeping, almost total universality of the Daimonion plural
are evil.
Right.
It's because that term shows up in the discussion of that event.
Okay.
There's, there's a historical consideration, but there's a literary consideration.
There's also a semantic, you know, lexical consideration here too.
Amazing.
Back to your, the question you just asked.
So, you know, the, the second rebellion involves, you know, the sons of God, you know, which
every, every tradition, Jewish and Christian up until about the fourth century AD thought
that they were supernatural beings.
And it's because sons of God everywhere else, that phrase is used of supernatural beings,
members of the heavenly host.
And one of those is Psalm 82 where it's inescapable because they're the sons of God are also called
Elohim.
All right.
And this is a big factor when you get in, this is what you're pressing for the third
rebellion, the Babel event.
So to, to prep this with the whole concept of Elohim being allotted to the nations.
This is how the Old Testament, the Bible explains why.
Why the nations wind up worshiping other gods.
I mean, have you ever wondered if you're reading the Bible, you're, you know, you're starting
Genesis one, you're reading through, by the time you hit Genesis 11, you hit Tara and
Abraham.
And if, if you do a little study on Tara, you find out in Joshua 24, he was an idol.
Hmm.
Well, like, where did that come from?
Like, like, you know, how everybody sort of knew who the true God was.
And then now they don't by the time of Abraham, like, what's up with that again?
What's up with that is the Babel event.
So here, here's the situation.
I'll start with, with the Babel event itself.
If you read Genesis one through 11, again, this is the third of the three, you know,
rebellion, cataclysms, the supernatural, you know, issues and human rebellion too.
If you read Genesis one to 11, people are going to say, well, Mike, I don't see any
demons and angels and I don't see any, but anything supernatural going on here.
I know the Tower of Babel story.
We teach this in church and all the time.
You're right.
You're right.
That's why you need to go to Deuteronomy 32.
And I will confess with you, you know, I was ignorant too.
I was a PhD student in Hebrew Bible before I ran into this for the first time.
And the reason is, is because when you get into grad school and Hebrew studies, I don't
let you use English translations.
Okay.
And they insist that you, you do, you use things like the Dead Sea Scrolls that you're,
you're aware of what's going on in the text.
So if you go to Deuteronomy 32, I'm going to use the ESV because the ESV is one of the
few English translations that incorporates Dead Sea Scroll material right in the verse.
This is why I missed it for, for 30 years because your English translations don't do
this.
A few can now do ESV, NRSB, NLT.
So it says, when the most high, again, that's not a brain teaser.
We know who that is.
Right.
When the most high gave it to the nations, their inheritance, when he divided mankind
and he fixed the borders of the peoples, when, when did, when did all the people of the
earth get divided into, into people groups?
Oh yeah.
That's the tower of Babel, you know, because God confuses their languages and we get a
whole list of the nations in Genesis 10.
Genesis 10 is the precursor to Genesis 11, the Babel event.
It explains how we got all those nations in the table of nations in Genesis too.
So we know what, we know what he's talking about here.
He's talking about Babel.
Okay.
When the most high gave to the nations, their inheritance, when he divided mankind and fixed
the borders of the people, he fixed those borders according to the number of the sons
of God.
Well, see other translations will have according to the number of the sons of Israel, right?
Children of Israel, the people of Israel, which again, I can sit here and wax eloquent.
I mean, I published a journal article on this that if you're having trouble sleeping,
you know, you can find it online and, you know, read it and go to sleep pretty early.
You know, it's just one of those things.
I can, I can play textual critic here all day long and tell you why the Dead Sea Scrolls
are correct.
The Dead Sea Scrolls say sons of God.
Right.
And if you have a study Bible, you will have a footnote here and it'll tell you that.
Can I ask you a question on this particular subject?
Cause this is important.
I'm popping up something for you guys to check out because this is super important in
light of this.
All right.
So my question is, and you've written extensively in textual critical problems in
Deuteronomy 32, 8 and 32, 43, which are a microcosm of the issue of the Masoretic
text priority, if you will, empty priority, the notion of the presumed
sank, sanctity of the Masoretic texts that keep the Bible.
You seem to favor the consensus of most textual critics that these verses are
corrupt in the Masoretic texts, favoring readings from the Dead Sea Scrolls, which
you just got done saying, which is part of my question, but it gets into something.
If you don't mind me finishing, this would be great.
Greek Septuagint as being closer to the original form of the text.
And obviously these more original readings contain explicit divine counsel
language, which may have been intentionally removed.
Modern English translations appear to be divided on how they handle this issue
like these, uh, out of the 20 popular English Bibles, only seven of them go
against the Masoretic text and Deuteronomy 32, 8.
However, the vast majority of these Bibles, 17 out of 20, favor the Masoretic
texts and Deuteronomy 32, 43, sorry, 43.
In fact, the new, uh, any T Bible footnotes addition doesn't even provide
a footnote mentioning the existence of a significant textual variant in 32, 43,
which is why so many of these Bibles go against the Masoretic texts and verse
eight, while clinging to the priority of the Masoretic texts and verse 43.
If scholars are correct, and this is summing it up, that the Masoretic
texts of verse 43 is demonstrably incomplete, missing two whole lines.
Shouldn't the Bible editor be inclined, uh, go with the scholarship on this and
at least inform the readers of this issue?
Well, if, if you're asking me and, and you are asking me,
I, I should say yes.
In a passage that is this transparently, um, inadequate in the Masoretic
texts, the answer is yes.
Now in the real world of Bible translation, all of these things are
committee decisions.
And so you, you might have a translator and depending on that person's stature
within the group of people working on the translation, they, they may win the
argument or they may not.
You know, I think a lot of, a lot of people, how can I say this?
Cause I, I don't want to undermine confidence in English translations
because they, they're all, they all do pretty well.
I mean, I have preferences, you know, for different translation philosophies,
but it would be unusual for, for one to just, just like, for me to look at it
and say, please avoid that.
I mean, I can, I can count those on one hand.
All right.
Right.
So what you more or less have is you have publishers that say things like,
and I, and I worked for one.
So I know I lost this conversation at logos at faith life.
People are just used to reading it a verse a certain way.
So we're going to leave it that way and we'll put the, we'll put what's
probably better in a footnote.
That's what they're going to do.
Okay.
Yeah.
Now I, I, I could, I could fill a 10 minutes of, of funny office stories
about why that decision 10 years ago, the place I worked at is now
biting them in the butt.
Yeah.
Okay.
But I won't do that.
You know, in this case, it's so transparent, especially because of verse 43.
Yes.
I mean, verse 43 tells you just, it, you know, it's just,
it's just dead to rights.
It is demonstrably not coherent with verse eight.
And, but, but if you throw all the text criticism stuff aside, how does it
make sense for the most high at Babel to divide up the nations and a lot
them, you know, to this, the sons of God, according to the number of Israel.
Israel didn't exist yet.
It's not in the table of nations.
There is no, the lead to Israel and you get people out there and
enter and say, well, you know, they're the number 70 is used later on.
Actually, that's not the only number, but we'll just run with it later on for
the children of Israel, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
I know, I know you want to use that for verse eight.
What do you got for verse 43?
Oh, nations.
Registration is zero.
Okay.
You got zero.
And these things are, it's up to you and whatever the Hebrew text that was
behind that, and, and the kumran evidence from the Dead Sea Scrolls is, this
is the only, this is the only thing in the Dead Sea Scrolls for Deuteronomy 32
eight, it's sons of God.
But again, you don't, you don't need all the fancy schmancy, academies,
textual criticism, you know, all this, I mean, it's useful, important, but at
the end of the day, if you just think about it, oh, so God, a lot of them
went to this thing, this nation that doesn't exist yet.
Okay.
I mean, it doesn't make any sense at all, especially when you go back to Deuteronomy
four, 19 and 20, where the whole point is God allotting other supernatural
beings to the nations and the nations to those beings as a punishment.
And Israel is not supposed to involve itself with this stuff.
You get it in Deuteronomy 17.
They're called Elohim.
You get it in Deuteronomy 29, 23.
Again, the allotment language.
This passage, not only is it the third rebellion, but this passage frames the
rest of your Old Testament.
And I would argue the rest of your Bible.
I actually, after reading your book, I'm telling you, uh, very convincing.
And you, what I love about you is you don't stay only to the canon.
You, you venture to build up an argument that says, listen, uh, you can go
outside of your borders and see this for yourself.
It's not only within the canon.
It's also in second temple tradition.
But if you don't mind, I've got two chunks and then we can spend the
rest of our time really for your listeners.
Yes.
I, I think books outside the canon are important for a pretty stupendous reason.
You might, if you're driving, you might want to pull over on the side of the
road now, so I don't want to cause an accident here with this, this amazing
cosmic revelation.
Okay.
We're sitting down at home, but it's important to consider books outside
the Bible because biblical writers read books.
What?
Shocking, isn't it?
They weren't illiterates.
Hey, they read books and they're reading people in their community that take
the Hebrew Bible as the inspired sacred word of God.
And so they're reading about how people in their community are thinking
about it and parsing it.
And occasionally that discussion, just like when we read a commentary or
something, occasionally that discussion really helps them express something.
Like what a shock.
Again, I've sort of made a living on affirming the obvious.
I mean, at the end of the day, most of what I do is affirm the obvious.
And then I have to ask myself, why isn't this obvious to more people?
And the answer is, because we have been protected from our Bible.
That's the answer.
It gets filtered to us through tradition.
It gets filtered to us by well-meaning people who are, are, have
charged over us as teachers and leaders and whatnot.
And they've only been minimally exposed again to what, to the same process.
It's just this circular thing of, of passing on an interpretive subculture.
That's what we do.
And, and it's just high time that we try to go back and engage the text and
read it like the ancient people did, that produced it.
God used these people when they were living.
They're writing to people at the same time, to think the same way.
Doesn't it stand to reason that if we wanted to understand it, we would try
to figure out what's going on inside their heads.
And I think you do a good job of expressing that using as much data as possible.
If you don't mind, Deuteronomy 32.8, right?
We've talked about this.
It contains some key references to nations, which I think is important.
Goyim or Ethne, as you know, this term tends to refer to people in
general in the Hebrew Bible, but in later Hellenistic period and in Greek
Septuagint, it tends to refer to nations other than Israel and eventually
becomes the term used to denote Gentiles.
In verse eight, it says that God gave the nations their inheritance or
allotment, dividing them geographically according to the sons of God, not the
sons of Israel.
And in verse nine, Jacob is said to be the allotment of God's own inheritance,
which is clear evidence right there in the verse later, which the
Septuagint affirms is Israel.
Now, in verse eight of the Septuagint, God merely divides up nations.
Verse nine is only place to mention the term inheritance with respect
to Israel as God's inheritance.
You ask rhetorically in one of your articles, what possible point would
there be behind connecting the pagan Gentile nations numerically with
the children of promise, which is kind of what you alluded to earlier.
And you said, are these differences between the Masoretic texts and
Septuagint significant in terms of how Hellenistic Jews and later Christians
may have interpreted these verses with respect to Gentiles?
In other words, did Greek speaking Jews and Christians in particular view
the Gentile nations as being under the dominion of demonic powers, and did
they give way to the notion that God would disinherit the demonic powers by
reclaiming those Gentile nations who were separate from the people of Israel?
Yeah, this is, this symmetry is intentional because it telegraphs reversal.
And the reversal is telegraphed as soon as God punishes the nations and
allots them to other supernatural beings in the heavenly host.
Because what he does then, he has just divorced himself from humanity.
I mean, think about that.
There's no, I mean, totally everybody.
God says, forget you, you know, I mean, everybody.
And then he turns and says, now what I'm going to do.
Is I'm going to call, I'm going to go up here to one guy, Abram in War of the
Chaldeans, and his wife can't have children.
So she's perfect.
Because what I'm going to do here is I'm going to start humanity, the human
family that I want so much, I'm going to start over from scratch.
And the fact that she can't have children is awesome because there's going
to be no doubt as to how this people came into existence.
It's going to be me.
And so God does that and he makes a covenant with Abram, but in that covenant,
like right on the heels of divorcing the nations, he says, no, look, it's
going to be through your offspring that ultimately all these other nations
are going to be blessed right there in the right there from the very beginning.
And so this whole thing, as it rolls out and in unseen realm, I have a
whole chapter on how the reversal begins at Pentecost, you know, the
reversing of Babel and the rest of the book of Acts.
And, and this is why Paul, this is how Paul frames his, his whole ministry.
This is why he's obsessed, for instance, with getting to Spain before he dies.
Well, who cares about Spain?
Do they have good food there?
No, it's spaghetti.
It's the last nation in the table of nations that the gospel has not yet reached.
I mean, he's in chains on a Roman ship headed to Rome to appeal to Caesar.
I mean, he doesn't, there's no human hope of him getting out of there.
And so what does he do?
He writes a letter to the Romans and says, Hey, you know, I'm going to
be coming and visiting you guys for a while.
I can't wait to be there.
Never been there, you know, heard all about you, but I'm only going to be there
a little time because I'm on my way to Spain.
But twice he says it to them.
And the thing is, I believe, I don't have a verse for it, but I, you know,
I believe that Paul believed he wouldn't die until he finished his mission.
He's going to get to Spain because Spain is Tarshish in the table of nations.
It's the westernmost point.
It's also in Isaiah 66.
You know, it, Paul understands very clearly who he is and what his job is.
I am the apostle to the Gentiles.
It is my job to make sure that all of the nations that were disinherited
hear about Jesus so that they have a conduit to come back home.
He is the seed, as Paul says in Galatians, through which this promise is going
to be fulfilled.
Right.
He, he, he has, again, he has a clear-headed notion of what's going on.
He also, it also, it's also reflected in his vocabulary for supernatural powers
of darkness.
You know, occasionally he'll use the neutral term demons, like when it's
about a general sacrifice or like first Corinthians 10, which references Deuteronomy
32, by the way.
Interesting.
But, you know, Paul uses terms like principalities, powers, rulers, thrones,
dominions, you know, all this stuff.
What do all those terms have in common?
They are terms of geographical rulership and dominion.
I mean, Paul, Paul is doing this for a reason.
In the demons book, I have a long quote from Plato.
I don't know if you remember that.
Yes.
Where Plato beautifully articulates the Deuteronomy 32 worldview, even with
allotment language.
You know, I mean, Paul could go into it, into a gentile town and preach Jesus.
I mean, to the Jew first and also to the Greek, and then I go to jail.
Okay.
But he's, he's going to preach to them and he knows what they're thinking.
He knows that they're fearful.
If we turn our backs on the gods, we worship who the bigger gods say we're
supposed to worship, we're in a lot of trouble.
We're going to get punished.
And Paul's saying, look, the most high, the one above all the mall, the one who
set up this whole arrangement as a punishment, he became a man.
He died for you on the cross.
He rose again.
He ascended to the right hand of authority before he left.
He said, all authority is given to me, not only in heaven, but on earth as well.
Go there for and make disciples of all nations.
Okay.
This, this is the trigger point right here.
So Paul could say, look, don't be afraid.
Don't be afraid.
The, the, the one who's the most high has your back.
He not only has made this legitimate nullifying the authority of these
other supernatural beings that he appointed.
And then, you know, they, they became adversarial and rebellious.
That's Psalm 82 again.
You had a gentleman who deals with the black Hebrew Israelites and our good
friend, Malab, Bo-Kab Malone, I got it backwards dyslexic there for a moment,
but he was interviewed with you.
And he said, you know, and I interviewed him as well.
We talked about this.
These guys go to Gentiles and the New Testament and they see the term and they
believe that it's like a, a, a Hellenized uncircumcised Israelites.
Somehow there's a genetic connection to all of Paul's Cornelius, the whole nine.
And they just can't see the framework stretch out beyond the 12.
They go beyond heaven and earth to interpret it this way.
And then of course they say they themselves are that specific race.
But at the end of the day, if, if this barrier, this wall of separation has
been torn away by Jesus, why are you trying to reconstruct it?
What's the point?
If you don't mind, I want to segue into more, because I've got limited, limited
time with you and because there's so much here.
I'd love to interview you again to go into more detail.
You have so much information.
Um, I'm going to share an image.
This is a textual issue.
I think that my buddy, uh, Steven Nelson brought to my attention and, uh, so let
me pull this up.
I'm dealing with multiple things on my screen.
Here we go.
Sharing screen now.
All right.
Can you see that, sir?
I can see it.
It's, it's large.
So I don't see all of it.
Okay.
Um, let's see.
You cannot see all of it.
I can see it cleanses people's land.
That's the last line.
Uh, cleanses people cleanse his people's land.
Yes.
That's the bottom.
So I'll read the, the question here.
In Deuteronomy 30 to 43, what is the significance of the line where the
Septuagint and Masoretic texts agree against the Dead Sea Scrolls, rejoice
ownations with his people.
That verse seems to draw a distinction between nations, Goyim and people.
Amin, the Septuagint reinforces this distinction by rendering Goyim as
ethnic and Amin as Laos.
If the latter reference is to the people of Israel and the former reference is to
Gentiles, was this verse understood by Christians as a prophecy of the
salvation of Gentiles?
Might the deletion of this line from the Dead Sea Scroll for Q.
Deuteronomy indicate that the editor of the text was uncomfortable with the
idea of Gentiles somehow coming into the fold with Israel, or is it more likely
that this line was later interpolated into the textual stream now reflected in
the Masoretic and Septuagint text?
Yeah, I don't see how to, to me, let me preface it this way.
It's conceivable that you could have more than one hand copying a Hebrew Bible.
In other words, you wouldn't have the same guy copy everything.
Right.
All right.
Now, just store that away so that you would have, you know, different people
working on different portions of this Tanakh that was being reproduced and copied.
I bring that up because if there was some sort of supervised agenda to do, you
know, to edit the Hebrew text, because I'm offended with the idea of Gentiles
being, you know, grafted into the family of God or Israel or something like that,
you did a really sucky job.
Every scribe did a really sucky job because this is a very, very difficult
because this theme runs through the Hebrew Bible in some place.
So, you know, if your job is to a New Testament and get rid of the deity of Christ,
I hope that I don't think the Jehovah's Witnesses are going to hire you because
you're inept.
You're not going to do a very good job.
Now, having said that, is it possible that one scribe, you know,
looked at, you know, had the text of Deuteronomy 32 that aligns with the
Septuagint and decided to take it out?
Well, you know, okay, that's possible.
I don't know that it's really plausible.
I also don't even know if it's a meaningful question because the Hebrew Bible is
getting copied, not just in one geographical place.
The Hebrew Bible is being copied in at least three different locations.
You got Babylon.
There's a whole huge substantial Jewish community in Babylon and they're not
sitting there hoping that someone will invent federal express so that they can
get a Hebrew Bible in their synagogue someday.
You know, those idiots in Judea, I wish they'd hurry up and then someone
please invent a method to mail it over here.
No, they're doing it themselves and they're doing the same thing in Egypt,
which is where the Septuagint was done.
So there's a Hebrew text there and there's one in Judea.
I mean, you have three major geographical areas of text transmission.
And so the notion that there's a concerted effort to try to fiddle with
the Maseridic text or the Hebrew text for to get rid of this, this one point is
to me, it's almost as implausible as me winning the next American Idol,
but not quite.
Okay.
You might win though.
I mean, it's on the implausibility scale because these are the kinds of things
that we imagine in our heads because we're not there at the place and time.
We don't appreciate the fact that all this copying is going on in more than one
location by multiple hands.
There is no puppet master.
Okay.
Supervising what's done here.
Now, having said all of that, the only time in history when you get something
that approximates a concerted effort to produce a Hebrew text that these sorts
of decisions are going to be made is the creation of the Maseridic text as we
know it in about a hundred AD.
So up until that point, there is textual plurality.
So this is where it becomes conceivable, but whoever did it, their supervisor
ought to be fired because they didn't do it everywhere else.
So even if they did it at a hundred AD, you know, dude, haven't you read the
rest of your Bible?
I mean, if you want to get rid of this thought, you got to do a good job and they
didn't.
So that would be the point where I think it's conceivable, you know, that
something like this could be done.
I think this is important.
This discussion is important for a different reason than probably the question
is being asked.
And that is in critical approaches and source critical approaches, which want
to argue that, you know, the biblical writers used to be polytheists and then
evolved to the wonderful breakthrough, the ascended idea of monotheism.
They will use Deuteronomy 32-8 to say, oh, at some point, you know, they got rid
of the other gods and because they wanted to be monotheists and they'll talk
about how the text was edited during the exile or something like this after they've
suffered for apostasy.
We got to get this out of our systems and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Look, we don't know when this was done.
All we know is that the text that's behind the Septuagint that is witnessed in
the Dead Sea Scrolls had sons of God.
There's only really one conceivable time when we know this would happen.
And it's way after the exile.
You've had 500 years of people not caring about plural Elohim within the
Jewish community.
This is why I wrote the article and it's publicly available online.
The whole thing about divine plurality in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
There are over 160 references to plural Elohim in the Dead Sea Scrolls, but
a dozen of them are in divine council context.
I'm sorry, but that is not an indication of polytheism.
Okay, these are, these guys separated from the Pharisees.
Okay, they're not liberals.
Right, they're very, it doesn't make any sense at all.
But you'll read this in scholarships, it's kind of the scholarly equivalent of
the Revelation 12, 3rd of the Angels thing.
Nobody ever stops to ask or waves the flag like, Hey, what?
This doesn't make any sense.
I did that in my dissertation and it, to my advisor's credit, you know, he let me do that.
You know, I don't know if he, if he bought it at the end or not, but he, you know,
this was an issue and he could see that he was an honest guy.
You know, that's really all you want in doctoral program.
If somebody will just be honest with you.
I mean, it's a biblical author.
I think the whole editorial question is important for both in both respects.
You know, I, there's no way that we can posit some sort of chronology or timeline
or comprehensive systematic effort to do X, Y or Z.
Again, the only time that even, that even sounds like it's worth talking about.
Whoever did it, good grief.
So Dr. Heizer, this, this is interesting stuff that you're bringing up here.
And I guess I wanted to save the juicy stuff for last for our audience that are listening.
And you know what I mean when I say juicy, Rafaim, the giants, the background,
the Mesopotamian background, the Apkalu, I believe I'm pronouncing this correct.
And, and what I loved about what you did in demons is you bring up
that only two other scholars have actually written on this.
Yeah, it's amazing.
It's just amazing.
Can you tell us a little brief, what's going on like be in the background?
What's, yeah, were these watchers and things like that?
You know, this is, there's so much that could be said here.
You know, Genesis six one through four, we are taught to not see anything supernatural going
on there. Contrary to biblical period all the way up through, you know, 400 AD, just in round
numbers. There's nothing to see here. The gods here, the sons of God, those are just people,
even though they're not other places, here they are, because it's just too weird just to say they're
supernatural. You know, we ignore that Peter refers to angels, plural, but sin at the time of the
flood. And there is no other candidate. Remember, a third of the angels did not rebel with Satan.
There's no verse for that. Okay, there is no other candidate. So he took them as supernatural beings.
He uses the verb to send to Tartarus, which is, you know, in the classical Greek version of this,
you know, this whole series of events there, there are a number of indications these are
supernatural beings. In the Jewish tradition from this episode, yeah, you know, everybody likes to
talk about the Nephilim and all this stuff. But where it gets really strange is if you,
if you walked up to, you know, again, a first century Jew and say, hey, where did, where did
demons come from? You know, I read in my Hebrew Bible, I just can't find like a passage that explains
where they come from. And he would say, you know, you dunderhead, you know, don't, don't you know
that the demons are the disembodied spirits of the dead Nephilim and their descendants. And we
hear that, and we think that is just crazy town. Okay, like, like, like, where in the world can
you find that? All right, let's be a little charitable here. They're looking at their Hebrew
Bible. They're not just like, we need a new thought to think for the community that doesn't have any
attachment to our sacred texts. No, we're going to call it doctrine. So what can we, you know,
we're not doing that. Whether where they're getting it is they're getting it in passages like Isaiah
14, Ezekiel 32, where you have Rafaim or, you know, Nephilim, you know, just in the shield,
in the underworld. So you, Israelite tradition, the Hebrew Bible is the only one that has,
that uses these terms for both giants and for denizens of the underworld. And so all they're
doing is putting the dots together. They're connecting the dots. This is why you read all
about this in the Dead Sea Scrolls. That's why you read about it in 1st Enoch. By the time you get to
Jesus Day, this is like, everybody knows this. Everybody knows this because they are riffing
off these underworld passages. And so, you know, you say, well, that's still kind of crazy time. I
don't see that in Genesis 6. You know what else you don't see in Genesis 6? You don't see what Peter
says, do you? Okay, yes, he has angels that sin, but they're kept in chains of gloomy darkness.
Right. You don't find that in Genesis 6 either. So the question is, where's Peter getting it?
Peter's getting it from two places. He's getting it from classical literature.
We know that because he references Tartars. He's aware of that. And he also gets it from
books like Enoch and other Dead Sea Scrolls. And you know where they got it? See, that's the next
question. That's what I want to find out. Yeah. That's the next question. Where do they get it?
Why is it in these places? It's because whoever produced the books of Enoch and the book of the
Giants and the Genesis Apocryphon and again, some of these, these famous Dead Sea Scrolls,
they knew the Mesopotamian backstory. The Mesopotamian backstory is the
Apkallu or the Apkallu. It's the story of how the bigger gods want to destroy humans at the
flood and the Apkallu are horrified. Like, you know, we put a lot of time into these people. We
were the ones who gave them the knowledge on how to make civilization and all this great stuff.
And so what they do is they come up with a plan to preserve the knowledge of civilization for the
surviving humans of the flood. And all that we're told in Keneiform texts is that before the flood,
the Apkallu are 100% divine. After the flood, they're not. They are of human descent or they're
two thirds, you know, divine or something like that. Gilgamesh is one of the lords of the Apkallu.
Gilgamesh is referenced by name in the Book of the Giants. Okay, from Kumrung, the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Sorry, but they know this material. And if you, if you read demons, you know, you're going to find
out that every point of Genesis 6, 1 through 4, really 1 through 5, because the big issue is that
they teach humans all this knowledge that for a Babylonian, this is great. This is why we're,
you know, you're our heroes, you know, because they don't mind idolatry. They don't mind warfare.
They don't mind, you know, astrology. You know, they don't mind, you know,
arts of seduction, because they don't have, you know, the morals of the Torah. They don't,
they don't mind any of this. But for the biblical writers, they're saying, no, no, no, no, no. This
is bad. This is why humanity, why the depravity of humanity was accelerated after the floods,
because of these gods and what they did and what they taught humans to basically do it more
effectively destroy themselves. So it's a, Genesis 6, 1 through 5 is a response. It's a polemic
against Mesopotamian Babylonian theology. And the writers of Enoch and the Book of the Giants,
these other texts understood that. And that's why they have it in their texts. And Peter,
again, pulls some of these threads, you know, in his own book, you know, to make certain points.
Why do you think that Peter and Jude, the only, the two writers that mentioned that, you know,
the weird Genesis 16, why do they compare, why are they talking about false teachers when they bring
this up? Could it be that it has to do with the knowledge that, you know, the watchers or the,
you know, the outcaller, the sons of God taught humans to accelerate their depravity? It could
that be why Peter and Jude associate false teaching with angels that send?
Interesting. Again, there are these, once you see the connection and you think about the context
for, it's like the most obvious thing in the world. But nobody does that.
No, and that's, in fact, after reading your book, when I go back to the Bible, the framework,
like the whole framework is radically reconsidered because we're so used to looking at it, human
this, human that, not really recognizing like the only picture we have of divine is the God of
Israel. Like that's the only thing is just God and not seeing how important this metaphysical,
so to speak, realm of beings. Think of how, think of how the traditional view makes God a liar.
Okay. This night, I will have victory over the gods of Egypt. I mean, that's what,
that's what the Lord says at Passover. So, if he really knows that they don't exist,
how does he have integrity in that statement? Oh, well, Mike, he means he's gonna, God's gonna
beat those idols. Well, that's nice. I could take a hammer and beat the idol too. You know,
I could turn it over. I could tear it down. I could melt its objects. How does that give God any glory?
When the Bible says that Yahweh is the God of all gods, the Elohim, Elohim. I mean,
he is the Lord of all gods, the King of all gods. These titles that, you know, Yahweh gets
a couple dozen times. Do they mean what they say? Okay, or is Yahweh the God of
beings that don't really exist? Again, news flash, I'm better than a being that doesn't exist. At least,
I do exist. I hope so. You said something good in the book about divine God kings. And so,
you actually kind of point out and you criticize that and say, hey, look, you want to try and use
that route of, well, these are just kings, human kings that were statused as gods. And you deal with
that. So anyone who's interested in wanting to know how Dr. Heizer deals with this in his book,
make sure you guys go down in the description. Be sure to get demons. I don't care who you are. I
think you'll really learn something very interesting from this book. I definitely did. It made me kind
of want to reconsider looking into this Deuteronomy 32 worldview throughout the biblical narrative,
because I actually communicate with a lot of people who have different views, you know,
lots of different ideas. And one of them is kind of in that vein of what the Black
Hebrew Israelites have, Israel-only type ideas. And I'm testing it out, right? I look at things like
in Matthew where it says, he came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel, right? They
use these onlys and they kind of have this fundamentalist approach on it. And they say,
see, and they paint everything with those. Don't look at John 10. Right, right. They don't really
check out. They want to paint Matthew 15 or Matthew 10 on John 10 or Revelation 7. They'll say stuff
like, you know, the 12,000 from the 12 tribes. And don't read Isaiah 66 about the Gentiles come,
you know, being priests of the house of the Lord. Don't read that stuff. Yeah. Whatever you do.
Get a black permanent marker. Don't use a highlighter. Just permanent marker.
Well, Dr. Heizer, this has been a wonderful interview. I think we have many more we can do
in the future. I got to read your other books. We got to definitely go into those unseen realm and
angels, all that stuff. Thank you for taking the time to come out here and talk with me on this.
I really do appreciate it. With that being said, I guess there's so many more notes on this book.
If you have the time at some point, maybe, maybe I'll leave this one be because I think people
need to read it. There's so much material. I actually have like pages of notes. We didn't see
how much hate email. I'm definitely going to get some. I was going to ask about the Azazel sacrifice
demons as pestilence, the wilderness underworld. There's so much here, the Egyptian God pen.
You know, you know, I would, I would say for your, for your listeners, again,
there, again, there are so many nuggets that are just, it's so many things just running
underneath the surface of your English Bible. But what I really want people to get is that
all of these data points connect. Like they actually do. All the weird stuff, you know,
that we've talked about and stuff we haven't, it all has a role to play in how the biblical
metanarch, the biblical story is told and why it's told that way. And that's what we're missing.
And that's what we're missing. We have a lot of people who, you know, and God bless them.
I mean, I, I, I'd want, you know, for everyone, every one person who cares about the text that
doesn't agree with me, I'll take 10 of those, you know, as opposed to, you know, the people who
don't care at all, you know, just, just give, give me those people, you know, that's what I want.
But we have a lot of people who have a lot of data points in their head, but they have no,
they have no framework into which they fit. And they can't see the trajectories that, that,
that, you know, we'll just run from Genesis to Revelation. They can't see how things connect
to each other. So again, in Unseen Realm, I try to build enough of the matrix that you can function
in it. And then with these other books, I'm trying to drill down and then, okay, let's take this
topic and expand it. Let's take this topic and expand it. So there, there is, even if people
can't tell, there actually is a stretch. I thought there was, it turned out well,
may I read one excerpt from your book? Sure. All right. So in effect, Satan was offering Jesus
rule over the nations abandoned by Yahweh at Babel, Deuteronomy 32.8. That judgment was never
intended to be permanent. When Yahweh raised up his own portion, Deuteronomy 32.9, Israel,
starting with the covenant with Abraham, he told the Patriot that it would be through
his offspring that all nations would ultimately be blessed, Genesis 12.3. Jesus was the specific
fulfillment of that promise. Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring,
it does not say to off springs, referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring,
who is Christ, Galatians 3.16. Had Jesus felled in the wilderness temptation, the plan to bring
back the nations into the family of Yahweh also would have felled. The nature of this temptation
and the implications of its outcome presume the Second Temple Jewish perception we discovered
earlier that the rebellious gods of the nations were affiliated with the original rebel of the Eden
and in some sense under his authority. When the gospel, gospels have Satan offering the kingdoms
of the world to Jesus in exchange for worship. They presume this affiliation and authority.
Michael Heizer, thank you so much, brother. Thank you. And with that being said, ladies and gentlemen,
don't forget, we are MythVision.
