Okay, we have no time to play. We are MythVision. Welcome back. Dr. Dennis R. McDonald was the
John Wesley Professor of New Testament and Christian Origins at the Claremont School
of Theology in California. McDonald proposes a theory wherein the earliest books of the
New Testament were responses to the Homeric epics, including the Gospel of Mark and Acts
of the Apostles. The methodology he pioneered is called Memesis Criticism. If these theories
are correct, then nearly everything written on the early Christian narrative is flawed.
According to him, modern biblical scholarship has failed to recognize the impact of Homeric
poetry.
The other major branch of McDonald's scholarly activity is his contribution to the synoptic
problem. He calls his solution the Q-plus-papius hypothesis. He has a book coming out at some
point this year or next year that will be addressing this and searching for Q. McDonald
earned his undergraduate degree from Bob Jones University, a Master of Divinity from McCormick
Theological Seminary and a PhD from Harvard University. He taught theology and biblical
studies at the Eilif School of Theology in Denver, Colorado from 1980 to 1999. Since
1998, until he retired, he was pretty much at Claremont Graduate University teaching.
I want to address that first and foremost. The other thing I'd like to do and share my
screen here to show you is his book that he has published, which we created a course.
I ask you in the chat, if you've taken Dr. Dennis McDonald's course, 18 lectures, highly
edited, beautiful visuals. It helps aid you in the book on his Memesis Criticism. We go
through 18 lectures, meaning we go through 18 different examples of how he sees Greek
memetic imitation within the New Testament Gospels and Acts to the ancient literature,
whether it's Virgil's Aeneid, whether it's Homer, Socrates, Iliad Odyssey, the whole nine.
So be sure to check out the course if you haven't signed up or get a copy of his book
or do both because it helps you. The other thing I did the other day when I interviewed
you, Dennis, in that hotel as you gave me a ride back was Dr. Richard C. Miller. I abbreviated
our conversation and how impactful the Homeric Odyssey in Iliad was for all Greek literature.
And it almost sounded like I was saying every and all Greek literature was imitating Homer.
And so this is a mistake. I want to read and show our audience. Rick Miller wrote, Homer
was not the only textual pool from which Hellenist drew. Josephus imitated Dionysus of
Helacarse, Carnasus, Masterwork, Roman antiquities as the Jewish antiquities, as but one of the
literary countless examples aside from Homeric Mises. I was not attempting to say it was all
Homer. Hellenism was the deliberate imitation of principal Hellenic Greek forms. Homer was just
the most dominant, sacred and canonical canonical of Hellenic text. Hellenism precisely and only
meant the deliberate conscious imitation of Greek cultural capital had the Gospels not implemented
Hellenism. They would be the only texts originally composed in Greek from the Hellenistic period
through the Second Sophistic and late antique ancient literature, to my knowledge, that were not
fundamentally Hellenistic and quality and character. Had they not imitated those forms well,
sufficiently subtly at points and overtly in others, the Gospels would never have been taken
seriously in the Greco-Roman cultural milieu, which we know was the extreme opposite of the case.
The cultic world promulgated in the Gospels spread like wildfire in the chief cultural
urban hubs of the Greek East. That was the target market and the locus of their remarkable original
traction, purposefulness and success. Hellenism, proximal Greek imitatio, was not merely textual
but architectural scene in lifestyle, dress pottery, statuary, numismatics are essential to
political leadership and was cultic, attitudinal, etc. etc. etc. This phenomenology was nowhere absent
in the Hellenistic orient. I think in the video I say that Hellenism, and I haven't launched these
videos yet, they're going to be on the Patreon. Join the Patreon, you're going to get, I don't know,
we did 20-30 videos while I was there with Dr. Miller. While Hellenism was not confined to,
oh sorry, he says, Hellenism precisely meant imitatio Greco-Roman, imitation of the Greeks.
While Hellenism was not confined to mere Homerism, Homer, was the most frequently chosen target,
any of the best known literary works of the classical antiquity could be targets. However,
early Christian texts also imitated parts of the LXX and even used other earliest Christian texts
as templates, such as the Gospel genre, taken from Mark as principal template. The idea of
sitting down to compose a whole cloth, creative work, devoid of any memetic template, would have
been all but unheard of for writers in that world so thoroughly suffused with Hellenism.
Okay, sorry for the rant. Dennis, before we get started, would you like to make a comment? Maybe
we kind of try to allow our audience not to go on a rampage to, I am encouraging people to not
harass the content creators, to not treat them less than because we disagree with them.
This is my, I'd ask our audience to please be kind even if we think that people are mistaken.
Dennis, would you like to? Richard, if you're listening, that was brilliant.
And I'm so proud of the way that you can articulate that, better than I can. And I am so proud to
have been a part of your intellectual adventure. And I am so disappointed that you and I both
have been sidelined from our academy and misunderstood. But the way that you articulated
the way that the Greeks wrote and the importance of Homer, but not just Homer,
as you, as you recognize, is very important. And what we're going to be talking about now
with these apologists who don't have a clue about this aspect is going to be an important
conversation. But it's not just with Christian apologists, it's also with our field. Their tone
depth to the notion that early Christians could have imitated the Hellenism in the same way,
so that they have different models for understanding mythologizing. But the literary project is
missing. And so I so appreciate your correction, and not at all surprised at how articulate it was.
Yeah, he's a wordsmith. He has a way with being able to make what he's saying the most potent.
And he does so well in his book, Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity. So I encourage
people to get the book, get Dennis's book, get ready. I don't want to waste any more time already
seven minutes in and I already feel bad because you only have three hours. We have to go through
this stream and try to dissect the things that are mentioned and hopefully we can get through it.
If we don't, Dennis, we'll have to pick up the mantle where it left off or the torch where it
left off. And at some point continue because there's so many things to go through. Let's go ahead and
start the video. But again, up front, I'm asking myth visionaries who watch to please, please do
not harass these content creators. Be kind even if you think they're wrong. No problem going and
debating and things like that. But understand we're all where we're at. And we all think we're
right in our own eyes in some ways. And we're trying to make sense of the world around us. And
some people see things differently. So I'm trying to say, let's be, let's be as kind as we can in
our approach. And I will try my best to also try not to be too jabby in the process. All right.
Let's go ahead and play the clip. That's not the one. There it is. All right. Can you see that,
Dennis? Yes. All right. I'm going to hit play. And I want to make sure that my audio is not
going to come through the speakers because then it'll sound bad. Here we go. All right.
For joining this live stream. Oh, I'm going to play it at 1.5 speed. And forgive me up front,
but I we're not going to get through this if we don't pause me any moment you need me to.
And I'm excited to have some honored guests here. Dr. Stephen Boyce, Dr. Tim McGrew, Dr.
Jonathan McClatchy, we're going to be talking today about do the Gospels purposely imitate
Homeric epics. This is an idea that is becoming increasingly and maybe to my surprise, more popular
on the Internet. We're responding to Dr. Dennis McDonald, who's been a proponent of this view.
He's done a lot of interviews on the MythVision podcast with Derek Lambert. Derek is a friend
of mine. And so, yeah, it's where do we start here, guys? This is just kind of these ideas are
a little bit strange to me. They're not completely, definitely hasn't taken the academic world by
storm with some of these ideas, but they have something that I'm hearing more and more in
comment sections and different things because of the popularity of MythVision and whatnot. So,
Jonathan, like Dennis McDonald, who is he and why should we be responding to this?
Dennis McDonald is a PhD in New Testament. He got his PhD from Harvard University and he is very
widely published in particular on the subject of who has come to be called Minesis in the Gospels
and Acts. And he has forwarded these very controversial among scholars that the Gospels and
Acts are essentially rewrites of the Homeric epics that we are misreading the Gospels and Acts if we
treat them as straightforward historical reportage. Now, they are essentially reworking Homer's
Iliad and Odyssey in order to make theological points. Gotcha. So, and this is called Minesis,
right? Exactly, right. Okay. And so, how does he believe it functions in like the creation and
the interpretation of the literature from your reading of them so far? And anybody can jump in,
obviously, if you have some questions, but I know Jonathan, especially reading and watching a lot
of his interviews and different things in preparation for this. And so, so yeah, sure. I mean, we can
jump into some specific examples if you wish or I can just talk in general terms, but in general
terms, so he basically draws these apparent parallels between incidents that we find in the
Gospels and Acts. He draws parallels between Jesus and Hector, for example. He draws parallels
between Paul and Odysseus in particular in relation to the shipwreck narrative in Acts 27-28. And
he basically is attempting to assert that these parallels verbally and mathematically are sufficiently
strong to warrant the conclusion that the author is textually dependent upon Homer.
And one of the problems, I think, with his whole thesis is that he takes both similarities
and dissimilarities as evidence for his thesis, that the Gospels and Acts are textually dependent
upon Homer. And that becomes very problematic, but anyone else I want to talk in general terms or
we can just dive into some specific examples if you want. The specifics are hilarious.
It's the specifics that really kind of outline the argument, obviously. It's kind of better
seen than explained. And so, yeah, why don't we talk about some of the specifics because
these were like some real high scratchers to me. It feels a little bit on the parallel
Armenia kind of side of things. Yeah, actually, you know what? I take it back. I'll say one
general thing first before we dive into that and then we'll go into the details. Here's the general
thing. The earliest Christians, the center of gravity of the Christian movement, were Jews.
They were originally, I mean, it took its rise, as we know, from not only the New Testament, but
also Tacitus. We know that it took its rise in Jerusalem. So, right, dead center heart
of Palestine is where this began. And although Koine Greek, common Greek, was the trade language
that you had to have in order to be able to get around and take jobs, Homeric Greek isn't even
the same kind of Greek. And as you know, if you have spent some time learning some Koine Greek,
this does not enable you to just pick up Homer and read it. Moreover, the devout Jews were not
interested in Greek literature for its own sake. The language you can find in the Talmud, you can
find in Traktate Sota, one reference to a descendant of Chameleon teaching his children
Greek literature. But the entire tenor of the Traktate is cursed as he who teaches Greek
literature to his child. Either language you may teach, the literature you may not. And in fact,
when a gymnasium was established in the region of the Decapolis, this is one of the offenses of
Antiochus Epiphanes that set off the Maccabeean revolt, not the only or the gravest, but it's
one of the things that they rejected. And so, right away from the beginning, it's wildly implausible
to say that Palestinian Jews writing in the first instance, a record of what happened among them
for other Jews, would be making any use of the Odyssey for allusions and parallels. That's just
so abenigio, this is really, really hard sell. And there would have to be tremendously good evidence
to make us come around and say, oh, okay, you know, let's rethink that. And so with that being
preface, now let's just look at some specific examples because this is anything but persuasive
evidence. Okay, I love that pause point. Dennis, I don't want to cut you off. I know you have
something to say, but I have some evidence to show. And it literally works against everything
that he just said, but go ahead. No, no, no, you go ahead. Okay. There are some of the themes that
Jonathan mentioned that will occur later. But so I'll reserve my comments and let's see what you've
got here. So number one is he's quoting the Sotah, which is from either Talmud or Mishnah,
I can't remember. I think Talmud. And so this is probably a couple hundred years later,
Jews are debating. Okay, so we can't even take that this was what was actually happening in the
first century, but they're debating. What are they debating about? The debate is centered around
Jews who are teaching Greek, meaning there's a practice going on that Jews are actually teaching
their children Greek literature, Greek rhetoric, Greek poetry, Greek wisdom. Okay, I want to read
this for you, but I want people to understand this is not a here's what we say. We're all in unison.
We all agree. Boom. Jews just are completely separate from the Greek world. Absolutely not.
The entire New Testament is written in the very thing he's trying to fight against. It's absurd
to assume this literature is trying to fight against teaching Greek when the entire thing,
the authors themselves, probably spoke as their first language Greek. This is insane. So let me
read this. The Mishnah taught that during the War of Titus, the sages decreed that a person should
not teach his son Greek. A certain elder was there in Jerusalem, who was familiar with Greek wisdom.
He communicated to those on the outside by means of Greek wisdom,
using words understood only by those proficient in Greek wisdom. He said to them,
as long as they are engaged in the temple service, they will not be delivered into your hands.
When the sages and these dots for anybody who wants the full source, I put it in the description,
go read it for yourself so you can see this. You can go check this fact. Check me. Okay.
A certain elder was there in Jerusalem. Okay, sorry, delivered in your hands. When the sages
saw this, they said at that time, cursed is the person who raises pigs and cursed is the person
who teaches his son Greek wisdom. Okay. It is understood from both the Mishnah and the Baritah
that it is prohibited to learn Greek. The Gamara raises a question. Is that so? But didn't Rabbi
Yehudah Hanasi say in Yeretz Yisrael, why should people speak the tongue of Syriac?
The Aramaic commonly spoke in Yeretz Yisrael. Rather, they should speak either in the sacred tongue,
Hebrew, or in the beautiful tongue of Greek. And Rabbi Yosef similarly said in Babylonia,
why should they speak in the vernacular tongue of Aramaic? Rather, they should speak either in
the sacred tongue, Hebrew, or in the tongue of Persian used by the authorities. The Gamara
answers that there is a difference. The Greek tongue is discreet and Greek wisdom is discreet.
And the sages prohibited the latter, but not the former. The Gamara poses a question.
And is Greek wisdom prohibited? But didn't Rabbi Yehudah say that Shemol said in the
name of Rabban Shimon, bin Gamaliel? Gamaliel, what is the meaning of that which is written?
My eye affected my soul due to the daughters of my city, Lamentations 351. There were a
thousand children in my father's house, the prince's household. 500 of them learned Torah.
And the other 500 learned Greek wisdom. And there only remained of them after the Bar Kokhba
Revolt, me here in Eretz Yisrael and the son of my father's brother who lives in Asia Minor.
The fact that Rabban Gamaliel allowed half of his household to study Greek wisdom indicates that it
is permitted. The Gamara answers the members of the house of Rabban Gamaliel are different
as they were close to the monarchy and therefore had to learn Greek wisdom in order to converse
with people of authority. As it is taught in the Baratai to Seftas Shabbat 71, one who cuts his
hair in the Kami style, which was the Gentile fashion of cutting and wearing the hair is considered
to be acting in the ways of the Amorites and it is prohibited to act in their way. However,
they permitted of Avtallos, Ben Rubin, to cut his hair in the Kami style as he is close to the
monarchy. And similarly, they permitted the house of Rabban Gamaliel to study Greek wisdom, which
they are close to the monarchy. Now, I want to come back to us for one second here, Dennis, and
just make two points. Here's my two points. Number one, my point is, if this is the same Gamaliel,
we don't know because many Jews probably considered their children or named their
children Gamaliel. It might have been a common name for rabbi figures. But we know in Acts,
if we grant them historical precedents, let's not even debate whether or not this is true or not
historically. Give them Gamaliel as the teacher of Paul. Paul goes to who? Staunch Palestinian Jews.
No, he is on a mission to the nations. He needs to know Greek wisdom. And in that same book that
they love to die on historicity on, Acts 17, it is written in your own poets. We move, we breathe,
we have our being. And that original poet, Epaminides, and another Greek poet, literally
is speaking of Zeus. So to be, what he's doing already is probably multiple fallacies. And he's
not even seeing this problem. This literature is, as you said, Hangal says, breathing in that Greek
world and what was their oxygen? Homer. So anyway, Dennis, I just had to emphasize the New Testament
falsifies what he's saying. Well, two other things need to be said here, Derek. I think, and it's
brilliant that you bring this text before us. One is, how did people learn to read Greek?
Now, Tim is right that Koine Greek is very different from Archaic Greek. Nonetheless,
one of the ironies, great ironies of Greek education was that boys, and almost exclusively boys, went
to school. They had to learn Homeric Greek, because Homeric Greek was what gave cultural
identity to them. So that being educated wasn't simply the ability to read, but to understand
what it meant to be Greek, and to pass yourself off as an elite. So when the rabbis are debating
the people learning Greek, or you have a person teaching a son Greek, there is no alternative
education for the learning of Greek than knowing it from Homer. We just don't have any evidence of
that. So to teach Greek is to teach Homer, and Homer is a part of the hochma, the wisdom of the Greeks.
But it's not the other is, you've been talking about rabbinic Judaism, right? But what about
Philo? What about Josephus? And later Josephus is going to come up, I believe, and we know other
people have identified about a dozen places where Josephus augments the biblical account of Jewish
history by imitating the Homeric epics. But of course, Philo is consumed with Greek wisdom,
and is trying to conflate Greek wisdom and to make it cooperative with Jewish theology and culture,
and so on. So the idea that Jews were not engaged with Hellenism is really on the face of it
ridiculous. The other is, one more piece, I guess, in order to engage Hellenism, even if you weren't
fond of it, you had to engage it for its own sake. And so there was a tendency, and it's really
well before the Christian period, of imitating Greek culture to turn Greek culture against itself.
One of my favorite examples is Third Maccabees, which certainly is against Hellenism. And what does
it use as its primary literary model, or at least one of them, Euripides bakai. So the issue of
not liking Greek literature is different from not knowing it and not being engaged with it.
I'd like to add a few more things, and it was brought to my attention. Thank you,
Kip Davis in the chat. And Kip says, also, the Gospels were not written by Christians in the
Jerusalem Church. So this is a very important point. They're arguing these staunch, very holy,
separate, extremely, we don't even want to speak Greek kind of idea. He's trying to almost push.
We want to just stay as Aramaic in Hebrew or whatever the holy tongue is. That idea,
it feels like rabbinic Judaism is somehow influenced the thinking of this kind of scholarship,
whereas we're well past this. This is old news. And so it's important to recognize who are these
authors? Are they staunch Jerusalem Jews who are literally trying to stay away? That's important
to highlight, I think, in light of all of this. There's so many points we could highlight. Oh,
one more. I just want to say you brought up Philo. Didn't this guy talk about the logos
in some philosophical sense and made it Jewishish? Made it in a Jewish way? I thought the Gospel of
John starts within the beginning was the logos. Anyway, it's playing in the same water with the
rest of this Hellenistic world. So enough of that. We'll never get through this video,
but that's a very important point. If we did not emphasize this, we would never get anywhere.
We're starting off already looking at this so different that you can't see what we're saying
if you're already thinking the way they're thinking.
I was going to say, just building off that, Eric, you and I were talking earlier about this,
if there was going to be some sort of stealing from another mythology, the Jews would...
He did this steal thing. Do you want to comment on that? Just briefly?
Yes, I do. Okay.
Thank you, Derek. Mimesis is not stealing. In fact, because it's transformative,
it's agonistic to its models often. That is, it's struggling to revise it.
So Mimesis is not stealing. Now, would you say that of Virgil? Virgil is imitating Homer over
and over and over again. Is he stealing from Homer? No, he's transforming it in order to support
the early Roman Empire. And one of the things that's missing in the... We're going to find later
is that the examples that they're going to give have parallels in Virgil's and needed
where Virgil is imitating the Homeric epics. They say nothing about those analogous imitations.
And I'll probably flag them when we get to those examples. But to understand the Gospels is to
understand them as post-Jewish war reactions to the Roman power. And Virgil's and needed was
the most important Latin document at the time for establishing Roman identity. And if you're
going to engage with a Roman Empire, you can do it with their literature by showing that your
imitations of Homer are superior to the ones that you have in Virgil's and needed. And I've
identified about 40 different passages in Homer that are imitated in Virgil and also in the Gospels
and the Acts of the Apostles. That cannot be by accident. And these apologists are not at all
interested in commensurability. That is that Virgil can do the same thing that the Gospels are
and the Gospels are competing with Virgil in order to establish the mythologies for their own
communities. It's not a co-wink-a-dink that Jesus gets titles similar to that of Caesar
that we find also in Virgil's and needed and stuff. So to act like they're not
showing he's the true king of kings, not your Claudius line, to act like he's not the one bringing
the kingdom of God, not this Roman kingdom, this Roman Empire. It's an everlasting one. I mean,
there's so many reasons. Well, let me give you one more one more example. And this is the one that
one of the two that's coming up. The death of Hector at the end of the Iliad
was the model clearly for the death of Ternus at the end of the Imiad. And the parallels are
recognized by every Latin historian of literature. Now, that story also is informing the Marken
account of the death of Jesus. It will come to this later. But they will reject every notion
that you can have a parallel between the death of Jesus and the death of Hector. And they say
nothing about the importance of the death of Ternus in the Imiad. And that has to be an intentional
omission. Because it's in my material over and over again. So this is an intentional blindness
to evidence. Either that they don't, they've never read it. Maybe I'm trying to give the
benefit of the doubt. But let's continue. Let me know. Just stop me. I knew that you needed
a comment on that. But not have chosen a Greek mythology to do that with them closer to Mesopotamia
region or something like that. They would not have stolen from that. And we talked about how
interesting it is on one side, these people. They would have taken from Mesopotamia. And
that's almost like a nod to Genesis doing what they did. But the Gospels wouldn't do that with
the Greek anyway. Making these claims will also, in another discussion, say that the Christians
were completely illiterate, uneducated, would not have the abilities to cope with the basic
understanding of grammatical structure when it comes to writing Gospels. But now,
they have the ability to understand and read Homer. It's like, this is a massive jump. One minute,
we're talking about how illiterate and ignorant Christians are and why they would never be able
to produce a text as well written as Luke or something like that. But now, now they're educated
enough to not only interpret and understand Homer, but to use it as a base text.
Yep, please feel free to interrupt that.
I, Robin Faith Walsh and I, but many others have tried to correct the notion that the
authors of the Gospels were illiterate, semi, you know, fishermen, peasants, or whatever.
We consider them to be among the elite of Greek society. And to accuse us of saying that they're,
you know, not sufficiently sophisticated to do this work means they have not read
some of the most recent scholarship on the nature of the Gospels.
So that criticism may work for an older version of New Testament scholarship,
but it does not represent what is going on in biblical scholarship now, certainly not with
the likes of me or Robert Miller or Robin Faith Walsh. Richard Miller, Richard Miller.
Yep. A major discrepancy just in that alone. But to me, if they're going to steal from mythology
in the New Testament Gospels, they're going to find more than Mesopotamia region,
yes, nothing, Greek ones. Jonathan, let me interrupt you.
So Tim also rightly pointed to factors that bear on the intrinsic plausibility or the prior
probability of Donald's thesis. Another consideration in that regard is the evidence
that actually bears positively on the, on the, on the stronger liability of these sources,
especially with the facts. I hope our audience will bear with me because for some reason,
when you speed up, Jonathan's hard to understand at a faster pace the way he talks. So
very, just try to understand what he's saying because we don't have too much time,
which Homer, so McDonald's is offering his Homeric, themesis thesis as an alternative to
the historical reportage model. And so if we can show that these accounts are in fact based on
history, these actually are, we can show that these are attempting to be historically basal
in the reportage of the events and that they're doing a good job of that, that I think significantly
undercuts McDonald's thesis. So some of the evidences that would allude to there would be
undesigned coincidences, as well as external confirmations that
Burma corroborate various aspects of the narratives that we find in Acts. So just to take one example
there, if we take the official to the Corinthians, which is dated to around 53 AB of their votes,
and in chapter, he's writing for Ephesus, Asia Minor, he's writing to a Greek city by the name of
and I hear in a lot of background noise, I think it's their stream in verse 20 in chapter 4 verse
17, Paul says, that is why I sent you Timothy, my beloved and faithful, which will remind you of
my ways in Christ, and they teach them everywhere in every church. And so the time of his writing
from Ephesus to Corinth, he's already sent Timothy on his way. Oh my goodness. So let me ask you this,
Dennis, because this, did you read the links I sent you yesterday by any chance?
Which ones were they? I sent you a lot of stuff. So I apologize if you didn't.
Jonathan McClatchy wrote some of those articles. But what he's trying to do is he's trying to
say that if we can show that there's historical footage or reasons to say something happened,
this will automatically in some way cut out 95% of your work that is showing literary imitation,
and that they're just trying to model it as a literary model. Instead, it's historical footage.
What I find that happens all the time is Paul's letters has him say he's sending Timothy, then
you get an ax. Oh, and Timothy was sent and he took this route and I sent a letter and my letter
will get there before so and so. And like all of this stuff somehow, if you combine all of the
material that they're looking at, all these undesigned coincidences, they call them,
this somehow makes this historical and it's historical footage as if it really happened.
No, I did read that. Yeah. And no, you're right about that. So the issue is if one can say that
you can't identify a poetic model for something, let's say in the Acts of the Apostles, the presumption
is that then the story either is historically correct or that the author was trying to make
it look historical, but without the advantage of a literary model coming from the Greeks. That's
right. That's what they're trying to do. So the default position for them is if you can't prove
that you have a literary model from, let's say Greek poetry, then the presumption is that the
author is trying to be a faithful historical reporter. Well, that just doesn't work in my logic.
Hey, I'm not even going to take this out, but thank you for the Superchats, Gettysburg,
the Money Act. I will try my best to get to those Superchats in the end of this.
We have a lot of content we're trying to cover and hopefully we can get to your questions.
So I feel like we should address this at some other time because this is actually,
he's trying to make a historical reportage model where you would say you think Acts is using
Paul's letters to create, craft his novel, his origin, church origin mythology here that we call
Acts. So we should probably address these undesigned coincidences on their own at some point and really
pick them apart because you're going to get lost in the weeds on turning to 1 Corinthians. Now we
got to turn over here to Thessalonians or wherever the particular passages are to show what's going
on and how this author might be using them. I know that they will run to people like Paula
Fredrickson and Bart Ehrman as Richard Siemeler coined the term, what did he call it? Argumentum
ad Bartum. Every time Bart gets brought up when they kind of like all use Allison to poke at
Christians. Even a Christian sees this as legend. Come on, get with the program. While they use
Bart Ehrman to prove mythicism isn't true or whatever they like to use Bart on, in this case
Bart would say Acts isn't using Paul's letters probably or I'm not sure. I know Paula Fredrickson
has said that, but Paula also thinks Mark's not using Paul and I disagree with her on that. So
there's a lot of different academics who have different views on this. Let me try to get to
some examples. What do you say? Yes, but let's do that. There's Paul that confirms the strong
itself in a lot of ways, just disconfirms, let alone the parallels that we think are pretty
specious and kind of like there's all this evidence for the reliability of the Book of Acts,
both internally and externally. They're dying on the hill of historicity.
The problem that we're going to run into here is literally that there's too much. I mean,
in a way, the Book of Acts is so overwhelmingly well confirmed that it's kind of you don't even
know where to start. Do you want local? Verisimilitude and realism is what they're dying. It convinces
them. Continue. It can and be safe. Over the route, Smith says this is probably the point which they
realized that they had missed Sicily and so they've got no hope of it. We're again, boats and all that
kind of stuff traveling. There's a huge portion of this that goes into this stuff, Dennis.
Stephen at least was trying to get to parallels. He didn't want to like dwell on this whole
undesung coincidence thing. At least he was trying to, you know, particularly deal with
your exam indication that he crossed paths with him. For example, Philip in the Ethiopian
Unican chapter 8, it's like, okay, where would he get that kind of history? He also went to
Antioch for about reports what John says. It only reports what Peter says every time.
Hold us directly. C.S. Lewis said that people had tried to interpret his writings, his fiction,
and say what was on his mind or where this idea came from. He said they have a 100% failure rate
and they're my own country, many of my own contemporaries living in my culture speaking my
language, right? So the attempt to say, ah, this is a subtle allusion that no one has picked up on
for 2,000 years, but good thing the Dennis McDonald is kind of long because he's finally going to
see the things that we've all missed. What are the odds? I mean, he doesn't, he's not an ancient
Greek. He doesn't live in the Jewish culture or even the Greek culture of the ancient world.
And he's seeing things that are, well, at best, they're really, really foggy parallels.
So it's kind of weird. It sounds like he hasn't read your work where ancient recognition.
It's not like you're just seeing this. Ancients saw this in the church. Anyway.
Let's just dive in. I like one of the ones he uses as kind of a showpiece,
which is that in Acts chapter 20, I believe it is, we have story of Paul speaking and going
on late into the night. Add a young man named Uticus falls asleep in a...
Okay, that's Derek. Yes, yes. Well, you know, let's put up that stuff on Odyssey 10 to 12.
Okay, let me share my Odyssey 10 to 12. Not Iliad, Mark. Odyssey. Here we go.
Bear with me. Yes, it's playing at 1.5 times speed because we will not have time to go through all
of it. So forgive me. Okay, Odyssey 10 through 12. Here we are, Dennis.
Okay, Derek, this is the passage in the Acts of the Apostles that Tim is identifying and that
Jonathan is going to scoff. Now, I just want to work through these parallels with you. And I'll
read the left hand column. You read the one on the right and I'll stop along the way to make a
comment and then I'll finish the final paragraph. So Odysseus and crew left Troy and sailed back
to Achaia. Paul and crew stopped at Troyes having left Achaia to sell back to Jerusalem.
Now, Troyes is the equivalent of Troy. In fact, Julius Caesar wanted to move the capital of Rome
to Troyes in order to capture the Homeric fame of the Trojan War and Virgil does so in literature.
Now, you're going to see Tim think that I'm identifying Troy and Troyes only because both
begin with TR. That is so unfair and stupid. It's Troyes is Troy. It originally was called
Alexandria on the Troed. And then because there were so many different Alexandrias because of
Alexandria the Great, it simply became known as Troyes. So that's the same city. Now, the voyage
is narrated in the first person plural, we, we, we. But that's how what happens in the Odyssey
to Odysseus and his crew leave Troy and the and Odysseus narrates it in the first person plural.
We trailed from we sailed here and sail theirs. So that's and that's the next item. There's a
narration of the voyage in the first person plural narration in first person plural and acts
after a sojourn the crew and Odysseus ate a meal after a sojourn the believers in Paul ate a meal.
Disaster came at night disaster came at midnight.
The crew slept in Circe's darkened halls. There were plenty of lamps in the upper room,
meaning it was dark. El Peinor fell into a sweet sleep. Udicus fell into a deep sleep.
The narrator switches to the third person now. There was one El Peinor the youngest. The narrator
switches to third person a certain young man named Udicus. The words for young are related in
Greek, youngest and a young man. El Peinor fell from the roof. Udicus fell from the third story.
The same word is used for the fall. Associates fetched the body dead. Oh, you skipped one.
El Peinor's soul. Oh, El Peinor's soul went to Hades. Udicus's soul remained in him. And in both
cases the word Psyche where we get the word psychology, psychology and so on. So it's the
soul goes to Hades or the soul remains in him. So associates fetched the body dead. Associates took
up the body alive. El Peinor was not buried until dawn. Udicus was not raised alive until dawn.
El Peinor was buried at dawn. Udicus returned to life at dawn. Homer called the young soldier
unlucky, the victim of an evil doom of a demon. He had survived the Trojan war with the Strygonians,
Palafimus and Circe only to stumble off the edge of a roof to his death because he was drunk.
The name Udicus, however, means lucky from Ev that is good and Tiki fortune. Unlucky El Peinor,
and that's what he's called in Homer. Unlucky El Peinor, a veteran from Troy,
fell to his death because of a drunken stupor. Lucky from Troas fell while listening to Paul
preach. Odysseus was unaware of El Peinor's plight. Paul, however, knew of Udicus's death
and had confidence that his soul had not yet left him. El Peinor died and was buried at dawn.
Udicus died, but at dawn the believers took him up alive. Udicus truly was lucky.
Luke's synchrosis or comparison included both invective, that is, an argument against what
one finds in Homer, and an encomium by pitting Homer's Odysseus, who could only bury his fallen
comrade against life-giving Paul. Now those parallels are amazing and you can see,
so here are the criteria. Would the Odyssey, and I'm going to play Socrates. Can I close this,
by the way? Yes. Okay, go ahead. I'm going to ask you a question and then you answer it. Was the
Odyssey available to Luke and his readers? Of course. Yeah, it was ubiquitous. Do we have
examples of analogous imitations of this story? Yes. Yes, we have it in Virgil, twice. Messainus
and Pallinorus are both clearly imitations of this story. Do we have a density of parallels? Do they
appear in the same sequence and are they lexically similar? Yeah. They are, I mean, even lexically
similar. Oh, we're going to get into the lexical too in just a second, but I want you to finish your
point because this is important. Now, is it interpretable? Yeah, of course. Yeah, because...
This isn't incoherent at all. This makes sense. Yeah. Well, and the point is that when Paul's
around, people are lucky because he can raise them from the dead. Right. And El Peanor is not.
He's unfortunate. El Peanor, his whole soul has to stay in Hades. So people reading this story
should see the comparison. Now, we don't know of ancient readers who recognize these similarities
because we really have very little evidence that the early church was interested in the acts of
the apostles, certainly not the way they were in the Gospels. So it doesn't satisfy all the criteria,
but it certainly has lots of them. Now, when we go forward, we're going to see that Tim and
Jonathan try to take this apart. Okay. And we'll see how forced their arguments are. By the way,
they don't mention Eudacris as the name Lucky. They don't mention that. They don't mention the
Virgil parallels. And they dismiss the differences between the two as simply nonparallels when,
in fact, they're strategic parallels. Well, this is an important point because what happened when
I launched our video yesterday is there was immediately a run to social media. Jonathan
McClatchy actually wrote a post. I had to screenshot it because he actually changed it.
My friend Stephen Nelson, who's also a huge Greek guy, like the guys all over the Greek world,
he's big on understanding the linguistics, the culture. I mean, this guy is a modern,
he's a modern ancient in his thinking. He loves this stuff and he loves the Greek language. So
Dennis McDonald has published a response video on MythVision channel with Derek Lambert on the
recent criticisms of his Homeric Mises theories regarding the Gospels and Acts by Dr. Tim McGrew,
Dr. Stephen Boyce, Eric Manning and myself. A very disappointing showing from McDonald.
He spends the majority of time engaging in behavior unbefitting of a scholar. By the way,
if you watch their stream, the link is in the description. Talk about unbefitting behavior.
There's their supposed PhDs on this stream. They're jabbing. They're doing all sorts of stuff.
But when Dennis did it back, they don't like it. So now that's unbefitting patronizing us, calling
us anti-intellectual, but then he added intellectuals. He doesn't mention that. Here's psychoanalyzing
us saying he feels sorry for us and I understand why. And engaging in the atheist equivalent of
y'all just want to sin. Much of the rest of the video simply stresses that the early Christians
were influenced by Hellenistic thought, which is quite clear from reading the early church fathers.
The pointing contention, though, is not whether the ancient Christians were influenced by Hellenistic
thought. They undoubtedly were, but whether McDonald has successfully demonstrated intentional
imitation of the Gospels and acts of Homer's epics. He criticizes me at one point for not mentioning,
in my discussion of his El Panoor, Uticus parallel, that the name Uticus means lucky,
which is supposedly the precise opposite of what is said of El Panoor. McDonald is correct about
the meaning of Uticus's name. However, if one were to give a meaning to the name El Panoor,
look at this. Pay attention, everyone, and I can't wait for Dennis to respond to this.
I would probably be inclined to go for something like hopeful bird from the Greek words hopeful
and bird. I do not know these Greek words, but this is very speculative. As for what it is,
for what is said specifically of El Panoor in the Odyssey, the closest thing is the word,
what is that word, Dennis? Distanos. Which means wretched, which is a far cry from unfortunate.
McDonald also complains that we think that the historical reportage model wins by default if
his Mamesis theories are incorrect. But this is false. We offered a specific argument for the
historical reportage model. What an embarrassment. Stephen Boyce liked it. I'd like to get your
thoughts specifically in this section here on him trying to understand the word El Panoor
and its meaning and what you mean. The first thing is, yes, Uticus means lucky. He agrees with that.
Well, in what way would our reader say he's lucky? He's lucky because he comes back to life.
Now, El Panoor does not come from Ornus as the end of it. It does begin with Elp,
which Jonathan is right. It means hope or hopeful. But the ending of it doesn't come from Ornus.
It comes from Aenor. And the Odyssey talks about Odysseus' faithful crew as a Aenor,
as truly manly. And what happens with El Panoor is he wants to be a man. He wants to be a hero,
but he's not. So what is he? He's an oarsman. He was a grunt in the Trojan War. He was a young man.
Now he's pulling an oar. And so when he dies, he wants an oar placed on his tomb,
which is instead of a weapon, as you would for it. So it comes from a wants to be a man. He
wants to be courageous. And of course, Eutychus is not very courageous. He can't even stay awake
that time for that long. Now, Deustinus can be translated as wretched. What is meant by wretched?
It means that he's unfortunate. And it's said twice, at least twice in the Odyssey. And people
who rewrote the stories of El Panoor, I actually emphasize this word, that how unfortunate he
was that he survived the war and he gets drunk and he dies. So that philology, Jonathan, is just
weak. And take a look at some commentaries on this passage and you'll see that I'm right about it.
So to make it into simple terms, since we had the scholarly assessment, that is,
this guy was in war. He wasn't really heroic at all, didn't really succeed to do much greatness,
but he survives it. He gets drunk one night on a roof and he falls off, breaks his neck,
dies. And here's Odysseus seeing him in Hades going, what the heck? How'd you get here?
Unfortunate El Panoor. But here, you have fortunate, lucky, Udicus and he gets resurrected.
So there is so much, I would say that this is a lot more fun than trying to go to acts and go,
this is what literally happened and it had to happen this way. It's like, dude,
do you not see how awesome this clever creativity is? And that's the difference between what I think
you're doing versus what they're trying to do in the historical reportage model.
So I want to respond just very briefly to that. One of the comments from MythVision earlier on
was by a woman, I forget her name, but she said something that was so important to me and I want
to highlight it. Many times when people use analogies from the Greco-Roman world, they do so
in an unfriendly way to Christian texts to say, look, this is just a mythology,
you can get rid of, mythicists tend to do that all the time. You don't have to take early
Christianity seriously and so on. I take it very seriously. And what she said is what I like about
McDonald's work is he replaces one forced form of meaning and gives it another form of meaning,
which is actually more compelling. So which is more compelling to say that Paul had the powers
actually to raise people from the dead or to say that when you're in the presence of an apostle,
life takes over and not death. So I'm sympathetic to this text. I think it's the way the early
Christian church is trying to talk about the hope that comes in their experience.
So I'm not saying it's mythological, but it's positive mythology. And that's a part that I
don't think apologists get, that you can have mythologies and commensurabilities that are positive,
that give new positive meanings to these things. And I think there's going to be a Christian
who studies a lot. He's not, you know, in some evangelical kind of a fundamentalist
needing this to be all rigorous history, who's going to be talking to you at some point actually
about how they're convinced of your work. Christian, by the way. So that's good news. And I think
you're going to appreciate that. But that's a little sneak peek. Okay, continuing.
Homer, there's a story how in the pitch darkness of night, a young man named Elvenor falls from
a height and dies. But there are more parallels according to McDonald. In Homer, it's pitch
dark. It's expressly described in the circumstances, or it's utterly black. In the case of Acts 20,
it's a well lit room. So that's the same too. Because you see, it's talking about the quality
of the light. And you know, it's the opposite quality of light. McDonald invokes that as what he
calls a transvaluation. So he gets to take exactly the opposite of what was in the case in Homer and
call it a parallel. Also, Paul raises you to kiss a life. Nobody raises Elvenor to life. Well,
but that's a parallel to kind of ish. Look, every evening, look, look at Mark. Now, I know they'll
get out of this. I just want to make one point. Look at how Mark says the women were terrified.
They were afraid and told no one. Look at what Matthew does for the women were terrified and
afraid. And they ran away and then they go tell people, they literally do the opposite of what
Mark does. Matthew changes Mark to have the women tell when Mark says they don't. Now, I know they'll
run to the extended endings of Mark or act like somehow I got chopped off or something. But assuming
that's the actual ending, Matthew's doing the opposite of what the earlier text that they're
using is doing. And we can go into several examples like that. But that's probably not the best. I
just wanted to use an internal New Testament one to give you an example like where they're
literally rewriting and then they change it to like have them do the very thing they weren't
doing in the earlier text. But anyway, continue. Whatever takes place in some circumstances of
light or dimness. And so you're taking here factors where the inevitable surrounding
circumstances are some quality of light in the room. And then it's absolutely the opposite.
And then you call that a parallel. What is going on? Why are once someone has said that,
why is there any need to listen to anything else that he has to say? Because that's just wildly
silly. If you let me do the opposite and claim it's the same, I can I will undertake to take
any two things you like and find parallels because if they're unlike, I'll just claim it's a trans
valuation. That's really wild. And methodologically, that is crazy unsound. Something that comes up
again and again and we'll get more examples out on the table right here in a moment is that McDonald
takes some circumstances that had to be there, there to be, you know, some kind of sleeping. If
you're on a journey, you do some traveling and you do some sleeping, right? And then, wow, he finds
that we can find that in the Odyssey too. Well, yeah, no kidding. But then that's a parallel,
right? Things that are inevitably part of just telling a connected account of a journey,
whether a fictional or a realistic account, but suddenly those are now in vote as parallels. So
just, you know, we'll lay some examples out now, but just keep this in mind that the the number
of points of comparison is being wildly inflated by seizing upon these things as if they had some
deep significance and they would really make you think. And this goes back to what I said earlier,
which is it's such an implausible thesis to begin with. The Jews in Palestine where Christianity
originated were on the whole so averse to syncretism with Greek culture. Stephen was saying, you know,
at least some kind of other, you know, Aramaic culture around the area, the Mesopotamian culture
thing, but no averse to syncretizing with Greek culture, that the very thesis is itself highly
dubious. Now, if that amount of evidence could be produced in its favor, then we just have to live
with that. But the evidence is of this really strange and weak kind, and that just leaves us
like scratching our heads. I used the Elphanoreusicus example with a college class I teach, and I
literally had the class in hysterics just describing McDonald's and parallels that he
draws. So just to give you a list of some of the parallels that Odysseus draws between
Elphanore and Eutychus. So Odysseus and his crew left Troy, simple chapters earlier, whereas Paul
and crew stopped at Troyes. Oh, Troyes, Troyes, he starts with a TR. There we go. Odysseus sailed
back to Achaia. Paul left Achaia to sail back to Jerusalem. Transvaluation. The narration in the
first verse in plural in both cases. Oh, wow. After a sojourn, Odysseus and his crew or Paul and
believers ate a meal. Oh, wow. I see that. Yeah, wait, they were traveling the ate a meal. Now,
this is really rare. I don't know anybody who ever eats a meal while traveling.
Does that became a night or midnight, which is approximately the same?
The crew slept in versus darkened halls and the Odyssey versus there were many lights in the
upper chamber. I already looked at this as a contrast. Elphanore fell into a sweet sleep versus
Eutychus fell into a deep sleep. Both narrators switched to third person. And the Odyssey says
there was one Elphanore, the youngest versus a certain man, a certain young man named Eutychus.
Elphanore fell from the roof, whereas Eutychus fell from the third story. I guess that's the same.
Elphanore's soul like the Hades versus Eutychus' soul remained in him. It associated the body
dead versus Elphanore, but Eutychus associates the body alive. Elphanore was not buried until dawn,
Eutychus was not raised alive until dawn. And because of that last point, that's
not quite correct because as X1 he doesn't say that Eutychus was not raised alive until dawn,
rather it says that life returned or was noticed and returned to Eutychus and immediately upon
Paul's intervention at that point. So yeah, the parallels are quite contrived, I think,
just not very convincing. I think one of the things that when you're doing a scholar...
Yell at me, Dennis. I'm going to keep going, but just yell at me. No, keep going. Okay.
A document that does have parallels or similarities, etc. You cannot just chart out the things that
are similar in the same. You actually have to chart out what is different too. And I think that
was neglected quite a bit because we can reverse this. And we kind of talked about this this morning,
Jonathan and Eric and our messenger, but there are so many parallels that we can sit here and do
the same as that thing Bill charts on. For example, Proaitus' letter to Lobates, which Miller-Authon
carries around, ends up being his death sentence, carrying a letter that's saying this guy's been
killed off. Well, that's similar to what David did with Uriah or Hera and Athena in Odyssey,
for example, 23, stop the sun from setting in order to help their heroes. Well, that's what
God did for Joshua, right? And how about Shamgar? Shamgar, one of the judges and judges three.
I mean, he slew 600 buildings with an ox goat and then you go to the Iliad and you go to book
six and you find that LeCurgis is running around with an ox goat, killing people. I mean, you
can do so many things like impale bodies comparing to Iliad book 17 with Hector, you know, taking
the shoulders and just dragging off the corpse and cutting it off and taking its neck off. I mean,
there's so many similarities that you can go back to an earlier writing of the Old Testament,
whether it's in the Torah or in the some of the historical writings of judges or in the book of
Joshua. And there's things that are paralleled or similar. It's like, wow, an ox goat killed a
lot of people. That means Homer stealing the book of judges as content there, right? Or that stealing
from the story of like Bella Ephron and Iliad 7 with Joseph. Both are young, handsome lads,
wrongly accused of sexually attacking a woman while the truth is the woman was doing the seducing
and the lady's husband had to decide exactly which person is going to get punished here.
Is that not Genesis? Is that not what we learned about Joseph?
He should write an article actually promoting this example because what I also find interesting
with your student, Michael Koshenosz, is actually how much Jewish literature imitated Greek works.
And there are classicists who look at the Hebrew Bible seeing Moses and the golden calf and see
that the cattle to Apollo from the Odysseus trip and don't, you know, eat the cattle to the sun god
or you'll be you'll be killed and all the people who worship the golden calf and the wilderness
get killed on their journey to their homeland, which they're on a journey to their homeland in
the Odyssey. Like he should hear. I find this interesting, Dennis. I just want to make this
comment from not only what Steven's doing right here, they act like it wasn't this was not ubiquitous
in literature to imitate surrounding narratives. And they're helping honestly to prove a point
of look look for it. Try to do that because I think it was Richard C. Miller who said
that the more they could find the more imitation there was, the better. I mean, this is how they
did their literature. So what would you say about what he's doing right now? Wouldn't you say he's also
kind of creating a case to say maybe we should explore the Hebrew Bible a little and compare it
to Greek literature? Well, there are two things that I think are missing here. One is the lack of
criteria. I think Steven may have a point that you have similarities with ancient Near Eastern texts
in the Hebrew Bible, and I'm not an authority on that. But what criteria does one use to make
sure that these similarities are in fact strategic? What is the mechanism that allows one to say that
these similarities show influence? But there's another thing I want to mention. My work has been
accused of being parallel mania. The ancients were parallelo fanatics. They loved this parallelism.
That's how they learned to compose. That's how they learned to read and to carve out
new social identities among religious groups. That's true for Judaism. It's true for certain
pagan groups, but it certainly is true for the Roman Empire and early Christianity.
So the notion of parallel mania has to be contrasted with modern parallelophobia.
And these people have a parallel phobia with the Greeks, but they have a parallel mania
with the Hebrew Bible to some extent, or the ancient Near East. But in both cases,
we need to have more rigorous criteria and an application of them and a discussion of the texts
and a comparison of the texts. And that's what I'm missing in the discussion from them.
Are we saying Homer stole that story from Joseph? We could do this all day long.
And the reality is, is there's so many differences in that narrative,
none of us would even think to try to make that parallel. We'd say, hey, life happens in a lot
of different ways across a lot of different parts of the world, and similar things are just going
to happen when you're dealing with humanity. We were laughing about eating a meal at certain times
of day. Weird things happening at that certain time of day. There are things that just happen
in humanity over the time of history and get reported as being similar.
Oh, and just to point out, I think what gets them caught up, Dennis, is differences
over and over and over. Differences. And if you go and highlight how many differences there are
between Genesis and what's going on in the Enuma, Leesh or Epic of Gogamesh and stuff,
you'll find countless differences. And then you're going to find some similarities in academics,
trained serious scholars who look at this will all say, yes, they're working off of that. They're
mimetically creating an opposition. In fact, it's a contrast to the Mesopotamian mythology
that we're finding in the Genesis narrative, demythologizing what is in Mesopotamia. So,
yeah, we can do the difference game all day long. And it's about the criteria methodology or methods
that you're using to come to those conclusions. And notice again, that he talked about mimesis
stealing. Yes, again, that is so wrong. That's not the way the ancients understood this material.
In fact, they were taught not to plagiarize, to avoid stealing, because it shows that they were
not sufficiently innovative. And in order to do that, they often would imitate more than one text
at a time. And what was sometimes called eclectic mimesis. And because it then shows how intelligent
you were. So we're not talking about theft. We're talking about cultural transformation.
And the two are very, very different, because theft implies a moral failure. Mimesis suggests
intellectual engagement. And that is a huge difference. Well, to their defense, Dennis,
I want to defend them here for a second. And this is important. There is a long push in online
anti apologetics among skeptics and atheists and those who critique Christianity or critique
the claims of literalists who want to go around and tell you, you don't believe you're going to
hell, that kind of stuff. And the rhetoric, what ends up happening is the rhetoric shifts to the
to the debate. So when they say, Oh, this is literally true. And this is what literally happened.
And then you can show that they're using crafting narratives. Then they go,
it isn't literally true. They stole it from the Greeks. They stole it from the Mesopotamian.
So my encouragement to the skeptics, atheists out there, stop using this rhetoric in defense
of what Boise is doing, because I think he is falling trap to the debate in opposition to him.
So he's dealing with skeptics and atheists online that are saying to him, probably,
Oh, you just stole this. Oh, you just stole that. There's, it's not that it's not stealing. Now,
if they outright copy the literally verbatim, then you could see there's not much intelligence
involved in the craft of the narrative is what you're trying to point out. No, that's a helpful
caveat. Thank you, Derek. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, Dennis. Let's continue.
Or does not mean the same. It can, but it doesn't always. I tell my students this all the time,
similar does not always mean it's the same. And within that, when you look at differences,
for example, all contradictions contain differences, right? I mean, every contradiction you have has
a difference in it, but not all differences or contradictions. But on the reverse side of that,
just because something is similar doesn't make it the same either. So we have to not just look at
what's similar. We have to look at what's different. And if you have a list of things that is similar,
you have one parallel to 12 different things, there's a good chance you're making that up,
or you're overthinking. Because at the end of the day, if there's so many differences here,
and just one single parallel on a minor point, minor point in a lot of situations,
it's no point at all. It's not even connected at all. It's human connection and just doing life.
So we could flip this and do this all day. But we won't do that on this end of it,
because we don't think that's a viable way of making an argument for history.
Yeah. I mean, not only does it seem like really ad hoc, it's like kind of post-hoc too. It's like,
there's not a causal relationship that we can see. They're just kind of,
they're just kind of thrown out there. It's like, look at these.
I mean, I want to just defend you for a second here, Dennis, and make one point. And I want to
continue if you feel like comment and go for it. But like, I feel like what's missing in their
thinking here is your methodology that you bring up. Like, did they have access to this?
Would they have had to know this material? Like, they're not even factoring in the very basic
preschool conversation. Before we even get to K through 12 or even get into any higher
discussion about parallels, you really need to understand, it's not just could they have had it.
It's would they have had it? Is would acts have known? Would the Gospels have known these narratives?
Would it have been beneficial for them to have utilized them to their broader nation
audience, especially if they're trying to go to Gentiles and convince them of this message?
These are very basic. Before we even talk about, that's absurd. It sounds similar,
but it's not similar. Dude, we can do that all day long. It's about methods. And if they aren't
even factoring in those basics, of course, they're going to draw different conclusions.
They have started with their answer, and they're working back to try and fix their start. This
is what we said in our last recording. Anyway, thank you. Parallels, even when sometimes they're
not parallels in that house somehow confirms it too. It's just like, it kind of reminds me of
that section in one of Lydia's books, Tim, your wife, about the very clever burglars. You know,
it's just like, okay, no matter what somebody says to object to this particular theory,
you can always just come up with some sort of reason why, no, the burglars don't leave any
footprints. You know, they don't leave any tracks in the carpet. No, of course, they shut the door
and lock it behind them and they don't leave any trace. And it's just like, okay, when is this
hypothesis like falsifiable? It's just really strange. I like what Stephen was saying so much.
I'd like to just pick up and show another illustration of how if you've got a very large
text, which we absolutely do with the entire collection of the books of the Old Testament,
then you can find almost anything in there. So some people have tried to make really heavy
weather about the idea that Jesus was 40 days in the wilderness, right? Well, you know, that's
supposed to be a such deep significance, but suppose that it had been 39 days in the wilderness,
then I could have said, hey, that's the exact number of stripes that Jesus gave a man being
flogged, flogging and fasting, both mortified the body, right? What if it was 38 days? Hey,
that's the same as the number of years that the children of Israel spent from the time of
until they crossed the Zered Valley, wandering in the desert, according to Deuteronomy 2.
What if it had been 37 days? Hey, 37 is the number of mighty men in David's camp,
and here's David's greater descent and come to fulfill the promises made to the house of David.
What if it was 41? Hey, that's the age we above was. You know, we could just go on and on and on.
You can find a parallel for almost anything. And if you think that this is scholarship,
if you think that just finding a parallel or even a bunch of parallels, we've got two very
extensive texts by itself makes a thesis of literary dependence plausible, then you're just
methodologically hopeless. There is a reason why even in pardon me, Stephen, but given the
lax standards that prevail in many areas of New Testament scholarship, even so, McDonald's thesis
has not caught on. Right. And just to further what Stephen was saying, there are many events
throughout history that are similar to one another, and you would expect similar terminology to be
employed. So an example from McDonald, he has his paper on the shipwreck of Odysseus and Paul,
and here's a quote from the paper. He says, among nautical words found in the New Testament,
only in Acts 27 and 28, but also in the Odyssey are Harbor and Prow, the Habakk's mirror in Acts
27 and 13 is also classical, occurring 11 times in the epic. Nautical words found in Acts 27 and 28
in the epic. The seldom elsewhere in the New Testament are Pilate, as the name of the,
the South Wind, or not us, as the name of the South Wind. Epilogos, open sea,
Pidalion, rudder, and Prmen, or steren. But these are, of course, you're going to expect to see
these types of, that type of vocabulary. Talking about ships on the sea, I mean, for crying out loud.
How could you not have? Oh, you know, if I just make a comment, this is my, my,
my bias here, my naturalistic bias. But when I read Acts, and I mean, it's just like,
let me, let me read something here. And I've done this before. But like, if I read any,
any, anywhere in any literature, other than this literature, the private miracles of God,
here I am, real quick, you're going to appreciate this, I think. This is important to kind of
highlight. This is on our daily bread, right? The frequency of miracles, the Book of Acts records
at least 20 specific miracles, right? Specific miracles, sound of rushing wind, tongues of fire,
miraculous speech, lame man healed, and notice it's sequential, so it goes through the entire
narrative. Lame man healed, building, building shaken, sudden death of Ananias and Sapphires,
imprisoned apostles freed by angel, Philip transported from desert to Azatus, light and voice
at Saul's conversion. Let me zoom in on this so people can really see. Okay, so Philip transported
from desert to Azatus, light and voice at Saul's conversion, Saul blinded and healed,
Ananias healed the paralysis, Dorcas restored to life, Herod's violent death, Elimnus, the
sorcerers blinded, Cripple at Lystra Hill, demons cast out of a slave girl, Paul freed from prison
by earthquake, Eutychus raised from the dead, Paul unaffected by Viper's bite, father of pubulous
healed, a cluster of miracles, many signs and wonders, or wonders and signs, many signs and
wonders, the shadow of Peter apparently healed some and a multitude gathered and they were all
healed, Stephen did great wonders and signs, the multitude heeded hearing and seeing the miracles
which Philip did, the Lord granted signs and wonders to be done by their hands, Barnabas and
Paul declared how many miracles and wonders God had worked through them, God worked unusual
miracles by the hands of Paul, even handkerchiefs or aprons, the rest of those on the island who
had diseases all came and were healed, we didn't even discuss how the shipwreck and the scene about
that, it did mention the Viper bite, but it didn't even talk about how everyone, not a hair on their
head is, you know, like, come on, how far are we gonna go? But this is an interesting quote on this
Christian site that says, the wrong assumption about miracles, the fact that this is already
putting out a fire that I think is created by those who take this literal, the fact that many
miracles occur does not mean that every believer should always expect one whenever he faces a
problem, God didn't always bring, and notice the he, anyway, that's that's a sign, God didn't always
bring miraculous deliverance from danger and suffering to his children, Peter and John arrested
in prison and scourged, Stephen stoned to death, like, so they're already kind of trying to set up,
like, don't expect, you know, this stuff to happen in your life. When I'm reading it, it sounds
fantastical. And I wouldn't read any other literature and do that, Dennis.
No, I wouldn't either. And it shows that, in fact, I think these are intellectuals who are
anti intellectual. And they're not taking the, the science that we know that people
don't get raised from the dead. And that's probably the experience that they're talking
about. But I want you to do something for me, Derek, I want you to turn into synopsis to page 409.
Okay, let me end up going to 409. What's the title or the topic on that one? So I can make
sure I'm, it's Odyssey five and six. Odyssey five. Is it a, is it a block or it's a block? Yeah.
Okay. I'm getting there. Odyssey five and six.
Odyssey five and six. Bear with me for a second. I'm looking for, you said 409. Okay, five and six
and acts 27, correct? That's it. Yeah. Okay, here we go. We're going to read this. Now,
this is the text that Jonathan is talking about in ridiculing as a parallel. Okay. Now, the
Virgil's Aeneid begins with a story of a shipwreck of Aeneas and the Trojans. And they're on their
way to Rome. And it's an imitation of Odyssey five. And we have it in the Acts of the Apostles,
another shipwreck that also is going to Rome ultimately. And it also is an imitation of Odyssey
five. Now, it is true, Jonathan is right, that you have lots of shipwreck stories in antiquity.
And when you have them, you have predictable
nautical images. But you and I are going to read these, and I'll read what's in the left hand
column and you'll read the right hand column. And your viewers need to assess whether these
parallels are sufficient to say here we have mimesis or if we have simply a common nautical
story. So Odyssey five and six, Odysseus feared disaster and Calypso predicted it.
Acts 27, 13 through 28, Paul predicted disaster.
Calypso sent a harmless and warm wind. The noble Odysseus was delighted as he spread his sail to
the wind. He skillfully ran it straight course. When Nothos blew a warm wind from the south,
thinking that their intention had prevailed, they set out and hugged the coast of Crete.
After many days, Poseidon aroused all the blasts of the winds. And hid with clouds,
both land and sea, night rushed down from heaven. The Evros and Nothos clashed as did the stormy
Zephyrus and ether-born Boreus that rolled a huge wave. Not much later, a violent wind called
Euryclan, Eurychilon, a hybrid of the Greek, Eurus and the Latin Aquilo, North Wind,
rushed down from the island when neither sun nor stars appeared for several.
Okay, let's skip the next block. I'm going down the winds bore the ship here and there over the sea.
Sometimes Nothos tossed the craft to the Boreus to carry, and sometimes Evros
acceded to Zephyrus to drive it on. So you're reading beside the ship because the ship.
Because the ship could not defy the wind, we gave up and were driven because they feared
running aground of the Cirtus. They lowered the Kedge and thus driven along.
Okay, and Derek, you can even see without knowing Greek well, the similarities of the wording,
the Animo, the being carried along and so on. Then the niece of Odysseus gave way and his beloved
heart dissolved. Now my utter destruction is sure. Finally, all hope that we would be saved
was vanishing. Odysseus abandoned hope. The sailors abandoned hope but not Paul.
The goddess Eno appeared to Odysseus and assured him that he would not perish,
but he would lose his ship. It was his fate, it was the fate of Odysseus to escape.
An angel appeared to Paul and assured him that no one would perish, but they would lose the ship.
It was the fate of Paul to stand before Caesar. Odysseus did not trust the goddess and tried to
manage on his own. The sailors did not trust the word of the angel and tried to manage on their own.
But when dawn, a beautiful locks produced the third day, then he saw land. To Odysseus,
the land and wood appeared most welcome. But when the, when day arrived, they could not recognize
the land, but they did observe a bay with a beach on which they wanted, if possible, to ground the
ship. The ship wrecked. The ship wrecked. Odysseus rode a plank and then swam. Some passengers
rode planks, others swam. Odysseus reached the shore of an island. Everyone reached the shore
of an island. Odysseus cold gathered leaves. Paul cold gathered firewood. The women who found
Odysseus at the beach recoiled in fear at his appearance. The locals at the beach feared that
he was a murderer punished by God when an asp bit him. Now, Seca assumed from his looks that he was
a God. When he survived, they assumed that he was a God. And the parallels go on after that.
So these, these parallels would have been available to Luke and his readers.
Virgil imitates this at the beginning of the Aeneid on the journey to Rome. We have parallels that
are dense, sequential, and especially unusual. I've read as many sea stories as I could from
antiquity, and I haven't found a single one, not one, that has a deity come to the person on board
ship, assuring them of safety, not one. So this is not something that is characteristic of the
genre. Then we have interpretability. Whereas Odysseus's ship wrecked, Paul and company were saved.
So there you have a transform. So again, you don't have recognition of these parallels in
antiquity because X wasn't widely interpreted. But you can't just say that this is a, you know,
dime store imitation of actual events or whatever. This is imitation, and it's strategic, it's
mimetic, it's meaningful. So to trivialize these parallels and to say, well, there was a lot of
shipwreck going on in antiquity, and Paul talks about being shipwrecked three times, is sheer
nonsense. I want to add one more thing I think is interesting about that final parallel where it
talks about, and when he survived Paul from the snakebite, they assumed that he was a god.
And you talk about this, that he was a god over here in the Odyssey. What I find interesting is
earlier in Acts when they thought he was a god, like Barnabas and Paul, I believe it was, like,
tore their clothes and said, we are but men, right? So there's a clear, they want you to know we're
just men, but notice they mistake them for deities. But here, he does no correcting. And if you go
read Acts, they just think he's a god. And then it moves on, the narrative just keeps going, which
is interesting, because I'm like, when they wanted to set the record straight here, makes me think
more literary rather than, hey, the modus operandi was for him to correct those type of records.
What are they assuming, like, that this guy Luke, the physician, walks over to these tribesmen and
goes, all right, what language are you speaking here? Okay, hold on, get a translator over here,
let's find out what do you think about what just happened over here with him getting bit by a snake?
Like, all of this information as Purbo says in his commentary and Mystery of Acts and all that,
like, it sounds like an omniscient author as well. So you're taking in, there's a lot of factors that
play into this, then then just, oh, this is literal historical reportage. This is a cleverly
devised narrative. If you want to say that there was a historical shipwreck at the root of it,
go for it. What they do, what they have done is painted a very interesting narrative. And so
you can die on the hill of I got to have had to be on a boat because it says he was on a boat,
go for it. We don't need that. If you need that, that's fine. But the fact that there's that denial
of recognizing this is how authors would write with an omniscient narrative who knows things that
you go, was he everywhere at all at once? Or did he gather everyone at the end? Tell me your side
of the story. All right, later on, I'm going to compile all this stuff into a full, like, what do
anyway, there's my two cents. Want to continue? But I don't think your, your comments pick up the
enormous cluster of details and sequencing of these materials and how unusual it is to have
a deity or a messenger, an angel, us appear on board ship and guarantee safety, although the ship
will will perish. So you can't explain that in terms of undesigned coincidences. This is,
this is strategic and mimetic and it's meaningful. I want to laugh here. And I usually wouldn't do
this yet. But it's funny. Pat Lohinger, thank you. It's amazing how Paul's historic journey looked
just like the Odyssey, but it's completely true. Must have been part of Satan's plan to deceive
people. Thank you, Pat. Oh, that's funny. All right, we're going to continue on the epic failure of
the Homeric influence video. And it's in the description if you ever want to watch it later.
Shocking shipwrecks like they almost happen to like on a pretty regular basis.
Yeah, it's just like a lot of unsurprising details, not with deities, as you point out,
giving them clear signs, they're going to make it.
Are there any other parallels you guys want to jump in? I know the Hector Jesus ones were...
We can also, since we started the Paul's shipwreck one, let me just give you a few
other parallels relating to that. This is from his paper also. So this is for us to,
I'll be hearing the Odyssey versus Axe. And so Odyssey says, and she ran before the Northwind,
blowing fresh and bare. Axe 27 says, when a moderate Southwind began to blow,
so the way that I grew up again, Odyssey says, on a mid-sea course to the windward of Crete,
and Zeus devised destruction for the men. Whereas Axe says, sail past Crete,
close to the shore, but soon a violent wind called Nero the Feaster rushed down from Crete.
So Odyssey says, but when we had left Crete and no other land appeared, it only sky and sea,
when it was that the Sun of Cronus set a black cloud about the hollow ship, and the sea grew
dark beneath it. All the crew fell from the ship. Whereas Axe says, when neither sun nor stars appeared
for many days, and no small tempest raged all hope of her being saved, it was at last abandoned.
He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and make for the land and the rest to follow.
I find these parallels to be a real stretch. He continues, another one is,
but as you're quoting from the Odyssey, but as for me, Zeus himself, when my heart was compressed
with woe, put into my hands the fiercely tossing nest of the dark, proud ship that I might again
escape destruction. Whereas if we would get access to some on planks and others and pieces of the
ship, and so it was, it all would brought safely to land. Odyssey says, embarking at once.
That's so great, Tom. Just at that one. I mean, you'd almost think that would float
just from that, right? And that people in the sea might want to grab on to something that floats.
Exactly. And then Odyssey says that embarking at once, we put out into the broad sea versus
access and embarking on a ship. After a medium, it was about to set sail to one of the ports along
the coast of Asia. Someone said they don't understand what he's saying. I'm sorry,
I'm just trying to get through this so that we can actually, you know, respond to some of this.
But I want to say one more point. There are papers out there on Homer's Odyssey,
the Iliad by classicist. There are papers out there on Mark, and these are called Realisms,
and it gets into verisimilitude. I asked this of Dr. Richard C. Miller when I was at his house.
We were hanging out, recording, and he pretty much said, I'd ask, I'd like to reverse this to
the apologist. Go into the ancient world to well-known fiction. Go find fiction and get me a list
of fictions that do not have realisms that are not anchored with verisimilitude into the historical
context. Good luck finding many, he said. So you're gonna, you have to traverse historical
people, places, and things in fiction. Meaning, if you're talking about wood floating,
okay, wood floated in the Odyssey, Odyssey's fiction. No, no, it isn't. If I'm reading the
Odyssey and it has wood floating because wood actually floats, according to Tim, if the Odyssey
says they're on a ship or on the sea, that's real stuff. The Odyssey is history, Tim. Don't
you see it? The Odyssey is history, Jonathan McClatchy. Don't you know how historically true it
is? The bag that you open with the four winds that come out, that's real. There are real bags in the
world and there's real wind in the world. Like, I mean, you can go on and on reversing this stuff
and it doesn't even become clear that they can't see the reversal of this working on them.
Because Homer's writing actual history, duh. Anyway, sorry, there's my vent. My TED talk is over.
Good to see you. He omits dimensions and really striking differences between the shipwreck of
Paul versus Odysseus. So for example, Paul's companion survived the shipwreck, which is
of course not true for Odysseus, where Odysseus was the only survivor. Paul was being escorted
as a prisoner to a place where he hadn't been before, whereas Odysseus was returning home
after a successful campaign. Odysseus survives the shipwreck naked and alone. I'd like, can you
answer that? Why Paul and everybody survives, but only Odysseus survives in the shipwreck here?
Well, it's a transform to say that Paul's god is going to save not just him, but 270 other
passengers. So it's a transform. And these people are so unimaginative, it seems to me,
and so wouldn't and committed to a certain way of understanding these texts. And it doesn't allow
for individual innovations on the model. So of course, there are going to be differences,
because these are educated authors, and they're transforming the story for their own tastes.
And they're using multiple models, probably in this case, I would think it's Odyssey five and
a needed one. But I just find this almost pathetically laughable.
Well, can we laugh, everybody? Okay, I'm actually a little bit freaked out by the
super chat here. That's $200. Holy smokes, MNAG. I for one will continue to do my research. Dr.
McDonald, I got your book and have to admit it was difficult at first, but I've learned so much
from it. Thank you. Also took the recent course from Kip Davis, what I'm saying people need to do
research, then make up their own minds. By the way, in case MNAG, I don't know if you knew this,
maybe you do, I pinned at the top. There's an 18 lecture course, not only with Kip Davis,
if you want to know your Hebrew Bible, if you want to know the actual religions of ancient
Israelites, but also an 18 lecture course with you, Dennis, where you're actually, you know what,
I'll put it like this. This is a little intimidating, I'll admit. It's big words. It's three volumes in
one book. It's so dense. There's so much material. It's a bit intimidating. Once I recorded the courses
with you, I owned the book before that, read here and there, but really didn't dive in. Once I actually
took the course with you and like recorded it with you, and we went through the examples, I
realized how then it helped me know how to get through this book and what to do and how to use
it. Because it's not like a read from beginning to end book. It's a tool. It's a reference work.
It's a reference work. But it covers everything from Jewish antecedents, Aeneid antecedents with
Virgil antecedents to Homer's Iliad of the Odyssey, Plato, Socrates, Romulus. You dabble in just about
everything in here in some way, shape, or form. Anyway, that's your course too, which would have
been plugged in. Holy smokes, MNag. You get like absolute salvation and your whole family
is out of purgatory due to this indulgence here, my friend. I thank you so much for that.
You're amazing. Okay, continuing Dennis. Sure.
Was not naked or loaded when you survived the shipwreck. I just want to comment how awesome
it is that the God of this narrative is better, like way better for making everyone survive.
Anyway, if you're looking for a better story, this one's better than the old Odysseus one in terms
of the tragedy, right? Coming season instead of laying over. Whereas Odysseus' ship sank because
of the enmity of the gods. Odysseus ran into agribigant girls when he was washed up on the shore
by himself. Whereas Paul heals people when he comes to the island where Odysseus doesn't.
So again, as Stephen rightly said, you have to factor in the similarities and the differences.
And if you're going to say both the similarities and the differences all count as evidence and
failure for pieces, then how is this really falsifiable? It's a mess. And again, I don't
understand. Like why are people latching out of this? I don't know. Maybe they could explain to me.
One of the things that maybe we should discuss is I know that we got alluded to, Richard.
I mean, I want to continue because they're going to get an axe, but I just want to make one comment.
When I find a narrative of Jesus on a boat with many other boats selling across this
Temptus Sea called Galilee, the Sea of Galilee, which porphyry, as you write in your book,
says, it was never called the sea until you wrote your gospel claiming it a sea, this Temptus Sea,
that this unbelievable storm. Get out of here with that. First of all, that's only something you
would find in the actual Mediterranean Sea, which means they're trying to shift the narrative into
a bigger world, which the Odyssey and the Iliad is taking place in. Many boats travel to the land
of the garrisons. I was on the lake. It's not that big and it's not that, whoa, I was there in person.
So they're going to the land of the garrisons. This one always gets me. I mean, you can go to
all sorts of different examples, but if you're not seeing how he goes to this lawless, naked man in
the caves cutting himself because he's possessed by a demon and don't see that as the lawless,
polyphemous Cyclops figure that is polyphemous and how Odysseus overcomes that. There's so
many differences. There's so many differences between both narratives. We could see that,
but if you're not seeing how he cast the legion, the soldiers into pigs and drowns them in the sea,
these soldiers drown in the sea, the legion drown in the sea. You also highlight that the
10th legion had the emblem of a bore, but so there's some verisimilitude here, an interesting
narrative component to add. But when you look at that and then you look at the story of Odysseus
going to this land with this polyphemous Cyclops and then he goes to Cersei in the next book
on a voyage, ends up there where the witch transforms his soldiers into pigs, literally
transforms them into pigs. Of course, if God gives him a potion where he's not able to transform,
he puts a sword or a neck and says, you better turn my men back into soldiers.
Later on, those men drown in the sea. If you can't see the idea here, if you don't see a theme
that's happening, you have no creativity. Okay, I want to make two comments.
One is a modest correction of something you said, Derek, which comes from me, actually,
indirectly. But the other is a methodological comment about what Jonathan's doing.
When you compare two texts and one's an imitation of the other,
you do have to count for the differences. And some differences are aesthetic,
some may be intentional and philosophical or whatever. But you don't have to worry about
those as much as the similarities. So it's the similarities that put two stories together
in what I would call a hermeneutical dance, an interpretive dance. So you can emphasize the
differences all day long. You can nitpick all of those pieces. But what about the sequence of
those pieces? What about the similarities between them? And you have to explain those somehow.
Now, they're trying to say you can do it because of the historical shipwreck and so on. But you
can't explain all of them that way. And it's very difficult to explain the sequence that way.
So, yes, differences are important. But what gives the energy to Mimesis is an accounting
of the similarities. And one way to determine those similarities is to decide if it's cultural
information or it's literary. And if it's literary, then you need criteria. Now, the correction is
modestly this. The word for the sea of Galilee in Semitic languages is the chinareth, generally,
or the genisar. And the Hebrew word is yam. Now, in the Septuagint, yam often is translated as
falasah, that is sea. So it's not just, I didn't mean to say, and I hope I didn't,
that Mark is the first person to call that lake sea. It is called sea also in the Septuagint.
But he's the first person to talk about it as the sea of Galilee. So it's no longer the sea
of the chinareth or the genisar or whatever. It's now the sea of Galilee. And that's how it has become
known in the West almost ever since. So that's the first citation of it. And so it's just a minus,
a modest correction. But we do know that yam was translated as thalasah in the Septuagint. And it
appears that way also in Josephus, although he's more careful in calling it a lactose or
whatever the word for lake is that he would use. So that's just a modest correction. But the more
important the comment at this point is, yes, you can nitpick all of these differences. Go ahead.
I want you to explain the sequences and I want you to explain the things they have in common
and tell me why they have those things in common. That's what's missing.
Yeah. And some of those themes, just to me, they jump out so, they're so,
it's not mundane, simple material. Some of this stuff's huge. I mean, you're talking about pigs,
casting demons into pigs, which already sounds kind of weird on our everyday basis. We don't
experience that. And you're seeing a transformation of soldiers into pigs, which sounds kind of weird,
which you don't see that on a daily basis. One other thing about the examples you're given,
the authors wanted you to see that. So if you don't see it, you're not doing what the author wanted.
But that's why I'm like, how you can't see this. You have to be wearing different goggles.
You cannot be looking at this literature with the same approach that, first of all,
this is Greek literature that would have known Greek literature. These authors would have known
Greek literature and would have known Homer's Iliad in the Odyssey. If you're not starting with that
and understanding that, then I could understand, if you think that these people were born,
bred, and became authors only reading their Septuagint their whole life, and that's how they
learned how to write Greek or something, which is not the case, then I could see why you would try
to divorce it completely from this. But I would say, if we're going to do the same thing, critiquing
the differences, we could go into the Septuagint, because the Gospels are using the Septuagint,
look at the narrative, find several similarities, and more differences between the narratives of
Jesus being the new Elijah, the new Moses, or the new David, the king, or Joseph being sold off,
and the whole nine, the way he was treated by his brothers. I can find so many differences between
these stories. They honestly, I don't see how anyone could see any similarities between these
two stories. Like, who in their right mind would think, now they might have the one up by going,
but it says it is written. But it doesn't say that in all the narrative formats. It will literally say
it is written when it's just trying to tell you about a scripture it is fulfilled or whatever.
It does not give you those tips when it's mimetically imitating stuff. It does not say, oh,
it is written, Moses was in the wilderness, now Jesus is going to be tempted in the wilderness.
It doesn't do any of that. You have to use your imagination and be aware of scripture
in order to know that Jesus is the new lawgiver. He's the one who's in the wilderness.
He's going to overcome Satan, whereas Moses didn't. Guess who didn't enter the promised land?
Moses. Guess who will? Jesus. And like, there's so many things.
Okay, I want to give you another analogy. And this is Lucian of Samosata, who's a
brilliant Greek author of the late second century, who knows, by the way,
Gospels, and he knows Christians and holds them in contempt. But what's so fascinating to me is
his satires. And a satire, and it's mostly satires of Homeric epic. And he doesn't announce to the
reader over and over again, although he does at the beginning of one of his tractates,
that he's imitating Homer. He expects you to know what the antecedents are in the Homeric
epics. And then he can write a riff on them. And it is so brilliantly done. Now, the advantage of
a satire is that it only works if your reader knows the antecedent and knows the antecedent
without being told. So Lucian can expect his readers to know about Seercy without his having
to mention her name. Although he does in a couple of places, but when he's imitating,
he doesn't tell you that it's coming from Homer. He doesn't say that it's Seercy. But you know that
the story about a witch that turns people into animals must be a riff on the epic. And the same
thing's true in the Acts of Andrew and other places where you find imitations of Homer. They
expect the readers to be smarter than our apologists are, at least smarter in terms of the classical
literature of the Greeks. And so they don't need to announce these things to their readers. The
readers have been saturated in them. They were exposed as boys, again, boys in school to these
stories. And they probably relish them as much as my son did when he was in middle school,
when we first started reading these stories. Many of us should get back to them, I guess.
But you said something so powerful here, Dennis, that I think is very important and people should
take away that this would have been understood. Just like if you're going to write and you're
writing about Jesus fulfilling prophecy from scriptures, you're going to assume that you're
aware there's a nod to scripture here. So many things to get into. Let's continue because we can go on and on.
Pervo. And he's like, well, the author of Acts had Paul's letters on hand. I think Pervo also
talks about using Josephus and all this stuff. That's where he's plugging in some of these facts
that make it look like historical. But you know, you got all this Homeric mimesis and all that
other stuff. And so we were kind of on that, not to shift gears too much here. But yeah,
I was wondering if you guys could address that because Pervo argues some kind of strange things,
like Acts was written in the second century, obviously not a travel companion of Paul's,
because he'd be very long live. And so he's kind of putting on his hypothesis,
another bad hypothesis. And so now you have this really theory-laden kind of mess. And so
then you guys want to speak to that. I do want to mention something. This is more of a private
thing. But last night, I was in conversation with Jonathan McClatchy. I got really upset,
got triggered in our conversation, because sometimes he come across in his rhetoric that's
snarky to me. And it's like, it can be belittling. And I think it happens on both sides. It's not
just one side, but he's often known for going and making a post online. And then look at me,
woe is me, look how bad I'm being treated, this kind of stuff. Look at how we're, and so everybody's
doing it. I don't think we should go out crying about it. But he brought up Pervo. And I don't
want to dwell on this, but I want to make the point that we know that he has a reputation that
has been tainted. And he said, well, I said, you know that like Pervo nodded to McDonald's work,
right? And he wrote the hermenea commentary, but he also had child porn that he got caught with,
and we aren't going to hide from it. But he made the comment and I said, what's that have anything
to do with the arguments here in Acts? And what's that have to do with McDonald's? He said, nothing.
And I was like, gotcha. It really pissed me off a little bit though, because it was like,
why are you even bringing that up if we're arguing discussing this issue?
Would you like care to make a comment about this just so we can get it off of our chest as we move
forward? Richard was a very good friend of mine. We would do bookstores and museums together. We
worked on common projects. Yes, he had a problem with sex. And he knows that was a mistake. He knows
that was a character for I was there at his funeral, by the way. And his widow is also a friend of
mine. He's a dear friend. He's also one of the most intelligent men I've ever known. And I'm okay
learning from intelligent people who have flawed character because I'm sure that I do too.
And I also know of no one who had the mastery of Greek and Roman literature the same way Richard did.
And here I would put him with the very best of classicists who study Greek and Roman narrative.
His commentary on the Acts of the Apostles, in my view, is flawed because he doesn't do
mimesis. He doesn't see these are direct literary dependencies. But I learned so much from him.
And it's a tragedy that people's scholarship gets tarnished because of character flaws.
When it actually has to be assessed for the truth and the insights of the arguments themselves.
So what I would say, Jonathan, is let the person who's without sin cast the first stone.
Thank you, Dennis. And I'd like to just make a comment since you brought that up is that
you might catch me from time to time quoting Robert Price or mentioning something he might have said
in his work. If I think he's on the money on about something, I'll quote him.
He doesn't appear on MythVision anymore. I have no interest in bringing him on MythVision anymore.
That doesn't mean I won't say the guy got some stuff that I think is right on the money about
certain things. So other things not so much, but it is what it is. So I wanted to get that off my
chest because, but then I, you know, me and him, we apologized and we're moving past that Jonathan
and me and like we're communicating better now. But anyway, wanted to just make that public.
By the way, Carrier affirms that as well. Carrier also believes that Axe was borrowing,
and when I debated him, he's actually brought it up in the debate that he actually does believe
that Axe is second century and borrowed from Josephus. Yeah, that's just about price.
And yes, of course, it's had a problematic average of purpose book on hand here. And he has
his sense of the discussion of Paul's alleged use of looks allegedly use of the pulling corpus as
well as looks alleged use of Josephus. As for looks use of Josephus, so probably his strongest
argument there. And so I'll just give this as a sample is that Josephus and Axe mentioned
only three and precisely the same three rebel leaders to you operated in the decades prior
to the Jewish war. So it mentions, this is a malial. He mentions, do you want me to skip past
this part? Or I mean, because this is like really a Steve Mason argument that helped impact. Okay.
Sorry, here we go.
Prophetic figure. Sorry, he was not associated with such people, but rather as a prophetic figure.
Axe suggests that he led about 4,000 into the desert to raise Josephus, other disorders and
Judea, which were like tummels. That quote acts already, like Clement of Rome, for example,
first climate is dated, even more liberal leaning people would leave it into the first
entry at the very, very end. I would put it in the mid 90s. But I mean, it's quoting like in
first climate to want to believe it quotes the verse out of the Acts chapter 20, which quotes
Jesus, it's better to give than receive, which Matthew, Mark, and even Luke in the gospel and
John do not record that St. Matthew is only Luke. But Clement is already using that to make an
argument from the words of Jesus, the same way acts did by quoting it. Then he also in
first climate 18, one, he quotes acts 13, 22, word for word, letter for letter. I mean, it is exactly
not no variance at all between the two and a, the two major main issues we have first climate.
So you already have, you already have acts being quoted and used as records of not only about
David, like in the second one, I gave you first climate 18, but also the teachings of Jesus is
using it already as a statement of authority from Jesus from the record of acts. And he's writing
in the first century. So there's a lot of problems with that view, just in who's quoting who already
by the end of the first century. In terms of, in terms of Luke's dependence upon Paul, this is
also problematic. So this is a, this is Richard Kerbow's discussion of the argument from undesigned
coincidences. Now, Derek asked Dennis McDonald about his perspective on the argument from
undesigned coincidences, and he dismissed it referring to his friend Richard Kerbow, and
his dad, C.C., died 2017. But he wrote a number of books on the topic of acts, including this one,
dating acts between the evangelists and apologists. He also has a Herminia commentary on acts and
he also has another popular, a popular level book called the Mystery of Acts. But he says in,
in a footnote concerning undesigned coincidences, he says, this is on page 388, this expression is
a name, undesigned coincidences is associated with the Holy Paul and I of Louis and Paley.
Paley, a critic of Vism and of Babbage, emphasized detailed investigation of ancient sources. He
held that the agreements between Paul's letters acts supported the traditional view of Christian
origins. A recent example of this orientation is David Landemax and Pauline Corpus, chief,
evidence of parallels in ancient literary setting. Other examples, including, give some other
citations on humor. Many humorous examples demand tortuous acts of Jesus. For example,
he correlates acts in 924 and 25 with Saint Corinthians. Dude, he's so fast. Let me, let
me slow him down a little bit. 1133. Noting the acts attributes the opposition to the Jews and Paul
to the ethnarch of Aritus, he observes it should be unnecessary to point out the possibility that
different opponents may make common cause. I don't really see how he thinks this is tortuous. I don't
see how such a conspiracy is particularly plausible and it does point to the independence
of Saint Corinthians and acts and get the convergence upon specific details, namely the
plot against Paul. And he continues, on 187 he relates acts 1818 to the recommendation of Phoebe
in Romans 61 that the two verses share only a place name. Acts 2417 confirms various epistolary
references. So we're getting lost in the weeds here, Dennis. And I feel like what might need to
take place if you're interested, I'd like down the road to have you maybe deal with some of this
undesigned coincidence stuff if you're interested. In his chapter four of his book that his alleged
demonstration that Luke is dependent upon Paul's letters completely refutes the argument from
in the history, it's foolproof that there exists no correspondence between these writers.
It's the narrative in the act and find it all convincing. But anyone else want to comment on
that different topic? I mean, it's like you said about the casualness thing. I mean, there's the
I'm thinking of the undesigned coincidence where Paul is working, he's making tense,
and then the brothers come from Macedonia. And all of a sudden, completely out of the blue,
we're not told any reason why Paul just quit working and starts devoting himself to the word
full time. This is an X-19, I believe. And there's if you're just reading it, maybe someday,
I don't know, some some guy in England will figure it out and explain it to people like, come on,
like, let's just make up your mind which kind of author you're going to talk about. We, you know,
it's bad enough that we have to deal with these overdrawn pictures as if we know the exact mind
of the author. But it just becomes silly when we realize that you can play this game in both
directions, you can wind up with completely incompatible portraits, and the evidence is
roughly equally brought in either way. So why are we doing this again?
To give one example of the source of textual parallels that he alleges between X and the
Pauline corpus. So this is on page 16. Do you want to deal with Pauline corpus parallels or?
No, let's go on. Okay, I'm trying to find the verbiage that I'm likely to use. And
told you about Peter. When you start looking at his pattern, he's telling you where he's
getting his information from with. And who is he with the most? Okay, so we spent a couple of
months with Peter. He spent a couple, they over and over again. Same thing with the teaching of
Jesus, right? We get some, you know, paraphrases here and sometimes something's out of the context
and just as an isolated saying, but yeah, you know, of course, did it like what is it's not even
a supernatural claim. It's not even a miraculous claim. I can help you that a little bit, because
it is I think part partly in some people's minds, it does find it as the supernatural,
right? Paul himself is reported as performing miracles. But of course, he can't have done that.
Somebody in the chat was like, you guys want to talk about Hector, we could do Hector. Somebody
was asking about the, the madman and Gadara and the Legion. Come on guys. So yeah, let's cover
some of those parallels. And yeah, so Hector, Stephen, you want to lead out with him? Sure.
Okay, let's, let's stop there. You want to pull up that example? I want to pull up the other
example. And it's the one that Stephen is going to be talking about. This is this one or is it his?
This is mine. Okay, do you want me to pull up his? Not yet. Okay.
So we're going to read these parallels again. And the your viewers need to decide whether these
are accidental. Are they undesigned coincidences? Or is this mimesis? And then on what grounds
would one make a judgment one way or the other? So Iliad 22, Hector's troops fled into the city
for safety, leaving him to face his fate alone. Jesus' disciples fled for safety, leaving him
to face his fate alone. Zeus passed judgment, Hector must die. Pilot passed judgment, Jesus must die.
In book six, Hector had refused mixed wine, offered him to relieve his pain. Jesus refused
mixed wine, offered him to to relieve his pain. Now, even though that happens in book six, and
he doesn't die until book 22, this is the last time Hector was at Troy, and he says goodbye to his
family. So that is one of the criticism that gets gets brought up. That's right. And but
the reader of Mark would know this as part of the Hector death sequence. It's not as if they're
thumbing through their scrolls of Iliad six and 22 to compare them. It's rather that they know
the mythic pattern of the heroic death. So the hero refuses mixed wine, offered to relieve pain
because he wants to return to the battle if they have his wits about him.
So Achilles and Hector traded taunts. Various hostile groups taunted Jesus.
Hector called to deophobus for help, but he never came. The bystander stopped Jesus was calling to
Elijah for help, but he never came. Hector then knew that he would be killed for his gods had
abandoned him. Jesus knew that he would be killed and lamented that his God had abandoned him.
And that is an extremely important parallel, because it certainly is something that was
objectionable to Matthew and Luke that his gods had abandoned him, although Matthew has his own
version of it, I guess. Well, he does. Yeah. Hector's soul went to Hades with a shout.
Jesus uttered a loud shout and expired.
I'm having trouble with my scrolling here. Before Hector died, he predicted Achilles'
death as divine punishment for his violence against him. And the Trojors mourned him as though
their city had been destroyed from top to bottom. Jesus' death anticipated the fall of Jerusalem
and the temple whose curtain was rent from top to bottom. Now, later, Jonathan is going to argue
that the expression top to bottom does not appear in the Iliad and actually appears twice.
So that's a modest correction. Achilles gloated that he had just slain one the Trojans considered a
God. That's the similarity stop for me there. Do I need to go into the actual? No, I'll do the rest
of it. So in Mark, the centurion gloated that he had just executed a bogus son of God. So the way I
translate the Mark conversion is, oh sure, this mortal was a son of a God. It's a gloat that is
made into a confession of faith by Matthew and Luke. And Jonathan is going to jump on that.
The women of Troy watching Hector's death from their walls cried laments. And drama key watched
from the tower. Three women watched Jesus' death from afar and presumably lamented. They included
Mary of Towertown. That is Magdalene or Magdalena means a woman from Magdala. And that's a word
for tower. And that there was a village that was named after that, although where there's a debate
about when it became understood as taking the name Magdala. But there is a tower and so both
Andromache and Mary are related to a tower. Now, there are several similarities here that are
important. But the one that I think is is so important is the recognition that once God has
abandoned him and the person and the failure of the help to come. But the other is in that
they're not going to mention this at all. Virgil uses this story at the very end of the Aeneid
to talk about the death of Ternus by Aeneas that then is going to end in the founding of Rome.
For Homer, the story is going to end in the destruction of Troy. So there's an emulation
between Virgil and Homer. And of course, the death of Jesus is going to lead to the destruction of
Jerusalem in the mind of Mark and Luke. There's so many things to highlight here. And I know
that they're going to have their criticism. So when we play, pause it and correct as we go,
if there's anything you didn't hit that we hear. Sounds like I need to get Richard Miller on to
do us some jab in here. All right. Yeah, so what he's trying to say, simply put, is that when you
do your little chart parallels, you're not saying exactly word for word what the text says in Mark
over maybe what's said over here in the Odyssey or Iliad or whatever the example the antecedent
might be. And therefore, because it's not verbatim, really, you're kind of playing a trick on people
is what he's trying to argue, getting people to think there's a parallel there. But maybe even
that's not true. That's how I am reading what he's saying there. Is that how you picked it up?
Well, but it means that he's not consulting the synopsis because this comes at the end of
about 10 pages of a discourse in which I put the parallels back to back. And there are verbal
similarities between them. So, yes, this chart is an abstraction, but he's going to come up with
an abstraction chart of his own. And he's going to then destroy his chart. He's going to criticize
his chart without criticizing my own work. Right. And we'll get to that. We will. We play that here.
Continuing.
Sal, it's not my wording. Just what Mark 15 said and what the Iliad book 22 said, just like you see
it right there, just put it side by side. So, those are my notes. If you scroll down a little bit,
and what I did is I not just put the differences or the similarities, I put both.
And if can you go do a couple of them there?
Yeah, I'm working on it there. Got it. Okay.
So, I charted this all out. I can pull it up after I let them talk because I have his actual chart
downloaded it. It's in the description of his video.
I put similarities, which are pretty much his words. And then I also located the differences.
For example, this first one is that the followers of Jesus and after all abandon their leader in
fear. It's like, okay, well, let's talk about is that really the way the story went? Is that a
context in the Iliad book 22? Well, the reality is not all of Jesus' disciples left him alone.
Peter did initially still follow Jesus up until his denial that he left. But even Mark 15 says
that some of Jesus' disciples that were women that were still there from afar off, and he even
admits that in his own chart because he uses the women as a parallel to the other women in the
story of Hector. It's like, okay, well, if you admit that there were women already still there,
then all of his followers did not leave him. Like the second one there, Hector also fled in fear
to the city of refuge. So, it's like, well, all of his disciples, all Jesus' disciples left,
and Hector's troops all left. So, therefore, there's a parallel. It's like, well, wait a minute.
Hector also went after and fled to the city too, and he dove under the wall to get into the city.
Jesus did not flee from his death that was coming upon him. He actually fought death off
and died a crucifixion death. He didn't escape the way Hector did. Hector died later on in the
story. So, again, it's like, so the parallels in how these two men work are just not the same,
and you can go down a couple. Okay, so I want you to answer that, and then we'll come back to his.
Hector does not go into the city. He turns around, and he faces Achilles, and then he
sees Achilles and then all his might, and then he runs away. So, Jesus is actually more courageous
than that. He's going to face his death. But I don't, actually, I guess I wasn't paying enough
attention. I didn't see the problem. So, let's just go on and see what I have to say.
He's like, which one is that one here? Yeah, go back to that third one. Go to that third one
there. The one underneath it. Is that the one on the wine? Let me see that. Yeah, okay, so this one
blew me away, and I even footnoted this, because when you look at this story, what they did, what
McDaniel did, is he actually left Book 22. Your name's McDaniel. The Iliad about Hector's life and
death, and to parallel with Mark 15, because if you go back to what he was trying to do there,
you have Mark 15 and Iliad 22. These are the parallels. They're the same. He leaves Book 22
to go back to Iliad Book 6 to make this parallel. So, he leaves the narrative of Hector's death
just to make this parallel. That's problematic in itself. So, let's talk about the wines,
for example, that what they both were given. So, you briefly made this point earlier that Book 6
and 22, in terms of the death of Hector, it's almost like, you know, the Iliad is about the
death. It's almost like the Gospel is about the death of Jesus. You can read in the beginning of
it, he's getting baptized, but you already know this story is literally going to foreshadow or even
give little forecast of the death that's going to happen later in it, which is Jesus' death.
Is that the same of the Iliad with Hector? Oh, absolutely. That's a very good analogy, as a
matter of fact, Eric. In fact, after he refuses the wine, he talks to Andromache, and he says,
I know you will never see me again, because he expects his death to take place. Now, we didn't
know it at the hands of Achilles, and he didn't know that it would take another 15
books of the Iliad to get there, but he anticipates his own death, and so does Andromache and the
women she's with. They fear they're never going to see him again. So, they have a built-in segue
to the death of Hector that occurs in Book 22. And the segue is made clear because you also have
the laments or the pleas of his father Priam and his mother Hecuba at the beginning of Book 22,
and it was Hecuba, his mother, who offered the wine in the first place. So, the story of his fair
will to Andromache and Helen and Hecuba in Book 6 is a segue to what's going on in Book 22, and
people who were familiar with the Homeric epics, which was many Greeks, of course, would have
seen those similarities. So, you don't have to jump from scroll to scroll to make that point.
It's a part of the mythic pattern. And then the female disciple part, the idea that his disciples
flee or fled him, and they're trying, he's trying to argue, well, look, a few of them stuck around.
How do you explain that? Well, they stuck around in Luke, but they don't stick around in Mark. They
all flee at Gethsemane, right? Peter, three times nice, even knowing him. And the women are not at
the cross. They're watching from a distance, just as the, and by the way, it's three women, and it's
three women in the the Iliad. It's Hecuba and Andromache and Helen. And they're not on the battle
scene. And the three women who watch from a distance are not on the scene. They have to watch
because they're going to be responsible for the treatment of Jesus's corpse once Joseph of
Arimathea can rescue it. So, yeah, they've, they, they too have abandoned in Mark. Jesus is all
alone and he thinks as God has abandoned him. So that's a part of the pathos of this magnificent
scene in Mark of the death of Jesus, which is has pathos because of the death of Hector. And by the
way, here's one more thing that people that are is not in my book, but it's clear. We know that
the death of Hector was used for instruction to lawyers to talk about the pathos of an unnecessary
death, or so people would model their work on the death of Hector in order to create this pathos,
including the laments of women and the the loss of a loved one and so on. But the one more piece,
there is no art for artistic representation of the Homeric epics that is more popular
than Priam rescuing the corpse of Hector after his death. And this is the model in the Gospel of
Mark for Joseph of Arimathea rescuing the corpse of Jesus. And the reason that that is so such a
touching scene is because it appears so often on sarcophagi of dead soldiers who are like Hector
and the parents that have to that are mourning to bury their son. This occurs also in vases that
are used to show apparently sympathy for people who have lost a son in battle. So this is not just
a part of the literary landscape. It's a part of the artistic landscape. And this is a scene of the
death of Hector and the rescue of his corpse by his beloved parents was everywhere in the culture,
including in Virgil's Aeneid. Thank you so much. There's so much I could say about that
that, you know, Achilles drags his body around for three days and, you know, the gods keep his
body intact, whereas Jesus, of course, his body is intact and he's in the grave for three days.
There's differences, obviously. There's similarities, obviously. Continue.
That's wine for their pain. That's the alleged statement here. Well, that's actually not what
the text says. If you go back to the text on Hector, what his mother was saying, you should drink
this, it was that he was exhausted, that he was wearied and toiled from war. He wasn't in pain.
Jesus was physically inflicted. He was beaten. He was nailed to a cross, a little bit different
than just being exhausted. And the two types of wines are different here. They're mixed wines,
but Jesus was offered sour wine, whereas Hector was being offered sweet wine. And actually,
if you pull that up, if you scroll down just a little bit there, I actually have a footnote
that I gave. Yeah, there's a footnote there. And I'm going to show you the difference in the
wines here, because the one that, mulsum, was the one that was given to Hector, which is a honey
mixed with wine. So this was like an energy drink back in the Greek Empire. I mean, because what
does honey do? It's a natural sugar. It goes straight into your bloodstream. Mixed with alcohol,
it boosts your energy. He's worried. He's hurting from battle. He's tired. He needs a little bit
of a boost. So she's telling him to take the energy drink. Now, the mulsum was something used
as a refresher. People drank for dinner. Jesus was offered something very differently. The wine,
just because the word wine mixed is there, does not mean that it's a parallel. These were medicinal
drinks used for different purposes by everybody in the ancient world at that time. This is not
unique to Hector. And this is not unique to Jesus. Jesus was given a Posca. And the Posca is a sour
wine because it's mixed with myrrh and water. It was more of a medicinal reason, whereas the other
one was more of an energy reason. So the scene shifts, so we have major issues, the scene shifts
from book 22 all the way back to book six, instead of staying in the story of Hector. So the fact
that you have to go back in history to find this parallel instead of staying within the narrative
should tell you right there. It's not even a parallel. The wines are mixed differently. The
type of wine is different. Hector is weirded by toil. Jesus is actually in physical pain.
So that's three, four. Jesus was offered this moment before death. Hector was not. Hector was
not about to die when he was offered this wine. He was just tired and weird from war. Jesus was
in his last moments. In fact, Mark 15 says right after that was given, he died. He gave up. And then
number five, the primary reason involved forgiving the wine to Hector was so that first, the first
portion of this wine that his mother wanted to give would be given as a drink offering to Zeus.
So he didn't include that in his parallel. What was the main reason the mother said to do this
one? Well, yes, he was tired and weird of war. But the main purpose was to take the first portion
as an offering to Zeus before he participated in itself. And then the major difference here is
Jesus from what we know of John 19. It doesn't really say did or didn't in Mark 15. But what's
implied there in Mark and then later affirmed by John is that Jesus actually drank the wine.
In the story of Hector, he refused it and never drank it. So when you actually tear down...
Hold on. He jumped from Mark to John and said, John affirms what Mark's saying here,
harmonization there. But anyway, can you comment on that, Dennis?
It does not merit comment. It is such a stupid argument to say that in this case, we have two
people who are offered wine. They refuse it. They're heroic. They're about to die. And to say
that one is sweet and one is bitter is just nitpicking. And it really, again, it's learned it.
He has intellectual pretensions, but he's anti-intellectual. There's no methodology that's
informing his judgment here. And why he ignores that it appears in a sequence where you have so
many other parallels. That's why I wanted us to trot out these texts that appear in the synopsis.
And it shows the ingenuity of intelligence of people who know the truth before they see the
evidence. And then they scurry around the evidence to find a way to say that the parallels do not
exist. Really, this is such a shell game. And I hope your viewers realize that this is not
serious scholarship. This is simply apologetics at its lowest denominator.
What do you say when he says that Hector was not about to die, but Jesus was literally on the brink
of death? Was Hector about to die? According to the mythic pattern, yes. He goes out to the
battle and he survives for a long time. But the next time he comes back home, he's dying. So it's
a part of this mythic pattern that you have the heroic death. So the fact that he that he's able
to survive so long, I just don't think is a big issue. Okay, thank you. Continuing.
On this story, and you have more, Jesus was in pain and Hector was were both in pain and they
were both offered mixed wine. You see how close that is? They were both in pain. They were both
offered mixed wine. Well, let's actually take the whole context, which I did there,
of Mark 1536 and 38. And then I am curious how often mixed wine in narratives like this is given
to heroes of the story who when they die, the city ends up falling. How common is that? Anyway,
moving on. In fact, this is actually not 22. It's Iliad 6. And you actually start going through
what about the wine? What was the purpose of the wine? What was the main priority of the wine?
What was the substance of the wine? What was the reason both of them were drinking? Are they both
at near death experiences? Are they actually taking it? Are they drinking it? And one's
rejecting it? When you start tearing this down, it's not even close to being the same. And that's
the point. These similarities are only similar in how you are phrasing these in these charts,
not in actually how they're being told in the narrative. And there's many more. I mean,
we don't have to get through all of them, but I've charted every single one of these out.
I'm going back to these claims. Go ahead. I think it's particularly bizarre that
McDonald compares the role of Zeus in the Iliad account to the role of conscious pilot in Mark.
I find that as an incredibly bizarre parallel. I mean, the same thing, basically.
Yeah, another bizarre parallel that he draws is in the Iliad,
Healy's gloated that he had just slain the one Georgians considered a god. Mark 15,
Centurion gloated that he just executed a bogus son of a god. No, the whole point in Mark is
that the Centurion is recognizing that this isn't. Yeah. He's repenting. He's truly this is the son
of God. He saw all the darkness, all the stuff that Mark illustrated. But by the way, just so
you know, Dennis, and I want to get your response on this, you know, the Greek and you're, you're
aware of that there's two ways that people look at this, your way. And then the way that I've
heard most scholars try to understand this mark and passage. But that is, I don't think, and I mean,
look, this is my opinion, they can say I'm wrong if they want. I cannot, even if this did, if this
was a gloat, like you're suggesting, I cannot see them agreeing with it because Matthew and Luke
are making it into a praise, into a confession. So how do you respond to that? And I know that
the Pontius Pilate thing, Pontius Pilate is not a deity. Zeus is a deity over here. What would you
say about that? Because they're different. One's a deity. One's kind of a legal, what is it, a
prefect? Or I can't remember the particular term for him. But anyway. Yeah, that's a stretch. I agree
with you. But you have the motif of a judgment on someone having to die. And in one case it's
Zeus and another it's Pilate. If it were only that parallel, then, then it'd be crazy. I get it. I get
it. But it appears in a sequence. Now, I want to tell you how I translate the gloat of this
insurian. And I'm looking here to find exactly the, oh, here we go. The phrase, it is in my book,
but it goes, here's the, here's the, the Greek, allethos, huta-anthrapas,
quias theuin. And it's, oh, sure, allethos, surely.
This mortal, huta-anthrapas, this human, was past tense, was, not is,
a son of a God, quias theuin. It's not the son of the God. It's a Roman talking about a son of a God.
And the sons of the God, among Greeks and Romans, were to be immortal. So Jesus isn't immortal.
He's mortal. I just killed him. Oh, sure. This mortal was a son of a God, not.
Right. Cause think about it. That doesn't, that doesn't work for Matthew and Luke or, or John
knowing this in optics, ultimately, probably. So, you know, so one can see how this can be
taken as a confession of faith, except you have this conflict between anthrapas and the son of
a theos, the son of a God. The past tense, ain, was. And by the way, the centurion doesn't see
any sign of, except darkness. And darkness can be understood as divine displeasure,
as much as pleasure. And Jesus interprets it as displeasure. The, the darkness comes and he says,
my God's abandoned me. Why have you forsaken me? Right. And the centurion. And by the way,
I'm not the only person in the history of scholarship who's understood this to be a gloat.
Okay. So that is not dependent on the Homeric epic and the gloat of the, of Achilles,
but it's supported by it. And so anyway, that's, that's the argument. It's kind of interesting.
Just put it in mundane terms for me. It's like, here you have a Roman, he literally is there
actively watching this guy die, watches the guy die, and you're supposed to go because of that.
What, what in this narrative, him watching this Jesus would convince you that he saw this guy
actually die before him? And he's supposed to go, oh, wow, he died. He must be a son of God.
That's right. That's why Matthew has to include, you know, the dead walking around Jerusalem and
Luke has to have a solar eclipse that everybody can see what's going on, which is very similar to
the death of Julius Caesar, by the way, where you have an eclipse at the death. Richard Miller
would be good on that topic. So yeah, I just think reading Mark for itself indicates this has got to
be a gloat. There's nothing about Jesus's death that is heroic. Right. And I just want to say,
I think that Matthew and Luke cloud people's vision on to Mark, but especially if you're a
harmonizer, if you're somebody who thinks these are all like pretty much saying the same thing,
you know they're not going to accept your point of view. That's exactly right. That's exactly right.
Yeah. Got it. All right, continuing. Straight to there. Like, how do you get that out of that? It's
like, like, are we reading the same book here? Like, what's going on? We obviously aren't. And so,
so stuff like that. And then the other one is when Jesus cried out, Eli, Lamathabakini,
in Aramaic. Right. So it's like, okay, well, Hector and Jesus both called out to a name in
their moments of distress and desperation. Right. Both felt like they were abandoned by
God or a God, because he calls on the white shield Hector calls on the white shield with
a long spear to come. You realize, oh, the God's for me. And but when you actually get into that,
what is what is Mark more like, let's just be reasonable people. What is Mark more likely
to be quoting there? Psalm 22 1 or the Iliad? I mean, because after all, Jesus was quoting word
for word in the Aramaic Psalm 22 1, which is older than the Iliad, because David penned those words.
Oh, God, here we are. Oh, my. All right. So a couple problems there. We have a dead C scroll
scholar in the chat. Kip Davis. Hey, Kip, can you answer me? Is is this Psalm? Would you say it's
older than 800 BCE, 7800 BCE? I'm curious. I don't know. Maybe roughly contemporaneous.
Curious to know from you. But also, Dennis, this idea of eclectic, like,
because he is quoting a Psalm, like, therefore, it can't have anything to do with a parallel
to the Greek Greek story. Don't you know this already, Dennis?
Well, this is a good example of eclectic mimetic hybridity. Yes, of course, this is
coming out of the Psalter. But the people there think that it's it's a call for Elijah,
and Elijah doesn't come. Now the parallels to the Iliad make sense.
Deophobus, the brother of Hector, who is actually Athena in disguise, turns or tells Hector,
we're going to, we can take Achilles if we do it together. So Hector turns and fights,
he throws a spear, he loses it, he goes to deophobus for another, and deophobus has vanished.
And he says to himself, now I know my gods have abandoned me. So the issue of the Aloy
Lamaxabaxthani, my God, my God, have you forsaken me, is mistaken as a call for Elijah,
which is similar to Hector's call for deophobus. But neither Elijah nor deophobus showed up.
So in fact, the gods have abandoned him. But the advantage of what we have with the Psalter
is people familiar with the Psalter know that Psalm 22 ends with the vindication of the sufferer,
and that there's salvation coming. So you have to wait until the resurrection to get the salvation,
but the death itself is dismal, and Jesus himself thinks he's been abandoned. So I think it's
really disingenuous to focus on this business of whether it's a quote from Psalm 22 or not,
because its function in larger narrative is the non-appearance of Elijah, which is similar to
the non-appearance of deophobus. And that is very unusual, unusual motif, although it does appear
in the death of Ternus at the end of the Aeneid. Ternus knows that Juterna, his nymph daughter,
sister, cannot come to his rescue, even so he continues to fight Aeneas and then dies. So it's
a motif in the Homeric epic tradition, but not elsewhere as far as I know. Thank you.
Mark is telling you right there where he got that from. Why would that be a parallel to the
story of Hector when he is telling you he's coming from? And even Mark 15 tells you that there was
a Jewish implication of the statement. What did they say? Oh, he must be calling down Elijah.
Maybe Elijah's going to come. They did not think when they heard Jesus say those words.
I wonder if this is similar to the Hector story back in the Iliad. No, they instantly go to,
oh, he must be evoking on Elijah. And I have a reason I even put it in the, I gave a footnote
there that either they only caught the first syllable or spoken willful mockery as declared,
we call God, Eli or Elijah, whose appearance was expected. Why? Because the Jews were expecting
Elijah to come. So they were probably making a mockery out of it. Oh, I just want to make one
point that I find interesting. This doesn't take down what he's trying to argue here,
but it's an important, there's a book I had a fan of myth vision actually wanted me to get composite
quotations that the gospel author will say in the book of whatever book they'll quote, like in
Isaiah it is written. And then when you read the quote in the gospel, it's not just Isaiah.
It literally is riffing off multiple sections in the scripture. So when you read it, you go,
that's, you go to Isaiah, you're like, hold on, like maybe a piece of that's in Isaiah. But like,
where, why are they quoting other stuff? Technically, they're, they're having more than
one. It's eclectic is my point. It's eclectic of scriptures compiled into one, even though he
just mentions one. Hey, Isaiah, it is written, but it's really Isaiah and Hosea or, you know,
two books into one quotation. The idea of eclectic that you're bringing up is what is missing in
this conversation with him is my point. No, Jesus ain't that. Oh, he's evoking on Elijah,
because everybody's waiting for Elijah to come. But he's quoting Psalm 22. I mean, this isn't
hard to figure out. I can't even believe that one was a parallel. And then there's another one
that if you keep going down with Mark 1538, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top
to bottom. He has a story of Hector. And this is what it says, but think lest the gods, remembering
me, turn their wrath on you that the day of the skein gate, when brave as you are, Paris kills
you and Paulist helps his father pray and groaned in anguish and the wave of grief spread around
them in the city, no less than all the lofty Iliad were on fire. And I even put the similar
lairities here. I'm really not sure what parallels are here at all. There's a lot of presumption
here. And McDonald has in his chart from top to bottom from the Iliad. However, none of these
words are actually stated in the story. It says that no less than all of the lofty Iliad or the
city of Troy, if you would, was on fire. Where does he get the wording here that there's this top
to bottom situation paralleled with the torn? I even look, I look over and over again to see if
the words top to bottom are using Iliad. It's not. It's that they were set on fire, but the parallels
between the prediction of the man falling and the city falling are completely different. The
assumption that the veil in Mark 15 is being torn in two was predicted to the fall of the temple
and an assumption that's not demonstrated at all in the text. So there's a lot of assumption and
presumption in this. And in the temple, the veil was torn from top to bottom. That actually took
place according to Mark. In the, in the Odyssey, or excuse me, in the book 22 of the Iliad, the
portion of Troy being on fire was a hypothetical statement about how the city felt, not based
on actually something had happened. This is the way the city felt. It was like, man, it's almost
as if it was Troy just caught on fire or something. How is that parallel to a curtain in the temple
being torn from top to bottom? I don't understand that one. Dennis? Yeah, I'm looking for the exact
expression. The expression appears twice related to the fall of Troy, that it falls top to bottom.
But I think the reason that Stephen can't find it is it usually is translated as thoroughly,
because that's what it means also in Greek. A top to bottom means utterly. So it's utterly destroyed.
So, but the words in Greek are there. And I'm sure that I can find it if I scurry around. So
I'll keep looking. Okay. And then about the idea of the city didn't literally burn. It just,
it was like, it was like it had burned. What are your thoughts about that? Because I see Jesus,
his death, literally, they blame the Jewish people who did not accept and turned away the Messiah.
You find this theme throughout the Gospels, including predicted in Mark 13, with the temple's
destruction coming up, like that his death is what caused the city to fall. It seems like Stephen's
trying to say in the Odyssey or the Iliad, I mean, is like, no, there's no fall of the city,
the city itself. Well, actually, this is a very important point. And I'm going to try to make
it as simple as possible. The veil rending of the temple often is understood to mean that there's
no longer need for a high priesthood, that forgiveness can come from anyone, because
everybody can now go into the temple and find that forgiveness. It doesn't mean that at all.
It means the opposite. It means that God has abandoned the temple. It symbolizes that the
temple veil is there and now God has abandoned it. And you have that also in the Q document.
And because it's abandoned, God is not going to protect it any longer. So the idea that
it is related to the fall of Jerusalem, because God's not going to protect it any longer. And
John Kloppenborg has written a beautiful article on the curses that Romans gave to cities to
invite their deities to leave their shrines so that they could take the city without the
gods defending the city. And that's the background for this, almost certainly. It's not to let everybody
into the holy of holies. It's to let God out so then God doesn't need to protect the temple.
Fun fact, just teasing people to let them know. I just talked to John Kloppenborg yesterday on the
phone. And he's actually coming out to do some recordings with me in August here at the house.
So good news. We have some stuff to talk about. Also, Dennis, what about going into the Iliad?
What about this Troy, Troy's fall, Troy's demise? He made it sound like, well, it just says that
when he says it burned, it didn't literally burn. It just meant like it was like it burned because
their hero died. Is this not a foreshadow of the fall of Troy? I thought that Troy, just like Jerusalem,
was destroyed. If you take a look at Virgil, Virgil actually has in book three,
or book two, I guess it is, a description of the fall of Troy. And there you have fire and
destruction and so on. So you don't have to have the Iliad. The Iliad doesn't tell you about the
destruction of Troy. That has to wait until Virgil and afterwards. But yes, you have fire,
you have destruction. I can't cite the particular texts at this point.
Okay. So another fair way of putting it as Robin Faith Walsh has, she sees antecedents in Virgil
with Mark. And so it's like, you know, heads up, if Virgil's doing this, and there is an antecedent
here, like why wouldn't you see your hero in mimicking the fall of the city? Here's exactly what
we're seeing go on here. And doesn't at the end of Virgil you say the fall and destruction of
something is kind of the birth of the Roman Empire? Yes, of course. Yeah. By the way,
you also have in Luke, Luke is mourning Jerusalem. Luke's Jesus is mourning Jerusalem.
And he says that your city will be sieged. Your children will be thrown to their deaths.
And we'd have to look at the text again. But it's just after Jesus
enters Jerusalem, he has this curse on Jerusalem and anticipates the fall.
So I don't know if that helps you, but Luke certainly isn't anticipating the fall of Jerusalem
for the way it's treated Jesus. Okay. Same thing, you know. Stephen, is this chart something that
you could give to Eric to post as like, you know, with the show notes later when this all goes?
Um, yeah, I have it. I have it. I can upload it. That's okay with you, Stephen. And I'll put a link
to it. I'm good with that. I don't remember. Do you have my edited or unedited? Uh, send me the edited.
I'll send you the edited. Yeah, I'll send you the edited because the ones I sent you originally,
they were just right after I finished it. And then it was too late at night for me to get excited to
edit. So yeah, I mean, it's just like, there's a lot of weirdness going on here. A lot of like
speculative parallels. We have a lot of good evidence for we talked about acts being recorded.
It seems like McDonald's thesis is also built on other thesis about the dating and everything
like that, where at least he feels supported by it. And so overall, I feel like it's just
kind of a big mess. And so if you guys have any, like, maybe parting thoughts,
one question I would ask is, yeah, go ahead, Tim.
Since you said parting thoughts, here's a, here's just one point to make about Paul on Mars Hill.
Okay. Notice there's not a single thing that you can point to that is credibly any kind of
Homeric allusion. There's not any attempt to make this out to be similar to Greek ideas of the
apotheosis of human being at the moment. You need to stop there. I knew you were going to do that.
Even, even in antiquity, people saw that what Paul was doing in Athens was playing the role of
Socrates and so, and engaging other authorities and talking about the, the unknown God and so on.
So for pity's sakes, what happens there is that the author is shifting from a Dionysian
understanding of Paul, that is a prison break and making him then Socratic. And from that point on
to the end of Acts, you can find almost no allusion or quotation of Jewish scripture until the very
last chapter. Now what's happened there is Paul is the new Socrates and he's giving his Apologia,
his apologies, and he's being unfairly killed and nonetheless is, has access to divine truth and so
on. So what we find here is mimesis, but with the different model. So don't tell me that this is now
reportage. It simply is a new form of mimesis and that's been demonstrated over and over again and
was recognized in antiquity, by the way. I'll continue a little longer and then I want to,
I want to give a shout out and plug not only for your book, but the course. I want to play a little,
just to give people an idea of how, how good the quality of the course that we did is. If you
haven't signed up, do so today. You won't miss out. You'll own it for life. It's all 4k. It's
18 lectures. It is deep and we go through several, I mean, over and over and over example where you
can, you know, look at the parallels. All right, here we go. That Jesus was raised from the dead.
That's the end of the patience of the Areopaga as far as what he is preaching. There's no attempt to
sort of cause and favor with Greek literary tropes and ideas there at all. Now,
Bull, absolute bull. He literally says your own poets. I mean, you can't get any clearer in Act 17
where he uses epaminities to prove his point to the, the, the Areopagus, the, the, what are they?
The Epicureans and Stoics. He argues using their poets. You don't do that if you're not trying to
imitate to prove your point is better. So like, what is he saying? I said this early at the beginning.
That's not true. It's so obvious. Epaminities and a few other Greek poets use that exact quote
that Zeus, in him we move, we breathe, we have our being. It's anyway, I just think that's outright
false. If you want, for the sake of the argument, go ahead and say, I don't believe that the Book of
Acts is telling you about a real speech by the real Paul. I think you're wrong, but let it go.
This is still something that the Christians thought it was credible to present as the preaching of
Paul whenever it was written. And there's nothing here that can be assimilated to this pattern,
nothing at all. So whether it was the actual preaching of Paul, and I think that's abundantly
evident, or whether it was just what the Christians wanted to portray Paul is Paul's speech. I mean,
here he is like, I mean, he could claim the miraculous caused Paul to be able to speak great,
but Paul says in his own letters that he doesn't speak great. But yet he's speaking like Socrates
with like this perfect, you know, philosopher type of speech. It's just odd to me how that doesn't
factor in saying there's there's just no room here for this kind of thesis of the borrowing
of troops from Hellenism. And so our initial assessment, which we make on the basis of knowing
how much the Jews hated Hellenistic learning, especially the Jews in Palestine, and how they
wanted to separate themselves from it, that just they hated it so much that the Talmud had to argue
amongst themselves. And the Jews were constantly trying to understand hundreds of years after
the first century, why there's still people doing it. That's how much they hated it.
Yeah. Anyway, I think we I mean, we can keep going. And at some point, Jonathan McClatchy
pretty much says like, if myth vision or apologia, the big bag boogeyman's are causing you doubt,
call the 1-800-DOUBT-HOT-LINE, and we will save you from all your struggles. Dennis,
I'm being funny, of course, a little here toward the end, but it is true. I think that that's
outright false. Is there anything before I end up sharing and showing the screen and giving people
something to vibe off of with the course that you'd like to say? Well, I think these apologists
are reverse engineering because they start with the conclusion that the New Testament is historical
and that it more or less reflects the history of Jesus and Paul and so on. And so then they go
move from that and they try to defend that position against all other comers. And they're nervous about
commensurabilities. They're nervous about any parallels that can't be established from Judaism.
They're nervous about what they call the stealing of stories. And it's not stealing at all. It's
cultural transformation and it's what we'd want them to do. And ironically, the authors of the
Gospels are themselves apologists. They're apologists for their own understanding of the
importance of Jesus and the Christian movement. And they're not historians. They're trying to
craft narratives that are going to support the identities of these burgeoning Christian communities.
And I think we need to honor it. And I don't think we understand this literature unless we
understand that that's what they're doing. To think that their writing history is to misunderstand
them. And it's for that reason that I not only differ with the apologists, that I really feel
sorry for them, that they can't understand these texts. Really appreciate that, Dennis. We had some
super chats along the way. I do want to plug the course, but pinch becoming a member. Thank you so
much for being a member. I just want to try and get through these because I don't like to leave
anybody hanging when they help support us. Gettysburg, demoniac, Greek culture had a huge impact on
Judaism and Jesus Day. What pagan religious practices were brought into Christianity from
other cults around them? I would just say Dionysus, but... Yeah, sure. Yeah, that's a very good one.
And not when you've written an entire book in your synopsis, you go into it. The Dionysian Gospel,
he turns water into wine. Several reasons. He's a resurrected type deity, he's a son of God.
I even thought earlier about the whole Romulus thing and like the Caesars post-mortem appearances
that there are eyewitness testimonies. And here's Paul. Before Paul, you got the road,
the Emmaus Road in Luke, which is the same author as Acts. Literally, he appears to them,
and then in Acts, he appears to Paul. On a road, again, eyewitness testimony,
just like the other legends around. So thank you, Gettysburg. Again, did the Gospel's original
readers know the text were fictional Homeric myths? If so, why did readers later believe
these things literally happened? There's a huge debate about to what extent
ancient readers of the Homeric epics consider them to be historical. And there's a wonderful
book on this topic. And yes, they did understand them to be, to some extent, historical,
even though they were mythological also. So it's a it's a very tricky business. Now, I don't think
that the Gospel readers were taken by the historicity of this as much as some pagan devotees,
but it's an excellent question. And I don't think there's a simple answer to it. But there certainly
is a good scholarly discussion about whether the Greeks believe their myths and to what extent the
Homeric epics consider historical. But you have the same thing with the Aeneid. The Aeneid has
historical information in it, but it's obviously mythological. And later readers actually thought
that you could tease history out of the Aeneid because there is historical information there.
There's no question. Thank you so much for that. And I just want to, if you're interested, Gettysburg
to go a little deeper into kind of the debate among scholars that I look at and really value their
thoughts on. M. David Little wrote How the Gospels Became History. And then there was a critical
response by Richard C. Miller in an article against Little's point of view, because he thought that he
titled the book wrong, not How the Gospels Became History. The book he argues is that the Gospel
authors are trying to coin off mythographies as histories, that they're kind of trying to
write fake histories. Whereas Richard Miller thinks, no, that's centuries later that Christians
then started to interpret the Gospels as histories. And Eusebius is the first historian in the church
who actually goes to say, I'm going to write the first histories of our church. And it's like
he's wandering in the dark and he even says a prayer in the writing saying like, God help me
because there may be footprints somewhat in the sand behind me that I can maybe try to find,
but I'm going to try and write the first history for the church. And Eusebius is the first one to
try. Look, Richard C. Miller up, check out Resurrection and Reception, check out M. David
Little's book How the Gospels Became History. They may disagree. I mean, you disagree, but they're
in the same ballpark. And I hope that you'll check that out. Gettysburg, again, the miracle stories
that have callbacks to 1st and 2nd Kings Elijah Miracles. Why is it more likely the authors
using Greek poetry instead of the Septuagint? Well, I don't think it's an either or. I think it's
both. And you have then this memetic hybridity. So for example, the healing of the widow's son at
Nain in Luke clearly is a rewriting of a story similar to what one finds in 1st and 2nd Kings.
But in this case, Jesus is more powerful than Elisha. So, but it's a very good question. It's
not an either or. It's culturally hybridic. And that's where it gets some of its power.
And that's how they were trained, right? They were taught to pick from multiple sources when
they were compiling or creating narrative? Yes, because then they can't be accused of plagiarism.
Because they have multiple models. And the image that was used in antiquity, it's like a bee that
goes from flower to flower, collecting nectar and then creating their own wonderful honey.
Thank you, Dennis. Imnag says, I'm not sure that apologists realize how condescending they come
across claiming the absolute authenticity of the Bible when the evidence to the contrary is overwhelming.
Yep, I got you. Thank you so much, Imnag. Gettysburg says,
one of the dead giveaways of the mythological aspects of the Gospels is the meaning of names
given to characters in the stories. Can you give examples?
Well, that's a very good one. Judas Iscariot comes probably from into the city and the
Homeric equivalent is Melantheus, whom one first meets in the Odyssey, coming into the city.
I've talked about Mary Magdalene and coming from Magdala, the tower town, which is a flag to her
andromache. But the one that I think is clearest is Joseph of Veramethia. Joseph is playing the role
of Priam. And Priam is the father of Hector. Jesus' father's name in the tradition was Joseph.
But it's not Joseph of Nazareth who is bearing his son. It's Joseph of Veramethia. Take a look at
a Bible in Atlas and look up Arimathea. It never existed. There is no ancient evidence of a place
called Arimathea. What does Arimathea mean in Greek? It means excellent learning, excellent
discipleship. The same word, metheia, is the word we get, the word matheitis, that is a disciple.
So he's playing the role of the excellent disciple as opposed to his father or the disciples who are
nowhere around. The word legion, obviously for the demons, is symbolic. It's talking about the legio,
the Roman legion. There are other examples too. Gyrus means glowing or he will
be enlightened. Glaucus means the Homeric equivalent, it means glimmering.
Now, most of the names in the Gospel of Mark are historical characters, but not all of them are.
Some of them are contrived, but they're meaningful to the narrative.
One thing about the Andromache thing that I think is powerful is she and two other women
are with her watching Hector die and, of course, mourn the death of Hector, and they're watching
from a tower in a distance in Troy, watching from the tower over the wall, seeing Hector die.
Mary Magdalene, the tower town woman, with two other women are watching from a distance, Jesus
died. Now, this, like we go in all of this stuff, you tapped on so many things in the course,
we really go deep. So I hope that people will sign up. Kathy took the course and bought the book,
highly recommend both. Thank you, Kathy. Seriously appreciate that. Scrolling down here.
Koval, 77. Thank you so much for that super chat or super sticker. I really appreciate that. And
Pat Lohinger says, I'm just relieved the Noah flood was original. Yeah, I know. I know. I feel
the same way. Pat is a sense of humor, for sure. Pat again says it's amazing how Paul's historic
journey. We did that already. Being funny. Pat's a funny guy. Pat's a funny, funny guy. Again,
MNag. Thank you for such a massive super chat. You rock. You keep the lights on. I seriously
appreciate that. Nikolai Dimov says, since you're talking about scholars flaws,
is Dr. McDonald really a communist? No, I guess I'd have to say I'm a democratic socialist,
but I've been accused of being a communist in the past. But no, I'd like to think that I'm an
activist for justice. Thank you so much for that, Nikolai. Constellation Pegasus says,
is it jealousy or academics plus theological disagreements that have people attacking you?
I think it's both. I think there's a bit of jealousy among academics. And many academics,
like myself, taught in seminaries or in university colleges that have religious theological
departments. I think that's unfortunate. And it's very hard to accuse an associate of jealousy,
but I happen to think that that is a reality. Simply because if I'm right, so much of the
good scholarship in the past has to be rethought. And I can understand why people would get nervous
about that. Thank you. Harmonic atheist with the 666. Just wanted to say thanks to Dr. McDonald
for your amazing work. Keep it up. That's what she said. Thank you so much. And then constellation
again, I still find it amazing how some with research and critical thinking skills being used
can never go back to religion while others just cannot see it.
Yeah, I'm not against religion, but I'm against stupid religion. And I think that's what we've been
talking about. And let's make religions of all kinds more responsible to justice and preservation
of the earth and in the kind of intellectual exchange and appreciation that we've seen in this
discussion. I'm with you on that. I echo what you just said there. Constellation Pegasus, thank
you. And then Mr. Barique, I really appreciate the love and support everyone has shown. Now I'm
going to share my screen here for the course so everybody can get a sneak peek of what we did.
And I mean, we put our I put so much work into this and you and me both did because I was a
participant. This is the only course that I've done so far where I played a role in the course,
the entire time. Dennis demanded it. I had to be the reader of certain sections. Lecture one,
he talks about his Eureka moment. He talks about what happened, how he found out that this is what
was happening, that it was both. It wasn't just the Jewish world. It was both Greek and the Septuagint,
which is also Greek. Anywho, that's a whole another opening, I can't awareness to go into,
but the Jewish and Greek world are playing together. And then you go into infancy narratives.
I mean, the quality, I don't know if you can hear it. Can you hear that? A lot of work, a long time
coming. Do you hear that, Dennis? Yes, of course. Yep. Okay. So we go into similar in size and
appearance to an untried version. Lest he be terrified when he observed her with his eyes.
And we go in.
His name is Zachariah, the priestly order of Abidjai. Abidjai.
We go in and examples, 4K, high quality.
And I pinned it up there and a lot of people haven't taken the time yet to check this out.
We go into it all.
Ears and compassion compelled all the people. And all the others remain silent. No one dared to
answer Telemachus. There's so many things that I think are interesting about what you've done.
There's 18 of these. There's additional resources. There's, you know, reading recommendations. We go
into several examples from birth narratives to the baptism. I mean, the beheading of John the
Baptist. There are several, several things that I really appreciate that come to mind. Jesus getting
empowered by the Holy Spirit and Mark and how God tells him that he's a son in secret.
No one knows Jesus as identity. Like this is such an interesting thing. William Rede in 1901
when he wrote about the secret Messiah motif. Like, why is he hiding his identity? We know of a
really well-known story where someone's identity is hidden and they're right there with everybody,
but they don't even know that he's there the whole time. And then he goes into the temple.
You turn to my father's house for the den of thieves. Telemachus literally goes into his father's house
Odysseus and tells the suitors like, hey, you're eating all our food and our wine. You're
thieving from us. And this is just a den of thieves, technically. And there's so much that you do
that makes me go, hmm, these are really, really smart people. And it's beautiful narrative.
Yeah. Yeah. Final words from you, Dennis, because I know you have to go do your, is it your banjo?
No, no, we were already done with that. I play a five string banjo in several different groups.
And one had a rehearsal today, but it was important to miss this. But moving from banjo
to the gospels into this discussion. People would do me a favor by supporting this kind of work,
but even more so is create something beautiful with your life. Create something beautiful today.
Use mythology and literature and music and art to make this a better place. And that's what I
think the gospel authors were doing. They were taking the palette of colors that they were
given. And they're trying to create something beautiful. Now, it's not the same for us. We
can't just take over their beauty. We have to create it for ourselves. But we can, we can take
courage from the evangelists and the authors of the New Testament, that they were doing what they
could to create justice, to create responsibility, to forge communities and to engage with the
cultures around them. And that's what we've been talking about today. So to inherit the gospels
is not to believe that they are historically reliable. It's rather to see that their task
is to create something beautiful by means of myth and art. Dennis, I love having you on here every
time, and I know you have a book coming out on Q. You want to tease us with that just to give people
a little highlight? Well, the title is Homer and the Quests for Q and Jesus. And believe it or not,
by understanding the Homeric imitations in the gospels, one who has a much clearer idea of the
rest of the New Testament or the rest of the gospels and where they're getting sayings and
parables and that kind of thing. And it helps in the reconstruction of Q and my reconstruction of
Q, which is called Q plus because it's larger than others, is the earliest narrative that we have
about the historical Jesus. And even though I wouldn't be a fan of attributing any single saying
to Jesus, I think the posture of Jesus in the Q document is very similar to what we find in Paul
in Josephus. And it makes Jesus into truly a Jewish radical who's trying to humanize mosaic law
and to make it work for outsiders. Jesus there does not come to call righteous but sinners.
Interesting. I hope everybody enjoyed this stream today and I hope that everybody in the chat be
respectful. I remember 10 years ago when I was in my faith very deeply, I would not be able to see
this. I would see this as a threat, especially to my model of what I understood Jesus and
Christianity to be. And so it took some time for me to reason and go through life a little to kind
of come to the position I am today. We're all at our own place. So I asked that we're respectful.
You could disagree. You could debate. Just try your best to make something beautiful today. No
key caught up in the back and forth stuff. So thank you Dennis for your time. I hope you answered
our critics and I say ours because I have an affinity to your work and it's not just yours.
It's Robin Faith Walsh. It's Richard C. Miller. It's in David Litwitz. I find what you guys are
all doing, guys and gals, very compelling and it makes sense of all of the data that it's not
just trying to pull from one type of source. The whole milieu in which this material comes up,
this makes the most sense. Not convinced of every parallel that you make. I'm not either.
End of show. End of show, right? But I am convinced of some and there's some ones that I just,
there is no alternative explanation that makes better sense to me than that.
So thank you. Thank you, Dennis. Hit the like. Check out our Patreon because I'm going to be
having like 20 or 30 Richard C. Miller videos coming soon and we appreciate you so much. Never
forget we are MythVision. Love everybody. Thank you so much for everything.
Just how deep the rabbit hole goes. Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
