We are MythVision.
Derek Lambert here, your host, and I'm going to give you guys a brief little something motivational, so to speak.
And also, I guess a short snippet of me, my experience with some of this stuff and where I'm going, where I'm at.
First, I want to start with a great quote.
Here's to the crazy ones, the misfits, the rebels,
the troublemakers, the round pegs in square holes, the ones who see things differently.
They're not fond of rules, they have no respect for the status quo.
You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them.
About the only thing you can't do is ignore them, because they change things.
They push the human race forward, and while some may see them as crazy ones, we see genius.
Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do.
Rob Siltnen.
Guys, years ago, I was a firm believer.
I don't deny it, I don't doubt it.
I was a very die-hard believer.
I've had a lot of many experiences, spiritual experiences in my personal life.
And I have to go, whoa, what is this?
Oh, this is Jesus Christ, right?
Well, I have been on a serious journey, and my journey has led me through many schools of fundamentalism, many schools.
Leaving out of the typical fundamentalism, I went into Presbyterianism.
I went through, obviously, Calvary Chapel type stuff, went to college and got my associate's degree in biblical studies and theology.
So I did a little bit of research.
I actually learned more reading commentaries a lot of times than I did at college, because I was into deeper thoughts with Reformed Theology.
I started looking at predestination, election, you know, tulip theology and stuff.
I was a hard determinist.
I came at that type of angle and saw everything from beginning to end, having a determined point within the text.
The text was kind of giving this implication of a total finality.
The names written in the Lamb spoke of life.
You name it, everything, the predest and the elect and the chosen, etc.
And over the years, when I started to research this, I got into eschatology while I was at the Presbyterian Church.
I was a premillennial guy, but didn't really know much about any of them.
And as I started to delve deeper, I found out about this thing called amillennialism.
I was like, what?
So he started showing about, like, the thousand years.
And it showed the ambiguity of such terms being a thousand years doesn't necessitate that it's an actual literal thousand years.
It did note a period of time.
And I was looking at words that were not literal, because you come from a premill background, usually they literalize a lot of this stuff.
And when I saw that, I said, holy crap, so this isn't literal.
All right, and I began to go to the amill position, but I didn't fully, really, 100% sell myself in that position.
I ended up finding about post-millennialism, and it was partial preterism.
And I'd listened to R.C. Sproul.
I was listening to, you know, Gentry is his last name.
Kenneth Gentry and Gary DeMar and those gentlemen.
And I was studying from them.
They were coming from a Calvinist angle, too.
So I had like, wow, this is a win-win.
These guys are Calvinist, which I can line up with, especially when you're fundamentalist.
You look for people who agree with you in order to latch onto them.
And this is something I broke totally free of.
I'm on a whole different level today.
I don't have to agree with you at all for me to latch onto ideas that you might say, because I have broken free of the stigma of,
you have to agree with me for me to accept ideas from you or to even consider anything that you're saying.
No, that's not me anymore, but I'm going to get to that point.
I see that in a lot of people who say that they're opening up and finding out and freeing themselves out of the thinking that they think is free.
But it's somewhat of a disguised religious view.
I'm going to say it's not religion, necessarily.
It's kind of like a pride in what we believe, even if it's not religion.
You see this even in the atheist world.
But I've broken free of that because, dude, I don't know.
Yeah, I said it. I don't know.
I'm not 100% on anything.
I'm reading scholars who are dissecting words and checking out deconstructionism theories with New Testament criticisms and stuff,
and I'm going, we're not so sure about a lot of this stuff that we're reading.
Let me keep going.
Anyways, let's go back to Kenneth Gentry and these gentlemen.
Huge fan of it.
I've had a lot of spiritual experiences.
I still do, even though I've left Christianity in that aspect.
Well, I found out about them, and I was caught up being very religious going to church,
and I ended up relapsing because I'm a recovering alcoholic as well as an addict who's a recovering addict.
I was drinking wine at church, and I know that's a whole different topic, a whole different discussion,
but I ended up giving up for a while.
When someone like me gets hooked, we lose track of the religious because we feel guilt and shame,
so I end up going in the opposite direction, and that actually helped me in the long run.
I'm actually thankful for my trials and tribulations.
I know I sound like a New Testament Christian, but I truly am because it broke me from me being right,
that maybe I don't have everything right in life.
Maybe I need to reconsider everything I thought I knew, and I did.
When I came back, I started to, obviously, right where I was, left off.
However, I was open-minded to consider and research more on eschatology,
more on things that I like to study, and I found this guy, Dom Preston, on Facebook or on YouTube,
and I was like, dude, this guy's crazy since Jesus came back in the first century.
Get the hell out of here.
So I started researching and looking at the theology, coming from a believing standpoint.
So you're trusting the text to all be telling you the truth,
and that this story is supposed to be just perfect, and it's all supposed to fit just like it's supposed to,
and you're coming at this in a historical way and such,
and I found that Jesus was supposed to come back in the first century.
So as I studied it, I'm not going to believe the Bible, I'm not going to believe that he didn't do it.
Well, of course he did it, because I believe the Bible.
So I became a full preterist.
As I began to research and study, tested all these things out,
and saw time statements attached to so much, and was like, wow, full preterism.
You know, that's what I ended up going to.
And when I did that, I was like, what else do I not know?
What else am I missing?
And I had seen a few videos, you know, in the past where people started to compare religions and stuff,
but that wasn't my cup of tea, because I'm a believer.
I believe in the Bible. I believe in Jesus Christ.
I wasn't willing to consider anything beyond that.
So I end up bumping into a guy.
I have to leave him unnamed, because he asked that he remains anonymous.
And I told him I would.
However, he introduced me to syncretism.
He introduced me to the gods, okay?
What do I mean by that?
Oh, this is where Derek becomes a heretic.
Yeah, so to speak, if you wanted to be a strict, you know, Bible thumping, believing Christian,
who demands that this is it, and that Yahweh is the only god, or the New Testament deity,
if you want to say that's not the same god, being Gnostic in some sense.
Yeah, I started to recognize that the biblical narrative is not just in the Bible, okay?
It's not identical, okay, in the other cultures and the other religions,
but the same bone structures there.
Heroes, story themes, it's dying and rising deities.
There are a variety of other world religions that parallel mythologies,
everything from the Greek, you know, Serapis Dionysus, Osiris, Mithras, you name it,
the 12 Olympian deities, and on and on.
You can go into even Buddhism, okay?
And there's a variety, but they all seem to carry a common thread.
And a lot of them pre-date Christianity, or even the Old Testament,
all the way back to the Epic of Gilgamesh and such.
You know, I started seeing patterns.
Oh, let me pause for a second. I want to back up for one second.
I was actually digging deep and very hardcore, and I do this with every topic that I ever get into,
because I really want to test the theory.
And as a full preterist, I ended up going up to Michael Miano's church
in the Blue Point Bible Church, and I gave a lecture.
I gave a testimony first, and then I gave a lecture.
And my lecture was about patterns.
See, I started seeing these things.
When I went up there, I had to focus on the paper,
because I'd already started seeing some stuff.
But I spoke on the relevant topic at hand,
and the goal was showing that Jesus is the finality of the law and the prophets,
and that when you look at Moses and you look at Elijah,
all you're finding in Jesus is another copy of these stories.
It's not a literal historical event after you analyze it and look at it from the angle I'm looking at it as,
but everything from Moses, 40 years, 40 days in the wilderness,
and fire and water, and he goes to a mountain.
The same thing with Elijah, where Jezebel comes and finds out that they killed the prophets of Bel.
She says if we don't have him killed on the same time tomorrow, let the same things be done to me.
And he runs for his life, and as he does, he says he wants to die,
and an angel touches him, and all of a sudden he eats and he drinks,
and then he wanders from that one and gave him the strength to travel 40 days into the wilderness to the mountain.
The same theme you start finding with Jesus in the 40 days in the temptation of the wilderness.
The same pattern with Moses, Elijah, Jesus.
You've got law, prophet, Jesus.
If you go to Matthew 17, the Mount of Transfiguration,
you've got law and the prophets beside Christ, and he's wrapping things up or fulfilling things there.
And when he began to do that, I said, wow, wow, God has historically aligned these things
so perfect that they match and they're perfectly patterned.
But then when I saw them in other religions, I went, oh, hold on.
You mean to tell me these patterns are done by other religious texts with other deities and myths,
and they predate the Bible? This don't add up.
That is when one should be honest with themselves and consider investigation.
This does not mean you need to throw out a conception of a higher power.
This doesn't mean that unless you have to have your conception, and this has to be this book,
then stay clear, you don't fit in the discussion of open-minded thinking.
I'm sorry, that's just the way it works.
But if you're willing to conceive that maybe there is a higher power and yet there's a universal thing
that overarches and overlaps throughout all humanity and all cultures, yeah, that's cool too.
Because then your God's even bigger than just your Bible, okay?
At least that's a more respectable position to hold on to.
You can have a God that's just principle. It doesn't have to be a being.
It can be a simple principle. In fact, that's what I say.
When I say I believe in a higher power or have a power that's greater than myself, it's a principle.
It's a principle. It's not a being looking down pointing fingers.
So, call it what you want it. I don't really care.
But the point is, I'm just espousing where my journey took me.
And as I continued to research this, I started to see a lot of this has to do with the sun, moon and stars.
And nature, time relations has to do with time.
You know, I'll save all the details with this, but astrotheology is where I headed.
And when I found out that the synchronistic beliefs between one religion and another look the same
and they are the same in many ways, they may be different in detail,
but their content and this bone structure I like to call it is the same.
That's when I opened my mind. That's when I went, okay, I'm not going to act like I have the answers.
The last time I acted like I had answers, I relapsed because my ego, my pride gets so big
and I stand up for what I think is the truth and next thing you know, boom, I crash.
Well, I end up studying that for years.
Mind you, before I came to that position, I was already in communication with guys in covenant creation
who are inside of the fold of full preterism.
And I was communicating with Jason DeCosta and other gentlemen, you know, like Jay Alvon
and you know, these other guys that are within the preterist movement,
I was in communication with them and I had been researching their stuff with covenant creation
and Genesis all the way through to Revelation.
New heavens, new earth don't always mean literal heavens, literal earth.
It can do covenant relationship to people, it can be people themselves that are having an earth
and a variety of things we started considering with the text.
When I did that, you know, I talked to Jason DeCosta back in the day
and I was trying to hang out with him, he's always been successful, always been a successful guy
and well-driven, he was a lot like me where he liked researching and testing ideas.
But when I had left the community of Facebook, because once again in this preterism,
in this covenant creation standpoint, I tend to have gotten stiff-necked so to speak, got complacent,
thought I had all the answers and I had a tooth extracted and ended up relapsing
and getting stuck on painkillers and stuff.
Three and a half years clean now, I don't mess around, I don't even drink, I don't do anything.
Literally clean, cut lace, caffeine is the only thing I have once a day, I'll have a coffee.
But I wanted to say that to say I came back this time and I told myself, you know what, I don't know
and I'm gonna know that I don't know and it's okay to not know ultimately all these answers.
It's cool to test and do mental gymnastics and evaluate things,
but to act like you have all the, you know, you have it, that's a bad place to begin.
So I ended up going on and on in mythology.
As I did, I went all the way and saw these guys who were doing this,
who were only named Rivers of Eden and then eventually Corey Schultz,
but before that it was Donald Hotman and other guys that were in this Rivers of Only type group
who saw this redemptive narrative of history that says Israel is the one who saved.
It's all about Israel, everything from beginning to end is about Israel.
And I always had these red flags because I'm like, hold on, you know, they're saying Gentile doesn't mean Gentile,
it means these are Hellenized Jewish people and not actual pagans.
And I had a lot of problems with that at first because I'm like, okay, hold on.
First of all, you know, Paul is dealing with pagans.
People who are very, very fond and only familiar with pagan poetry,
they don't know Hebrew, they don't know the Hebrew text, they don't know the Hebrew scriptures,
they only knew paganism, which is really weird because if they say that's diaspora,
I had a problem because every Jewish scholar I've ever researched on the diaspora
had made it clear that the diaspora was still recognizable,
even though they may have had a different tradition and may have practiced different things,
they were still recognizable as Israelites, not as complete pagans who did not know anything of Hebrew scripture.
And that's when I started to go, okay, what's going on here?
I never bought into it, but I did see there is a redemptive, obvious predestination with the elect and the chosen.
And when I began to check that out, I said, hold on, what's Paul doing?
Because Paul's doing some weird stuff and I started to become more critical.
Now I'm beginning to think Paul's teaching something totally different than what the other disciples were teaching.
If these guys really were disciples of Jesus, if there was a real Jesus,
and not a complete heavenly Jesus that came to Paul because the gospels come after, according to scholarship,
the gospels come after Paulian literature and fill in a lot of the gaps leading up to Paul.
So this is stuff I don't hear, I don't hear this discussed in a lot of theology rooms,
and I'm actually involved in rooms, I've got a free thinking room, I have a Roman provenance room,
Luther's got a few rooms, and I've been involved in the black sheep room.
But I say that because I like to flex my thinking and test ideas,
but too much of this stuff, like throwing stones and stuff rather than educating oneself.
And I say that to say, creating Christ has evaluated this Israel-only position,
and creating Christ of course takes a universal point, they take a universal stand.
I haven't obviously pushed the envelope of how Israel only believes things to James Valiant on a show,
but I've asked them to come on and have a talk because you've seen some of our videos on our channel,
and those videos actually talk about how creating Christ disagrees with Israel-only's position.
Never have they debated them, we've asked to do a debate when they didn't want to talk about it,
but it was a very important discussion I feel that could help both sides better come to a conclusion.
And it's not, it's turned into a pissing contest, it's turned into let's be right, let's be this, let's be that.
If Israel-only is trying to be truly accurate and willing to consider what is true,
I feel they shouldn't do like I used to do, hold on a position and not be willing to challenge things,
or at least be willing to evolve your thought process and maybe consider some of the evidence within the text that is pro-Roman,
that does give off that this is not a completely xenophobic Israel-only message,
it has to be compatible and complying with Rome.
So what do we have here? Why are we having a removal of law and non-circumcision and such to Gentiles?
Did the diaspora, who were supposedly Israelites, have to be circumcised in the Old Testament to come back in covenant with God?
Yeah, well why is that being removed? Derek, the end of all things is at hand, I've heard.
Really? So you buy the narrative, that's the thing, you buy the narrative, it's true.
Instead of suspecting maybe they knew that there was a temple destruction and they might be bringing in something
that concludes the story based off of the fact that they're trying to end this xenophobic movement that is coming up against Rome.
See now I'm looking at history, I'm looking at mythology, I'm looking at astrology,
in terms of ancient astrology and seeing how they used astrotheology within the text,
I'm looking at mythology, history, the whole nine.
And I want to say I am a guy who bounces around from ideas to ideas, Jason, just in case you're wondering,
because I know enough to know that I don't know, okay?
I know enough to know that I don't know. And to suppose someone absolutely knows,
it's kind of cultish man, and I want to stay clear of acting like I have it all.
And I want to be a free thinker and nobody's going to stop me from being that.
Look man, if anything I encourage this. I encourage people to not be closed off and be,
oh I have it and that's it. What if you're wrong?
Say what if you're wrong? Are you willing to dialogue to people who may not agree with you?
I'm asking the other IO guys, I mean I haven't really gotten to communicate with you
and by the way congratulations on your marriage man.
You know, 13 years now for me and three kids.
It's been tough, it's been a roller coaster but it's worth it.
But we're free thinkers. And I know you are that too,
because you would not have come to the conclusion that you were, or you are in,
if you had to fight against people. It was not an okay view.
It's not something where everybody's like, yeah, I just wouldn't get stuck there.
So this is why six years ago when we had phone call, you know, conversations,
I have gone so far. And that's because I'm free thinking.
I'm willing to explore ideas and expand my mind.
And Paul, I have my issues with Paul in Galatians chapter 2 and 3.
First of all, in 2 he has issues with James and Peter.
They're not teaching the same thing. They're sending people to spy out Paul's freedom in Christ.
What's Paul's freedom in Christ? Hold on.
James and Peter don't have freedom in Christ yet.
He's having them spy out Paul's freedom in Christ.
And, you know, we're looking at 1 Corinthians, I think chapter 11,
he says that they're super apostles. He mocks the other disciples.
And this is something that New Testament scholars are recognizing.
These are guys who don't believe, obviously, so they don't have an agenda
to suppose that Paul and Peter are really teaching the same thing,
or James, Peter and Paul are on the same page.
They're checking and analyzing, scrutinizing the text.
And they're finding out these guys are not teaching the same stuff. They're not.
So if they're not teaching the same stuff, yet we're supposed to believe
that Israel only is the same succinct message through and through,
we need to reevaluate Paul. We need to reevaluate James and Peter.
And if you look at the book of James, you find out it's written to the scattered Israelites.
I.O. And if you look at the epistle of Peter, you see it's written to the scattered Israelites.
I.O. And then when you look at Paul, he's written to the Church of Ephesus,
to the Church of Philomont, to the Church of Galatia.
What the hell? Where are the scattered?
Oh Derek, now you're being ridiculous because you're not imposing that
he's talking to the scattered Israelites. He's talking to the diaspora because they're Gentiles.
I beg to differ. I think Galatians 3 is spiritualizing the son of Abraham
to be a son of Abraham in Christ.
I think he says the offspring is not talking about the descendants, but it's Jesus
and it's all about faith in Jesus, the promised people in Jesus.
It's not a biological thing. He takes circumcision which is fleshly and makes it spiritual.
He takes baptism which is literal water, he makes it spiritual.
He takes the Sabbath and he makes it from a literal day to every day, it's spiritual.
He takes dietary law from eating physical things, spiritual.
It doesn't matter what you eat now. What?
Now, it really wouldn't have mattered what you ate if you were a Gentile, like an actual, actual Gentile.
But to suppose diaspora Israelites don't have to practice Torah and to come in,
that's an interesting thing. That's a very interesting thing.
And scholarships recognize the issues between the New Testament and the Old.
You're spiritualizing something that was never meant to be spiritualized
in the aspect that it was being a spiritualized in the New Testament.
These are things I'm considering.
So Paul's taking everything and making it spiritual.
What's he doing with the seed of Abraham?
Could he be making what a child of God is spiritual rather than flesh and physical?
Bingo, I think he is.
So this is why I've never really hook-lined and sinkered into the IO position,
even though I see a narrative having a wrapped up, preteristic conclusion for Old Covenant Israel in the first century.
I don't wrap everything up, though, at 70, 80.
Not everything's wrapped up, because I also see you have the end of the age, okay?
But then there's an age to come, okay?
These ages deal with zodiacal sign?
Oh, I said it, zodiac.
Oh, man, why did I do that?
I shouldn't have done that, man.
Because that's ridiculous, right?
Astro-theology is so stupid, and so is the idea that Rome has their hands on the New Testament somehow.
Who knows, an Alexandrian Jew would never write something to help Rome.
There's no way that these guys would purport such a theory.
This is ridiculous that you would even consider that Rome has their involvement
in any way, shape, or form in the development of the New Testament.
That stuff comes later, Derek.
Nowhere in the New Testament text does it give you such ideas.
We'll keep giving you shows.
We'll keep bringing more content, because this is the point I'm making.
Are you willing to consider the truth?
Are you willing to consider that maybe there is a truth that you don't know?
Now, I say that because what if this position's correct and that Rome's involved?
Do we just presuppose it's not?
No, I don't think so.
Willing to challenge it.
I'll go so far as I'm willing to challenge preteristic thinking.
I don't care about being right in terms of, oh, I have to have this ego attached to my belief.
I'm more willing to challenge the whole damn kingdom, okay?
And that's been my goal.
And I hope that's everyone else's who's really saying that they want to go after the truth,
because let me tell you, the truth sometimes isn't as pretty as we once liked to make it.
This does not remove the fact that there could be some higher conscious being or deity
or even just a higher state of consciousness that you yourself attain.
And you like to call it God.
Or you like to call it Jesus.
Or you like to call it Yahweh.
Or you like to call it Buddha.
It doesn't matter to me.
You don't even have to have one.
The point is, that's where I'm at.
And I'm willing to go wherever evidence leads me.
That's it.
Why would I need to sit for seven years, eight years to find out if an idea is not true
or if it is true when there's a million and one other things like esotericism
that hasn't even been really dealt with by IO guys.
They don't talk about the alphanumeric codes at Jamatria.
They don't deal with the sequences of numerical values and patterns in the Bible
seeing how the relevance of 144 really has a deeper meaning than just simply
oh look at the book of Revelation.
There's 144,000.
There's a lot more there.
There's a lot more to all of this.
And I said this awhile ago on Facebook.
When we got into preterism, tunnel vision.
We missed all the astrothiology.
We screw all that.
Dude, I got it all with the tunnel vision preterism.
Same thing with IO that I've witnessed with everybody.
Tunnel vision.
Not everybody, by the way.
There are some that are, I could tell, opening up their minds
and willing to consider mythology, willing to consider deeper things.
But the tunnel vision, oh, this is it.
That tunnel vision shits what made me blind to everything else.
I was so focused in, I got caught by a punch.
I got caught by another punch because all you do is you focus on this little dot
and you don't see the big picture.
The bigger picture.
The big, big, big picture.
So I wanted to make this because I encourage IO to come talk with creating Christ.
Talk.
You don't have to debate.
Come talk.
But I said this over and over because I really just want to dialogue
and to see where the views differ and how they both see things.
That's what I originally wanted.
Then it turns into, well, the only one would catch IO's attention
because there are some hard asses is to say, well, let's debate them.
Nobody wanted to debate.
So David King was willing to come on and talk about Romans 9, which is really cool.
And that's going to be fun.
I'd love to do that too.
But I really, really encourage dialogue and open communication.
Excuse me.
Open communication.
I don't want to have issues.
I want to have open communication.
I do like competition now.
I do like competition.
But at the end of the day, the New Testament could possibly be Israel only.
It really could.
That's coming from my mouth now.
But what do I mean by Israel only?
Well, what is Israel?
What does Paul say Israel is?
This is the thing.
Is it the same as the Old Testament?
Is circumcision the same as the Old Testament?
Is baptism the same as the Old Testament?
I mean, is the food the same?
Is this not a spiritual thing happening here that Paul's doing?
That's what I'm considering we need to evaluate.
So I love you guys.
And thanks for tuning in.
And like I said, I'm going to be a free thinker.
And that's what changes the world being willing to go wherever the evidence goes and be open
minded.
Because at the end of the day, ma'am, there's so much I haven't explored that I need to.
You know, I'm not going to sit like I've seen many people.
I know Baptists who are 30 years old who've been Baptists since they were born.
They don't even look outside the window to Pete.
What could be outside?
They don't even look.
They don't consider it.
Well, that's not going to be me.
I want to be the guy who could say I've explored every avenue.
I went on every valley and every hill of the earth trying to find views and test things
out and see how things work.
But obviously, the biggest one that had influence on me was the Bible.
So my biggest and most, I guess you say, focus point has been the Bible and dealing with
the mythologies and stuff attached to it.
But let me know what you guys think of this if you watch it through and through.
But that's a little bit of where I'm at.
So if you ask yourself why I bounced around, who wouldn't if you start finding out some
of this shit?
All right, guys.
Myth, vision, Derek Lambert, Pete.
