Was there a guy named Jesus? I mean, a historical Jesus. Did Jesus exist historically?
Was there a guy? I asked this question to Professor Francesca Stavrakapulu and of course
she answers it. And before she ended up earning all of her rewards and getting the skills that she
has now in Hebrew Bible studies in the ancient Near East, running certain positions in the University
of Exeter in the UK, I mean, she is a brilliant mind. She explored this question deeply and today
she answers it once and for all. But I do want to let everybody know right now she has been
under fire by those who are misogynists in the world. And I want to say how we can help,
how we can express that we appreciate her work is by simply buying her books, her latest book,
God and Anatomy. Don't forget to get you a copy.
What are a few reasons you think a historical Jesus, because you started your research with
this question, exist over the mythicist model, whatever model you want to put. Are there a few
things in your head that make you go the direction there was probably a guy? And can you give us those
examples? Yeah, there was probably a guy because and a guy, so not the guy that's described or
talked about in the Gospels, certainly not the guy that's described or talked about in, you know,
some of the later Christian traditions and texts. There was probably a guy and the only reason I
say that is because of the relatively short period of time in between, you know, and I'm kind of
radical in a lot of ways, but I'm not that radical. So I think it's a relatively short period of time
between the writings of say, Paul, which like mid fifties, and the likely execution that occurred.
I reckon there was a guy who was executed. And my main reasons are probably a lot of the stuff
that said about John the Baptist, interestingly, I think that's trying to kind of, it makes sense to
me that there was a John the Baptist type. We know there are lots of these kinds of figures
wandering around. Honi, the circle drawer is one of my favorites. He was like kind of this failed
kind of figure, and he wasn't failed. He was very popular. He was, but he was like, you know, he had
his methods, basically drawing circles and standing in them. But you know, the kind of John the Baptist,
Jesus thing, that looks to me like a massive kind of polemic as a way of trying to say,
what's the relationship between these two figures? You know, John the Baptist had his head cut off,
this Jesus guy, you know, was crucified. So you've got two kind of executed figures who have been
brought together. That to me suggests that there's somebody is trying to reconcile these two popular
kind of cult leaders. So it's that and the kind of the relatively, relatively early date of the
Paul stuff. But you know, but Paul didn't meet the guy. Paul's very clear that he didn't meet the
guy at all. So who knows, but whoever he was, I suspect that at the very least, there was probably
a guy or maybe a series of guys or leaders, but you know, one of them was executed. And it was
devastating. I don't, obviously, I don't think he resurrected from the dead. Equally, I don't think
that a lot of those reports of encountering Jesus after he's been crucified, I don't think
they necessarily are indexing the idea that these people thought they've seen a resurrected body.
I think, you know, this was people encountered the dead and the shades of the dead all of the time
in those cultures. So I don't see that as kind of proof of anything at all. I agree. So I kind of
flip on that. Yeah, it's probably it's more probable than improbable that some guy existed and was
executed. Probably had some kind of relationship with a kind of John the Baptist type figure.
But beyond that, who knows. So you wouldn't rest your soul on this?
Oh, I know. Yeah, right. Okay. I like gambling. Yeah, I like to tell people that if you're wanting
to make sure you don't go to hell, become a myth vision member of the YouTube channel or
join the Facebook. You know, do you want to really risk it? I don't think you do. So please do so.
