Myth-Vision, yeah, myth-assist vision, like, yeah, you know why you believe that, because everybody believes that, but I've got the real knowledge.
The level of skepticism that they have is so over the top that Paul didn't even exist.
Welcome back to Myth-Vision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Dr. Joshua Bowen, welcome back.
Thank you, thank you. Good to be here.
I'm always excited to have you here. Last time we were in your house and you did a ton of them.
Maybe we get a lot this time. Who knows? Come on somebody. Hallelujah.
So we have a question from a Patreon fan. Before we get to your question, you've got courses coming out on MVP and you have several books.
Go in the description, support him. If you don't know who he is at the end of the video, if you like what you hear and you want to know a lot more,
you can access his insights and the work he's done in many ways. So check it out.
Mike Jonas, thank you for your support. Does Josh Bowen believe, and I'm giving you verbatim how they wrote it, in a historical Jesus airman,
or does he lead towards the mythic argument, carrier, and why?
The terrible question, the one that I always fear getting, primarily because it's so hotly contested online.
And really, I think, I hate to say it this way, because there are lots of people that I know that are in the Mythicist camp that I love dearly,
that were tremendously great friends. So one, I'm not a New Testament scholar, right?
So in this sort of capacity, it wouldn't be beneficial to the audience, and it certainly wouldn't be wise for me to make sort of definitive statements about that,
because it's going to be seen as like from a position of authority. That being said, if I don't know about a particular topic,
and I don't have the training in it, I do what I think all of us should probably do, and that is rely on the consensus of subject matter experts in the field.
And so maybe that's something that we can talk about a little bit. So yes, to answer the question, like I would default to what is it the consensus scholars say about this,
because although I have like, you know, my master's of theology was, you know, I had six years of Koine Greek, and so I've translated through Hebrews,
and I translated through Romans, and blah, blah, blah. Like, I did that under like fundamentalist evangelical training.
So there's a whole area of New Testament studies from historical critical standpoint that I just don't have exposure to.
And so it just wouldn't be intellectually honest or fair to those scholars like Bart Ehrman that know this stuff very, very well for me to even attempt the answer.
So I will defer to them. And the reason that I think that's important to talk about at least a little bit is that, and we talked about this when Dr. Kip Davis was here,
is that people, people like, I think, and not just in like this mythicism, this is just in general, this is the thing.
People like to feel like they can gain their own mastery of a particular topic. And I think that's great.
Right. I think that's admirable that people put in as much time as they can and as much effort as they can.
Because look, not everybody has the luxury, has the opportunity to be as like as fortunate as me to have had the time and the money through my, you know, like I went in the Air Force.
And so I had the GI Bill. And then I put in extra money so I was able to get extra money back out.
You know, circumstances in life allowed me to be able to dedicate 15 years of my life to grad school. Not everybody gets that opportunity.
I'm very, very fortunate. And because people don't always get that opportunity, but they still want to feel like they can get a mastery of a particular topic,
it often leads to this realization, or maybe they don't realize it, that you've got this whole group of scholars that are saying things like, you know, the conquest is not a historically reliable thing.
Right. The narrative, the conquest narrative, or something even more basic, like, you know, the flood, you know, the worldwide flood says not something that happened in history.
Right. And because they want to have that mastery themselves, but they aren't able to go get PhDs in like geology or, you know, something like engineering studies where you can go back into the third millennium
and the flood's supposed to have taken place and say, well, look, we have an unbroken historical record here and we have Canadian foreign documents to just go right on through.
They don't have that opportunity. And so what do you do? You either have to say, all right, well, I'm just going to defer to the people that have dedicated their lives to this topic and all agree on this thing.
Or I'm going to say, well, they must have some ulterior motive, or they're not honestly looking at the data, or they have a bias or whatever it is that you say, because that's the only way that I think you can move forward in this in holding a position like that.
And obviously, I think that's dangerous, right, because I've, I'm on this side in this area of expertise that I have, and I see people all the time. For example, something that, you know, something that people watching probably won't have any problem with agreeing with me on is
ancient aliens, right? There's a guy by the name of Zacharias Sitchin. I'd never heard of him until I got out of grad school and got online. And all of a sudden people are like, what do you think about Zacharias Sitchin? What do you think about ancient aliens and Sumer and Sumerian and all this stuff?
And I'm like, what are you talking about?
We just had an alien literally just come by the window to hear it.
Just now, right? And he was, his name was Enki. Actually, it's weird.
But he flew by in his moo. If you know what that is, you know, if you know, you know.
But, you know, the problem here is that when you read Zacharias Sitchin's book, as an Assyriologist, as someone who wrote their dissertation on a dialect of Sumerian, you realize instantly this guy doesn't know what he's talking about.
Right. But if you don't have that expertise, the book can sound, the 12th Planet can sound very, very convincing. And so what I see online is people saying, well, I've, I've read this book.
And yeah, all the things that you're talking about, like the Epic of Gilgamesh or that particular piece of iconography or whatever, I've dealt with it all because it's here in my book.
It's here in the book. And the problem is that, yeah, I know it is. You don't know what I know because I've been afforded the opportunity to spend three years studying all this foundational material, learning Sumerian, learning
Akkadian, learning Euguritic, learning Hebrew, learning Greek, you know, learning Aramaic, blah, blah, all this stuff. And then on top of that, spending three years doing coursework in archaeology and going through the history cycle of Mesopotamian
civilizations and Egyptian civilization and Syrian Palestine history and all this stuff. Like it's, it's, it's something that people generally don't get the opportunity to do. And I was very, very fortunate that I could.
And so because of that, on this side, I know what it looks like for people to take a very, very fringe position and hold it up against the complete consensus in this case of subject matter experts and say, you guys are all wrong. You're part of the Illuminati.
You know, you're, you've got this, it's this conspiracy theory stuff. And, and again, I'm not saying that that's what's going on with mythosism. I'm trying to say in a sort of extreme example here, but
I will chime in when, when you get your example out because there's, yeah, I just, it's a bit nuanced. But the point is that I see this online, not only in these extreme examples like ancient aliens, but also with other Christian apologists, because Christian apologists as smart as they are,
right? And several of them, when they leave their area of some expertise, and they, and they're covering topics that cover a wide range of fields of various fields. I like, I don't have expertise in like astronomy.
I don't have expertise in biology. So when they talk about evolution, I'm like, look, I don't know. I don't know if I'll call about evolution.
Right. Right. But guess what I'm going to say? What do evolutionary biologists say? They're all saying the same shit that evolution is a thing. So I'm going to say, yep, evolution is a thing.
And anyone who says that evolution by natural processes or natural selection isn't a thing, your ear should raise up.
You should be like, what's the, what's the alter, what's the motivation here? What are you doing, Jonathan McClatchy? What are you doing, you know, for those who want to try and bring in some other explanation than what we're finding is like the main position.
I'm curious to know.
And what makes me feel comfortable doing that, aside from all the other things that I've mentioned, is that when it's sort of like a radar sweep, right, when a radar antenna sweeps back and forth, all when the radar is sweeping all out here on these other topics like evolution and astronomy and philosophy,
I don't, I don't know anything about it, but I'm just, all right, I'm going with consensus of scholars, consensus of subject matter experts, because when that radar pans into my area of expertise, I go, oh my God, you don't know what you're talking about.
Right. And they say it with the same enthusiasm. They say it with the same appearance of expertise, but I know they don't have it because this is my area.
I know the data you're talking about and you're not commanding it and you're making mistakes that are fundamental.
And so if you're doing it here, chances are you're doing it over here, particularly if everybody else is saying you're wrong about that, that has a subject matter expertise in that.
So just kind of back on the mythicism because I love that you avoided it because it's not your expertise.
It's what I do.
It's what you do. It's not my expertise, you know, because for years now I've engaged and I sat at the feet of several mythic scholars, PhDs in the field.
One Robert Price, as you well know, I pretty much heard everything he has to say under the sun about mythicism.
And then also Richard Carrier, who has his PhDs written a big volume on this, several books on the topic, and he has to engage a lot of this stuff as well.
So as someone who's interviewed and doesn't buy the mythic position, I have my reasons, I understand the temptation of thinking, I mean, I don't rule it out as it's not possible.
But then again, what does that mean by possible or what makes the most sense to me?
What I'm getting from you, and I want to try and use an example, Zachariah Sitchin, right?
There's like unanimous across the board. Can you name a single asyriologist who thinks that guy was correct?
No.
Okay. Now is this guy, was Zachariah Sitchin educated in this language that you're aware of?
No, not that I'm aware of.
Not that you're aware of.
And I'll say, if he was, boy did he hide it well.
Okay. So maybe he's a bad example to use because there are people who are educated, but then they come up with a position that is like, whoa, let's use Lydia McGrew and Tim McGrew.
They have an undesigned coincidence thing and they've got a few apologists that love echoing their work.
I've got a scholar who's going to be responding to her book. Stay tuned, trust me.
It's going to be good.
Anyway, she takes a position that not even Christian scholars that are out there, Mike Lacona, Gary Habermas, although they would look at her and go, what?
So you already know like the consensus of critical New Testament scholars would look and go, uh-uh.
Do-huh.
Right. I'm not equating Richard in them.
I'm saying a consensus argument here.
If you approach this field, a seriologist, Hebrew Bible, whatever it is, you really should look and see why a consensus has a position.
And what I hear in the communities online is conspiracy theories, in a way, some might be true.
I'll give you an example.
This is why it's very muddy.
It's very difficult to just nail this down and go, oh, that was it.
Simple.
That's wrong.
A lot of scholars who do their work have to sign confessional statements.
So you have this mass field of New Testament scholars that show up at SBL or they're confessional.
They sign statements of faith and a lot of times they would be fired if they go against that, right?
So a mythicist will throw this up.
Online mythicist and others will say, hey, how can you even trust a consensus of a field when they're literally having to sign confessions?
This is a problem that I find from non-mythicist scholars like Richard C. Miller who says,
when a field is like you're trying to find a way to balance your conversations about what the truth is and what is the truth of what happened in history
with people who have to sign these confessions, you're in this little pickle here because there's a lot of that.
But the other part is looking at the consensus of non-confessional scholars that aren't even maybe Christian at all,
that do come to this conclusion, yeah, there was a guy, so what?
And that tends to be the consensus in the field.
Is it, yeah, there was probably a guy, most likely there was a guy, so what?
If you take this question as so serious and important that you need to answer or you need to have a position on,
sure, I am not as impressed with the question as I once was personally because I think the guy's been so legendized and mythologized
and fictionalized in the gospels and the narratives that I don't think we're, is it what we're pinning this down?
Is that the donkey?
You know, we don't know for sure what we're dealing with, but I definitely think that what makes the most sense is with the guy.
So when I approach the New Testament now, I'm not just like what does the consensus say even though that's a very important thing now
that I've come to this conclusion based on my research and my studying and looking at arguments from various scholars,
but it's weird that I was a mythicist, I had every reason to go that route most of my audience was probably a mythicist,
and I came over because of certain arguments that I really had to mow over.
So it's like, imagine inspiring philosophy, de-converting, like that's not a good example because his channel is huge,
but what would happen to his monetary value, what would happen to his brand?
He had to take a switch and people mocked the channel sometimes and go myth vision, yeah mythicist vision, like, you know,
and you're not a mythicist, how dare you, what a shame you have the name and, you know, you see what I'm saying.
Yeah, definitely.
So I took a position, it wasn't the consensus that did it, it's just interesting hearing from a scholar like you
who thinks it matters that we should consider that and it's wild that I've come to conclusion now that I go,
oh, I see now why even the non-Christian critical scholars think there was probably a guy there.
Yeah.
And something to point out I think here is that I don't think anybody is suggesting,
certainly neither of us are suggesting that anybody that does take any, any scholar that does take like a mythicist position
is just like wrong everywhere, like that nobody's making that suggestion.
No.
Like I think Richard Carrier, we did a stream together and I thought he was absolutely brilliant.
Right.
And watching him in many of the videos that, that, that again, on that radar sort of sweep across what I know,
I think, my God, like it's that spot on, right?
I really enjoy a lot of it.
And the same with Robert Price, right?
Right.
Like I think that I've done streams with him and I think that so much of what he said was just spot on.
Right.
He's obviously very, very brilliant.
It's just in this area, I would say, okay, well, I, like, I don't know the inner workings of New Testament scholarship in that.
I don't know.
And it's a question that I've had myself, right?
Like, okay, Old Testament scholarship in, in my department, the Hebrew Bible section of my department at Hopkins,
like even the Egyptologists archaeologists, like a lot of these people identified as Christian, right?
But it just, it didn't, it didn't have any weight at all in their scholarship.
And I think it's different because it's a lot easier if you're looking at the Hebrew Bible to come up with ways to sort of go.
Yeah.
Okay.
Like we can, we can understand the prophecy differently.
We can understand, you know, these things that more fundamentalist believers would, would have greater problems with.
It's easier to sort of deal with that.
But when you come to the New Testament, which is sort of like at the heart of Christianity,
and you're having to think like, okay, if I'm a Christian and I don't think Jesus raised from the dead,
like, can I still be a Christian?
I certainly think that you can.
I just think it becomes different.
But I think that I don't know how that affects New Testament scholars on the whole.
Right.
And I don't know if the majority of New Testament scholars fall into this evangelical camp or something akin to it or confessional.
I don't know.
I haven't seen any of the data.
I just don't know.
So that's why I'm leery again of even commenting on that.
Yeah.
I'll just put it this way.
Just mythicism.
And then I want to end on Paul to get you to voice your opinion on this because it's so sensitive of a subject that it rouse up communities online.
As you know, you think he existed?
Oh, yeah.
I'm going to make 12 videos showing you why you're not or whatever, whoever, maybe.
My point is when I'm looking, I interviewed several scholars.
I hunt for mythicist scholars.
Right.
Like I've done this in the past.
Give me mythicist scholars.
There was a Catholic guy who thought Jesus didn't exist.
There was another guy who's actually Earl Doherty, who's behind Richard Carrier's thesis.
He doesn't do interviews.
So I've tried to contact, but he's not a PhD.
He's not a New Testament scholar like that.
He's very bright though, but he's not a New Testament scholar.
I tried contacting him.
Let me tell you, there's like a handful on planet Earth.
And I, that's it.
But I can go endlessly finding scholars and they would all say, yeah, we think there was a guy.
Yeah.
So getting off of Jesus for a point to get to Paul.
A lot of people who are a mythicist of Jesus probably think Paul existed,
especially if they're of Dr. Carrier's brand.
Carrier himself would probably laugh at the idea that Paul did not exist or think, come on, that's ridiculous.
Like, how would you think that Paul didn't exist?
We have very good reasons.
He has letters in his name.
This is that.
But there are many mythicists who run with that and go, are you kidding me?
Prove.
Give me his bones.
Show me he actually existed.
The level of skepticism that they have is so over the top that Paul didn't even exist.
And so you go to the mainstream consensus and you ask, did Paul exist?
Name me a single New Testament scholar that exists today that isn't a Dutch radical or something else that thinks Paul was invented.
You don't get it.
But there's people running around on the Internet saying Paul didn't exist.
Yeah.
I mean, again, I think a lot of this comes back to, unfortunately, there is this, I don't know, to stand out.
Like a contrarian in a way?
You know, I was a mid-ex dispensationalist when I was a Christian.
And you might say, what in the world is a mid-ex dispensationalist?
I'll tell you.
No, I'll tell you.
So, you know, there's a, there's a view just very briefly so that you can see the lengths to which this, you know, the depths to which this goes.
There is a view that the church, the body of Christ, where we are today in Christian theology was something that was a mystery.
So you read through the Apostle Paul, like Ephesians 3, and he's like, it's a mystery, you know, at this dispensation of the grace of God.
Just give him to me, your word.
And this is something that is, you know, the prophets didn't know about it.
And so it's, that's the reason it explains why upon the stoning of Stephen, from their point of view, that that's when the Holy Spirit turns over.
They've rejected the Holy Spirit because they've rejected Stephen.
And now God reaches down and saves the leader of the rebellion, the Apostle Paul, Saul, and makes him the Apostle of the Gentiles ushering in the dispensation of grace.
And that opens up this period of time that can go indefinitely.
And at the moment that the rapture takes place, the time line, the prophetic time line closes back up and now the clock starts ticking again.
We get the seven year tribulation period and the millennial reign and so on.
Well, I mean, that's a pretty radical position because you have Acts 2 dispensationalists, which is the, you know, the church started with the coming of the Holy Spirit in Acts chapter 2.
Right.
But at any rate, the point is that the group that I was in, we were always looking for the next thing that only a few people believed.
And we would grab onto that because there's a certain pride that comes with being able to say, you think that it started in Acts chapter 2?
Yeah, you know why you believe that because everybody believes that.
Right.
But I've got the real knowledge and I'm not suggesting, like, I'm not suggesting that's why mythicism exists or that's not my point.
But when I think about this, like, extreme step about Paul, I think some of that may play in is this idea of, like, some of it comes down to, like, a pride thing.
Maybe.
Again, I don't know because I don't know anybody like that, but I wonder if that factors in because it seems to resonate with me in the way that I was.
The fewer people that believed what I believed, the better, right, because it became, you know, like, only the initiated really know what's going on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
