...
Dr. Delcey Allison, my friend, apologizes, has one final question.
And he says, with Jesus' triumphal entry, the authors of Mark and Luke speak of a single
donkey.
But Matthew 21 adds a second donkey.
Some say the author of Matthew got confused by the wording of the Old Testament passage,
parallelism there, and so invented the second donkey.
Is that a reasonable conclusion?
And I'll follow it up to say, I know one apologist who wants to argue that Jesus didn't ride
on both donkeys, but rather it was the, what do you call, the saddle or the cloth that's
on both of the cloths or on one donkey.
So in effect, he sat on both of the cloths, he's trying to reconcile this contradiction
and says,
Okay, I'm not interested in those sorts of artificial harmonizations.
I think all that ended a long, long time ago.
And then if you just set the Gospels beside each other, you know that they are rewriting
things, they're adding things, and sometimes they're just changing things.
So in this case, why does Matthew turn one donkey into two donkeys?
In a book I wrote a long time ago now, I said, maybe it has something to do with his
Moses typology.
And I think it's Acts four.
Anyway, there's a passage in, in, in, I mean, Exodus four.
I think there's a passage in Exodus where Moses rides, is associated with donkey's
plural, right, rather than, than one.
I think he takes his donkeys back to Egypt with his family.
Yeah, I'm not recalling exactly the text, but I think it's Exodus four.
Anyway, I said, well, maybe, because Matthew does have a very rich, robust Moses typology.
He's really into parallels between Jesus and Moses.
The usual answer is that he's reading Zachariah, and you can read the Hebrew text as though,
you know, you have two donkeys.
Now what's often said after that is, well, you know, he couldn't have been a, a, a learned
Jew or rabbi because he's misunderstanding Hebrew parallelism.
But you can, there are a couple of passages in the rabbis where they see two donkeys there.
So if they see two donkeys, Matthew can see two donkeys.
It has nothing to say about his, his, his ethnic background and whether or not he could understand
Hebrew.
And if you, if you, again, know the rabbis, they, they love these sorts of plays.
They look at tiny little details and blow them up and invent history.
And I have no problem with thinking now Matthew was looking at the passage in Zachariah and
saying, no, I can find two donkeys there.
Now the question after that is, how did he imagine this thing to work?
Was he a trick writer?
You know, he had one leg on each, you know, donkey riding in, I don't think so.
It's really hard to get a picture of this.
So whether Matthew gave it any thought other than that, yeah, I've got a, I've got a scripture
here in mind and I can do this.
I, I have no idea.
He may not even have been thinking like, how would this practical work?
He's just going based off the scripture.
Well, maybe I, so, so here's the point where you have to, you have to pay some attention
to the, you know, the new criticism, the new, I don't know what the author was thinking
at this point.
Right.
Okay.
I think I can see the, the motive behind it, but then how the evangelist thought of it.
I don't know.
By the way, I guess I should add, given, given the modern world that I do use he with reference
to all the evangelists and that's because one, that's the tradition and two, it's my
judgment that they were all written by men.
I don't think any of them were written by women.
Yeah.
I think so as well.
Um, and I, I'd like to just kind of, if I could put you on the, uh, front line in, and
just have you say it, is this not clearly, if you were trying to literalize and harmonize
a clear contradiction between the other gospels in this passage?
Now, even if you, even if you pause it though, that Matthew is using Moses instead of the
Zechariah, let's just say, or whatever, and he thinks multiple donkeys, if that is, but
it seems he's referring to, seems like.
Okay.
So if, if I were to make an argument about contradictions, I would go, I would go to
other texts because, um, what harmonists do with this is what they do elsewhere.
For example, in, um, Mark five, and then in Matthew eight, you have the story of the
garrison.
Well, is it demoniac or demoniacs?
So Matthew has two there and Mark has one.
And what the apologists have always said to us, well, if you talk about one, that doesn't
mean there was another one there, right?
But actually multiple, Matthew multiplies by two, seems to, not on several occasions.
And, um, you know, there's another place at the end, uh, Blind Bartimaeus and Mark is
one and Matthew's got two.
So, and there may be another place where Matthew does this.
I always wanted to write an article on Matthew multiplying by two and trying to figure out
what it is, but I never found any, anything to tie it all together.
So I do, I don't have an answer.
So I think it's artificial, but if you're talking about contradictions, um, the different
order of events with, would be one or, um, I think I'm not going to get this off the
top of my head, but if you look at the story of blind so-called blind Bartimaeus and Matthew
Mark and Luke, uh, in one text, he's doing this on his way into the city and another
on his way out.
And, um, that's just, or you can even go to like post resurrection.
And meet in Galilee and another one's staying in Jerusalem, right?
Well, that is, it is hard to put those, those, uh, things together.
Yeah, it is.
I just figured I'd ask, because when I'm looking at the Matthew text, apology it brings
up here is, and even I wrestled this with myself and listening to the apologists trying
to explain, well, they're just not, they're not considering the second one, but when
I'm reading it in the Greek or translated in English, of course, because I'm not a
Greek reader with my friend who's big into the Greek was like, in the Mark, for example,
version and Luke, it's like, it's not referencing to it's due, it's following the
parallelism as a single donkey, they're not even thinking, but one can always try to
rationalize, well, there was a second one he didn't care about.
Yeah, yeah.
So, so I think of it this way and this is simplistic, but I think that the age of
harmonization ended in the 19th century.
Again, David Friedrich Strauss's critical life of life of Jesus, critically examined.
He's not only looking at the text, trying to find the Old Testament origins of the
things, he's arguing against the harmonizers and he does a fantastic job and he just rakes
them over the coals.
And in my mind, that was the end of that should have been the end of that activity.
That is, Strauss was very bright, very observant.
And I think he's just right time after time after time.
And it's unfortunate that not everyone in the world said, Oh, yeah, he's right about
that. Let's worry about other things.
Right. Final thing on this note, just it brings to the attention of this.
It's Lydia McGrew and the McGrews that are Christian apologists and they're they're
definitely above like in terms of the air smart.
Very. Yeah.
But I mean, at the same time, I'm not trying to be overly critical.
I'm just trying to point out that they have these ideas, what they call it's like a
coincidental one.
It's kind of a harmonization.
Okay. Sorry.
Go ahead.
No, no, no, no, it's it's something in the vein of
undesigned coincidences.
You talk about Bayesian theory, they're using Bayesian statistics.
I think they do definitely use Bayesian, but it's also this idea that something
undesigned pops up in the scene in another gospel and it somehow coincidentally
helps support the idea that there are contradictions.
I don't know if you look at no, I'm not familiar with their work on that.
Okay, there'd be no need to really ask the question.
Yeah, but I'm sure you've heard of them.
They they like to kind of harmonize things.
Yeah.
He actually after my book came out, he actually emailed me and asked me a question
about something interesting.
All right.
But I did disagree with them about Bayesian calculations at one point.
I'm really leery to go that way and gave my explanations for why I don't do a
Bayesian analysis with with the material.
Thank you, sir.
