Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, one of my Patrons, who's been around for a while.
He likes to super chat more complex questions than everyone else to flex his brain muscles
on people.
I feel.
I'm just kidding.
Ben Lamaru.
Big man.
Yes.
He's definitely a sharp guy.
You can tell he does his studying and I love it when he brings something to the table
because it's always going to be like, all right, flex a little.
You're going to have to pull deep on this.
So it's multiple questions in one.
I'm just going to lay them all out.
This could technically be a video of their own each book.
I'm not nervous at all.
I'm not nervous.
Don't be nervous.
Don't be nervous.
Wipe the sweat.
Do you think the biblical Shinar is Sumer?
Would the biblical writers know anything about Sumer other than emperors taking the title
King of Sumer and Akkad?
Okay.
Let's start with that.
All right.
Well, I'll keep going.
He said, what's going on in Genesis 14 with the big battle with all the kings, any thoughts
on the name connections between Esther Ishtar and Mordecai Marduk, Jewish heroes named after
Babylonian deities, and then why is it always when, when is Daniel dated and never who has
Daniel dated?
Give us the Daniel Romcom Crave.
Okay.
Some of those I can answer, I think, to greater or lesser degrees.
So the first one, the Shinar.
Shinar is Sumer.
Okay.
It's a complicated question.
So yes, I think it's clear from the text that the area that's being spoken about as Babylonia
So when it talks about Shinar, it's talking about Babylonia.
So and you can see that I think in it's been a while since I've looked into this in particular.
But I think in the translations, you can see it.
I think they they make it clear that it's Babylonia, just like the Septuagint.
But the other question is etymological in nature.
So what is Shinar or Shinar, whatever, supposed to be Sumer, the word.
And I so I'm pulling a little bit from memory here.
So forgive me, I haven't like looked into this in detail.
I don't think that it's trying to do the word Sumer.
Because that would be pretty, it would be pretty ancient.
Although I haven't really thought through.
I haven't thought through the way that liturgies would play in.
But nonetheless, I don't think it's pulling from Sumer.
And I don't think scholars think it's pulling from Sumer.
There's a Cassite word.
So the Cassites were like middle Babylonian, so middle, the second
millennium BCE, and I sangaru, maybe sangara, I can't remember.
But I think that's what they connect it back to.
So the etymology is a little trickier.
And I don't know that we know.
I don't know that we know that with any type of certainty or relative certainty.
But I don't think that scholars think it's pulling from Sumer.
And they think it's pulling from a middle Babylonian Cassite word.
So that was question one.
That was question one.
Yeah.
Question two was something else that I don't remember.
It's what's going on in Genesis 14 with the big battle with all the kings.
Do I need to open the Bible on that?
No.
So Genesis 14 is talking about where, if you remember the story, a lot is
living down in Sodom and you've got these kings start fighting and lot.
And several of the people are taken captive by these kings.
And so Abraham, you know, gathers 300 of his servants and they go out
after them and take them back.
And this leads into the whole Melchizedek story and Abraham telling the
king of Sodom that he's not going to take anything from him so that, you know,
only God will have made him wealthy, those sorts of things.
So what's going on?
I haven't looked specifically into the background to those.
There's like Amrafel.
I can't remember the others.
One is in probably like an Elamite thing.
Can't remember the name, killer.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
So the the short answer is it's probably pulling from maybe an amalgamation
of older memories, traditions about the area,
mixing, conflating it with more some of that's a little more current.
Amrafel, people have said, is this Hammurabi?
I don't know.
I feel, you know, a little hesitant to comment on it because I haven't.
I haven't looked into it recently.
But yes, that's sort of what's going on.
Seems like there are kings, names that could be kings from over and over in the east.
But the way that it's laid out, I think the Elamite king is the one that's in charge,
which is interesting.
But again, I haven't looked at it.
You need to do a deep dive.
I would have to.
You wouldn't like to remark on it and be certain about anything till you know.
Yeah, I don't blame you.
Any thoughts on the name connections between Esther and Ishtar and Mordecai Mordecai and Marduk?
None.
What about Jewish heroes named after Babylonian deities?
Are there any that you can think of?
So very specific questions.
You've never looked.
You've never actually checked that particular idea of Mordecai Marduk.
I mean, like, no.
And I guess I just have to see them both, see how they're spelled, and then see.
Yeah, I haven't even thought about it.
I don't know if they're if he's referring to like something like.
What was the question after Babylonian deities deities?
He said deities.
Jewish heroes named after like what was the guy who fought the and this might not
be Babylonian, but like the 300.
What was his name?
He fought 300 of them fought against.
It's a biblical hero that that fought.
It was 300 soldiers.
And there was like thousands of their enemies and they fought and won.
Oh, you're talking about the fleece.
I don't know why I'm drawing a blank.
It's your team, man.
Your T. Yeah, sucks the brain memory out.
I'm telling you.
Gideon, Gideon, yeah, like is that a purely Jewish name?
I mean, I wonder if there's some etymological roots to some of these
names that are kind of borrowing from other deities, because I mean, like
we see, for example, Esau and Jacob, Jacob's a fair skinned man.
He's got a smooth skin.
He's he takes care of the inside animals.
He's an inside boy, if you could use the term and Esau's this hairy, rough,
tough outward guy, his hair is red.
Well, a lot of people I've talked to will say that looks very much like the sun.
Esau kind of looks like an image of the sun.
This this red haired, wild man.
And Jacob represents the moon, smooth skinned
that he somehow represents the moon in this.
And there's some underlying hint here.
We see like overlap between potential Babylonian stories when you have like
Nimrod and, you know, the Babylonian stuff, but that's early.
You know, I don't I don't know where Mordecai and Marduk would pop in.
I'm just throwing it out.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure.
Anything ticking in the brain after all the tea that you drank.
Yeah, I mean, I guess this this is definitely something that I'd have to see them.
Like I'd have to look at the original Kenea form.
I'd have to go back and look at which letters are used to spell Mordecai.
But even like that would just be to start.
Or at least look into other experts who've done maybe a logical connections
and try to see if there's something there.
Yeah, because I mean, you could look from like a literary standpoint
and see if they're overt characteristics that you see of Mordecai
that seem to line up with Marduk.
I can't I can't can't think of anything.
Right, right. All right.
Last one was the whole why is it always?
When is Daniel dated and never who was who has Daniel dated?
Give us the Daniel Romcom.
Yeah, I mean, I feel like I feel like Daniel is probably a player, you know,
feel like, you know, as a as a Charles Boyle would say, he's just mowing chicks down.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I guess sometimes when you just don't have confidence
in knowing for sure on something, you can't you just say silly stuff.
Yeah, well, no, I wasn't going to say that.
I was going to say you don't want to say something and just because.
And that's a good that's a good practice.
Oh, let me say something to fill in the gaps here, because I guess I'm going to guess with you.
I just figured out that because I have heard some scholars
who try to say these people like Samson, his name literally means little son or the son.
In Hebrew.
And what's the story have?
He's got seven locks.
There are seven days to a week.
Now people go, that's a huge leap.
Seven locks, seven days a week.
Well, when you cut the hair off, he loses his strength.
And a lot of them will say as soon as his hair is cut off in the narrative,
next thing you know, his eyes are gouged out.
Now he's blind.
So there's this image imagery in this narrative,
though it's it's obviously anthropomorphic.
It's taking place in like a human's narrative.
But it underlies this theme that this may be a winter solstice coming on.
I just say that because now he's not only blind because darkness,
but he's now mowing grain down in, you know, underneath some in some with basement,
you know, grinding up grain for the people.
I don't know if that's a winter storage that you're keeping your supplies.
I'm reading a little into it here.
But the point is, even when.
What's her name?
We all like to call the women who do us wrong.
Jezebel Jezebel.
Yeah. Isn't that the one that asks?
Delilah. OK, Delilah.
That's another one.
Yeah, just another one.
When Delilah is asking for, you know, hey, what's your weakness?
And finally, he tells her like a dummy.
She cuts his hair off and she gets a payment in silver.
And I'm reading into it when I say gold sometimes is reflective of a sun
and then silver is reflective of a moon.
I don't know.
Is there a combat going on between sun and moon in this narrative in some sense?
You have thought quite a bit about this.
I mean, look, I have looked into some of this stuff,
just wondering if there's something there, you know?
And Parallelomania is a thing and it's possible.
But I'm saying, is it not possible?
His name means little sun.
Yeah, I mean, you can't, I guess you can't.
Find connections unless you explore them.
Yeah, I just think it's it's worth considering things like that.
I mean, especially when you have literary repetition,
like you're going to get into in some of our upcoming
interviews, shows on this with your book, you do a fantastic job like
showing the narrative.
I'm like blown away.
Hold on, this guy's wife's also his sister.
I mean, why are they doing this again?
What? This is episode three again.
No, hold on, weren't we on a different episode?
Just a different name.
Anyway, thank you, Dr. Josh.
Of course.
Yeah.
