We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast, your host, Eric Lambert, and we are going to have a debate
today between two scholars on did Jesus exist, the historicity of Jesus Christ.
I say Jesus Christ because I was a fundamentalist for many years and it's almost his last name,
if you will.
And today I'm going to go ahead and just start introducing you guys.
I think this is going to be a valuable debate for many people who watched the first one
on Pine Creek Doug Show.
This one we're going to be switching things up a little bit.
I hope that this is a different, more unique debate compared to what you're used to seeing.
Both gentlemen have a lot of respect for each other and we're going to end up going with
positive remarks back and forth.
But first, let me start with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
He earned his undergraduate degree from Bob Jones University, a master of divinity from
McCormick Theological Seminary and a PhD from Harvard University.
He taught Christian origins at the Eilif School of Theology in Denver, Colorado from
1980 to 1998.
Since 1998 to 2015, he was the John Wesley Professor of New Testament at the Claremont
School of Theology and Professor of Religion at the Claremont Graduate University.
He also was the director of the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity at Claremont.
Make sure you guys go down in the description.
He has books.
You can check them out.
It's always good to check his material out, especially his comparison on imitations with
the Greeks and the epics that are there.
I mean, fascinating material.
So welcome to the show, Dr. McDonald.
Thank you for joining me.
Thank you.
Yes, sir.
And we also have Dr. Richard Carrier has a PhD in the history of philosophy from Columbia
University and is a published philosopher and historian specializing in contemporary
philosophy of naturalism and in Greco-Roman philosophy, science and religion and the origins
of Christianity.
He blogs regularly, lectures for community groups worldwide and teaches courses online.
He's the author of many books, including Sense and Goodness Without God, On the Historicity
of Jesus and The Scientist in the Early Roman Empire, as well as chapters in several anthologies
and articles and academic journals.
For more about Dr. Richard Carrier, see his work at www.richardcarrier.info.
Now you guys go down in the description.
The links are all there.
Makes you check his books out.
He has a peer reviewed on this subject in terms of the historicity of Jesus, which is
a big thing to say.
So both of these guys have a lot of weight and they also have a lot that they want to
say on the topic and they're coming at completely different angles.
So with that being said, let's start with a couple opening positive remarks about each
other's works.
And we'll start with you, Dennis, on this.
And then when we go to do the debate, we'll have Dr. Carrier start with his proposition
and then you guys can follow up and have kind of a free discussion back and forth asking
questions and I guess poking into each other's views because too often in debates that I've
watched the structure and the concreteness of how things go, don't allow the depth of
I guess the communication to go in the areas that they could go.
So with that being said, Dr. Carrier, what would you like to say about Dr. McDonald's
work and Dr. McDonald, what would you like to say about Dr. Carrier?
Well, you know, Dennis is particularly well known for the Homeric gospel thesis, right?
That the gospels draw on Homer and other aspects of Greek literature and I find the case pretty
overwhelmingly good.
And it's, but it becomes it's funny, there's one of the criticisms, there was an article
in an academic journal criticizing my book on the historicity of Jesus and they spent
like a whole page arguing that the one reason I'm wrong is that I rely on Dennis McDonald
and and I'm like, hey, I mean, two things, I mean, one, I didn't my thesis does not depend
on McDonald's thesis, but I mentioned it because positively because I think he's right about
the way that literary tropes got used, the way that Homer gets transvalued, the one thing
like teaching me that all of that as well, it's my introduction through McDonald's to
Brody, right?
Thomas Brody's work.
And so like introduced me to all of that interests me, the concept is transvaluation
and how to better understand how myth is constructed and for what purpose.
And so I've learned tremendous amount and a lot of that really did influence the way
I constructed my argument in on the historicity of Jesus, people won't necessarily see it
because I might not like say it, but because his name is kind of an athma, like people
get like focus on how dare you rely on McDonald's, but he's really good.
What are you talking about?
He's right on this stuff.
I have not, however, read the Dionysian gospel yet.
So I haven't seen that thesis to evaluate it, but I'm kind of keen to get to that at some
point.
Thank you.
Richard, good to see you again.
Here we go.
Yeah.
I, the viewers may be wanting to know why you're dressed like a Caesar in the middle
of winter.
I'm more dressed more like Caesar's slave, actually.
I've got the slaves cap and I've got the gray toe.
I'm actually that part.
But just so the viewers know that your heater went out and you're quite, if I could put
it this way, a Trojan for staying in there and with this debate.
So anyway, good to have, I want people to know that in many respects, you and I are
on the same team.
I have become an atheist, although I was a fundamentalist in my youth.
I totally agree that Jesus went through a process of mythologizing.
And I'm grateful that you have in your work identified places where traditional Christian
arguments for the historicity of Jesus have been weak.
So at that point, I think we're in agreement.
So I could make nice a little more than that.
I want to know if you have a cat or a dog or a goldfish that are suffering the way you
are today by myself.
So we're good.
OK, so maybe we should get right to the discussion.
But anyway, good to see you again.
And I do hope this is productive and at least amicable.
Yeah, of course.
I expect it to be.
Yes.
And both of you gentlemen, carry yourselves that way.
I really do appreciate you guys coming on to the show, myth vision to make this debate
possible, as well as those who are listening at home.
I hope that you for a moment will try your best to, I guess, strip away whatever presuppositions
you might have at the moment, consider the evidence, actually consider it and see what
what makes the most sense to you.
And you might come out at the end, scratch your head going, wow, they both made great
points.
But I'm interested to hear what your conclusions are in the comments section after this video.
So Dr. Kerry, if you could start us off with the proposition for mythicism, I know there
are various forms of mythicism out there, but yours being an academic one, you having
credentials and PhD, I'm interested in hearing your proposition.
And so is Dr. McDonald.
We can go from there.
Yeah, it's important to point out I'm not defending the weird crank conspiracy theory
versions of mythicism that you find on the Internet.
And I often write about that, too, that the sort of how it makes it more difficult for
me to be taken seriously is that there's these ridiculous versions of the theory.
But I think if you if you take away all of their errors, all of their false claims and
their illogic and all that stuff, there's still a little bit left that actually holds
up.
And that's what happened to me when I did my research for on the historicity of Jesus
is that I found that actually there is a case left over that could survive peer review
and did.
So so it's a case worth taking seriously, whether you agree with the conclusion or not.
And that's the case that I'll summarize.
I'll just basically just go through a few points.
It's really three points with a few examples for each one that will sort of set the stage
for why I think it's worth doubting the historicity of Jesus.
I'm not certain, of course, my conclusion in on the historicity of Jesus is there's
still a one in three chance, perhaps as much as that there was a historical Jesus.
So I don't claim to be certain on the conclusion, but I do argue that I think there's reason
for doubt.
And the reason is that what I'll outline here, and then we can get into the details
probably as we continue the discussion.
But for point one is that the earliest Christian literature, principally the letters of Paul,
but not only that, only talk about Jesus as being seen or met in revelations from above.
They never clearly place him in Earth history.
And so that's that's the first point that sort of sits there and makes us wonder.
And for example, if you look at 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says, we only know from the scriptures
that Jesus became incarnate, was killed, was buried and was resurrected.
And then the first time anyone has said to have seen him is after his resurrection, which
meant by revelation.
So if you look at the Creed in 1 Corinthians 15, there's no ministry, there's no appointing
of disciples and so on.
Likewise, in Romans 16, Paul just outright says that the gospel and teaching of Jesus
were known only from scripture and revelation.
He doesn't mention any other way of people knowing it.
Paul also has no knowledge of Jesus picking disciples in his life.
He knows nothing about there even being disciples.
He only knows of apostles who he seems to think are people who received a revelation
of Jesus.
And you have even in Romans 10, Paul says that note, it seems to imply that no Jews
heard Jesus preach that only apostles did.
And so only apostles could communicate those teachings to the Jews.
And so on, we could give many more examples, but when the way Paul talks and the things
that are missing from the letters, and the way Paul mentions things in the letters, suggests
that Jesus was at that time only known in a resurrection, a revelatory being, not as
an actual historical person who recently died and started a movement.
Point two is that Jesus appears as a definite historical person only in highly mythological
texts, namely the Gospels.
I think Dennis would even agree that the Gospels are definitely mythologies in some sense,
which really means in, I think, really means one text.
I think Mark, but even if it's not Mark, there's one gospel that started it all.
And then it simply got rewritten and embellished later in other Gospels.
It's just a myth that keeps getting redacted and expanded.
And Mark is an unknown author.
And even if we're talking about somebody other than Mark, it's even more unknown.
An unknown author writing in a foreign language, in a foreign land who cites no sources for
any of his information, and whose composational mode is unmistakably mythical.
That's the key point there.
And like I said, even if the original myth was a pre-Mark and Q-like document, the myth
still appears to have been invented only once and then is simply rewritten, modified and
expanded over time.
And that's it, because there are no other sources for historical Jesus.
For example, sources outside the Bible simply pick up teachings derived directly or indirectly
from that repeatedly rewritten gospel myth.
We can establish no corroborating source, in fact, for anything about Jesus in those
Gospels.
All we have are the Gospels, really.
And when we look at this in context, a lot of mythical people in the ancient world, deities
and heroes, some also met only in revelations.
We're also given elaborate biographies, placing them in history with stories, siblings, parents,
obscure hometowns, and every similar thing.
Anything you'd find about Jesus, you can find similar things invented about other mythical
people.
And this includes lots of people from Moses and Abraham to Romulus and Dionysus and countless
others.
So, how do we know that Jesus isn't like those people inserted into history fictionally to
represent associated teachings, right?
So when we look at the evidence, and this is what I find, is that for every person whose
historicity we are certain of, you could say Hannibal, Spartacus, Pontius Pilate, they
either do not begin life as revelatory beings who are first given a history only in mythology,
or we have clear evidence of their historicity, none of which evidence we have for Jesus.
The evidence for Jesus just doesn't look similar to these other figures.
So that's point two.
Point three, the last point, is that every attempt to get around points one or two, I
find doesn't hold up logically or factually.
And for example, the argument that Jesus must have really come from Nazareth, because there
is no other reason to attribute such an origin to him, is on the one hand, not logically
valid, since many mythical people were given obscure towns to hail from, so that doesn't
argue they didn't, or doesn't argue they existed, right?
We don't, we don't, can't really use that inference, but on the other hand, the premise
is also factually false, because there are actually many good reasons that that specific
town would have been contrived for a mythical messiah, and none of those reasons I find
can be ruled out as unlikely, even if we can't rule them in, we can't rule them out.
And I think the last time we debated this question on Pine Creek Channel, which was
also a really good discussion by the way, I recommend people check that out, Dennis
listed eight other things about Jesus in the Gospels that he believes establish that Jesus
was a real historical person, but not single one of those things is attested in the letters
of Paul, they appear first out of whole cloth, only in the unsourced myths about Jesus.
And some of those things I think Paul appears to even contradict.
For instance, Paul never mentions anyone being a disciple, he only knows of apostles who
received a revelation.
He never mentions Jesus being baptized or ever being in Galilee or Judea, or traveling
with anyone, or ever even encountering Jews or Romans, much less being killed by them.
And not only does Paul never mention Jesus being a preacher or a miracle worker or exorcist,
but he even repeats a creed in Philippians two that says that Jesus surrendered all his
supernatural power becoming a slave, essentially to the world order, which would suggest that
he wasn't known as a miracle worker or an exorcist who had powers over demons at that
time.
And not only does Paul never mention Jesus being crucified by any earthly authority.
In first Corinthians two, Paul seems to say the opposite.
He says the people who crucified Jesus knew about God's plan to use his crucifixion to
end the power of death in the world and thus would not have crucified him in order to keep
that power of death in the world.
And that's a motive and knowledge that only celestial demonic authorities had not Romans
or Jews.
It doesn't seem like Paul even comprehended the killers of Jesus as being mere Romans
or Jews.
And likewise, as I mentioned, in Romans 10 and 16, Paul appears to say no one ever met
Jesus outside apostolic revelation.
In Romans 13, Paul says the Roman and Jewish authorities would never act against God's
will, whereas in first Corinthians two, Paul says the entities who killed Jesus would
have acted against God's will.
So the evidence suggests that all nine details, from Nazareth to being an exorcist or even
being executed by Romans, were all part of the allegory and mythology that was woven
for Jesus later.
There's no evidence any of those details are actually true or precede the Gospels even.
Even when Paul talks about the brothers of the Lord, for example, the only brothers of
the Lord Paul explicitly tells us he knows about are baptized Christians, not biological
kin.
We have no evidence that he knew of any other kind, so we can't just assume what he means
here.
Even when Paul talks about Jesus being born of a woman and made of the seat of David,
we have no evidence he meant either of those things literally, much less that any real
parents were involved.
To the contrary, the strange way, I think, that Paul says these things and their peculiar
contexts make it likely he didn't mean either of those things, and it was only later Christians
who tried to spin those verses that way to harmonize Paul with the Gospel mythology.
So that's point three.
And then conclusion, I would say those are the three reasons we should at least doubt
Jesus really existed, or at least entertain the possibility that he didn't.
The earliest sources only depict him as a revelatory being.
The Gospels are the only primary sources placing Jesus in Earth history, all other sources
being derivative of the Gospels.
Yet the Gospels are wholly mythical in construction, and there is no evidence that any detail about
Jesus in the Gospels is any more likely historical than mythical.
And I'd say that pretty much sums up my case, and then the rest is just devil in the details,
I would say.
Awesome.
So I'm going to free you guys up here and Dr.
McDonald, I know you're going to want to respond and then also probe.
And I'm going to allow you guys to go back and forth.
And I'm just saying this on record on the show that if I have to butt in, it's simply
to allow one person to speak.
There is a delay in the connection between us and Dr.
Carrier, so we got to try to try not to overlap each other as much as possible.
At the same time, I really do want you guys to poke into each other's sides and see what
you can uncover, and I know that the audience will learn.
So thank you so much.
Richard, there's something I want you to elaborate before I give a response.
I would like you to give them a recap of what you understood to have happened
in the Pauline context of what you call the revelatory Jesus.
Right.
And ask if you find any support for that view in Christian Gnostic texts.
OK, so the gist, I think what you mean is where if Paul didn't believe that Jesus
didn't had never heard of a Jesus being crucified on earth, where did he think
Jesus was crucified?
Very definitely, Paul thinks Jesus took on a body of human flesh, wore it like a
body suit that says this pretty much plainly in Philippians and so that he
could be mortal, so that he could be killed and so that his death could atone
for all the sins of Israel.
And then he was exalted for this sacrifice and resurrected and returned
to his exalted station deep in the heavens.
So the question is where then was he?
Where did he become incarnate?
Where did he die and who killed him?
And I find the most plausible.
There are many possible things you could put in here,
but the one that's most plausible has the most support would be the idea that it
was Satan and his demonic agents in the firmament that did this.
This is something that occurred in the firmament and following the same model
that we have for Osiris, where Plutarch says that public public teachings
were that Osiris like Jesus was a historical pharaoh who actually walked
the earth and did miracles and taught things and so on, but that the real
teaching was that he every year he descends below the moon and is killed
by the Egyptian equivalent of Satan, uh, resurrects and it returns to heaven.
And this, this cosmic thing goes on and over and over again.
Um, that's the way he's teaching it.
And I think, you know, in the Christian system, it only happens once
because once and for all, there's no need to repeat it every year.
Uh, but it's a similar model and we find this in the Ascension of Isaiah,
or at least the earliest redaction we can reconstruct of the Ascension of Isaiah
that it appears to say, uh, that it was Satan and his demons that killed Jesus.
Okay. So, but who receives the revelation originally that you talk about this reveal Jesus?
Is that Paul?
Right. Uh, no, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, the first one to see Jesus ever is Kephas.
Uh, and then the 12 and then, uh, then the brethren had some sort of vision
and then the apostles and then Paul last of all.
Okay. The other part of my question was if you found support for this view
of the revelatory Jesus in Christian Gnostic texts, Nagamari saying.
Yeah, I don't, I don't look in those texts because I find them to be much too late to be useful.
So I think there, there are, no one has established that any other gospel we have,
um, predates the goss, the gospels that are in the canon.
Um, the closest we get is like the Ascension of Isaiah was written, we can establish was
originally written somewhere around the same time as the gospels.
Um, and all the other gospels we have seem to be derivative of the gospels that are in the canon.
So I actually agree with that.
Yeah. So I, I don't, right.
So I don't find any, any support that I actually side with the West Star Institute's report now that
they've concluded that Gnosticism is kind of a made up category, that there really weren't such a
thing as Gnostics. Uh, there were just different sects of Christianity with overlapping beliefs.
But as to this particular thing, I haven't found any useful material
outside the Bible really, other than stuff in the second century, some of the True Fathers I've
found. But, but you do know this, that some of your critics have suggested
that among early Christians who would be most congenial to your understanding of Jesus as a
revelatory character are Christian Gnostics. And yet those Gnostics don't deny that Jesus was a
historical person. But rather that the history, and it's a bit like you said, Jesus takes on
human form and so on. Yeah, but these are really late texts though, right? So like we really can't
establish any of this goes back even to the second century, other than speculation.
These are offshoots I find of the, of the, I find these as offshoots of the historicizing sect.
I don't think we have any surviving mentions of the original sect other than maybe the ascension
Isaiah might preserve it. There might be hints of it indirectly. Ignatius seems to be competing
against arguing against mythicists from whom we have no texts. Second Peter also seems to be
arguing against some sort of sect of Christians that deemed the gospel stories to be completely
mythical. That's right. We don't have any of these texts. We don't have their opponents is what we're
saying. Okay, let's bracket that then. Yeah. Are you familiar with the article by Joseph Hoffman
controversy mythicism and the historical Jesus? That's a while ago, right? It's not a new
2012. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, I read that. But I want to read some of his criticisms
as a way of initiating my own and give you a chance to respond to what I consider
one of the harshest versions of the criticism of your work. All right. Oh,
there's been much harsher than Hoffman, but go on. Then we'll back up. Now, the reason that
Hoffman's interesting interesting is that he's not only a biblical and patristic scholar,
but he's also an atheist. And he's interested in making a distinction between being an atheist
and being a mythicist and would argue that there's no necessary connection between the two.
And that's one of the things that I would hold. Oh, I agree. I argue this myself all the time.
So anyway, if we unhinge those two, then let's focus on mythicism.
I'm going to read his comments, but these comments I actually agree with, and they rather set up, I
think, the debate between us. It is my view simply stated that while facts concerning the Jesus of
history were jeopardized from the start by a variety of salvation myths, by the credulity of
early believers, by the historiographical tendencies of the era, and by the editorial tendencies of
early writers, the Gospels retain a stubbornly historical view of Jesus, preserve reliable
information about his life and teachings, and are not engulfed by any of the conditions under
which they were composed. Jesus the Nazarene did not originate as a myth or story without historical
coordinates, but as a teacher in first century Roman Palestine. The basic factuality of Jesus
is undeniable unless we, one, do not understand the complexity of the literature and its context,
two, are heavily influenced by conspiracy theories that are even more incredible than
the story they're they're trying to debunk, or three are trying merely to be outrageous,
which you've been accused of. The idea that Jesus never existed requires the concoction
of a myth more incredible than anything to be found in the Bible. And then this part,
methodologically, the mythic, mythicist vision, disposes of anything contrary to its core premise.
Jesus did not exist. And by the way, I think this part is unfair. In a quick sand of denial and
half cooked conspiracy theories that take skepticism and suspicion to a new low. The myth theory in
short is a dogma in search of footnotes. And then this paragraph you're going to love, perhaps the
most odious example of polemic masquerading a scholarship is the work of a certain Richard Carrier,
who's book is 400 pages of air strewn nonsense. So I put that out there just so your our viewers
can see what kind of animus can can be in this and how I've heard similar animus
towards you. Actually, I've heard similar animus towards your work. I'm familiar with it, but
but go on. Yeah, with which I disagree with the animus, too. And I told you, I disagree with some
of this. But I think it sets a larger, it paints a larger canvas for this discussion.
Instead of, you know, our holding hands and singing kumbaya and making nice. So,
yeah. And, you know, we don't need to make nice to be friends and to respect each other's work.
So that's, that's where I would go. Yeah, now, can we confirm the date of that, Hoffman? Are you
sure it's 2012? That's what I have is his sounds right to me. But I just wanted to make sure of
that because my book came out in 2014. So he had not read it and did not know any of the arguments
in it by that point. He does cite your Lulu publication. Yes, which does not argue against
the historicity of Jesus. So I personally, I think Hoffman was going insane. By the time he wrote
that, where he was saying things about my work that was not in my work at the time. Okay, like
not the impossible faith doesn't even, yeah. So there are a lot of other things that are really
weird going on with Hoffman at that point. But yeah, he's talking about not the impossible faith,
which does not argue against the historicity of Jesus at all. It's only against the historicity
of the resurrection. So it seems evident that that he just wrote this screen, not even having
read the book, doesn't even know what its arguments are. And so it's just being
pointlessly polemical, which I thought was weird at the time when that came out. There isn't really
much to answer, respond to it because it's not responding to my book, which had all of the
refutations of that position. In fact, I wrote on the historicity of Jesus in part, as an answer to
arguments like Hoffman's in there. So that's the that's the oddity of the Hoffman piece that I
find very strange. But there is one kernel of like a valid, or at least a sensible argument
in there, like that it's not merely pointlessly polemical. I mean, it's also worth pointing out
that that Hoffman seems to be confusing me with the legitimately crank conspiracy theory stuff,
because my theory doesn't involve any conspiracy theory. It relies on no assumptions that aren't
already mainstream about that, like that the Christians were the mainstream sect that controlled
document production did get rid of or prevent the preservation of a lot of alternative views of
Christianity. And that's just a mainstream fact. We know no conspiracy was involved in that. It's
just that's how they they controlled and decided the preservation of documents. But with Hoffman,
he says the one thing about it just looks like a historical there's a historical guy in there,
right? Like the Gospels have Jesus, he doesn't give specifics, but the things like his siblings have
names and he comes from an obscure town and like all of these these things that are supposedly
historical about Jesus. But if you pick any mythical person, Osiris, Romulus, Dionysus, Moses,
they all have the same things written about them. They have they have named siblings,
they have weird towns. So that's where I think that that's not a valid argument,
but it's at least I understand where he's coming from on that.
But here's where I do very much agree with him. And I think it's also fair to say about
you more recent work. I think you've come into a children's playground with a
power saw, and you've chopped down all of the toys, and you then turn around and give them
tinker toys to play with, you know, that it's much more destructive than constructive. And
and so give me a chance now to to give an alternative argument. And then we can come back
and see, you know, what the questions might be from Derek and others. As you know, I'm a big
believer in Q. And the Q document is extremely important. If there were a Q document, because
it rivals in time to the authentic Pauline epistles. And but it's difficult to be
to a date some of this stuff. But it certainly is independent. In the Q document, Jesus clearly
is nothing more than a mortal, who is selected at his baptism to be God's agent, primarily to be
a new Moses, to change Jewish law to make it more compassionate. So his primary opponents are not
Gnostics, they're not Judaizers. They are simply Pharisees who load up law on the burdens of people
and make life unbearable. There's nothing in the Q document to suggest that there was a revelatory
revelation of anybody about Jesus as preexistent. He actually is he's compared to Moses,
to Ezekiel, and to Isaiah, all of whom his he and his readers would have assumed were historical
characters. So it's one mortal character over another, having to do with the legitimacy of
Jewish law. It's not about salvation from heaven, that people in believing in Jesus then can be saved.
It has to do with, you tie the mint and the cumin, but you leave it side love and justice.
So that, in my view, is the earliest manifestation of what we have as a Christology. And there's
not even a cross and a resurrection, although there is a cross. Jesus says,
bury your cross and follow me. So it's an assumption that his attitude toward the law
got him killed. Now I would go back to Paul. Paul has the same problem. He's got an interpretation
of the law that Christ is the end of the law, primarily in the death of Jesus. And he has no
obligation to say anything about the historical Jesus for his theology, except that he was crucified,
which certainly is something that happens to mortals. And so there again, his concern is,
he certainly mythologizes so that it's faith in Jesus and his resurrection that gives salvation.
But there again, the primary concern is this human being giving a different interpretation of law.
Now you said that there are no external evidences that you would consider related to Jesus.
And you and I have gone around on this one before, but I'm going to insist that Josephus does talk
about Jesus, not in antiquities 18, but in antiquities 20, with respect to whom he calls
James, the brother of Jesus called the Christ, but he puts it in the opposite direction.
The brother of Jesus called the Christ, whose name was James, as though the reader would already
know who Jesus is. Now how would he know about who Jesus is? How would the reader know? It's because
the reader already read in chapter 18 something about Jesus, but certainly not the Christian
interpolation we know as the Testimonium Flavianum. Now what Josephus says is that Onnes, who's the
chief priest and a Sadducee, whom he says is the most cruel of the Sadducees, the most cruel
sect of the Jews, called Sanhedrin and invited or demanded James and some others, we don't know how
many, but presumably co-religionists, to the Sanhedrin and brought charges of violation of the law
and had them stoned. Then Josephus says, but some, and by the way, I think this is usually
badly interpreted in the Greek, but there were some who were more tolerant about the law and
exacting about the law, who objected to their execution and wrote to the king, the Basileus,
that Annes should not persecute people like that any longer. Now it seems clear that James and these
other co-religionists had changed Jewish law such that Annes had justification in the Sanhedrin
for getting rid of them, but other more tolerant interpreters of the law thought that they were
innocent. You say have that same ambiguity about the status of Mosaic law in the Q document.
So my argument from Q is that it represents the earliest manifestation of Jesus's commitments.
It's actually a Jewish document, not a Christian one. There's Jesus, not a Messiah. There's no faith
in Jesus because of his heavenly revealer or the Son of God. That the concerns that he has,
the author has, is about Jesus as the new Moses and changing Jewish law. That's how Paul understands
the significance of Jesus as well, at least in part. And the reference in Josephus indicates
that James and some of the others had an ambiguous, the Jewish law had an ambiguous status for them,
so that some Jews can consider them violators and some could consider them tolerable.
So that's the first argument. The second argument I want to make is it has to do with
Mark and Mimesis. I agree with you entirely on this point, but with an important caveat.
Namely, I think Mark has so heavily mythologized Jesus that there's hardly any historically
reliable information left in Mark that he couldn't have received from the Q document,
which I think he knew. So I think Mark is relatively useless in establishing historical
information. I also think you're right that the gospel tradition, including the Gospel of John,
is heavily indebted to Mark's narrative, so that we do have a kind, from our perspective,
a historically corrupted, mythologized Jesus in the gospel tradition at a very early stage.
And by the way, at the canonical level, the Q document never achieved that status.
But what is fascinating to me is that you almost need a historical Jesus to make,
the mythologizing of Jesus makes sense. That's why the subtitle of mythologizing Jesus is from
Jewish teacher to epic hero. Because Mark is saying that Jesus is superior to Hector and Odysseus,
in particular. Both of him did not have divine parents. In both cases, they're mortal. In both
cases, they die. And Mark is trying to say that Jesus is a mortal who rises. And there,
Jesus is a, like in Q, he's a, he's a Galilean. He gets baptized by John the Baptist. He's
identified as the son of God. God works through him and he dies and God vindicates him. The final
thing that I want to mention, and I'll give you plenty of chance to come back at this,
is the Jehanim tradition. And I consider papious in the Jehanim tradition. And I know that you're
going to view these references with more skepticism than I. And so that's something that we can talk
about. But just to be as precise as I can, I'm going to read a couple very short passages. And
of course, these are ones you know well. So I'm not, I'm not trying to school you in this,
right? I'm trying to school the the viewer. Yeah. The only trustworthy claim from any
early Christian author to have known Jesus personally appears at the beginning of 1 John,
where the elder identifies himself among multiple eyewitnesses. Quote, what was from the beginning,
what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we have observed, and our hands have
handled with regard to the logos of life. And the light was made manifest. And we have seen,
give witness, proclaim to you as the eternal life that was with the Father and was revealed
to us what we have seen and heard we also announced to you. But then papious, who knows by the way
the first John and others, if someone ever who had followed the elder should come by,
I would investigate the sayings of the elders, what Andrew or Peter said or Philip, Thomas,
James, John, Matthew, or any of the other Lord's disciples had said, or what Aristion in the elder
John disciples of the Lord are saying in the present tense. For I did not consider things
derived from books to benefit me as much as things derived from a living and surviving voice.
Because most of the exposition of papious has failed to survive and much and because much of what
does survive is useless with respect to the historical Jesus. Modern investigations rightly
ignore papious. That's fair enough. Even so, the beginnings of first John in the exposition
provide valuable evidence that Jesus existed and surrounded himself with admirers who are named.
The dogmatic dismissal of Jesus as a mythical fabrication should take seriously such early
attempts in the Jehanine tradition to transmit faithfully lore about the historical Jewish teacher.
To be sure from its inception, the fourth gospel mythologized Jesus to rival Dionysus.
Nevertheless, it affirmed that the Logus became flesh and pitched tent among us and we observed
his glory. Though mythologized, Jesus was not a myth. So that would be the substance of my response.
The most important part of it though, Richard, and the one where I think you
can join company with the likes of Mark Goodacre, is my reliance on the Q document,
which is a hypothetical reconstruction. But I would consider that far more valuable
information about Jesus than what you attribute to Paul.
Okay. Yeah, so that's roughly three points in and of itself.
So to go back to the beginning of that, which is the idea that, say, John, for example,
is mythologizing Jesus as a new Dionysus, even your reconstructed Q document. Like I said,
I find this highly speculative and not secure. I don't think we can claim to know
all the things that you claim to know about the Q document, like the date of it and all
of this stuff. I think there are other and possibly even better explanations for the material
and Matthew and Luke than that hypothesis. Which doesn't lead me to ask one simple question,
though. If we were able to prove somehow some new evidence came to light that established
that there was no Q document, that it was just Matthew expanding on Mark and just Luke revising
Matthew, if we conclusively proved that, that would seem to remove almost all the evidence
that you lean on for the historicity of Jesus. Would that be an accurate characterization that
you're really depending on Q? No, I don't think so. Now, that doesn't mean that I'm willing to
abandon Q, of course. And you know that, because I just want to understand the logic of your argument.
I just want to understand how dependent are you on that? Well, Mark Goodaker and I will be, in
fact, debating Q with myth vision sometime relatively soon, so we can tune in with that.
Okay, let's, for the sake of argumentation, let's say there's no Q. And let's say with the
far hypothesis that Matthew Luke overlaps come from Luke's knowledge of Matthew. But what Matthew
surely knows is a tradition that made Jesus the alternative Moses. You have this in the
Beatitudes, for example, or the antithesis in the Sermon of the Mount. You have heard it said
of old and you have Leviticus or Deuteronomy. We can get it out of Matthew then. Yeah. You can get
most of it out of Matthew. You can get out Matthew and I think so. Most foreign critics would say that
the Matthew already is dependent on oral tradition that is scrubs to Jesus, this alternative view of
the law. Yeah, I don't think there's any evidence of an oral tradition. I think that's more of an
assumption than anything. But I agree. I agree with one thing that I think Matthew is very much
repainting Jesus as Moses, right? The birth narrative, the five Decalogues, the five great
discourses, lots of other things he does. And I agree with your analysis. I don't agree with everything
in two shipwrecked Gospels. But the one part that I do agree with is finding all of the ways that
Matthew, in my opinion it's Matthew, is redacting, could have taken Deuteronomy and
updating Deuteronomy and making Jesus a new Deuteronomic Moses. And I think that actually
shows the way they're using Deuteronomy as a source text to construct this story. I think
And of course that is a type of mythologizing. So Jesus doesn't claim that for himself. So this
this itself is not a part of the historical level. Yeah, I think that's a part of the mythologizing
level. That's a plausible way to put it. I think that's a good way to put it is that from your
perspective, like, I think it's, I should point out, I think historicity is plausible. I give it
a one in three chance. I don't think it's like beyond belief. But I do think there are plausible
theories of historicity. I just don't think they hold up ultimately with as strongly as an evidence
as people think. But one plausible view is just what you said that Jesus was a particular type
of teacher. And then when they came to tell his story, they constructed into a mosaic myth.
But I would say it's also just as likely the other way around that in the same way that John
made Jesus into the new Dionysus, if we had a Q or if it's Matthew, either way, I think they're
making Jesus out of a new, they're creating a Jesus out of Moses, right? So they're doing
the same thing. They're taking these teachings that come from the revelatory Jesus. And some of
them come, I think, from apostles and stuff that are claiming they came from Jesus. But
in the way that teachings of Jesus sort of evolved over time is to be more of what
certain communities want him to have said. But whether it's through revelations,
whether it's from the original sect, wherever it comes from, they reify those teachings by putting
basically in the mouth of a figure. They put him on earth and they use Moses as the model
to construct him. So I think both theories can explain this evidence the same way. They're,
in both ways, you're taking the teachings of Jesus and remodeling them into a mythology
based on Moses. And I think that's, we can't decide between those two possibilities from the
evidence that we have presently other than the fact that Mark, I'm sorry, that Paul doesn't seem
to know of any of this. Oh, no, no, no, no, I want to get to that. I want to get to that.
But which might, yeah, it'll come up as I think to get to that. So it might,
the general gist of that is that I think that mythologizing Jesus based on Moses
is just as possible whether he existed or not. So I don't see that as evidence for his existing.
It could just as easily have been the community's teachings, whether claimed or actually through
revelations or what they got from scripture, because a lot of the teachings are getting from
scripture. We know first climate, for instance, believes that some of the scriptures are actually
the teachings of Jesus that are being communicated to the prophets. So a lot of these teachings,
I think they're cobbling together from different sources that don't necessarily come from a
historical Jesus in the real sense. But the point being is that this evidence can be explained on
any theories. But the document is not claiming that they receive it by revelation to Cephas
and that there was a being who was apostatized. Let me just say one more piece.
Mark does the same thing. Mark does the same thing. So Mark reifies Paul's teachings. You can show
Dijkstra and various other authors have shown quite elaborately that Mark is taking
Paul's teachings and converting them into Jesus's teachings and stories about Jesus.
But there's no pre-existent Jesus there. There's no appearance narratives there.
All of the cosmology that's in Paul is not in Mark. Mark is actually deliberately stripping
all that out and turning into an ordinary prophetic allegory, basically an ordinary myth.
I think Matthew's doing the same thing with Jesus. I think they're deliberately leaving
out the pre-existent Jesus. Even though the earliest creeds we see from Paul, they believe
that Jesus was a descending archangel who assumed a body and merely appeared to be like a human and
then was killed and then resurrected and so on and ascended to heaven. We have 1 Corinthians 15.
He says, the first time Jesus gets seen is the resurrected Jesus gets seen by Cephas or Cephas
and that it's the atoning death that was confirmed that way. And so on. Paul talks about this in
Galatians 1. But it's not denying that he was a human being before that and had a different
attitude. It doesn't deny it. Well, there are. It's not there, is the point. It's what I'm saying.
It's not there. So we can't tell the difference, is what I'm saying, between whether the Q document
or Matthew's Moses myth comes from reifying the same way Mark Smith is constructed.
If does it come from reifying teachings or does it come from an actual teacher
or an actual memories of a teacher? We don't have any evidence to tell those two things apart.
And that's the conundrum that we're in. Well, I still don't think we are without evidence.
So, for example, here is information in Paul that is attributed to, is about Jesus
that appears in my reconstruction of Q. And in fact, three of these appear in all
reconstructions of Q. Jesus's mission was limited to Israel. Jesus prohibited divorce.
Missionary should live by the gospel. Jesus had 12 followers, devoted followers.
And Jesus will return to reward the faithful. But in addition, we have about a dozen overlapping
sayings, almost all of them. They all appear in my Q. Most of them appear in other reconstructions
of Q. Even though they're not attributed to Jesus, they represent something similar. But
the one piece that we haven't mentioned that I think is huge is the kingdom of God.
And it occurs 19 times in my reconstruction of Q. It occurs seven times in Paul,
usually in the context of the kingdom of God as a future thing. People are not worthy to enter
the kingdom of God. But in one case, it seems to be that the kingdom of God offers an alternative,
ethical project from those that he's writing. This is in Romans seven, I believe.
And so it's not as if we don't have what you, what I would call Paul Q. Symbiosis.
I think they're sharing traditions, some of them articulated as being related to Jesus.
Most of them not, I would grant that. And some have argued that the or the direction of dependence
actually goes from Paul into the gospel tradition. Dijkstra would be an example.
Yeah. I can't tell you how forced that feels to me is someone who's worked with these texts
for about 40 years. So not that I'm going to persuade you, Richard, my friend, but it really
feels so forced to me and unnecessary. And this is from someone who's a friend,
who's also a mythicist in a way, who also is an atheist. I'm not trying to defend Christian
orthodoxy. I'm trying to understand, as you are, the historical roots of the fascinating
mythologies in the proper way. And I'm not trying to defend Christian orthodoxy. I'm trying to
fascinating mythologies and drop around Jesus. Just one final note. I am really becoming
fascinated with what's sometimes called fan labor or fan fiction. And this happens both with
fictional characters, which is what you would probably prefer. But it also happens with historical
characters like Kobe Bryant or whatever. And so the question about whether a fan is a fan of a
historical person or a made up person like Madonna or whomever, there are mythologies and
projects and creativity that emerge out of this. You have fan fiction for Gandalf for pity six.
You have fan fiction for Elvis, and I don't know anybody who denies Elvis.
Enoch is fan fiction on Genesis, right? Oh, yeah. No, no, you have it.
They're like, yeah. This is something we actually can observe in our own culture
about how impressive people and mythological characters take on mythological lives of their own.
And I think much of what I'm doing in mythologizing Jesus and the Dinesian Gospel
is identifying the way that you have early Christian fan fiction,
saying myths not because they're trying to prove that Jesus existed, but rather they're trying
to expand and explore the various ways that Jesus is important. In other words, it's evangelistic
in a way for them. But I can imagine from your perspective, there's a sense in which this fan
fiction is trying to prove the historicity of a character, to prove that it's fictional.
That's what I got it backwards. So fan fiction can either be of real heroes or fabricated heroes.
Yeah. This is a point I make on the historicity of Jesus, that the mere fact that Jesus gets
mythologized is not evidence that he didn't exist. The significance is that he's so tremendously
mythologized that you need independent evidence, independent of the mythology,
to establish his historicity. And that's where we come up short.
So that's the argument. I don't think you do. No, your argument is right.
But I think there's evidence. Well, you would say Josephus, right? So you think
that, even that, I think there's a number of problems with the Josephus argument.
Because even your version of your interpretation of events in the Josephus passage
is compatible with the non-existence of Jesus, which is a point that I've made before.
Because Paul understands all baptized Christians to be brothers of the Lord,
he elaborately discusses why that is, and it's fundamental to the salvation scheme in Christianity.
When Josephus cites James as a brother of Jesus, or he says brother of Christ,
or brother of Jesus Christ, the brother of Jesus named Christ, that could be Josephus not
understanding that brother of the Lord means cultic brother, not biological brother.
And then you can have all the rest of the narrative be the same. I think you've got
the interpretation of that passage wrong as well. But I think even if we granted all of that,
we can't establish from Josephus that there actually was an actual, that he was a biological
brother of an actual Jesus, rather than the spiritual brother of the deity that he worshiped.
But then he should have said that the others are brothers of Jesus too, because they're...
Well, that's the thing though. He wouldn't say that if they're not necessarily,
I guess he could say, right? Like if he was going to do if the brother of Jesus
and some others, but he just says and some others, which is vague, that can reference
other brothers of Jesus. But that's assuming that Josephus understands what brother of the
Lord means, which I'm saying that he probably wouldn't. He would hear that he's the brother of
the Lord, and assume that that meant biologically the brother of Jesus, and not know that that's
actually a cultic reference to any baptized Christian. But I don't think that's actually
what's going on in that passage. I think actually Josephus is referring to Jesus
Bamnamnius. I think originally, I think that the of Christ part, the so-called Christ part,
was inserted later. I don't think that's in there originally. Origen couldn't find it in the original
Josephus. No, no, I agree with you. I think it's an interpolation too. That's a whole side debate.
It's also in the other text. That's a whole side debate as to as to what happened there.
Okay. All right. Derek, you got something to say?
Oh, go ahead and repeat that last phrase there, Dennis, for Dr. Carrier.
No, I'm not sure what I said, actually. Okay, that's all right. I think he
I think it was just kind of a wave on the topic, I guess, to the next idea, because you guys definitely
agree to disagree on Josephus at this moment. Watching your first debate, I took a few notes.
I didn't have too many, but it seems like what Dr. Carrier and what you have in difference is
Q is obviously vital, as everyone can see in your reconstruction of the gospel Q.
And Dr. Carrier starts with Paul being the most primitive information we can have pertaining
to the movement and the figure Jesus Christ, or Jesus, the so-called Christ, and his movement,
key fists and others such as James and so forth. What we see is oftentimes I see, such as your
theory, Dr. Carrier, is people will use Paul and say, hey, Paul doesn't talk about a ministry on
earth. He doesn't talk about people, you know, demons being cast out, a miracle working Jesus
with his ministry. And this seems to be the strongest evidence. This is kind of an argument
from silence, like wouldn't he say something if this were the case or if this guy did any of this
stuff? And he doesn't. But in the debate you mentioned, Dr. McDonald, a peronesis between
Q document and Paul's writing, for argument's sake, suppose Q exists. Is there a literary,
does Paul know Q? That's my question. Do you think Paul knows Q, Dr. McDonald?
No, I don't. Although several serious scholars have thought he must have, especially because of
the business of sending out the disciples two by two in a mission and they should live by the
gospel and so on. Now, I don't think so. I think that there are major differences in terms of time.
I think to make Q available by the time of some of Paul's early writings is way too early because
the author seems to anticipate the Jewish war coming up quickly. So I think it's more like
just before the war, which is when James, sorry, the brother of the Lord,
was killed with others. So I think the dating is problematic. And I don't think you need to have
a literary connection to explain shared tradition. Okay. Thank you for that answer.
Dr. Carrier, would you like to comment on that? And then maybe I'll follow up with another question.
Yeah, actually, I can tie in something, an unfinished thread that we left hanging earlier about
Dijkstra and his theory being forced to give you an example of how I think it's the other way around.
You take Mark's story about Jesus in the coin, right? Pay unto Caesar, what is Caesar's?
So you have this whole story. This is a classic example of how people were in schools at that
time were taught to invent stories like this, to communicate ideas like this. But when Paul's
talking about paying taxes in Romans 13, he never cites Jesus. He has no knowledge that Jesus said
any pithy clever thing like this, he surely would have cited the Lord in favor of his argument that
you should pay your taxes. No, he just gives a straightforward, here's why you should pay your
taxes. And he belabors tries to argue why you should do this, why you should not not resist
the government and you should pay your taxes and so on. Paul is clearly stuck with his own
argumentation here. He doesn't know anything about a Jesus tradition about the pay unto Caesar,
what is Caesar's? Mark is taking Paul's Romans 13 and converting it into a story about Jesus in
a pithy saying about a coin in order to communicate Paul's teachings. The order of evidence I think
is very clearly from Paul to Mark inventing a story about Jesus based on Paul. Okay, so there's
no other examples of that. That's just the key one. And I think Matthew's doing the same thing,
possibly Matthew as a Torah, he's part of the Torah observance sect, he's anti-Pauline, if anything.
I think Matthew might have traditions similar the way Mark is using Paul. There may have been
more writings or sayings or teachings of James or Peter or so on that Matthew is reifying. He's
doing the same thing to their teachings that that Mark did to Paul's teachings. And the key
point is we can't prove that's not happening. We have no way to explain that. Okay, I want to
tie in to a couple things. One is Richard, your rhetoric. And the other is, which is related to
how you argue. And the other is a different history of tradition about the of the paying of tax.
Paul's clear that you should pay the tax. The statement about give to God what's God and to
Caesar what's Caesar is not at all clear. And in fact, in the context of the controversy,
he's putting the responsibility for that judgment back on the Pharisees. So I don't think it's a
clear one, but I just think I need to call you out on something. You can't get by as a historian,
in my view, by saying it could be this, there could have been writings of Peter and James and so on
that are going about, or why not think of it this way? I think it could be the other way around.
That's not evidence. And it's not even argument. It's speculation. That's actually my, that's my
point, actually. That's my point. You're doing the same thing, but you're just assuming it comes
from Jesus, right? And so what I'm saying is that to tell the difference between these two theories,
where these teachings come from, and we have a model with that with the taxes teaching, I think,
I think what Mark is doing is specifically respond. He's actually building a story that
responds to arguments against Paul by reifying Paul's story and having Jesus say a pithy saying
about it and saying it was unknown to Paul. Well, I put it in here, but anyway, so. Okay.
Right. All right. That would be the similar. Okay. So that would be different than your different
theory on that. But so my point is that we have two competing explanations for this evidence.
So what we need is evidence that favors one over the other, and we don't have that.
So that's my argument is that we have possibilities that are equally good.
No, no, no, those are different questions.
No, no, those are two different comments. Methodologically, it's one thing to say we
don't have evidence. It's another to say that we have different interpretations of evidence.
And I think there is evidence in some cases where you think, well, so for example,
argumentation has to do with plausibilities. And you know this, you argue these things all the
time on the end and you use plausibility. So instead of that would count as evidence,
I think a plausibility argument would count as a use of evidence. But go on. That's fine.
But I would say that for me, evidence means an object to interpret and that plausibility has to
do with the likelihood that one interpretation has priority over another. Now, I would quite agree
with you that in many cases, we don't have the evidence we would like and evidence that
Christian fundamentalists and traditionalists have used as evidence is probably mythological
evidence. So we agree at that point. But we can't abandon the notion of plausibility.
And I think what we need to maybe take away from this debate for all of us is that there are
disagreements and there are ambiguities in the material. And we have to not be skeptical,
but more analytical in weighing the probabilities of what is more compelling as an argument in
various cases and which ones are less so. And I'm perfectly willing in certain cases to grant
a ground to you. By the way, I'm not willing to grant ground on Josephus. I think my reading
is the correct one. Oh, that's interesting. Okay, go ahead. I might bring that up. But I think
we need to distinguish between what we would consider evidence and what we would consider
probabilities. Yeah, but the probabilities also have to be based on evidence, right? So you
have to have a some sort of evidence based reason for assigning a different probability to one thing
versus another. So like plausibility would be based on is that plausible in context and then
your evidence would be the context and like that's not what someone would say or something like that.
There's always some sort of evidence that is girding the probabilities that is supporting
the probability that it's symbiotic and it is fine. We can let that go. Okay.
Derek, did you have another thing you wanted to get in? Well, Dr. Carrier, hold Josephus for a
moment because I'd love to hear what you guys have to say in this particular one, but I don't want
to put everyone to sleep just yet because Josephus can put some people to sleep. But no, no, but
honestly, something that came to mind and this isn't one of my notes. I've got notes I'd love
to ask about reverse priority, but I suspect we can hold that for the Q debate because that'll be
really important between you and Dr. Goodacre. I wrote this down so remind me the crucifixion
being multiply or multiply attested. Okay. So just keep that in mind. But something I wanted to just,
this is my own journey. And as I've been studying scholarship coming from someone who's obviously
amateur at this and I'm looking to you guys to learn the information. I told this to Dr. Price,
for example. I said, Dr. Price, I wonder if some of the evidence that you're kind of putting to the
side, you're maybe too critical of, like you're not allowing it to potentially be evidence for.
He goes, oh, that's possible. It was very likely I could be hypercritical on some things. I mean,
he is a Dutch radical for crying out loud. But no, I'm just making my point. And I said,
you know, one of the things that I thought was interesting, and maybe I'll get your thoughts
first, Dr. Carrier, and then Dr. McDonald, because this kind of goes into the vein of the mythologizing.
In the mythologizing between the development of the synoptic Gospels all the way to the
Johannine Gospel, I've heard from people like Ian Mills, upcoming PhD candidate,
Mark Goodacre, other critical thinkers, they've said, well, it seems like an earlier tradition
in Mark has Jesus claiming he's going to do certain things, and it flops. It doesn't happen.
So later on, later Gospels are patching up these things, which seem more human in nature,
almost like Jesus said, I will tear it on this temple and rebuild it. And then later on in John,
while he was talking about his body, guys, you know, the rebuilding of the temple was spiritual,
not literal, or it's referring to Jesus' resurrection. And historicists use this kind of
idea that there's a development from like a possible actual tradition of a man who said
something was going to happen, or he was going to do something, or whatnot, and it failed. Like,
he actually is a failed apocalyptic preacher. And so they spiritualize it, cognitive dissonance,
as believers in the sect, saying, well, he obviously is true. We aren't going to let that go,
just like they wouldn't let Yahweh go. And they continue to believe this man, even after he died.
This also touched into Paul. So I guess my question would be focused on that,
like, how do you deal with that kind of evidence? Have you heard of any evidence
that makes you kind of question that and say, you know what, that's possible evidence for
historicity, Dr. Carrier. And then we can ask a question about Paul after we're done with this
with you both responding to that idea. No, because that actually comes from Mark, not John.
I mean, John does do the thing that you're talking about. But the I will tear this down
and rebuild it in three days. That's a line in Mark. So Jesus actually, and we know this actually
from Paul is talking about the building from God, which is we're going to inhabit our new
bodies that are waiting for us in heaven. So that is a reference to the resurrection. So
it's clear that there was some saying that's conveying Pauline doctrine about the resurrection,
that he's going to tear down the whole system of Judaism and then rise again with a new,
basically create a new Israel through his resurrected self. And so that actually is,
goes back to either a revelatory or an actual Jesus. Again, I think it's a revelatory Jesus.
Paul seems to think so. And, and then that, of course, gets reified into the whole I'm going
to tear down this temple. And then that was misunderstood. And then John has a story where
that there was a false or it wasn't Luke, I think has a false accusers that he was going to tear
down the temple. Then John comes along and says, Oh, he was secretly always talking about his
resurrection. But when John gives that, that exposition of Jesus is saying, that's actually
a correct exposition of the original intent of the saying as you find it in Mark. So I don't,
I don't think there's, I don't think there's anything going on here in terms of historicity.
I do think what we're seeing here is an actual saying tradition that is being interpreted or
responded to in different ways and represented in different ways in the mythology. So the
question, the debate between me and Dennis would be, does that saying go back to an actual Jesus
or does it go back to the revelatory Jesus that Paul constantly is talking to? And not Paul alone,
others were talking to a revelatory Jesus as well. Or is it a made up tradition? But like,
we don't know, we don't have evidence to really answer this because we don't, we can't interrogate
anyone who is there to say, where's the income from using the temple? Let me ask you this and that.
And then I'll hand it off to you to answer this too. Because I think maybe that example is a bad
one. But the kingdom of God, like you mentioned earlier, Dr. McDonald, I've heard that there is
an earlier understanding for the kingdom of God that maybe even early primitive Christians believed
in an actual Jewish kingdom that was supposed to come. And then it gets like a platonic spin on it.
Or because it didn't actually come in the physical sense, they spiritualized the kingdom. And now
Luke saying, hey, the kingdom's in you. What do you mean? I thought this thing was something God
was really going to bring. Now it's not actually coming. So because it's a felled prophecy,
possibly stemming from a real Jewish preacher who's saying, you know, the kingdom of God's coming,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, like he's getting ready, kind of like the Dead Sea Scrolls sectarian
sect think like it's coming. The angels of God are probably going to come help us knock out the
enemies of God and such that the development even of the term, the kingdom of God takes on a new
spin in later Christian tradition. Does that make sense? Like was there a primitive kingdom of God
maybe stemming from a Jewish teacher? And of course, I know you don't agree with that. Like
there's probably other ways you would describe this. But does the kingdom of God give any development
and maybe an idea of a primitive version of it? And then maybe Dennis can tackle that as well.
I don't know if there's something there. I mean, my answer would be the same. I think if that were
true, it would come from the revelatory Jesus and are the original finding of messages in Scripture
of the original Christians. But I'd like to hear Dennis's take on it. Okay. Well, I think there's
a development of the kingdom of God and an inconsistency already in the Q document. And that is,
in some cases, the Q Jesus talks about the kingdom of God as something that is coming in the future
with the return of the Son of Man. But he can also speak of it in terms of people entering the kingdom
of God as though it's present. So, for example, the Pharisees put burdens on people and don't go
into the kingdom of God and prohibit others who would come into it. He also says that those who
obey the least of these commandments in the kingdom of God will be called great.
But there are some in the kingdom of God who won't obey them all and they'll be called the least.
And those presumably have to do with mortals who are already identifying with Jesus' message
of the kingdom of God. The most important passage, unfortunately, has been corrupted both by Matthew
and Luke who differ with each other. But it goes something like this, the long the prophets were
until John. After that, the kingdom of God is in force. Given another example, nobody born of women
is greater than John, yet the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. So that even John isn't
in the kingdom of God and even the least in the kingdom of God is greater than even Moses and the
prophets. And I take those seriously. Also, in the Q document, you have two parables that say the
kingdom of God is like a mustard seed that grows into a tree that gives protection to birds or it's
like yeast in dough that rises. That is, it's present in the world now, but if you have patience
and wisdom, you can see that it's going to grow into something. Now, the, because of the ambiguity
of this in Q, those who are dependent on Q, namely the synoptic authors, move the kingdom of God around
to emphasize either its apocalypticism or its alternative ethic and so on. But I want to
raise another concern. You have not heard Richard or me say very much about theology.
For me, theology is a long four letter word. I try to avoid the word theology. I feel more
comfortable with ideology, but I even feel more comfortable with social identity markers.
That is, when people gave theological affirmations about Jesus or about God or about the Holy Spirit,
they're really giving indications of what's going on for themselves and for their communities.
And the ideology needs to be assessed in terms of this, the social identity. I actually thought in
this debate to go into the various social identities that we have articulated in early
Christian texts. And by the way, this is a place where Richard and I, I'm sure it would agree.
That is, we have multiple social identities caused by whether something's written before
or after the Jewish war, or is it before or after an expectation that Jesus would return as the Son
of Man, or is it related to a Gentile mission or an exclusively Jewish mission? And I think one
of the new tasks of the New Testament scholarship going forward is to, if you will, de-theologize
theology and replace it with a more sophisticated understanding of social identity and to understand
the relationship of ideology and identity. And the reason I say that, Derek, is I actually think
it goes to this business about why certain sayings get transformed. I won't go into my own
interpretation of the temple ward, the temple destruction ward, but you can see this very
clear, clearly, about whether the message of Jesus is to go to Gentiles or not. Is it to go
to Samaritans or not? Is it for how Greek is it to be? And so on. So actually, I'd be interested
in both of you responding to this urgency, I think, to be able to de-mythologize theology
into social identity categories and to see how that plays itself out in the history of these
texts. I can't add to that, Dr. Carrier, but I can say, Dr. McDonald, that earlier we did a recording
that kind of gets into this vein because Matthew does a radically different thing than Mark. And so,
yes, the social identity structure and trying to do what you're talking about here, I think it is a
valuable thing. I don't know, based on if we're going to be critical in using Dr. Carrier's approach
here, I don't know if it's going to tell us exactly what the most primitive, primitive
Christians say. No, it may not. Yes, sir. But it's interesting. I think it's important to have this
discussion and to maybe do follow-up show down the road on this particular topic. Dr. Carrier?
Yeah, I totally agree. I think theology very definitely, shall we say, represents more mundane
things going on, but not overtly. So understanding the theology, it's not like the way fundamentalists
think it is. Theology is trying to figure out what's actually true. There's some sort of
cosmic theological truth that they're trying to figure out. No, really, what they're trying to do
is they're trying to sell or market certain ideas or beliefs in the mundane real world and maybe even
about the mundane real world. And the theology has to map onto that as a means of structurally
communicating it and promoting it. And I agree that that's some of the most useful things that
I think biblical scholars could do is try to find that social construct of what is socially, culturally
behind these theological differences. That's awesome stuff. I do think, however, we often can't
know the answer. One thing that Dennis said is that my approach is destructive, more than
constructive. And I think that's because I think biblical scholars are attempting to claim too much,
more than they can claim to know. We have crappy sources and almost none of them. There's so many
questions we would love to know so much more about, but we just can't. And I think there needs to be
some sort of evidential humility at some point to say, well, we don't really know the answers to
these questions. We can propose some possibilities. Like I think Dennis has built a lot of good
examples of that's actually that is a plausible explanation of that. Now, is that like you said,
is that go back? Is that primitive? Is that is that what really how it started? We might not know.
And we might not know if Dennis's interpretation is the correct one. But I think oftentimes,
the way we're looking at theology, it's credible. An example that would promote to people is Bart
Ehrman's book, How Jesus Became God. He has like the last chapter or the second or last chapter
where he does the Nicene Creed. Like how does that how did that monstrosity that Frankenstein's
monster come about? And he gives a very good social political explanation of how that happened.
And and I think that's a good example where I think he's right. We can't conclusively prove it
because we don't have the minutes of the Council of Nicea. We can't interview the people. We can't
do what a journalist would do if this was a, you know, a Congress, you know, a law of
past at Congress or something like that. We can do a lot more of this stuff with like the Founding
Fathers and the Constitution than we can do for like the Crete of Nicene Creed. But we can do
some things we can talk about. Well, this there's some evidence that looks like it's going in this
direction. This is why they say that. Let me respond. I want to be clear what I mean by social
identity theory and its advantages. You gave a good example from Bart Ehrman's work. And to
extrapolate from that, a lot of this social identity discourse is happening in the guild
as we speak. So it's not foreign. What is foreign is to use modern sociological methods to map on
to that, how that works, who benefits from certain theological agendas. How does it stratify gender
or class or race? How does, and politics? And I think there's a lot of social mapping that
can go on. So I think a lot of this concern about social identity happens in the guild.
But I think it's a bit too haphazard. And I think we could get new hermeneutical leverage on these
by using a more sophisticated sociological methodology. So you're quite right to identify
places where it happens in the guild and how it can be helpful. I actually think it can even be
more helpful if we replace theological language with social identity identifications.
Yeah, I can give two examples. There are two good examples. Caroline Binham's book on the
resurrection is a really good example of analyzing the competing resurrection beliefs
and how they tie into political realities, like whether we're going to make women equals or not.
And there's a lot of like, she does a good job there. Who did the crisis in Corinthians?
Dale Martin. Dale Martin's work on Corinthians, the Corinthian community,
is another example of analyzing the creeds and Paul's discourse about the resurrection, again,
in 1 Corinthians 15, for example, and how that relates to the social realities that are going
on and the conflicts between different classes and so on that kind of inform this. There's this
sort of struggle and war going on ideologically. And if you're a fundamentalist, you see it as
all talking about the metaphysics of the resurrection. But if you're like Dennis and I,
we see the subtext that there's some real stuff going on here that has to do with politics and
society and culture that are really informing what these debates are and why certain sides are
being taken. And I think that's the best, that's the kind of biblical studies I want to see more of,
for sure. I agree. Gentlemen, something about Paul, I got to ask you, Dr. McDonald first.
This seems to be the heart of the debates between mythicists and historicists often. And, you know,
Dr. Carrier has thrown this up in the beginning was Paul, our earliest known source, if we go
with the consensus of the seven authentic Pauline letters, that Paul doesn't really talk about this
ministry and life of this guy named Jesus on earth. Like, he doesn't really give any focus on that.
And I've heard historicists say, well, he really wasn't concerned with that. The only thing he
actually cared about at this point in the juncture is a resurrected Jesus, that he was a resurrected
Christ at this point to Paul. So Dr. McDonald, if you don't mind, what is your take on why Paul
doesn't really, you know, expand on this Jesus preacher? If he's a historical man, why doesn't
he take the time to talk about those things? Can you give us some background on that? I mean,
the Gospels do elaborate and give in stories and mythologize him and whatnot. But is Jesus
to Paul a mythologized figure at the point in which he believes in him? And maybe you can come
on Paul. Okay, I'll give two very brief answers, neither one of which Richard will like. So
they are these. And by the way, he's familiar with both of these answers.
The first is Paul didn't write a gospel, he wrote letters. And there was no one in his
congregations, as far as we know, who was denying that Jesus was a human being. What they debated
was the status of the resurrection body afterwards. So he had no reason to talk about the historical
Jesus. One piece that I didn't read to you that I had meant to is that Paul writes in Galatians
that he spent two weeks with Cephas. He also met James, the Lord's brother. And he insists that
he's not lying about it. Now, I'm assuming that means that they didn't just talk about fishing.
They were talking about Jesus. And so Paul certainly knew more about... Now, I don't think what he
knew about Jesus is what we find in the gospels, which are mythologized. But I can't imagine that
he didn't know more about Jesus than he has had reason to say. So that's the first. He wrote letters.
Nobody was challenging the historical Jesus. And he simply must have known more than he said.
That's the first one. The second one is actually more profound, I think. Yes, he doesn't give us
good historical information about Jesus for whatever reason. But we also have silence
about opponents. We don't have anybody in the early church who is arguing that Jesus was not
a human being. So I think there's silence on both sides. I think if we didn't have gospels,
we would simply have to flip a coin to know how much you knew. But I'm sure he knew more than he's
saying. And it's not what we find in the gospels. He knew more than he's saying. And we also don't
have people objecting to the claim that Jesus was a Galilean teacher.
Yeah, I have a response to both of those. Don't take the latter first. I think we do,
actually, in 2 Peter and Ignatians. I think both Ignatius and 2 Peter were written to rebut
certain Christians about whom we don't get to hear. We don't get to read their texts. They're
gone, who were denying the reality of the gospel narratives, who were basically denying the
historicity of them. And these were Christians, fellow Christians that were denying it. So we
know there were Christians who thought the gospels were completely mythical. And the faction that
wrote 2 Peter and the faction that wrote the Ignatian letters are against them and actually
vilifying them and condemning them as heretics who should be shunned and so on. So we do know.
Well, that's a curious argument, though, because the author, of course, is saying these aren't
myths. And nobody's saying that Jesus himself is a myth. They're saying that we do not follow
these myths. Yeah, no, the people they're arguing against, right? So 2 Peter says,
how dare these people suggest that these are myths? And 2 Peter is a forgery. He says,
and I was personally there and I saw Jesus and met him. So this is evidence, clear evidence,
that there were Christians who were denying the historicity of these narratives,
but we don't get to hear from them. We don't get to hear from them. And I think to go tie back
to another thread we left dropped is I think 1 John is one of these forgery texts, texts that were
built to rebut these people. I think it fits right into the tradition of 2 Peter that it's
protests too much, as they might say. I don't think anyone would write the first section of
1 John if there weren't other Christians who were denying that they had physically handled and met
Jesus and so on. So it affords us evidence that there were such Christians. We just don't get
to hear from them directly. We only hear about them through the complaints and attacks on them
by these other authors. That's the second point, the first point. Of course, I answer that. I have
a whole chapter on it in Historicity of Jesus chapter 11 where I deal with this. And I think
it's mischaracterizing the mythicist position. I should say the defensible mythicist version of
things. It's not the argument that anyone was denying the historicity of Jesus. It's rather that
if there were historical Jesus, there would be questions and controversies regarding his life
and what he said in life and what he did in life. There would be tons of examples for Paul to draw
on as for authority to authorize his teachings and lessons and so on. There would be questions
asked of him about it. There would be examples he could pull from. So there would be countless
occasions for him to mention the historicity of Jesus incidentally. Out of 20,000 words,
he never does. And yet he repeatedly refers to the revelatory Jesus. So why does he constantly
reemphasize that the gospel and the teachings of Jesus are known by revelation and through
Scripture and constantly talk about seeing Jesus in revelations and who saw Jesus through
revelations and so on. He does these things repeatedly, but he never does anything comparable
that puts Jesus on earth before the revelations of Jesus. So the oddity is that it's not that we
expect there to be some sort of controversy over whether Jesus existed. It's rather if Jesus existed,
this would create circumstances that would infect the letters with all kinds of references
and discussions as you would find letters about anyone else. That's an unnecessary inference,
and why is that not an argument from silence? Well, some arguments from silence are valid,
right? So if you go back to God's shock on this, historian who wrote Historical Method,
he showed the logical structure of the argument from silence is if a silence is improbable,
if it's less probable than the alternative, then actually the silence is evidence for
something. If you expect certain evidence to exist, you expect the letters to mention these
things, you expect there to be controversies and questions about Jesus, if you expect there to
be examples, the Paul to draw on examples from Jesus' life, if you expect these things that for
none of them to be there, not even any like zero, that strains against probability, right? So it's
more probable that the reason none of that enters into the letters that 20,000 words of talking about
Jesus never talks about the life of Jesus, but always talks about the celestial Jesus,
the revelatory Jesus, and so on. That's perfectly what we expect, 100% that's what we'd expect
if there is only a revelatory Jesus, right? So there is a differential in the probability
there. Now, the question, the debate is how big is that differential? How much, how less probable
is the one than the other? That's a debate I think we can have. Okay. I think that definitely
there's a disparity. Well, I was the one who said that the discussion in this case
ought to be on probabilities, and I appreciate your dealing with that question about the
probabilities of silence. But of course, three of your sentences in that little speech were
conditional sentences. If one says that Paul knew Jesus, we would have expected this, and of course,
people are going to weigh that question differently, and they're going to assess
whether it's plausible or implausible. So I can tell you that Joseph Hoffman would say that there's
no necessary reason for it. This is, by the way, intended not to be an argument with you. It's to
say that the issue is, in many cases, probabilities with the absence of evidence. Correct. And people
are going to weigh that evidence, that non-evidence differently. But you still have to base your
position on that, on some sort of evidence, right? So the thing is, the if-then statement,
the if part is the hypothesis that you're trying to test, and the then part is the prediction that
your hypothesis makes. So then you go and look at the evidence. Does the prediction that your
hypothesis makes, does it, is it fulfilled, or is it contradicted by the evidence? That's fair
enough. And so that's where the probability comes in. But to assess that probability, you have to
base it on other probabilities. So when someone writes 20,000 words about a figure who's an authority
and about whom a great deal so much happened that it actually launched an entire religion
around it, when that happens, typically, letters that are written about this person
are going to mention things, like that's going to come across and mention things about them.
You're not going to have a case where all you get are revelatory stories,
things about the revealed Jesus. Now, it's not that that's impossible. It's just that that's
less likely. It's less what we expect. You know, if we had blinders on and didn't know what kind
of documents we're going to get, and we started with a particular thesis of Jesus, and then we
removed the blinders and looked at the evidence, we would be really perplexed at why Paul never
mentions anything about anyone seeing Jesus before his death. But I'm not perplexed.
And I go through item by item in chapter 11 of Historicity of Jesus as to where and why we should
be perplexed. It's not what we expect. It's not impossible. It's just less likely than what would
be the case. We should have a lot more discussion of the historical Jesus, at least as much as
discussion of the revelatory Jesus, right? There should be they're both equally important.
There should have been just as much going on there. But anyway, that's that's my take on
on that question. I think that wraps that up. Okay, well, let's play a hypothetical and get
into Josephus for a second here. Suppose we turn the tables and we say, All right,
Dr. Kerry, your argument on James, the brother of the Lord is false. Okay, let's say it's really
a brother of Jesus. If that alone had stronger argument in the direction of historicity,
would that alone make you go, Okay, hold on, I've got to recapitulate all the things I once said,
and I need to try and like reshape how I view Christianity and the development of this guy.
And let's get into into Josephus. If you don't mind, you might have to let I don't know,
you might have to go first. I'm not sure. So okay, yeah, no, it's so it depends on how we're
establishing that, right? Right. So that's the key thing is, do we have evidence? Did we have in
this hypothetical, if we found a good evidence that Josephus knew had a source that would be
reliable and that he understood that source correctly, and was talking about a biological
brother of Jesus, if we can establish all those things, then yeah. So ideally, we'd want a better
source than Josephus on this or a more elaborate story that's much more clear about, you know,
for example, a Testimonium Flavianum in chapter and book 18. If we had something that was way
more exactly what Josephus would write about Jesus, that would be pretty good. Unless all the
information that comes from the Gospels, then, you know, if we could just establish that Josephus
had some other source than the Gospels for his discussion, or for more than the Christian lore
about the brother of the Lord James, we would need to be able to establish that Josephus knew
that he was talking about a biological brother, and that whoever the source is he's using would
have known that too. Right. So like, and we just don't have that presently. So right now, we don't
know if Josephus even wrote the line, so-called Christ. We also don't know that he knew what
brother of the Lord meant from his source, who his source was for any of this. And so, and incidentally,
this story about James completely contradicts the version of the death of James in Haggisipus,
which is the only Christian source for the death of James. So there's incongruities here that would
have to be overcome somehow with a better slate of evidence than we have. We just don't have that
right now. Now, if we had a lost letter of Paul that we could authenticate, where he goes into,
like, when, you know, very clearly mentions James being the biological brother of Jesus,
growing up with Jesus, for example, or something like that, that would be a clincher. Like, that
would seal the deal. We would just need one good authenticated letter from Paul with one line
that we could, believable line like that is all we would need. We don't really need a whole lot
of evidence. It's just the evidence is so poor, we don't have it presently.
Dr. McDonald, would you like to comment on that? And one question I have, maybe you can answer Dr.
McDonald, even though I should probably ask you, but I want to allow conversation on both sides is,
does Josephus ever mention someone's the brother of someone and they're not, he's not talking about
them actually being their literal brother? Or do you think this is some, I think Dr. Kerry might
suspect this is Christian interpolation. So therefore it's using a Christian source. So therefore
it's saying a baptized Christian or something to that effect. But I don't know if Josephus ever
uses a reference like someone so-and-so is a brother of them in a non biological sense. So that
just throwing it out there. But yeah, can we get into Josephus? I don't think Josephus would
understand that at all. Like it wouldn't immediately be obvious to him that it could mean a non
biological brother. So I think Josephus's tendency to refer to brothers as actual brothers
is why he would do so here. Because he doesn't know about the Pauline doctrine of adoption.
But anyway, that's just to clarify my point. Okay, Dr. McDonald, what are your problems
with his criticism of the Josephus situation? And then maybe we can get a little bit into that
back and forth before we wrap things up because we could really get into so much stuff and I
don't want to take up too much time. There's always a little detail or example that can be argued.
But in Josephus, it seems like if there's any extra biblical documentation that we're going to
really want to use as a source, Josephus seems to be one of the stronger versions of it. So
would you like to elaborate on this, Dr. McDonald? Of course I would, yeah. And I want to do something
of a mind game with us. First of all, I would want to say that we do have an early potential
reader of Josephus who, if he saw this text, took it to be the brother of Jesus. Namely,
in the Acts of the Apostles, we have a reference to the death of James the Lord's brother.
And Steve Mason has argued that that is a reference to what he would have read in the
Antiquities. So I know there's a big debate about that. But James and Acts is killed by the sword.
James and Acts is killed by a king by the sword. And not by stoning, that's correct.
Yeah, and not by the Sanhedrin. But he certainly understands it to be around the same time.
Also, I should point out, Acts never says it's the brother of Jesus. That's a presumption that we add.
None of the James and Acts is identified as the brother of Jesus. That's important to note.
So let's go back to Josephus' story, though. And let's bracket the question of the brother of Jesus.
What is, and by the way, first of all, for this, Josephus doesn't need a source. In this part of
what he's writing in the Antiquities, he's in Jerusalem. So he can be an eyewitness and a
reporter without having a source in front of him. Oh, that would be good, too. Yeah, like if Josephus
said, I saw this, right? Yeah, that would be an important, if we had that, that'd be great.
He doesn't say that. He doesn't say that. Right. Yeah, unfortunately. But he doesn't say that with
most of what he's writing in Book 22. Yeah, I know. Yeah, it's unfortunate and annoying. But yeah.
So, but this much is clear. From Josephus' perspective, a cruel Sadducee chief priest
had stoned somebody and some others. And those who had a different view of Torah that was more
tolerant and more precise, faulted Ananas for doing so, and complained that he, to make him
desist from doing it again. And I think implied is to make sure that you don't kill other Christians
who would have the same nuanced understanding of Torah. Now, that's the case whether or not you
think James is the brother of Jesus or not. The thing that I find fascinating is usually
when you have a new character introduced in narrative, you present the name first and then
the biological association. So, so-and-so, the wife of so-and-so. But in this case, the
the use of the names is different. The brother of Jesus, and by the way, I think the Christ
called the Christ is a secondary Christian interpolation. You also have it in chapter 18
in the testimony in Flavianum. But, and then you have James by name. Now, the reader presumably
knows who this Jesus is better than James, because James now is going to get associated
with someone that the reader knows. Now, here's where I'm sure Richard would want to go with this.
There are nine characters in Josephus that are named Jesus. And so the reader by book 20 would
have been exposed to lots of Jesuses, right? So if you move away from this idea of the Christ,
then you have a reason to say how many, which Jesus is the reader likely to know. But then I'd
want to know what other Jesus do we know of that had a brother named James or Jacobus? And
why would there be a kind of following of that person who similarly is violating Jewish law to
the extent that they strict sagacy would have him expelled? So this is a place, again, I think,
of historical probabilities. I wouldn't want to say that Richard has no validity in his interpretation
of Josephus. From my perspective, it seems forced and unnatural. And so I think maybe we could leave
it at that unless Richard wants to come back. Or you, Derek. No, I actually, yeah, I want to comment
on that. Well, first of all, Josephus doesn't always give the biological with a patronymic the
first time he names someone. I've gone rounds with this with Tim O'Neill on this before. Josephus does
sometimes name someone and then give the biological relationship later. And in here, there's a Jesus
three sentences later, that actually seems more likely the Jesus that is meant Jesus,
Ben Damneus. This is a story. So this story appears in a context of a sequence of successions of
priesthood. So Josephus is explaining how the priesthood succeeded from one priest to a high
priest to another, and how conflicts resulted in build up to the war or throne. So when we get
to here, the story ends with the next priest, high priest, Jesus Ben Damneus being appointed.
And it appears being appointed in punishment for Anonus. Anonus is deposed and he's replaced with
Jesus Ben Damneus. Now we actually know that certain scribal practices, it is entirely possible that
originally this passage said, James, the brother of Jesus Ben Damneus, if there was an
inner linear note above it that said the one called Christ, scribes might have thought that
that was, they were supposed to be transposed. One was an error and the other was a correction.
We have many, many examples of this happening in the literature and we have support and origin
for this actually having happened. So it is possible that this was how it originally was
written, but even if it wasn't that, even if you just took so-called Christ out of there,
what you have is Josephus saying there's James, or the brother of Jesus whose name was James,
were killed, etc. And then three sentences later and then Anonus is deposed and replaced with Jesus
Ben Damneus. So a reader could easily infer that this has been about Jesus Ben Damneus,
his brother James got killed by Anonus. Anonus was punished by being removed for it and replaced
by the brother of the man he killed, which would be a typical way for a social system to sort of
smooth over feathers as it were, right, to reward someone in compensation for a crime against them.
To prevent feuds, family feuds. And in fact, the next passage we have more attempts by the Anonus
family to gin up, you know, favoritism to sort of give money to sort of smooth things over
to Jesus Ben Damneus, which would be another example of smoothing things. So there could
be subtext here that makes total historical sense and it matches the details. But that's not the
key thing here. The key thing here is that when Dennis gave a description of this passage,
I don't think it's accurate. And I want to read the passage so we know what we're talking about
here. And the key part starts with, the report goes that this eldest Anonus proved the most
fortunate man. Oh, sorry, that's the wrong one. Okay, but this younger Anonus, who as we have told
you already, notice, Josephus specifically tells us he's talked about this before, took the high
priesthood. He was a bold man in his temper and very insolent. He was also of the sect of Sadducees
who are very rigid in judging others above all the rest of the laws as we have already observed.
So twice now, Josephus has told us he's talked about these things before. Notice he does not have
one of these back references when he talks about Jesus Christ, which means that there probably
was not a back reference there. If there was, he would have said, as I told you before, right? So
there would be a discussion of this, but he doesn't. Okay, so when therefore Anonus was of this
disposition, he thought he had now an proper opportunity. Festus was now dead and albinus was
but upon the road. So he assembled the Sanhedrin of Judges and brought before them the brother of
Jesus who was called Christ, whose name was James and some others. And when he had formed an accusation
against them as breakers of the law, not changers of the law, mind you, just breakers, they're just
regular outlaws, he delivered them to be stoned. Notice they're not described as Christians. There's
no mention here of why they're being killed. There's no mention of what their crimes were.
But as for those who seem the most equitable of the citizens and such as were the most uneasy at
the breach of the laws, they disliked what was done. They also sent to the king, desiring him
to send to Anonus that he should act so no more for that what he had already done was not to be
justified. And some of them went also to meet albinus as he was upon his journey from Alexandria
and informed him that it was not lawful for Anonus to assemble a Sanhedrin without his consent.
So their concern was not that Anonus killed these people. Their concern was that he procedurally
assembled a Sanhedrin without consent. So they actually don't really care about James and this
other guy. Like the people who were interfering here think Anonus just assembled a court and
prosecuted some people unlawfully. I can't tell you how much I disagree with that reading. Okay.
I mean, it's what it says. Even if you look at the Greek, I don't think it changes so much.
Why is it that Josephus goes out of his way to contrast the view of the law by Sadducees and
Anonus and the view of the law of some in the city who are more accurate with respect to the law
and more tolerant. Yes, they're going to use the illegal meeting of the Sanhedrin
as the excuse for getting rid of him. It's a procedural thing. But Josephus is making a
and by the way, he uses very unusual vocabulary for this. He's quite clear about what he's trying
to accomplish. You're right, by the way, it's not the changing of the law. It's the violation of the
law. Paranomisesis, something like that. And then, but the word that's used for cruel is
Omi, which is very unusual and harsh. So I think the primary conflict is between the Sadducees who
are harsh and those in the city who are generous. Now, I do think that you're right, that they've
objected to an illegal calling of the Sanhedrin. So here I think we have two motivations, one having
to do with the different understanding of law. So it means in my reading that James and these others
have an interpretation of law, which for people who are generous is tolerable. And those of whom
are sticklers and especially are protective of the temple, like the chief priest, is intolerable.
And I think what we have here is an appeal to the king to follow a more temperate
understanding of Torah observance. None of that is in there. That's just not what's there.
No, I just don't see that in there. What I see is Ananas is described as a particularly brutal
man. And he just happens to be of the Sadducees who are also particularly rigid. So Ananas,
being a particularly brutal man, saw an opportunity to assemble the Sanhedrin illegally,
had these people killed, and then all of the complaint after that, even it says, and such as
were the most uneasy at the breach of the laws, the people who are uneasy with this were at the
breach of the laws, not at the excessive use of the laws. So all of the accusation is about Ananas
jumping the gun and assembling Sanhedrin. No, no, no, no. I think you mistranslate that business
about nomus akribos, that they're more accurate in interpretation and more tolerant. That'd be
less daughterous or something like that. So let's leave it, Richard. We're going to have
different readings of this text. But I think this is confirming that the followers of Jesus
where we're at on that know why we're seeing that passage in different ways.
Go ahead, Dr. McDonald. You were saying something, though. No, no, go ahead. Well,
look, it's obvious you guys don't see eye to eye on this. Maybe there could be a follow up
show, Dr. McDonald, that we can discuss and get your point of view, break down the text,
pull it on the screen. Love to see it. And maybe maybe Dr. Carol want to take a bad
at it, too, and say, hey, I need to come on the show and talk for 20 minutes about this passage.
I would love to see that, of course, because this is this was like on the spot. We didn't
anticipate to get into this particular discussion into depth into Josephus.
I guess I'll ask this question. Are any of you convinced of the other's position?
If I were a believer, I would say to Richard, I'm praying for you.
So this was interesting, an interesting discussion. You guys definitely use different,
I would say you permit different source material to help build your case as evidence for what you
think proves your benefit from this. Actually, I like these kinds of debates because we're having
like mundane, like not theological debates where we're not like debating whether the
gospels are literally true or anything like that. No, we both agree that how we're supposed to
approach these texts. And I think we agree on even a methodology. And so we're just disagreeing on
what probabilities we assign to certain things. And that's exactly the kind of debates that scholars
should be having about this sort of stuff. And so this gets all that other stuff thrown away,
so it's out of the way. And so we can focus on like real debates that actually matter in terms
of how we decide one way to go for these things, rather than getting constantly distracted on how
dare you suggest that Jesus didn't really write into Jerusalem on a donkey, you know, like rather
than having those kinds of debates, we're having this kind of debate, which I think is productive
and more scholarly and more useful, I think. So anyway, that's that's my take on what we've
been talked about today. Dr. McDonald, would you like to ask a question or make a statement?
I'd like to make a statement. Derek, thanks so much for arranging this. I know it's a hassle,
and I know you've got a young family to look after and and so on. And you were a real gentleman,
you did your homework too. You came with some good questions. And I'm sure that Richard and I
benefit from this, I certainly did. And we'll be eager to see what your
subscribers have to say about a debate like this. Yeah. And Dr. Carrier.
Oh, no, I mean, that was my mind. What I said before is how I'd close it.
No, this has been great and useful. And I quite liked it. So thank you. Yeah.
Yeah, I was definitely educated. And it makes me want to hypothesize
the position, meaning, for me, like, I want to explore using certain evidence. And like,
you talked about Dr. Carrier, like, even if let's say you conclude the evidence doesn't,
let's just say it's not good enough for you to use and say, I'm not going to allow that to be the
case, because it's just too many problems with us. I will still hypothesize in my head at this
moment and see what that might do. And I'm not saying I will lean on it. I'm saying I'll hypothesize
and say, all right, what would that do with the evidence? And what would that support?
What would that make for the conclusions on a historical Jesus and then test out other ways,
too? OK, if you take that evidence out, it's like a chess game. What will happen here if that is
mythology and not history? And so I hope everyone watching is kind of doing the same thing. You
know, the biggest thing I took away from this is to not be dogmatic and to continue exploring the
evidence, looking for evidence. I think both these gentlemen here would love to see evidence that
comes on the scene, even with your books written, Dr. Carrier, which would mean you'd have to redact
some things. But you would go on record and say would be the best second edition ever if we got
something that changed everything. Yeah, absolutely. I can even think of some. I mean, I don't know
if I've told you about the Herculaneum prospects, but there are we could get the history of Pliny
the Elder and it could say some things about Christianity that could actually change things.
And that's sitting there under the ashes of Herculaneum. It's theoretically possible that we
could get that. So usually, I don't think we're going to find something as useful as the original
redaction of Paul's letters, where we have all the Corinthian letters, not just the ones that
were selected for us to see. Well, I'm planning on cleaning my storage area and then making
papius's expositions. If I find papius's expositions, I'll let you know.
Something like that. Yeah.
That would be awesome, actually. And, you know, I would love to see that.
And who knows, some of the evidence that you may not think is supportive of a historical Jesus
just might be like the brother of the Lord. Who knows at this moment, I understand your
interpretation. Yeah. And notice in my book, I actually counted it as evidence for historicity,
right? People always don't look at the book, right? So I actually weigh it as evidence for
historicity, which is how I come to my upper bounds of one and three chance for historicity.
So I'm not claiming confidence. I think one and three chance there was a Jesus. And if there was,
I think some theory like Genesis is really at the top of the level in terms of what's most likely
to have happened. So I'm not even dogmatic on that, to be honest.
So you have a one and three, a 33.33 chance, technically, that Jesus exists here roughly.
Dr. McDonald, what is your probability on the historicity? Is it still 80-20,
like you said in the original debate?
No, it's probably like 92 to 8 probability. But historians are not going to commit themselves
to 100% certainty. We hope, yes, right. So I have to be open to things I don't understand.
For me, the evidence is compelling that there was a historical Jesus who very early on in various
ways was mythologized, so that it's very difficult to dig through the myth back to the nuggets of
Jesus's experience. And I think Richard probably would agree with that. So that a lot of the origins
of these things are hidden to us, and they're hidden behind well-meaning gospel authors who
were trying to make Jesus speak to their own time. And that can be appreciated. By the way,
I love these texts, but they don't do what Christian believers think the texts can do.
And I think this discussion is kind of highlighting how difficult it is
and how insecure it can be in digging through these materials to find what we would consider
responsible historical nuggets. Yeah, truly.
You guys are awesome. I really do appreciate it. Ladies and gentlemen, you guys witnessed one of
the most polite debates I've ever witnessed in terms of these discussions. And these guys totally
disagree with each other when it comes to conclusions. Probably on some foundations as well,
like the Q document, the sayings of Jesus, the logii, is papious actually a source that could be
used. We know Dr. McDonald does think so. And I know that Dr. Carrier doesn't. He thinks that this is
Eusebius and possibly a bad evidence. I would suspect that, you know, you can't really rely on
papious to make any real claims according to it. Now, I'm not trying to put words in your mouth.
You can correct me. Yeah, my position is a little more nuanced than that, but you're in the ballpark
anyway. But yeah, okay. Both of the gentlemen are using different evidence. So I really do
appreciate this. And I hope that everyone watching will go down in the description. Get a book of
mythologizing Jesus. Consider the Jewish teacher to Epicuro. Check out On the Historicity by Dr.
Carrier. It's a thick book. If you're not like a big book book guy like me, which is this is a new
book, this is actually the one you want to get because this is a lot more, I guess you'd say,
Derek Lambert-ish. It's simple. It's not complicated and it doesn't take you forever to read.
You guys can get it in audio book, too. He has it on Audible for if you want to listen to it.
Not yet. Not this book. On the Historicity. Yeah, all my other stuff's on Audible. I still haven't
recorded JFOS due to pandemic concerns, which I'm working on. I'm recording this month. So
Audible will be out next year, but unfortunately, it was delayed this year.
Well, I hope you read Dennis's book on the Dianne Nice and Gospel and do a review on your blog,
which everyone needs to go get ahold of that as well, because I really fell in love with that book.
The Dianne Nice and Gospel just made me, I didn't know that much about Dianne Nice's
till I read this and I was like, whoa, okay, so this is just amazing. I really hope you guys help
these two gentlemen out by buying the materials and contributing in some way to get this information
out there, even by sharing this video, liking this video, getting others aware of who Dr. Dennis
McDonald is, because both of you guys, the Guild, does not agree with you. Okay, both of you. And
the Guild of Scholarship says, nope, we're not agreeing with these guys. These guys are on the
outskirts. And I'm sorry, MythVision podcast will not be silenced. We will continue to bring this
material to you, even if you're not in an academic setting where they're allowing this material to
be spoken of. So enough on that. You guys have anything else you'd like to add?
Yeah, Richard, stay warm. Okay. Thank you. I will. Thank you. And don't forget, we are MythVision.
