Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor James D. Tabor, we have done amazing recordings so far and I thought, oh we'll
just fly through all these and do 10, 15 minutes, let me stop with my expectations
because I'll have to either reset a new date on which time I'm going to get this done,
or I'll have to spiritualize our conversations to say they've been fulfilled.
So what did Paul think of himself as?
He seems to say he was chosen before the other apostles, and he fits this prophet role.
But also you said in another video, he kind of is another Christ, and he's filling up
the suffering of Christ.
There's still more Christ that can get done that he requires Paul to do.
So tell us about Paul, what he thinks of himself, and some of the crazy stuff that
Mike can get into.
Yeah, I cover it mostly in the Paul and Jesus book, I do have a section on that.
Well let's start with being called in your mother's womb, it's a very unique expression.
In the New Testament, we certainly would see that for John the Baptist, at least according
to Luke, because he has chapter one is all about John the Baptist before he's born, and
finally he's born.
So you could say he was called, and according to Luke, Jesus is called in the womb.
Most Christians go with something about whether it's the virgin birth, literally or what,
but they'd say, yeah, when Jesus was developing in Mary's womb, he was already called destined.
So Paul, and the only other person in the Bible that that is said of, is Jeremiah.
And he doesn't say it, God says it to him in chapter one of Jeremiah.
He said, when you were in the womb, I knew you, and appointed you a prophet to the nations.
Now notice, a prophet to the nations.
We tend to think of Jeremiah as a prophet to Judah, the southern kingdom of Judah, because
that's who he spoke to or against.
But the best parallel to Jesus is Jeremiah.
He's before the Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem in 586 or 587, some think.
And he's being told as a young man, he's called a young man when he's called, I chose
you before you've been born.
So it's a pretty heady mission to be told you, and you got a mission to go to the nations.
Now in Galatians one, Paul says, God or the Lord who called me when I was in my mother's
womb.
And you're thinking, wait a minute, is that just hyperbole or what?
Because you didn't have your conversion, as people sometimes call it.
I don't think that's a very appropriate word, because we tend to use it for changing religions.
But you didn't come to your conviction that the crucified Jesus was in fact the exalted
Messiah, glorified at the right hand of God, you know, you didn't come to that till later.
So what do you mean called from the womb?
He's clearly saying, I'm the new Jeremiah, I was called from the womb, and I'm also
going to go to the nations, the nations, not primarily to Israel, even though he's Jewish.
And so I opened my Bible here, usually I can just quote some things here, but I want to
read you something that was just going to surprise you, I think, if you've never thought
of it.
I'm going to read you a text where somebody's speaking in the first person, and I'm going
to ask you to imagine that it's Paul.
So I'm Paul reading this to you, and I'm trying to explain my mission.
And I say, Derek, you know, with all the humility in the world, I think I've found my mission
mentioned.
And I hesitate to even tell you this, because it's so monumental, and I'm so unworthy of
it.
But let me read it.
This is Isaiah 49.
The Lord called me in the womb.
From the body of my mother, he named my name.
He made my mouth like a sharp sword, and the shadow of his hand, he hid me.
He made me like a polished arrow, and his quiver, he hid me away.
I feel that refers to my upbringing.
Right now, I have the sword of the Spirit, and I'm out, but I didn't know my mission.
And he said to me, you're my servant, Israel in whom I'll be glorified.
And now the Lord who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to
him, that Israel might be gathered to him, that my salvation will reach to the nations
and to the end of the earth, and so forth.
And then he talks about suffering, to one deeply despised, abhorred, rather, not abhorred
by the nations, and so forth.
I think Paul identified with that text.
Now some say Jesus did too.
He might have, but Jesus didn't go to the nations.
And if you read the entire chapter, it sounds like somebody who is sent to the Jew first
and then to the Greek, because he says, I have appointed you to Israel, but it goes
on to say, oh, is it a light thing that you've got to go to Israel?
Is that tough?
Guess what?
I'm also going to send you to the nations.
And I think Paul saw himself as fulfilling a double mission.
So he's a Jew like Jesus, a kind of a second Christ, and I'm using the small C, but not
the way people use it now as the last name of Jesus Christ kept.
But he's anointed, anointed, appointed, anointed by the Spirit.
And he is to preach to the Jews, and he always did.
He would go in the synagogue and preach it, but then to the Gentiles.
That Israel might be gathered.
And here, I think he does have an idea that by gathering the Gentiles, he's also bringing
in the fullness, what he calls the fullness of the Gentiles, so that all Israel will be
saved.
Now, as you know, I think you've interviewed Jason Staples, his Bart Ehrman student.
And he's written articles, and I don't know, is his book out yet on this?
His first one is not on this.
Yeah.
The word is out.
I think he's done some interviews, but I've read it.
I have his dissertation.
I think maybe it was online, or maybe he sent it to me.
But anyway, it's really an amazing argument that he makes.
I didn't put it in my book because I didn't want to usurp his work until it came out.
I wanted to put it in in the sense, and I could have said, well, Jason Staples did it.
And I just decided, the book has so many other things that I've developed, and this
is actually his idea.
And it just gripped me from the beginning.
I think Bart also is saying, sort of leaning that this is true.
I tried to get Bart to say what was wrong with it, and he said, well, I helped with
this project.
So he's like, I can't say.
Well, I've heard him even say that he thinks it probably, you know, probably.
So what is the basic point?
What is the point?
That racism, ethnic DNA, like, oh, somebody's got the Y chromosome from Abraham.
This isn't...
First of all, you have to understand the Abraham stuff as Paul reads it.
Who, if you read Genesis 18, when Abraham is dialoguing with God about Sodom and Gomorrah,
God says to himself, shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do?
No.
Let him know, because he's going to teach his seed and his household justice and righteousness.
So you have always had this idea of the literal seed of Abraham and the household of Abraham,
which is the household of faith.
Paul likes that, because it doesn't mean we give you a DNA test at the door to see if
you go back to Abraham.
Excuse me.
What it means is, if you're attracted to the gospel, called, as Paul says, to those who
are called, both Jews and Greeks, the gospel is the power of God for salvation.
If you're called, then God is choosing you.
If you read in Romans, those whom he has predestined, which literally, that's a bad word because
of the Calvinist, who has pro-orizo, who is appointed beforehand.
He's appointed beforehand, just like Paul was called beforehand.
So those who he has appointed beforehand, he calls, and those he calls, he justifies,
and those he justifies, he glorifies.
That's the plan.
It's the elect group.
Then you go, well, I want to be elect, or why am I not elect?
Then you get to Romans 9-11.
At this point in history, he's strategically only pulling certain ones in that, in some
way, were declared not my people, Hosea, chapter one and two.
Those were the Israelites that went into exile.
They've intermingled with the nations, but when they come back, I think they bring the
nations with them.
It's not like you find one and say, oh, well, you're the real Abraham seed, and your buddy
there can come too because he likes you, and you believe in the one God.
Paul's not thinking that, but he does, Jason points out, he uses this term that's used
in Genesis, about the fullness of Israel.
Genesis 49, I think when he says Ephraim is going to be a multitude of nations, and here
he references that same, so all Israel will finally be saved, meaning God, the whole point
is, he's got to fulfill his promises.
So let me probe a few things I think are important.
So that's Paul's mission.
Right.
Now the suffering we can wait on, but part of it, to fill up the suffering is in collusion,
so you could maybe throw it out, but I think it's kind of Pauline thinking.
Remember the Deutero Pauline stuff is not like throw it in the trash.
We have to be careful because it has Pauline ideas, probably taught the people who followed
him.
But I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.
I'm going to be poured out on the altar, the sacrificial altar of your faith.
These are texts in genuine Paul.
So he believes that like Christ, he has to suffer.
He says, follow me as I follow Christ.
I'm going to the cross, folks, and he names all his sufferings, and he tells them they
got to do it too, and Jesus told them they got to do it too.
Remember, he said, if you want to follow me, there you go.
So, you know, so I do think, but he does think that the stage two of the redemption, this
is stage two, that will prepare for the parisea.
This is not all of humanity.
Stage two of the parisea is the new reconstituted Israel is going to be glorified.
And yeah, it'll seem like they're quote Gentiles because they became not my people.
So this is important to just bring up is that Paul identifies himself as a Jeremiah, so
to speak.
He's looking at Jeremiah as if Jeremiah is actually talking about him.
But Jeremiah was a prophet to the nations, but he's constantly talking about to Israel.
The lost tribes.
Right.
See, to him, then remember, he knows Hosea's idea because that's earlier.
They're not my people.
So when he's preaching that the Exodus to come, I call it Exodus two.
This is Jeremiah 31 and the new covenant, which is a new marriage, covenant is marriage.
God says, although I was a husband to them.
So what's the new covenant Jeremiah 31 31?
It's with the house of Israel and the house of Judah.
It's all of Israel back together in the land.
Now, Paul probably took it much more spiritually or symbolically.
Like when he brought the gifts up in a way, they're like, they don't have to move to the
land and set up a theocracy because he believes in a cosmic transformation.
So I'm not saying he's just like a literal.
That's and I love this.
You're doing great because it makes me want to say in short, simple terms, because definitions
help, Paul has a broadened understanding of Israel in a way that still lets the promises
be fulfilled.
But Abraham did too.
Remember, he circumcised his entire household.
Remember that?
He circumcised his entire household.
So they're now, they can eat the Passover, so to speak.
They can eat, you know, they're part of it.
So this just says outsiders could join.
Outsiders could join and outsiders did join.
And then what about Isaiah 56, which is the house of prayer for all people?
And I will gather to him, others then are gathered, and that's sort of convoluted.
But when you see where it is, Isaiah 56 talks all the time about everybody coming back.
And then I will gather others.
Jesus and John, other sheep I have that are not of this fold and so forth.
So I think Jason's really onto something.
He has many more ideas that work with this and go further.
I know he has two more.
One book is out and he has another book coming.
I think he's just really opening up some things that are so important.
And I think it couples with what I've said as well in terms of Paul's mission.
Paul's mission is to bring the redemption.
You say, well, Jesus's mission, yeah, but he didn't do it.
Jesus didn't bring the redemption.
Jesus inaugurated the redemption.
Paul is now finishing it.
Stage two.
Stage three is more vague.
Would you agree with Paula Fredrickson where it's the idea that, well, it didn't happen
yet.
The earliest possible movement of Jesus' followers and the disciples are going, it didn't happen
yet.
And Paul's taken upon himself going, we need to get the nations.
He feels called to get the nations because we see, well, it's almost like if you and
me were to read Genesis and we know there's 50 chapters and we're looking at this going,
well, this is supposed to end.
But in this book, I could find other things that didn't seem like they happened here.
Let's fulfill these prophecies at the last days, the lost tribes were supposed to come
back, which is part of the theme.
But also the nations, like you talk about with these books, Isaiah 2, Isaiah 11, you
know, Isaiah 66, Isaiah is big on this, but also Jeremiah does this and other books put
them.
And Mary said it'll rival the Exodus when it happens, you know.
And it's like he's trying to make it get fulfilled.
So do you think Paula Fredrickson's on something with that?
She's like, it's in stages, like you're talking about, but the stages are also saying, well,
the first stage, we thought it was going to happen then, but we have a second stage we
need to make sure happens.
Then the end isn't quite yet.
I haven't read that book.
I read when Christians were Jews and I know, of course, her Jesus was Nazareth book I reviewed.
So I'm not sure exactly what she's saying.
Let me tell you what I think might be going on and maybe it will parallel.
I would say the James Jerusalem people are expecting things much more politically and
literally.
And so they would maybe feel that there's a parallel with Paul going out and gathering
these people.
And here they are.
Used to worship idols and they go, no, I believe in the living God like Titus and I've given
up fornication and I'm trying to live a holy life and so forth.
But some of the group would think, well, if you're fully Israelite, you know, come on
in the tent.
You know, you're welcome to be our associates, but don't you want to be part of the inner
family too?
That could have been part of the thing.
But I am thinking, I mean, I just don't know.
Maybe James is just as cosmic as Paul, because I think the letter of James is James Ian.
You know, in that sense, it does give us a sort of different view of Christianity or
the movement, but it does.
I'm not so sure if it's giving us what the historical James thought, say in 40.
If you said like, what do you think the next 20 years old brain James, what did you and
your brother think?
I think he would have pretty well thought, well, you know, these legions that are occupying
the country, they're going to be gone.
I probably thought armies from heaven or whatever is going to help.
Probably like Qumran.
I would think it'd be.
Eisenman here, I would go with.
I don't know that, you know, James is part of the Qumran group.
I haven't become convinced of that, but where Eisenman is really good and people need to
recognize this is that he's identified a piety, a kind of faith and approach, a messy,
what he calls the messianic movement in Palestine, that does not start with Jesus.
And Jesus might be part of it, but, you know, we know from the scrolls and it's got a whole
vocabulary, a whole way of talking about righteousness and justice and so forth.
And it's, it's fully political.
Now with God on our side, you know, not like, oh, let's just, you know, we'll have, we'll
spend more on arms than they will and not like the United States, you know, beating
up Russia and the Cold War.
But it's certainly not pie in the sky or just somehow the Romans will just, no, the Romans
are going to get defeated.
Maybe it'll be Zachariah 14, do you remember Zachariah 14, right when they ready to surround
the country, all of a sudden their flesh just melts.
Last scene of Raiders of the Lost Ark, he got it right at his Zachariah.
These Nazis, they go, so maybe he's expecting something like that at Zachariah 14, final
battle.
So they saw Jerusalem surrounded by armies, they thought probably, oh wow, this, of course
he was dead then, he didn't get to see it.
But Paul, I don't know that Paul, he's a Jerusalem above guy.
I don't think he thought, I don't think he cared what happened to the city.
I don't think he didn't love to see it destroyed, but I don't think he particularly thought,
oh, we're all going to go back there and be farming in the Galilee or, he says, no, we're
going to be on a new creation, there'll be no more decay, no more death.
He's transcended, he's gone into what Christians generally say today, you know, shorthand you
die and go to heaven.
Now that's skipping everything, but they kind of mean that.
This world is not my home, I'm just passing through.
Is that Platonic, you think?
Absolutely.
Dualistic, Platonic.
And do you think Paul picked that up from that cultural?
Well, he didn't just pick, it's just in the air.
Yeah, and that's why I thought the whole Eucharist thing, and I don't want to go back there because
we already did an episode on it, but I feel like that might have been picked up in the
Greco-Roman world in some sense out here.
Possibly.
That refers to very specific rituals among certain kinds of mystery religions and so
forth, but there's a sentiment there, yeah.
But the thing is, Jonathan Smith was my teacher at Chicago Dissertation Director and all the
scholars will know who I'm talking about, he's just, I think he's the most brilliant
historian at religions of our time.
And he used to say, he's Jewish, and he used to say, you know, don't talk about Hellenized
Judaism.
There's no religion of the Hellenistic period, it's not Hellenized, they're all Hellenized.
And by that, you know, he's talking about their, they have a diaspora, they're not
locketive anymore, like we got this city, it's the holy city, this is going to be it.
You know, they're becoming utopian, they're worried about death and immortality and you
know, big questions.
God's becoming cosmopolitan.
Yeah, exactly.
Even like, how are demons going to get defeated finally forever?
We haven't talked about that, but like, remember Paul says, the big thing that we have to conquer
are the principalities and powers.
We act like we've demythologized this and that doesn't even exist.
As Frank Moracross said once, he was interviewing with Herschel Shanks, he said, I was raised
Presbyterian and you couldn't even swing a cat around without hitting a few demons,
which is not a great analogy for cat lovers, but you know, he's a Southerner.
But he was just saying like, we act like the world was a sterile scientific place.
No, if my car won't start right now when I go home, Satan hindered me.
And there are people that live like that today, as you know, don't you know Christians that
live like that?
I used to do that.
That whatever happens, and then maybe it was for a reason, because all things work together
for good to those who know.
So you were going to be in a car wreck, but God save you.
And then you try it again, and it's like, wow, thank you, Jesus, you know, not making
fun of it again.
I'm just, actually, that's a good thing to know.
Because if you want to imagine what they're living in, it's that worldview.
And Paul does that, Paul.
The Satan hindered me.
And not just Paul, probably, James and all the rest of them, there's no telling where
that demon is.
The Talmud is full of it.
The mission is full of it.
It's a cool thing to know, though, from, I have actual personal experience from that.
And that's cool to kind of look back and go, Paul, he's not much different than us when
it comes to this.
No, he was a fundamentalist.
I had dreams.
I had dreams at the end, Dr. Tabor.
I had real dreams.
I had two dreams.
I'll never forget them.
I've had plenty of dreams in my life just like you.
But one of the dreams was I was standing in a field, a girl I grew up with that lived
right around the corner, was standing there, and I looked over and there was fire.
The whole heavens turned to fire.
And I looked and the fire was coming down to earth and it started way off in the distance
coming closer to me.
It was a warning.
And it was coming to me and I went, Jesus.
She went, what the hell?
That's what she said.
And I went, Jesus.
And I closed my eyes and I woke up and there's this guy writing this big book with a feather
pin.
And he's like, everything's going to be okay, Derek.
Okay.
And then...
She got a revelation.
Right.
In my dream.
Where I was sitting on the front porch, thunderstorms and lightning, and I liked watching it, but
it's kind of scary at the same time.
It's peaceful.
And the lightning bolts struck me in my bosom, if I could use the term, my belly.
And it started to suck me up, like it was attached to me and I looked across the sky
and all these people were floating up with electric lightning bolts, you know, attached
to them, pulling them up into the sky and the rapture is what I kept thinking.
And so, I literally experienced these things.
I have other reasons why my approach to them, I take it more of a natural approach to things
these days, but I took it that serious so I can kind of imagine that Paul, living in
a world where Rome and the world around him is starting...
And demons especially.
For example, he says in 2 Corinthians 2, if they had known who Jesus was, the powers
that be, they wouldn't have crucified him, as they got tricked.
So they wouldn't have crucified the Lord of Glory, because by killing him, they started
the suffering glorification process for the cosmos.
If they had known that, they got, no, don't crucify him, let's get him another way, maybe
make him sin or something, but they had to just kill him.
These are the powers, this is 2 Corinthians 2, I think verse 8 or so.
So yeah, he's completely into this sort of thing.
And it's not either or, it's kind of sickness, he talks about his thorn in the flesh.
Wouldn't you agree though?
It's not either or, because there's a mythicist, for example, who will say, demons are all
that crucified him in the heavens, there were no human activity involved in Jesus' crucifixion.
But Paul isn't saying that either, it's like the Christian down the street...
And Islam says he wasn't even crucified, it was a body double.
Right.
But like, it's one of those things, it's like the car won't start down the street, Satan
did it, but imagine some guy snipped the battery, okay?
You got to kind of go, was it demons?
Well, yeah, I'm blaming the demons, but really that guy down the street's the one who snipped
my battery and why it won't start, but Satan's got it out for me and you're like, but the
guy did that.
Well, the demon caused the guy to do it.
Right.
And is that what you're saying?
You think Paul's dealing with the Romans and the Jews?
Or is it...
Does Paul blame the Jews?
He just believes in a cosmos that's like, thickly populated with all these forces.
And to have cosmic redemption and salvation, they have to be conquered, whatever that means,
he's the term conquered, put down, brought into subjection.
And he says, when all things are under his feet, God the Father has given him this job
to put down all things cosmetically.
One of the things he's going to do is eliminate decay from the whole cosmos.
For example, he says, he will change our lowly bodies like his glorious body.
Did you notice?
Like his glorious body, Christ's glorious body.
So by the power which enables him to subject all things to himself.
So Christ is the one that's doing this glorification thing.
God gave him the power to do this.
And you then, once you're glorified, you're going to share in this power.
He calls Christians joint heirs with the Messiah.
That doesn't just mean like, oh, Jesus likes me, I guess I'm his friend.
That means you are going to get exalted above every rule, authority and power in the whole
universe with God in this new cosmic family.
And that's Paul's greatest ideas I see in the book.
And most people haven't really noticed that, but it's all over the place once you see it.
You just can't read Paul with, oh, there it is, there it is, there it is.
Thank you.
