God had a wife?
What in the world?
William G. Diva wrote an entire book on this about the archaeology and the folk religion in ancient Israel.
Think about this.
The same people who knock on your doors or go around telling you that their God is the one true God and you're gonna cook for all eternity in hell,
that same God once had a wife,
literally had sex, had a father, has children, the whole nine.
It's very polytheistic and the evolution is visible. It's right under their noses.
However, their God is incorporeal, immaterial, omniscient, all-powerful, all-loving.
All they've done is added these things to the deity that is an ancient Near Eastern God and it has evolved over time.
So when you see the origins of this God, as I asked Joel Baden today,
Professor Baden responds,
Did God have a wife?
And what should that do or what the implication should be
for your God if this is the case?
Dr. Baden, what is your opinion regarding the cult of Asherah, a female deity worshiped mainly in the rural areas
who was possibly considered the wife of Yahweh?
This is a position advanced by Dr. William Dever and is based on
archaeological discoveries of her figurines in areas where Yahweh worship occurred.
What do you think about it?
Yeah, so I mean you get mentions of Asherah in the Bible,
though usually not
referring directly to her, usually referring to
sort of these like cultic poles or trees.
Right, so in Deuteronomy and in related texts, the Israelites are instructed to like
tear down the altars of the Canaanites and to cut down their Asherahs and knock over their standing like their pillars, right?
And the notion here is that in Canaanite religion
there were basically these are the three basic like
things that were at any cultic site. There was an altar and a tree or a pole of some sort representing a tree and
standing stone, a pillar.
And we have found pillars at cultic sites and we have, you know, the notion of cultic sites being
founded around trees is like even in the Bible with patriarchs sometimes do that sort of thing.
So
you know, there's, within Canaanite religion
there's, you know, Asherah is a
does seem to have been like a, Asherah is the tree part, right?
Like does seem to have been a major a major aspect and
within Canaanite religion, Asherah is a female goddess who is, you know, a consort of
of Baal, the main Canaanite deity.
Now, obviously in like what we call, think of as like orthodoxy, biblical orthodoxy, right?
Yahweh can't have anything to do with that, right? Like, because there's only, there's only the Yahweh and like there's no
you're like expressly forbidden to worship any other gods, all those things. And I'm, like,
biblically that's totally true.
What we have to remember is the Bible
doesn't represent
all of the people in Israel, right? The Bible is the production of
the super literate elite, right? Like very, very, very small thin upper, you know, percentage of
Israel that we can say for sure held the beliefs that we find in the Bible and even recognize that the beliefs in the Bible aren't consistent, right?
So the question is, okay, so
what were the people on the ground doing?
The answer is they were doing whatever the hell they wanted to do, right?
Like, and because Israel and Canaan were not nearly as separate as the Bible wants us to believe,
in fact, I'm not even sure that they might would have drawn, like your Israelite on the ground would have known that they were in Israelite and like the
person across the line there in the next handover was Canaanite, right? Like, it's that could have been that close.
So who were they, you know, whatever they were shipping Yahweh, okay, but like
they're gonna do it the way that their neighbors do it or the way that they, their ancestors did it. And so, yeah, I think there's no reason at all to think that
again, we don't want to think about it as like, what did everybody agree?
Right? I mean, that's not a thing that happens in religions or cultures, right?
There's no, there's no culture in which everybody agrees on, like, everything even about their, their faith, right? And I say this occasionally, right?
You know, Christianity, you had like Jesus and then one, like, and then you had Peter and Paul and like, suddenly they had people who didn't agree about the stuff.
And, you know, Islam, you had Muhammad and then one generation later, you've got the split that lasts this day. And Judaism has always had, you know, various like sects and groups.
Nobody agrees on all the things. Lutherans and Calvinists and Catholics, right? Like, there's disagreements.
Is there a trinity or not? Like, that's, it seems like a thing. Like, that's a big deal, you know, question.
You know, you couldn't say that everybody in America thinks the same thing about, about Jesus, even everyone who labels themselves as Christians.
And so in ancient Israel, I assume that not everybody thought the same thing about Yahweh, right?
Like, some people thought Yahweh had a consort named Asherah. Some people probably didn't.
Doesn't make either of them more or less like authentic as Yahweh worshipers, just like different flavors of Yahweh worship in the same way that we and everybody throughout all of history has always had different flavors of worship of their various deities.
So I don't want to go so far as to say that in ancient Israel, Asherah was Yahweh's consort. That makes it sound like everybody would have agreed.
But like, I had no doubt at all that there were people in ancient Israel who thought that Yahweh had a consort, you know, a female, you know, partner named Asherah.
We do. There's some archaeological evidence that might support such a thing. It wouldn't surprise me at all, right?
Just as it doesn't surprise me to find people who say, no, right? Just, just him. Just his own thing.
So I think that's the important thing, is it's not a yes or no question.
It's like, yeah, probably. And probably people believed all sorts of stuff that we don't have any record of at all.
You know, if it's not in the Bible and we don't have like clear archaeological evidence for it.
Like, beliefs, you know, can disappear real quick, right? If you don't have anything to tie it down.
And I'm sure there are some things that we have found archaeologically that we're misinterpreting because we don't have any textual, like, anchor against which to measure what we're looking at.
You know, so that's, you know, our evidence is just not at all complete. And on the other side, again, the Bible seems to make reference to kinds of practices.
You know, we have, Jeremiah has a line about, you know, people worshiping the Queen of Heaven.
Like, I don't know that we have great archaeological evidence for Queen of Heaven.
But like, the Bible tells us about all sorts of stuff that people are doing wrong that we can assume people were doing, right?
Like, you know, when it says don't worship Asherah, for sure people were worshiping Asherah.
When it says don't sacrifice your kids, probably somebody was sacrificing their kids.
When it says, every time it says don't, we can assume somebody was.
And we may not have archaeological evidence for all of that stuff.
And anyway, so it's a complicated picture.
But yeah, for sure, I would bet good money that some people had Asherah, the, you know, the Canaanite goddess, as linked in with Yahweh.
And I wonder, you know, this is completely just a speculative idea, just thinking about it.
How much we don't have writings or archaeological data that Israelites worshipped or practiced or did, or Canaanites, if you will, going back.
We just, there's no telling when you go, I mean, obviously, if you don't have the evidence for it.
But how nuanced this movement over the thousands of years that we have, you know, we just, there's no telling.
But since we're talking about wives, why don't we get into family ideas real quick, briefly in that vein and say, all right, sounds like Yahweh had a dad.
In some of this ancient world, or for example, even in the text, you, you could kind of argue that Israel, so you have like this pantheon of deities surrounding the throne of God.
And it looks like Israel becomes Yahweh's inheritance, but inheritance from who? Who gave him?
I see where you're going now.
Yeah.
Yeah. So again, we want to remember that Israel's understanding of Yahweh is a mixture of all sorts of stuff.
Right.
But there's some authentic original Yahweh stuff.
Yahweh is a storm god, it seems, from the south somewhere.
And then there's all the stuff that Israel borrowed from Canaanite religion.
And then there's stuff that Israel borrowed from Egyptian religion and Mesopotamian religion over, over time in various ways.
So, you know, Israel talks about Yahweh as their national deity.
And so they tell stories that are really Yahweh.
But Canaan, and the same thing that Canaan talks about, like Baal is Canaan's national deity as it were, but Baal is part of a pantheon.
And Baal's got a dad named El, right, which is where we get the Hebrew word El, meaning God, right?
Elohim also meaning God.
And there are parts of the Bible where it looks like Yahweh is being understood as belonging to something like a pantheon also.
Like Psalm 82 is like a classic here, right?
You know, Yahweh stands up, stands up in the divine assembly.
It's called like the assembly of El, right?
Like the chief god.
And like essentially tells all the other gods that they've failed at their jobs and he's going to take over now, right?
Which is like a moment of both recognition, recognition of that sort of pantheon multi deity past.
And also like a move towards like, but now Yahweh is the dominant one.
Kind of like Marduk takes over.
Yeah, sure.
Sure, sure.
I mean, it happens all over the place in various ways.
But you know, the notion, the language you're talking about with the notion of Israel being Yahweh's inheritance, I'm not sure is, I don't want to take that too far, right?
That's like inheritance there doesn't mean like it's been passed down necessarily from someone else.
It means more like permanent, like permanent possession, right?
And inheritance, inheritance was like this, the inviolable property that couldn't be taken away from.
It belongs to your family and belong to you in perpetuity, you and your descendants, etc.
So it's okay for even in like a totally monotheistic way.
I think it's okay for Yahweh to say, right?
Israel is my inheritance because it means they're like my permanent, my permanent holding, right?
Like they are mine forever.
The flip side of that is part of the language of Israel being Yahweh's possession is the notion that other nations belong to other deities, right?
Israel is Yahweh's possession.
But you know, Moab is Kamosha's possession and Amon is Milcoma's possession and Canaan is Baal's possession.
And like, that's the way that they understood stuff.
That doesn't require there to be a parental figure.
But there is, in addition to that, there is a like myth that runs occasionally through, like a very small thread through the Bible,
that not, that every deity has its own nation, right?
That they're connected to because at the beginning of time, all of the nations and the gods were doled out by potentially like the like elder, elder God of the pantheon, right?
Known as Elion, right?
Like the, which comes out in English as like supreme highest.
But we know from non biblical texts that like in Canaanite theology, there was a, like this is Elion is the title for El the creator God, right?
And there's a notion when Elion creates everything, he says, okay, here's this people goes in this place with this deity and this people goes in this place with this deity.
You find this in Deuteronomy 32 in this old poem, or at least in the poem that refers to this old myth, the distribution of lands and deities and Israel's the one that Yahweh gets.
And that's, that's the story of why do we, right?
So I don't want to go so far as to say like Yahweh had a father.
That's a little bit too much because it's like, it's a little, it's a little too conflating of Canaanite pantheon and Yahweh.
But like they're definitely, but Yahweh participates in a lot of the same myths that involve pantheons and divine family groups, I suppose.
In any case, family or not, it's a good reminder that there's plenty of stuff in the Bible that is reflective of a polytheistic understanding, polytheistic background, Canaanite background, right?
It's all, it's all in there.
It's all sort of been like lumped into Yahweh.
Thank you.
