Did Muhammad lead an invasion on Palestine?
The Islamic voices say no.
He died in 632.
Non-Muslim sources that date earlier than the Muslim sources
say he was alive at the invasion of Palestine
that he may have been there as an apocalyptic voice,
someone who thinks the end is about to happen.
Today, Dr. Steven J. Schumacher takes a deep dive
with me on MythVision, discussing this very issue
of apocalypticism, but also why was Jerusalem
in the direction that Muslims used to pray?
And then that shifts and they relocate that direction.
Early voices may be hinted at Muslim sources,
but just like Christianity shifts and change,
and it doesn't take long for that to happen,
the same may have happened on the Islamic voices.
Are they trustworthy?
Are their sources accurate?
And this is why being critical, being a critical scholar,
it's necessary when we approach the subject matter.
I hope you take the deep dive with us
and go get in his books, because they're amazing.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have an extremely special treat today.
I cannot tell you how honored I am today
to be the first person remotely
on the YouTube waves, if you will, to interview
Dr. Steven J. Schumacher.
Thank you so much for joining me today.
Thank you, thank you for inviting me on.
I really do appreciate you.
And if you don't mind,
I just wanna give a special shout out to Dr. Sean Anthony.
Thank you, brother, for helping encourage him
to give me this opportunity.
And of course, with your wonderful scholarship
and Dr. Bart D. Ehrman, for also putting in a good word
for MythVision and giving us this opportunity,
I really appreciate both of you.
Thank you, gentlemen, for that.
This is your first time joining us here at MythVision,
so I wanted to allow you, if you don't mind,
to tell us your credential, your background,
a little bit about you,
because instead of me reading out this long bio,
and trust me, you have a long bio with a lot of experience,
how would you describe yourself for a lay audience
that's out there watching this today?
The simplest explanation is I work on the history
of religion in the early Middle Ages,
the end of antiquity, and what's today the Middle East.
Simply put, and he has credentials to back that up.
I really highly recommend everybody to go get,
specifically, we're gonna be discussing Islam
and its early rise, but these are the three books
I cannot tell you how important these are on reading.
He's a paradigm changer, really.
His work is pioneering an idea of apocalypticism
in early Islam, unlike anyone else
that I've been reading, others make hints to it,
but this is highly recommended, I suggest that.
I also highly suggest go down in the description,
look at the Amazon link, he also has books on Mary,
hopefully we can explore that someday.
There's a lot of material here,
go check them out, Steven J. Shoemaker,
down in the description, so I do appreciate that,
everybody make sure you go help support the guests
that I have on, that's the reason they're here.
So with that being said, I also wanted to mention
that if people wanted to go to the university you're at,
they could potentially go check out your actual website
and sign up if they wanted to go to college
and listen to you teach in person.
Can you tell us if you want to talk to your website?
Well, it's mostly a website for teaching purposes.
I started doing online things back
when I first started teaching around the late 90s
and I was trying to use a lot of public domain stuff
to save my students money back then.
And I've just kind of stuck with it.
I've updated a little bit maybe
to promote some of my work a little better.
You can see the books down the side there
and I have a link to the journal,
Early Christian Studies up at the top there,
which I'm the editor of that,
some of the most prestigious journal in the field
of Early Christian Studies, I'm very proud to say.
So it also can bring some people there,
but yeah, it's mainly a teaching website.
Most of my hits, I think, come from students.
I require hits in effect.
Well, I enjoyed going here and checking it out.
I wish I could join and check out your courses
and be taught by you in person
based on what I've actually heard.
So thank you so much for giving us that.
I just want people to know how they can go support
with where they can go and support
and really educate themselves
because there's so much here.
So professor, to start with,
I want to show you what got me interested
in the topic of the discussion today.
And it was this clip that I found of Dr. Robert Hoyland
that I'd like to play if you don't mind.
The observations that are made by non-Muslim sources
are a bit difficult to know what to deal with.
So for example, they say that Muhammad is alive
during the conquest of Jerusalem.
So he's alive.
In the Muslim accounts, he dies in Arabia.
And that's it.
Before the conquest had properly started,
that happens with his successor, Abu Bakr.
But in a number of Christian sources,
they have him go to Palestine.
And the aim, it seems,
is that he wants to capture Jerusalem.
Jerusalem is key to his program in the Christian account.
But that's not really there in the Muslim account.
That really piqued my interest.
You could see why.
Yeah, sure.
Have you met Dr. Hoyland?
And what are your thoughts, maybe?
Only a couple of times.
Only a couple of times.
Oh, he's a real inspiration.
I mean, his work on seeing Islam
really made this all possible in a way for folks
to just time look at the full panoply of the sources
available for thinking about the beginnings of Islam, right?
I mean, he wasn't the first to sort of draw our attention
to this.
I think we owe that to Sebastian Brock
and to Patricia Krona and Michael Cook.
But he was the first to systematically inventory
all of these texts.
And up until that point,
really we're talking the late 70s.
It's not that long ago when Brock and Krona and Cook first
said, hey, what about all the Christian sources?
People are only looking at the Islamic sources
for any knowledge of the beginnings of Islam.
And of course, it's no secret
that these sources are all written down very late.
They are based on memories that are being told orally
for a hundred years, at least in most cases.
So yeah, the Christian sources or the non-Islamic sources
by and large are written in the middle of things
to a large extent.
Some of them are later, he catalogs those as well,
but they're all a very important witness
to what is going on in this part of the world,
in this time and place.
I mean, for instance, I suppose a lot of your audience
is familiar with early Christian studies, right?
No one who's trying to understand the beginnings
of Christianity would just simply ignore all of the evidence
that we can glean from Greco-Roman literature
for understanding the context
and even understanding what these people are saying
about Christianity, so.
Well put, very well put.
So the title of the show today
is Did Muhammad Lead an Invasion of Palestine?
If you're ready, let's begin.
So the first thing I'd like to bring up is Sibios.
If I'm pronouncing that correct, is it Sibios?
I would say Sibios.
Sibios, okay, I wanna try and be on the same wavelength
of pronunciation as much as possible.
So Sibios, I would like to start by showing a video
of our first manuscript, Sibios.
This manuscript is kept at the,
and I'm gonna butcher this,
Mantanadarian in Yerevan, Armenia?
Mantanadarian in Yerevan.
Yerevan, Armenia.
Mantanadarian.
I tried, I really did.
Yeah, it's a mouthful, it's a mouthful.
For anybody who's wanting to source me,
and I hope they do, especially if you're being critical
of what I have going on, here's the website
that you can go and actually check it out yourself.
So make sure you do so.
With that being said, let me go ahead and play the clip.
For the first time in Armenian,
someone talks about Muhammad.
He mentions him by name and says a little bit
about what he did.
Sibios himself was talking about the events
around the year 630,
which was before Muhammad had actually died.
Sibios gives a surprisingly accurate account
of Muhammad's background and teachings.
Translating from the Armenian.
At that time, a certain man whose name was Muhammad,
which is the usual name for Muhammad in Armenian,
a merchant, as if by the command of God,
appeared to them as a preacher.
Now, Muhammad gave them laws,
namely not to eat carrion, not to drink wine,
not to speak falsehood, and not to engage in fornication.
There's a short clip of Sibios.
And so this is a voice that, like you said,
we wouldn't want to ignore Greco-Roman sources
on Christianity that are non-Christian.
And Sibios is one of these that is non-Muslim.
And this manuscript is a printed version
of several Armenian texts out of which one of them is Sibios.
It was copied in 1672 from the original Sibios manuscript,
which was written in 660 AD.
And I just want to mention that.
Can you tell us more about this
and how important it is?
Yeah, this account from Sibios is,
I would say probably the single most important account
we have about the beginnings of Muhammad's
new religious movement, which for various reasons,
I don't call Islam at this point.
I don't think they even call themselves Muslims
at this point, and Islam is something
that develops later out of this religion.
They seem to have called themselves the believers,
which is a hypothesis that Fred Donner advanced
and I think is quite correct.
So I think it's probably the best witness we have.
And for instance, actually my friend and colleague,
Sean Anthony, who you also mentioned,
we more or less agree on this.
We disagree about a lot of stuff.
We work together about things.
We're friends.
We argue a lot.
The one thing I think we both agreed on,
and forgive me, Sean, if I'm speaking at a turn for you,
but we both agree that this account from Sibios
is really, really important to how we understand it.
Well, he and I might understand it somewhat differently,
but it's not just that the chronicle is written
around 660, we think, but according to Robert Thompson
and the others who've worked on it,
the chronicle made use of older sources.
And we believe that for this section, or they believe,
and I believe them, they're more expert on this than I am,
that this particular section about the beginnings
of Islam was probably written around the 640s
by an author in Jerusalem.
And this author tells us that he got his information
by talking with people who had been taken captive
among Muhammad's followers,
and had just spent some time with them.
So, can we believe any of this?
Well, it's always a question.
I mean, this is the thing about trying
to reconstruct the past.
We have to be suspicious,
but we're also trying to find what's probable.
And there are a lot of probables in favor of this source
being as reliable as sources were gonna apply.
And one of the things that's interesting about it, too,
is as it continues on,
this was something that wasn't in your clip
from Robert Thompson,
Sevius talks about how Muhammad and his followers,
a group of Jews and Arabs together,
united together in a single cause,
their goal was to liberate the Holy Land,
the Promised Land of Abraham.
They're both descendants of Abraham, right?
They both, as descendants of Abraham,
have a right to the land,
according to biblical tradition.
And so this would explain,
I go back to your comment from Professor Hoylan,
Robert, the other Robert.
It does seem there's a lot of noise
in the non-Christian sources around their main
goal and the Holy Land.
And now he's suggested something that I think
in the Islamic sources,
there's not so much to corroborate that,
but I think there is.
And I've written about this,
you'll see some of this in the death of a prophet,
especially and also in the apocalypse of empire.
There is a lot of noise also in the Islamic tradition
about Jerusalem.
You only have to look at the dome of the rock
to see that there's something going on there, right?
This was the first Islamic monument built.
It's not a mosque.
It's built over the site of the temple, right?
Jerusalem still retains this third holiest status
in the Islamic tradition today.
All of Islam's eschatological traditions,
it's apocalyptic traditions remain,
soldered to Jerusalem and to the Temple Mount.
Where's all this coming from?
If it's not that Jerusalem was important pretty early on,
right?
If from the beginning it had been all about Mecca
and Medina, then why would all this stuff for Jerusalem
come in in the first place, right?
On the other hand, if Jerusalem was important
in the beginning and then things sort of shifted
a little bit and Mecca and Medina became more important,
then it's kind of easy to understand
why there are all these vestiges of Jerusalem's significance
lying around in a religion that for centuries now
has seen Mecca and Medina as its main holy places.
Wow, that is wonderfully put.
I really appreciate you talking about that.
And we're gonna bring up a few of those sources
visually for people here in just the coming time.
The Doctrina de Jacobi, am I saying this correct?
Jacobi, Doctrina de Jacobi?
Again, I would say Jacobi, but you know,
take the patata.
Hey, just making sure, you know, I'm trying, I'm trying.
I would like to show our second manuscript,
the Doctrina de Jacobi, if I'm saying this correct.
This manuscript is kept at the Bibliotech,
National de France, and just for everybody
to do a good service and be critical,
go and check it out.
In fact, you can do the website in French or English
to go check my sources.
You think I'm making this up?
Go check it out yourself.
I'm saying that for those who are so skeptical.
You can't believe a word I'm saying and I understand.
That's okay.
So just for everybody's awareness,
this particular manuscript is a 10th century copy
of the original that was written in 634 AD in Greek.
Inside of the red portion is the actual part of the text
that says, a prophet appeared with the Saracens,
or if you will, A-Rabs.
Can you tell us a little bit about this particular,
this situation here between these two?
This is just a continuation in the next page
on the Doctrina de Jacobi.
Yeah, this is an incredibly remarkable text.
There's a fairly, there's some people who would debate it,
who would, sorry, would place it a little bit later in time,
but there's a pretty strong consensus at the moment
that this is indeed a text that reflects some,
some circumstances in 634 in a particular community
of converted Jews in North Africa.
The broader context of all of this is it's a debate
among these Jews.
There's been a force, there had been a forced baptism
and many of the Jews had been baptized unwillingly
and some of them decided, well, okay, let's become Christians
and they're debating about, you know,
whether this was a good idea and then someone new comes in
who wasn't there when all this happened.
And now he's having a debate with them
about whether they should have embraced Christianity
and then sort of in the middle of all of this,
someone gets a letter from a relative who's back in Palestine
and this letter says, hey, here's what's going on
back here in Palestine.
This prophet has appeared coming with the Saracens, right?
And the account continues, it says, you know,
he says he has the keys of the kingdom,
if I remember correctly.
And the Jewish author says that he seems to be preaching
that the Messiah is coming,
whether that's something that this prophet was saying
or whether that's how it sounded in Jewish years,
that's another question.
Oh, I think it could be both ways,
but yeah, this is the first source we have
that mentions Muhammad, not by name.
But, you know, I run in some interesting groups.
I mean, I have some colleagues who want to argue
that Muhammad didn't even exist
and that the name Muhammad is kind of,
the name Muhammad, right, just means the praised one.
And so it's not really a name,
it's just a title that was given to him
and but he wasn't really a real person and things like that.
Well, you know, to them I say,
actually the two sources we've talked about,
put that to rest.
And again, I know Bart, who was one of my mentors,
he had to write a whole book,
you know, arguing that Jesus actually existed.
Some people are so skeptical.
Hope I'm not offending any of your audience out there,
but you know, these kind of things are,
these are a little too skeptical, right?
Again, we're dealing with probability
and it's highly probable that Jesus existed.
It's highly probable that there was a prophet
who his followers called Muhammad,
who was at the beginning of this religious movement, right?
And two main sources are gonna be
that we have this text from 634 saying that he's alive
and he's coming to the Holy Land.
And then we also have this text
which we just talked about, Sebeos, right,
which names him, Muhammad.
And so between these two,
I think there's, you know, it's pretty hard to, you know,
give me your wasting time
about something that's relatively,
if you're arguing that you're wasting time
about something that's pretty settled,
when there are a lot more interesting things to debate
that are up in the air, so.
I'm with you on that.
And I'm definitely someone who thinks
that it's more probable there was a guy,
though I wouldn't mind interviewing someone
who's an academic who is taking a different position.
I'd be interested to hear what they have to say,
but I'm like that with you as well
in that particular position.
Moving on to Michael the Syrian.
Now we move on to our third manuscript,
and I want everybody to take the opportunity
to look at this particular church.
This is a, this church, St. George's Church
in Aleppo, Syria is actually where they keep the manuscript
or is kept, it's kept there right now.
And you know, you can look into this yourself.
This is the manuscript that we're talking about.
And it's a copy of the original written in Syriac
before 1199 AD.
In particular, what we're trying to zero in on
is this part right here.
And this part right here on this manuscript,
the translation of the yellow highlighted text says,
he began to make from them for himself a band,
and he went out to make raids in the land of Palestine.
Isn't this indisputable proof that Muhammad did lead
an invasion into Palestine?
At least historically, if we're making an argument,
what are your thoughts?
Well, what it proves is that someone remembered that, right?
Now that's just another step to say,
why did they remember that?
Did they remember that because that's what really happened?
Or is there another reason that that memory came to be?
That's one sort of way to look at this.
Another way to look at this too is what does Palestine mean?
So we think of Palestine as maybe what's today
the land that has the states of Israel and Palestine in it.
In the Roman period, Palestine was much larger.
And so there was a region of Palestine
that went fairly far out into the deserts,
to the east and the south of the Roman Empire.
And we do indeed, in Muhammad's biographies,
have some traditions of him leading raids
up into this territory.
So is that all it is?
It could be, but what we find instead is,
we find out that's not the only piece of evidence.
If that were the only thing that said Muhammad went
to Palestine, then it would be pretty reasonable to say,
yeah, that's what it's referring to.
But when we pull together all these other sources, right?
And in the death of a prophet,
I think I have 11 or 12 of them, I can't remember.
One of them is a Jewish source, actually.
They're not all Christian sources, as Robert said.
And one of them is an early Islamic source
that seems to indicate that Muhammad was going with them
as they went forth into this part of the world.
And the Christian sources are spread out
in different confessional communities.
The Christians are divided amongst themselves at this point.
But we have a source from Spain that says,
we have this Armenian source, right?
We have Arabic-Egyptian sources.
We've got this Greek source from North Africa, right?
Those of your viewers who know historical Jesus stuff,
who know of art stuff,
we're talking about multiple independent attestation, right?
We're talking about a tradition
that is reported independently multiple times, right?
And when you have that kind of evidence,
that's the gold standard, as I always say.
That's the best we're gonna get.
So what we have is not just a report
in the Chronicle of Michael the Syrian,
which is quite late, actually.
And the value of that when this depends on
the fact that it seems to be using an older source
that eventually goes back into the early eighth century,
if I'm remembering correctly.
It's been a while since I've worked on this.
But when you get all of this together,
you have to reckon with the fact
that there clearly was, in the seventh century,
a memory that Muhammad was still alive
at the time of the Islamic conquest.
Does that mean that actually happened?
I can't say that, but I can say it's for some reason.
A lot of different people were remembering that time
in a way that involved Muhammad's leadership
of this invasion of the Near East.
Not necessarily even just Palestine,
some sources are in my bag saying he's leading
the leadership of the Near East,
but he's supposed to die in Medina
before any of that happens.
And here's another thing with this tradition.
We don't get any tradition that contradicts it.
So we have a multiple independent attestation
in a dozen sources from all over the place
in the first century of Islam.
We don't get anything that contradicts it
until 100 years after Muhammad's death.
And that's when we get the first written records
of the Islamic tradition about the end of Muhammad's life
where he becomes ill and dies in Medina
before all of this happens.
Now, is it possible that what the Islamic tradition
remembers is true?
Yes, it is possible, right?
But on the other hand, is it possible
that these other reports, which are earlier
and which, unlike the Islamic tradition,
have multiple independent attestation in their favor,
that at least we could say that this was the earliest memory
about the end of Muhammad's life, right?
Maybe it's not true either,
but I think the evidence speaks very strongly
that the earliest memory was of Muhammad
still alive and leading at this time.
And the Islamic tradition has a different memory
that only appears later on.
And so what the death of a prophet was
was basically an attempt to think about,
well, okay, how do we deal with this difference
in our sources, right?
And how would someone say this was Jesus
if we had traditions about Jesus that were like this, right?
How would someone who was a Jesus scholar,
who was a New Testament scholar go about trying
to sort through the different reports
and validate them historically?
And if we think this was an early tradition
that Muhammad was still alive,
why do we get a later tradition in the Islamic sources
that he died before all this happened?
And the broader argument you'll see
across a lot of my books is, again,
it goes back to this reorientation about Jerusalem.
I think it's really clear that they were more interested
in Jerusalem than they were in Mecca and Medina
in the early decades.
This is not a horribly controversial thing to say even,
right?
The original direction of prayer, it's quite clear.
The very few people would dispute this was Jerusalem.
Even in the Islamic sources, there's a memory of this, right?
What's going on?
I think Jerusalem was their main holy site,
was the aspiration of their religion in these early decades
and only later for a variety of reasons.
And I guess I'll give you a teaser.
If you wanna find out why, you gotta buy the book.
Yeah, yes.
It's a little complicated to explain here too,
but their sacred geography, I think, changes.
I think Jerusalem's important at first,
Mecca and Medina become more important later on.
Some people say, oh, they have nothing to do
with Mecca and Medina.
Well, again, I think that we don't have to go there, right?
We can simply say, well, here's a pattern
that Jerusalem seems to have been important originally.
Mecca and Medina probably emerged as important later on.
And I think if we're looking for a context
in which memories about how Muhammad ended his life
could change, it's in the context of that change, right?
Once Jerusalem and the Holy land isn't the end all be all,
but Mecca and Medina become what's important,
you're gonna wanna remember the end of Muhammad's life
in a way that fits with what you believe.
And that is, in the eighth century,
the holiness of Mecca and Medina
as a unique, distinctly Islamic Holy land.
This factors in wonderful stuff
that Sean Anthony talks about in his book
about whether Muhammad was a shepherd or a merchant
and the non-Muslim sources, they don't shy away.
They just say, yeah, he's a merchant, he was this.
And then you have this kind of shy away happening
where he's more of a shepherd in the Islamic tradition.
So I think you're on to something here.
Maybe we'll talk more about that as we get through.
Once we're done with some of these sources,
it'll be cool to maybe like small talk
on a little bit of this here,
but this fragment of the Arab conquest in 636 AD,
this little circled spot right here,
I think is Robert Hoylent's actual,
he had circled this initially where Muhammad's name comes up.
Can you tell us about the fragment of the Arab conquest?
I looked at it once a long time ago.
I think it's debated whether this is actually reconstructed
as Muhammad, so there's not universal agreement
that this is, if I'm remembering correctly,
there's not universal agreement
that this is the earliest attestation of Muhammad.
And this is a pretty vague fragment.
It doesn't tell us much other than that,
the followers of Muhammad had appeared on the scene, right?
That could mean a lot of things actually, right?
I mean, the followers of Muhammad could be people
who were following Muhammad who was dead by this time, right?
So again, on its own,
if this were the only source that had any kind of indication
in this regard, we would probably say,
yeah, well, that's what it means, right?
But when you start lining it up again
with all these other reports,
you kind of have to wonder if even this source,
as vague as it is, is also bearing witness
to a group of Muhammad's followers
who are coming into the Near East,
quite possibly with him still as their leader.
Wow, okay.
What about this source, Thomas the Presbyter, 640 AD?
Is there anything magical about this
that we should look at?
Yeah, I'm racking my head.
I can't remember exactly what that source says
without looking at it.
And I don't have, I'm not with,
my library is not here with me in Germany, unfortunately,
and I haven't been thinking about this stuff in a while.
But actually, if you wanna see what Thomas says,
by the way, shameless plug, you can go get my book.
The prophet has appeared,
which translates all of these sources
with historical commentary for,
really designed for classroom use.
So I think it would be good
for a lot of your audience.
Yep, there it is, the prophet has appeared.
So we can all go look at that
and refresh our memories as to what Thomas says.
I can't recommend these books enough.
Like I really hope people will take the time
to go get them and they're fun to read.
Even the introduction I'm currently reading in particular
on the book on the far right for those watching,
The Apocalypse of Empire,
it forces me to have to have the death of a prophet.
And then that's forcing me,
I'm going backwards, of course, you could already tell,
but I'm really, really wanting to get through all this stuff.
And maybe we can have an episode teasing everybody to join
and go get it and take a look at it.
So I want to do a connection between Sebios
and the Doctrina Jacoby,
or I hope I'm saying this right.
Here's an analogy.
Let's say Sebios reported that Derek, it's me,
was an owner of a podcast called MythVision
and Derek said that the best place to party is in New York
and he went out with some hippies.
And the Doctrina Jacoby said in New York,
there was this guy who was an owner of a podcast
and he came to a party with some hippies.
Surely putting two and two together,
the person identified would imply it's most likely me.
It just wouldn't make any sense
to probably go any other way.
Especially during this time, I suspect,
if we were to put this back in time.
Would you in particular think that's a good analogy
or would you have a better analogy to maybe put
for connecting the two sources there?
Well, that's what I'm saying.
I think there's significant, right?
I think the fact that there is this,
the way I would look at it as a historian is I would say,
well, there's a memory of some guy named Derek
having gone to New York to party with some hippies, right?
Memory is a tricky thing, the more you learn this.
And it could be that they both are dependent
on someone's misunderstanding of something, right?
I mean, this is always the case.
Someone misunderstood the nature of Muhammad
or misremembered the name of this guy
who was there with the party and told two people
and then that's how they told it.
Now, this is why, again, this idea
of multiple independent attestation is so important.
Now, if we had 10 sources that said something like this
about Derek and his partying hippies,
I would think we'd want to take it seriously.
And I guess that's the main thing,
that's the main, was the main point of death of a prophet was,
you can't ignore this.
I don't know if it's true.
I really don't.
I mean, it's hard to know what happened long ago.
And these people didn't have an idea
of trying to be historically accurate
like we did in every case.
But I don't see any way to avoid concluding
that there was a memory and it was the earliest memory
and it was from the seventh century
that Muhammad was alive at the time that his father
and leading his followers at the time
when they invaded the Near East into the 630s,
mid 630s after he's supposed to have been dead in Medina.
If other people want to come up with other interpretations
of what that means or why we would have
these two different traditions, I'm all for it.
I've given mine, but it was mostly it's,
the whole point of that book was like, hey, look,
you can't just pretend this didn't happen.
And I'll do respect to, again, to Robert Hoylund
who I admire a great deal, it was an article of his
that largely inspired me to write the death of a prophet.
And the whole story with that book goes back to
when I was in graduate school,
probably my best friend at the time
was a guy named John Lamarrow
who works on Christian Arabic
and he was doing a PhD in Islam at the time.
And he trains a lot in Christian studies before that.
And we would always talk about,
why isn't there a critical discourse on the Quran
and on early Islam, the way there is on early Judaism
and early Christianity.
And that's a whole nother,
it's a whole nother kello fish, as it were,
to talk something about that.
But he brought up to me,
he made me aware of this book called Hagarism
by Patricia Grone and Michael Cook,
which is absolutely brilliant work
and it's absolutely flawed.
But it just for the first time said,
hey, look at all the things that the Christian sources
are saying, and we can't just keep ignoring this.
And in all that, the one that stuck out to me like a diamond
was this passage that Mohammed's still alive
at the time of the Conquest.
And they mentioned it and I go back and look at the footnotes
and I'm looking at the sources this is in
like light bulbs are going on over my head,
like, wow, a multiple independent attestation
because I've been trained in biblical studies.
This is good stuff.
Why is everyone just ignoring this?
And I kind of put it in the back burner and thought,
well, maybe someday I'll write something about that.
And then it was Robert wrote a nice article
about life of Mohammed in Christian sources
that was in an edited volume somewhere
to Robert Poiland, not Robert Thompson.
And then he said, basically,
the Christian sources say this,
but of course they're all wrong.
I mean, it's not a direct quote,
but I think it's a pretty accurate paraphrase.
Okay, that's out there now.
So now something has to be said.
So I started out to write an article
I was hoping I could just write a quick article
that would point this out.
Look, here's this evidence,
biblical scholars would take this real seriously.
And then it became a very long book actually,
which kind of surprised me, which is the death of a prophet.
So again, a lot of it is about trying to hold things
to the same standard, right?
Trying to study, I think this is important
for the discourse of religious studies.
We're critical of religion.
We're critical of things that people hold very dear.
As dear as the people they love, their parents.
And we're like being critical of people's parents, right?
So it's hard, it comes as a hard blow sometimes for people,
but one of the things that I think is important
for someone who is a scholar
of the critical study of religion is to be consistent.
And to say, you know what, this isn't personal,
this isn't your mother,
I'm doing the same thing to everyone else's mother.
Right?
I'm gonna ask the same critical questions
about my tradition, your tradition, everybody's tradition.
And this hasn't been being done in the study of Islam.
There are exceptions.
I'm not the voice of one crying in the wilderness
by any means.
But I guess I think you've realized,
and probably some of your viewers have as well,
it's a real minority voice,
and it is very much marginalized within the academy
and study of Islam.
I don't know that I could write the kind of things
I'm interested in writing if I were an Islamist
rather than a historian of late ancient
and early medieval religion.
Because again, there are pressures in the academy
and not always for the wrong reasons to be clear,
not to be critical of Islam, right?
Then I'm not trying to be critical of Islam,
I'm trying to be a critical historian, right?
Simply asking questions using the same frame of mind,
the same methods, the same skepticism
that I would for any other tradition.
It's not any kind of critique of Islam,
any more than doing it for Christianity is a creek of,
Christianity or a creek of Judaism
or a creek of Buddhism or Hinduism, take your pick.
It's just about creating a kind of critical discourse
about these traditions,
for those people who are interested in that approach, right?
We scholars of religion, we're not out here trying to,
well, most of us, I would say,
I certainly speak for myself in this regard,
and I know many others,
we're not out trying to prove that religion isn't true,
we're not trying to show that it's a bad thing,
we're just interested in understanding it
through this particular lens.
And I don't want to be very committed to what we can learn,
what even people of faith can learn
about their own tradition,
from looking at it from this different way.
And as one committed to that,
it's important to me flexually,
it's also important to me pedagogically in the classroom
to have this kind of consistency.
If we're going to present our undergraduate students
with a very skeptical, critical view
of these other religious traditions,
I think it's only fair that we also have a discourse
about Islam that we teach them
that is grounded in the same kind of principles.
Anyway, I'm going on too.
No, no, no, I love it, I'm glad.
I wanted you to do that,
I'm glad that you actually are expressing that,
because one of the things that happens with,
in the world I live in,
in terms of YouTube world, the internet world,
and then you got people on corners
that are arguing and debating,
is typically the criticism I hear
that is trying to be critical of Islam,
or the tradition and the history and the prophet and stuff,
are mostly coming from,
mostly from Christian fundamentalists,
who are trying to say, mine is better than yours, okay?
And there's this competition
where the Muslims are saying mine is better than yours.
I've kind of came in in this weird little entrance,
where it's like, eh, I'm gonna be critical of all of this,
just like I'm critical with Christianity,
just like I'm critical with the Hebrew Bible,
which in effect, if you're a religious devout person,
you will not like the things
that I may say, because I'm looking at this
as an anthropologist somewhat,
like an anthropological approach,
where I'm like, in what way did man cleverly,
or even superstitiously come up with these particular things,
and seeing how it's developed?
For me, I was impacted negatively
by my fundamentalist past,
and so many people have been like,
wow, this channel's a breath of fresh air,
because it's actually still enjoying the religious study,
still enjoying understanding these people
who impacted the world in such a way,
and knowing that that was good maybe at the time
for them in that particular region, like that was good,
let's not practice what happened in seventh century
from anyone, people like Nikon Muhammad,
and act like he's the only one who had a sword,
get out of my face with that,
everybody's blood thirsty,
but we all should grow and advance and go past that.
So there's in a sense where we're trying to have
interfaith dialogue simultaneously
being willing to go in places
that the faith bubble doesn't let you go past.
That's my point.
Right, no, I mean, this is an important point.
There are real anti-Islamic polemicists out there.
It's not always even just a religious agenda,
there are also political issues
and concern with Middle Eastern politics, I think,
that drive some of this, and drive that on both ends as well,
and some of the discussion around Islam.
But violence is definitely a topic that comes up,
it's one that's very,
I think it's a bit delicate to talk about on YouTube
in some ways, but I've certainly written about it,
and I think what you say is exactly right,
that Muhammad was a man of the seventh century.
We shouldn't judge him otherwise,
he was a political leader in the seventh century.
So what would that be in Christianity?
That would be Charlemagne.
Now look at Charlemagne.
Charlemagne was going around Europe, converting,
people here I am in Regensburg, Germany,
at the point of a sword from paganism to Christianity.
He's an incredibly violent man.
I mean, why would we expect anything different
from someone who was a political leader in this time?
I don't think it reflects on Islam
versus Christianity or anything like that.
I think it's a mistake to frame it in that way,
and there are other ways to have a conversation about it,
but yeah, I think it's something we have to acknowledge
that there was violence,
and then have to figure out a different way to deal with it
rather than trying to prove,
yeah, well, my guy's better than your guy or vice versa.
Exactly.
All right, so a few more sources bringing up here.
This one in particular is the Sabios document
we talked about that mentions Muhammad that you said.
It alludes to the Arabs and Jews forming an army.
If I may just to mention, it's talking about Muhammad here,
then it says, then they all gathered in unison,
and I wanted to highlight something here
that your book actually does that I think is fascinating.
Then they all gathered in unison from Iwila as far as Serb,
which is opposite Egypt,
and they went from the desert of Peran,
12 tribes according to the tribes
of the families of their patriarchs,
they divided the 12,000 men like the sons of Israel
into their tribes,
a thousand men from each tribe
to lead them into the land of Israel.
They set off camp by camp
according to each one's patriarchal line.
I'm not even gonna butcher these names.
These are the tribes of Ishmael.
The second document right here is all the same Sabios
says all the remnants of the people
of the sons of Israel gathered in united together,
they formed a large army.
And I just wanted people to take a second,
first of all, to absorb that this is an early sources,
says this in particular,
I wanted to show you that so that people understand
this sounds very like the book of Revelation.
I'm thinking of the 12 tribes
with 12, well, 144,000.
We know that this is a holy war in Revelation.
Elaine Pagels, all the academics, Mrs. Collins,
Professor Collins, she has written this extensively.
This is a holy war where they are preparing
for battle against the enemies of God,
which would clearly be Rome at this point.
They knew Babylon,
just like Babylon destroyed the first temple,
they destroyed the second.
And to me, it sounds very apocalyptic
in your type of framework that they were,
I don't, I don't, I want people to read the book,
but they're like empire focused apocalyptic end mind.
And what better, I mean, the Jews,
wouldn't they love to go and conquer Jerusalem
so that they can have the Messiah come
and rebuild the temple?
I'm just saying, there's a lot here.
Would you like to comment on those two sources?
You don't mind?
They were the same source, you said, right?
They're both from Zebes, right?
Yeah, just different screenshots.
I apologize.
Right, no, yeah, yeah.
So it's the same source.
And again, it's this early source,
probably written in Jerusalem, before Zebeos.
There's a lot to unpack on that.
I mean, the first passage you have,
interesting, you suggest the apocalypse of John.
It's not the first thing I would have thought of,
particularly because in this time and place
and in the medieval Eastern Christian tradition,
the apocalypse of John is not popular.
It's practically non-canonical.
And actually, I've got something,
I wrote something on that.
It's on one of my websites
if someone wants to track that down.
But it's interesting difference between East and West
in this period in particular.
So they're looking to other kinds of texts
for their apocalyptic scripts.
I'm talking about this actually in Apocalypse of Empire.
But what I think that calls to mind,
and if you go back and look at the story of the Exodus
and the plans for entering the Holy Land,
a lot of the way the tribes are described there,
it seems to be echoing that, I think.
Like Josh.
Yes, from the traditions of the Exodus, right?
Not necessarily from the book Exodus, exactly.
The whole process of the Exodus returning to the land.
So I think that is what's being called to mind.
I think one scholar actually, I was on a panel,
the SBL once, I think, and someone said,
oh, well, this is not real
because actually all someone is doing is just writing
onto the Islamic conquest, their own private memory
of what the conquest of the Promised Land looked like
from the biblical accounts.
Is that possible?
Sure, yeah, it's possible.
Again, I think it can fit another narrative as well.
And it's one that's borne out
if one looks across a lot of sources, as I've said,
I think there was a lot of interest
in the early tradition among Muhammad and his followers,
primarily in getting back to this Holy Land
and claiming it for themselves.
I think they saw themselves in the traditions
of the Exodus as coming back and reclaiming the land
that had been promised to them as descendants of Ishmael,
who was actually Abraham's eldest son,
if you want to get right down to it.
But they're doing it in conjunction with the Jews.
And I think that was also a problem.
That is historically probable, right?
Can we say it's certain?
No, but I think it's highly probable
that in the early stages of this movement,
it was inter-confessional in this way.
It involved both Jews and Muslims.
To look at it, I'll mention another point about,
I think, draws us in this direction.
The Quran is the one real source we have
for understanding Islam in the first century.
And it's a tricky story.
By everyone's agreement, this is a text
that preserves traditions from the first century of Islam.
Now, when we think the Quran as we have it,
is collected and authorized and established,
there's some debate about that.
I have a big book coming out on that.
It should be on the fall.
It's gonna be Open Access.
Everyone can read it for free.
What?
Oh yeah.
Creating the Quran, it's called.
University of California is publishing it.
And it's gonna, it argues for a whole lot of reasons
that we really have to think of the Quran
as a text that's in process longer than most people
would think, probably until the end of the seventh century.
But in any case, the traditions that are in there,
these are traditions from the 600s, right?
And some of them are perhaps quite early,
earlier than the Quran's finalization.
If you look at the Quran,
well, first of all, the Quran is problematic texts
for trying to reconstruct the Islam of the first century,
right?
Cause it's not like the Gospels.
It doesn't tell, or the acts, or even Paul's lines.
It doesn't tell us the story of the early community, right?
Instead, it's about things long, long time ago.
It's not really even about Muhammad.
Muhammad's only mentioned here a few times by name
in the Quran.
What it's about is it's about everything
that came before Muhammad.
It's about Abraham, it's about Moses, it's about Jesus.
But if you look to see who is the single most
prominent figure in the Quran, certainly not Muhammad.
It's not even Abraham, which you might expect,
but it's Moses.
Why is it Moses?
Why?
Why?
Because they're understanding themselves as, you know,
following a new Moses, I think.
This is the most important part of their religious identity
and their religious convictions in these early decades.
They believe it is their divine,
their divine, not only divine right,
but divine responsibility to reclaim the land
that has been promised to them.
And we see this in Sebeos.
But, you know, your viewers might be interested in a book.
I can strongly recommend by a good friend of mine,
Fred Donner.
I don't know if he's come up on your podcast or not,
but he wrote a book called Muhammad and the Believers.
And, excuse me, in it he argues
that the best interpretation of all the evidence we have,
and I would agree with him,
this is the best interpretation of the evidence
that we have.
It's not perfect.
There are problems.
There are problems with every interpretation
of the evidence that we have.
I think this best fits the evidence.
And that is that in the earliest decades,
the new religious community that Muhammad had founded,
that he was leading and that continued on beyond his death,
was indeed an inter-confessional community
that welcomed Jews and Christians together
under a single banner, under a single faith,
under Muhammad's leadership while he's alive,
under the leadership of his successors after his death.
But without conversion, right,
this was not a new sect
that one had to leave one's former faith to join.
Instead, I think what it was,
and I feel pretty confident in this as a hypothesis,
that this movement was a kind of monotheist renewal movement
that welcomed all Abrahamic monotheists together,
who were willing to profess belief
in the one God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, right,
I mean, Ishmael, and also belief in the last day.
And one finds this a lot.
This is a short sort of creed.
One finds a lot in the early Islamic tradition.
Belief in God and the last day.
The last day, of course, being the apocalypse, the eschaton.
And Muhammad's prophecy even
is not so important in some of the earliest layers, it seems.
Muhammad seems to simply be the kind of leader.
He has religious authority, I think,
but I'm not sure, I don't think in the early decades,
he's seen as having a unique revelation.
He's kind of a warner.
He's been raised up by God at the end of time to,
he's sort of a John the Baptist figure,
if you're really looking for an analogy, right?
He's raised up by God at the end of time
to warn people, to repent, but he also wants them to come,
he thinks part of this coming apocalypse
involves taking back the land that had been promised to them.
So I think Savios is a really important witness to this.
He doesn't include Christians,
but there's a lot of other evidence
that suggests Christians had some sort of involvement
like this.
Christians are, of course, the most difficult case
because you may, you viewers probably know,
the Quran polemicizes on occasions
about the Christian belief in the Trinity, right?
That is the hard part of this hypothesis,
but for continuing on more than that though,
I would just suggest that they get Fred's book,
Fred Donner, Muhammad and the Believers,
and check it out for themselves if they haven't already.
It's actually a book that's written
for a pretty broad audience.
That's, it actually leads to the different questions.
There's hypotheses that the version of Christianity
wasn't incorporating a Trinitarian concept,
maybe like the early Ebeonites or something,
a version of this might have existed.
But you're, one of your colleagues that you worked with,
I recently interviewed Michael Penn.
Dr. Penn came on talking about Syriac Christianity,
and he was discussing this and talking about,
there was different kinds out here,
but I wonder if they're polemicizing
against Christianity, period.
And if that is, then maybe this is,
like you said, a development,
and they've started taking a stance,
which also has them shifting the direction of their focus
away from Jerusalem, and more into, you know what,
these Jews and these Christians
just aren't getting with the program,
you know, we're gonna do our own thing,
or Jews rejected going deeper into Muhammad
as they started to favor him.
Who knows?
And they started to say, we need to divorce this.
We can't be as close as we were,
which causes a lot of issues
that maybe historically caused the development here.
I don't know, I'm just throwing out speculation here,
just to get an idea, but.
So, I think something like that
is probably the best way to understand it.
Something like the latter point.
As for non-Trinitarian Christians being behind the Quran,
I just think that's a non-starter.
We just don't have good evidence
that there are non-Trinitarian Christians around at this time.
There were, it's true in the earlier Christian centuries,
but past the fourth century, we don't really have that,
and we don't have these kind of so-called Jewish Christians.
So, I think we have to look for explanations
that don't look back to those kinds of hypotheses.
Something to add though,
in favor of your interpretation of them
collecting 1,000 men from 12 tribes,
let's say, as potentially literally not ridiculous
to assume that historically happened is, first of all,
look at the conquering they did achieve.
You can't do that with three guys.
You gotta have a massive gathering of people
to do the kind of accomplishments they did achieve so quickly.
The only people who did better than them
in terms of achievement would be Mongolians,
but in terms of the quickness and growth
that they did in conquering.
But the other thing is, I tell this to people all the time
who are critical of my New Testament studies and stuff,
and they go, oh, that's a myth.
All of that is literary.
Have you ever met anybody, I ask,
that believed in a text and wanted to formulate their life
in compliance to what they believed to be true?
It's almost like if, let's say,
an ancient Hebrew text says something about baptizing
to be cleansed from sins or assume washing away our sins,
and here you have Jews in the first century
washing themselves to cleanse themselves of sins.
Oh, is that mythical because you found an ancient text
that says it?
No, they believe it, and they're mimicking what it is.
So it's very likely what you're saying potentially is true.
I'm not ruling out the possibility
that this is a formula of some literary whatever,
but it does seem like this could be the case.
If I may, I wanna bring up this one,
Drina Jacobi here, where it says,
Jacob said, and if your brother turns you away,
or the Jews who are mixed up with the Saracens,
the Arabs, what shall we do?
And Justice said, trust in God, Mr. Jacob,
that if the Jews and the Saracens impede me
or cut my body up little piece by little piece,
I shall not renounce Christ the Son of God.
What do you say of this particular passage here?
Do you have any comment?
It's an interesting passage.
I don't know that I've ever really,
I can't remember if I've commented on it before or not.
You know, it surprises me that we find a text
that like this, that would be aware of sort of
this Jewish Arab alliance under Muhammad,
but certainly one's tempted to read it in that way,
that they know that this is kind
of an inter-confessional movement.
I don't know that I've ever advanced that argument,
but just sort of looking at it on the surface,
it would seem to suggest that an awareness,
even this early of something like that.
And the key document for this,
just to shift gears a little bit,
is we have something within the Islamic tradition itself
that would call for lack of a better term,
the Constitution of Medina.
And it's something that's preserved
within the Islamic tradition.
And I think most skeptical scholars
as well as the most traditional scholars agree
that this is probably a record of a document
that was actually produced.
Now, is it the actual words of that document?
No, but does it transmit with some degree of fidelity?
Document that Muhammad drew up
with the tribes of Yathrib when he got there.
And I think everyone would agree that it does.
And one of the most interesting things
about this document is it says
that the Jewish tribes in Medina will remain
in their own customs.
They will continue to govern themselves
according to the Torah, right?
And they will be a people, the Jews,
who are a part of this larger group
that the document identifies as the believers.
Now, the non-Jewish tribes are going to convert
to quote unquote Islam,
convert to Muhammad's new form of monotheism.
But there's no sense from this document
that the Jewish tribes have to stop being Jewish
to be a part of the community that Muhammad's meaning.
Again, this is from the Islamic tradition.
The Islamic tradition itself, I think, will acknowledge
that yes, there was a time when Muhammad got to Medina
and he thought he could have this kind of a community
that included Jews as Jews.
The only question is how long did this last?
Well, the Islamic tradition wants to say,
oh yeah, Muhammad was a generous guy
and he tried it out for a little while,
but then the Jews were really bad
and we get some nice anti-Jewish stuff
or I shouldn't say nice because it's not nice,
but we get some pretty typical anti-Jewish stuff.
The Jews did this, that.
And the other thing is some Muhammad stopped doing that.
So maybe you have the impression
it lasted a couple months or so.
But if we take that document and again,
compare it to a lot of other sources
and look for a tendency, is there a tendency
that supports that there was something like this
in the early years, in the early decades?
And it turns out there is, there's a lot of evidence.
And again, the best place to see that
is gonna be Fred Donner's book, Muhammad and the Believers.
Thank you, yeah, just to highlight that again,
is just what really gets me is there's this idea,
Justice is saying, like when the Jews and the Arabs come,
like there's this idea at least,
even if they cut me up into pieces,
this sounds like warfare, together, Jews and Saracens,
that's the evidence I was trying to point at
and just wondering if this was solid proof
that Muhammad may have led an invasion,
coupled with everything else you discussed,
the fact that there's Muslim and non-Muslim sources,
I think that we're getting closer to something
probabilistic without going,
oh, we know, I don't like absolute certainty,
but it seems very, I just hope we find more evidence,
that's all, I'd be interested in seeing more.
So let me ask you this, it is for reasons,
let's get into one something here before we go into our,
just free talk before I let you go,
reason for leaving out Muhammad invasion
of Palestine and biographies.
There are two interesting things that caught my eye,
and the first is this hadith.
And this particular hadith,
they call it the two finger hadith, if you will,
narrated by Saab bin Saad Asadi,
I don't know how to pronounce these names very well,
but it says Allah's messenger,
holding out his middle finger and index finger said,
my advent and the hours are like this or like these,
namely the period between his era and the hour
is like the distance between those two fingers,
i.e. short.
And I don't know, that's, yeah, it's like,
I don't know how much distance there is,
but it's any second now.
Yeah.
Yeah, and I'm like, I see this all over the New Testament.
I see this even in Second Temple Judaism.
Well, what I'm gonna do with those kinds of traditions
is follow through the logic
that generally governs how we approach apocalypticism
in study of the gospel traditions
and early Christianity, right?
I mean, there are historical Jesus scholars out there
want to say, well, no, Jesus wasn't an apocalypticist.
He was this wise philosopher,
and some of these people are my friends,
but I honestly think that the only reason
you would come to that conclusion
is if you are desperately trying to avoid
what seems more probable, right?
You're desperately trying to avoid it
because you don't want a Jesus who's irrelevant.
You want a Jesus that can somehow be salvaged
for some kind of liberal Protestantism or Catholicism
as this wise sage figure,
rather than someone who was running around telling people,
get ready, because the world's going to end.
I think that's the most historically probable reconstruction
we have of Jesus.
And the logic with a lot of this goes is that, yeah,
so we know people are gonna make up traditions.
We know that not every tradition we have about Jesus,
about Muhammad, about Stephen Shoemaker, right?
Is necessarily rooted in something that actually happened,
right?
So we know there are gonna be these traditions
that people remember for whatever reason
or even make up on purpose, perhaps, for whatever reason.
Then we look at these eschatological traditions, right?
So Muhammad was wrong about that, at least, right?
The hour was not that close.
Oh, you can say, oh, it was a metaphor.
It's measuring in God's time, right?
You know, in terms of eternity, right, sure, fine.
If you wanna go that way,
but if you're a historian and you're looking at this,
you know, if you're thinking probably
how that was understood when he said it to people,
it's coming soon.
So the question that an historian asks is, okay,
if we're trying to figure out which traditions
are more likely to have been invented later on
and which are more likely to go back
to something Muhammad said,
is traditions like this that are less likely,
one can argue, to have been made up?
Because it's falsified.
It didn't happen.
So would someone 100 years after Muhammad's dead
make up a tradition that Muhammad said about the hour,
it's this close when it wasn't, right?
The more logical understanding,
the more probable, I should say in fairness,
the more probable understanding of that tradition, I think,
is that it must have been,
it must go back to something that Muhammad really said,
because no one would make it up
given that it made him look wrong.
The only reason someone would keep telling it
is because probably it was a very early memory
that established itself in the community
as something that they all believed
was the core of Muhammad's message.
And it's also, you know, cognitive dissonance studies, right?
So they could still apply it to themselves.
You know, second, third, fourth generation
could still see it as relevant
because, well, it's, he's saying still soon
and Christians today still think the end is soon.
And it's like, it's been 2,000 years
and you still think soon, but you don't get that term mellow
in its original context, what it's actually saying.
So I just wanted to bring that to your attention
because I knew you would definitely be all over it,
like wide on rice.
The second statement is by Umar.
And to give people kind of a tease,
right here, the history of Al-Tabari,
the last years of the Prophet,
so you can go and source me, go check out my sources,
make sure that what I'm doing and saying is on point.
And in this book in particular, there's a statement.
Umar stood up and spoke before him
after praising God, extolling him with what was due,
et cetera, et cetera.
Then he goes on to say,
but I thought that the messenger of God
would conduct our affairs
until he was the last of us alive.
Did Muhammad and the early Muslims believe
that the end of the world would happen in their lifetime?
Is this a hint at that?
I think they probably did.
I think I'm not the first person to suggest that,
but it is a pretty radical minority opinion.
But yeah, based on texts like that,
an other hadith that I talk about
in the death of a prophet in particular,
yeah, I think it was their expectation
that it was coming so soon
that it would come even before Muhammad died.
And actually, one of the arguments in favor of that is,
Muhammad really doesn't seem to have done a very good job
of planning for what would happen after he died, right?
Cause some of your viewers, listeners may know
that there was this very bitter struggle
after Muhammad died over who would lead the community, right?
And it's this struggle, particularly in relation to Ali,
his son-in-law, that ultimately split the community
fairly early on into Shi'i and Sunni.
And another probability one could suggest
is if Muhammad had made it very clear, when I die,
I want so and so to lead the community.
I'm not sure we've had that,
although this is actually what the Shi'i tradition
would say to them, Muhammad did say that.
They said it was supposed to be Ali
and then these guys stole it from him.
And then they purged it from the Quran
so that all the evidence for that has now been destroyed.
But I'm alarmed of the case that I think he didn't do this
because he really didn't think he was gonna die
before the end came.
And that passage is also interesting too,
because in response, a new Quranic verse is introduced
to say that Muhammad, well, no, of course you're wrong
cause Muhammad said every prophet's gonna die, right?
And the fascinating thing about this is the text itself,
if you continue on a little bit further down from there,
it says the people, when they heard this Quranic verse,
everyone was shocked, no one had heard it before.
I mean, can you imagine if we had texts,
early texts like this saying this
about a particular verse in the gospel
or something like this, you know, someone,
there was a controversy in the community
and then, you know, Peter came and said this
and everyone was like, wow, we've never heard that before.
Wouldn't that just be like alarm bells going off
that here is something that was an interpolation?
I think so.
I think you hit the nail on the head
cause my Jesus studies, I have a weird hypothesis
in my mind and I don't know if it's weird
or if there's others who backed me on this,
but I think Jesus didn't plan this either.
I am kind of prone to think Jesus thought
of the Son of Man as the Danielic figure,
not himself as the Son of Man,
and then he becomes the Son of Man
when Christology takes off its own more mutation,
which is a huge complex discussion,
but there was a power struggle right off the gate
in my opinion between Paul and the Jerusalem people,
James, Kephus, et cetera, and I think
that it was not planned cognitive dissonance sets in,
the end was supposed to happen,
and even Paul's thinking, any moment now,
in fact, hey Thessalonians,
I know your family members have died,
but you know, this is what I see
and I'm beginning to kind of have this image wondering,
is this empire, well, this growth, if you will,
the early Islamic understanding is apocalyptic,
just like what I see in the New Testament,
and of course, it doesn't stop it,
but it might transform the direction the thinking was,
which makes me wonder, going a little further,
could it be the reason they wrote him
out of going into Palestine and conquering,
you know, Jerusalem and whatnot,
is because he failed, the second coming,
that the end didn't happen?
I don't know, makes me wonder.
Could be, I mean, you know,
I remember presenting this material a long time ago
to colleagues of mine at the University of Oregon,
and you know, one of them pointed out
in sort of comparison to Muhammad and Moses,
and this is actually, according to these traditions,
Muhammad succeeds, where Muhammad succeeds,
where Moses didn't, Moses didn't get to lead
the people into the promised land,
but according to some of these sources, Muhammad did.
Um, yeah, I just, I don't know that his,
my hypothesis is so much that they wrote him out
because he failed, quote unquote,
because he was wrong about the timing of the eschaton,
the end of the world, so much as,
it's not a matter of him being right or wrong,
it's a matter of that it didn't happen,
and once it didn't happen,
they had to readjust a lot of their expectations,
and one of those expectations, I think,
or one of these beliefs was the significance
of the Holy Land, right?
And once the Holy Land was not
their primary sacred geography,
that meant it would make more sense
to remember Muhammad's life differently
as having taken place in the different,
the new sacred geography, which I do think
there is a reorientation to diminish Jerusalem
and raise up the cities of the hijaz
as the main focus of Islamic sacred geography,
and I think it's in the process just of rethinking that,
not on purpose, you know,
and I don't even want to ask to say that someone, you know,
said, okay, we got to change the traditions
about Muhammad's life because we're changing, you know,
where we think our sacred geography is.
Your memories doesn't work like that,
and actually the book on the Quran I have coming forth,
I have a lot of stuff on memory science,
a lot of it inspired by my mentor Bart's book
on Jesus before the gospel is actually trying
to think a similar way about Islam
that he does there about Christianity.
So, you know, I just think it would have been,
you know, one hates to use a word like natural,
but I think it would have been expected
that the end of Muhammad's life would be re-remembered
so that he dies in the Islamic Holy Land,
rather than that he is leading the conquest
of this land that is no longer the primary Islamic Holy Land.
But it's sort of a second year, still,
because they can't quite forget.
Very well put.
Here we have multiple sources,
multiple attestations saying very similar things.
They don't contradict each other about him going
into the Promised Land or to take over the Palestine,
which is where the holy sites are, where Jesus, Moses,
the whole nine, all the Abrahamic faiths
are really centered there,
and now we're shifting down to Mecca and Medina.
And the question I have for the audiences
that are going into this as I bring this up is,
how trustworthy should we trust the Islamic sources
to give us accurate accounts?
In this, the life of Muhammad,
and those who are interested in sourcing me,
go check it out.
There's a translation of Ibn Ashaq's,
I don't want to butcher any names here,
but in particular, there's this phrase that says,
things which it is disgraceful to discuss,
matters which would distress certain people,
and such reports as Al-Baqai told me,
he could not accept as trustworthy all these things
I have omitted.
There's omissions, there's probably interpolations,
especially when it's faith-ridden.
My question is, should we trust?
I mean, what is it possible in this particular source,
for example, and I'll bring it back up
if you'd be interested, but I'm reading that highlight,
and is it possible this Muslim historians
admitting editing parts of Muhammad's biography out?
Well, everyone does that, right?
I mean, everyone is selective in terms
of how they bring forward the past into the future.
I mean, Christian historians do this,
and sometimes they may or may not tell us they're doing it,
but the broader question here for me
is generally how reliable should we view
these Islamic sources?
And I think, again, it can speak
from a fairly genuine consensus
among scholars of early Islam who are critical
that we can't trust them very much.
They are highly suspect,
and we have to kind of approach them
from the perspective of suspicion,
and anything we're going to take out of them,
we kind of have to then prove
starting from a position of suspicion.
And just to sort of simply explain why,
well, I mean, if one wants a more complicated argument
of why we might conclude that about these sources,
there's a big article I published many years ago
called In Search of Urwa Sira.
And again, you can find this on one of my websites
if you want where it's, so it's almost a monograph.
It's a 100-page article, very technical.
Most of your audience probably wouldn't care much
for the debates in it,
but it explains why we really can't trust these sources
to accurately reproduce what happened in the seventh century.
And the simplest explanation is the first written sources
about the life of Muhammad were written down
100 years after he's dead, 100 years, 100 years, right?
Now, they didn't just make it up, of course not.
They're based on memory and oral tradition.
They're based on 100 years
of individual memory and oral tradition.
And again, as I'll explain in a lot more detail
in the forthcoming book on creating the Quran,
that's just not accurate.
It's been proven not accurate time and time again,
especially after 100 years.
Memories will change fundamentally.
So we have then in the first written source,
sources based in memories
that are going to have changed dramatically.
And we also think, and I certainly suspect
that, quote unquote, Islam 100 years after Muhammad's death
is quite different from the new religious movement
that he founded in the 620s and into the 630s, right?
And so what's remembered about those times
is going to be remembered in ways
that comport with how Muhammad's followers,
Muslims understood themselves in their faith
100 years later.
But then we don't even have that.
We don't have what was written down at that time.
That text is lost.
Instead, we only have it as other writers,
another 100 or so years later, revised it, right?
Well, that's...
Yeah, oh yeah, don't do that.
So there are two analogies to give for this
and they're weak in different ways,
but they get to the point.
So one is, this is Patricia Crona makes this point.
It's like if we imagine the first person
to write the life of Jesus were, say, Justin Mordor.
And we only had an account of what Justin wrote
as it had been revised by origin of Alexandria.
I mean, the question I posed after that example
in my death of prophets,
do you think that this Jesus would look like
an apocalyptic prophet saying the world's about to end
or do you think he might look a lot
like a middle Platonic philosopher?
I suspect strongly the latter, right?
To put it another way,
and I think this is a less helpful analogy,
but it still can make this hit home.
Imagine if for the founding of the United States,
we didn't have any real contemporary sources.
Maybe we had things that the French
and the Spanish were writing about what was going on,
but we didn't have any documents
from people who were founding the United States.
Maybe we had the Constitution,
although I think the Coran does not compare favorably
to the Constitution in my mind in terms of clarity
and as a clear witness to what's going on
in events of harmony's new religious movement.
So say the first actual history of that formation
of our great republic was written down only,
say, 100 years later in the aftermath of the Civil War.
Oh, wow.
That's the first time we had it, right?
And actually in Islam,
we've been through a couple of civil wars by this time,
by the way, and split through a sheet and sent me.
And we also have an Islam too.
We have an empire that can control how narratives get written
in a way that is distinctive
to a lot of how Islamic history is produced.
But so we don't even have that.
We don't have the history of the founding
of the Republic of the United States of America
as it was written in the aftermath of the Civil War.
Instead, we have that only as it was then revised
by the hippies you went to New York with.
No, I'm kidding.
But we say we had it as revised
in, say, the 1960s and 70s, right?
And so then it's very much revised to fit that time.
Now, this is, I appreciate for all of you.
The only people either are rolling your eyes at this.
Okay, I get it, you know, I hear you.
It is a bit of a stretch to this metaphor,
but it is a way that I think in our own history,
it can give us a sense of the expanse of time
in the production of these various stages
of the collective memory of Islamic origins.
And also the fact that these were produced
in different circumstances, right?
Maybe not as charged and different as the, you know,
the post-Bellum period and the 1960s in the United States.
But at the same time, you know,
if you can maybe give me a little grain of salt with that,
you can get a better perspective on why there's not,
why these sources are a suspect as they are now.
Amazing.
I don't think I could say anything better
than just to add to what you said,
is just use Christianity as an analogy, of course,
and imagine we have sources, right, before Justin Martyr,
we have sources that go back before Justin, before origin,
and even with sources, they changed.
So like the movement itself within the New Testament
changes, it seemed to be a Jewish only thing.
This is my hunch is he's here for Jews
and it starts to evolve right in front of your eyes.
So imagine what we would find if we had the sources.
Now you can only, I mean, I empathize for,
if I can call them, Muhammad Mithasist.
I empathize in understanding why someone would question
and doubt historicity.
But at the end of the day, people exist.
People exist that things aren't written about all the time.
And he gets some mentions.
So to make it into a title rather than a human,
that's a whole nother discussion, I guess,
would have you on, but I'm with you on this.
I think that, wow, I can't imagine what we don't have.
Right.
So the question is-
I mean, another thing is, oh, sorry, let's change topic.
Give us something new.
I wanted to, well, as we're exiting,
because I want you to come back.
You have been, above all, my favorite interviewer
when it comes to this particular subject matter,
and I really appreciate it.
If I were to tell someone to go get one book right now,
let's say they're like, I can only afford one.
Which one would you recommend first?
I would recommend getting a profit has appeared.
I think it's also maybe one of the least expensive.
And it's also, I think, written at the most general level.
Like I say, there's something that you could use
in undergraduate classroom.
And what it will do is you can read these sources
for themselves.
It seems to be a real big emphasis in the way
you're presenting a lot of things to your audience.
You want to show them the manuscripts.
You want to show them the text.
Well, there it is.
In that book, it is a selected,
I call it a curated collection.
I didn't just include every source
that mentions anything about Muhammad.
What I wanted was sources that are from,
basically the first century of Islam.
We don't really have much in the way of sources
from the Islamic tradition, only the Quran.
And I wanted sources that said something about the nature
of the religious beliefs and practices of this community.
So if there were accounts of battles with the Roman army
in Sebeos, which of course there are,
I didn't include that because I'm not interested in that.
Fred Donner, I mentioned again,
a great book on the early Islamic conquest.
And then Robert Hoyland, who we mentioned earlier too,
has, in God's path, a more popular updating
of the history of the conquest.
That stuff's there.
I'm not a military historian.
I'm a religious historian.
So I wanted to focus on texts that were, in my judgment,
and again, it is always my judgment
that you can critique it that way if you want.
But I've thought about this a lot.
And, but I think are the best, most important things
for people to read from those non-Islamic sources
for thinking about what early Islam is like.
So yeah, if you wanna go buy one, go buy that.
And then get some more and then I'll give you a free one
in the fall once creating the Quran comes out.
I hope they do.
One final question I must ask.
And this just, with apocalypticism in mind,
we're gonna have to do a follow-up episode
to really entice our audience with this book,
the books you've written.
But I think of Jesus and I think of him as another Joshua.
The difference is he's not warfare, it seems.
Now, there are a few serious scholars who think
that it's been whitewashed and that he might have been a rebel.
I do think that there might be historical presidents
for him trying to cleanse the temple,
which might have been what got him.
Oh yeah, I think that's true.
I think that there's something to that.
I really do.
My question is, Joshua with the warfare, with the sword,
everywhere I step, this will be God's land,
like we will conquer this, this will be the empire of God.
And couple that with apocalypticism that we find
in the Jewish thought, down into the seventh century,
you mixed Joshua and second temple Judaism
in some wild way in thinking.
It seems like you have the early rise of Islam
with a prophet-like figure or Joshua-like figure leading it.
Am I on, I mean, is this a good hypothesis
in your thinking?
Yeah, I haven't thought much about Muhammad and Joshua.
I think there are a couple old articles
about how in the traditional Islamic biographies,
he there in some ways in which he's portrayed like Joshua.
But no, I mean, probably there's something to that.
You know, I think Moses is really the clear figure
that's in the Quran that comes to the fore
much more so than say a Joshua figure would.
But yeah, I mean, the other element that you didn't mention,
which is really a key part of apocalypse of empire
is that by the time we get to the seventh century,
apocalypticism had become imperialized, right?
And it was joined to the idea of an empire.
And the narrative about Jewish apocalypticism
in the first century, VCEC, is that it's anti-imperial.
Well, by the time we're getting to the end of the sixth,
beginning of the seventh century,
it's already been deeply imperialized.
Thank you.
And so it's such that the belief is that actually
the end is not going to come around
by destroying all empires.
Actually, there's gonna be an empire,
a divinely chosen empire that's going to bring
about the end of the world.
And I think this is a script that's informing
Muhammad and his followers.
They think they are going to be this people.
The Romans think it's gonna be them, right?
There's even a way in which the Sassanian Persians
have scripts that they're obviously not in a Judeo-Christian
Abrahamic line, but they too have scripts
about how the Persian empire is gonna be pivotal
in the events of Ring about the end of time.
One sees this in the Jewish apocalyptic system
of this period as well, new ideas about empire.
So I think, I mean, I ended up going on this line
because when I said Muhammad was an apocalyptic system,
more than one context after the death of a prophet,
people say, well, that's impossible, right?
Why on earth would he bother conquering the world
if he thought the world was going to end?
And more than once, my response was,
but that's how people thought the world was going to end
in his time.
And people were looking at me like, yeah, I'm right.
And so I realized, well, I guess I need to write a book
that will explain how indeed that is,
how people thought the world was going to end
and how what's going on in the first decades
of Muhammad's New Religious Movement,
the first decades of its history,
seems to really fit onto that script.
I'm reading that book right now.
I'm reading that book and that's exactly what I'm finding.
And what's interesting about what you're saying is,
I think I'm reading a book by a lady named Katel Berthelot
and she wrote a book called Jew and their pagan rivals.
And she's really pioneering this idea
of how much did pagan Rome impact Jewish thought,
not Christian Rome, which we know that happened,
but pagan Rome.
And even to their conversion law,
like they wanted to compete.
And even though they were like calling Rome Esau,
the twin brother, but the enemy that God didn't love,
they were doing this, they were competing
and to the point where their laws, their ideas impacted
and shaped the way the Jews would formulate their own laws.
So I imagine here we have these Arabs down in the South
who see massive kingdoms, Persia and Rome,
combating over and over and they're starting to have,
they're the ones who are coming up
with this empire type apocalypticism.
And sure enough, we're going to do it better.
We're going to jump into this battle here
and take them down while they're weak and they do.
So thank you so much.
Is there anything we didn't say
that you want to say to our audience?
There's so much more to say, but yeah, maybe another time.
Seriously, I can't tell you how thrilled I am
to get this out there to the public.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the description,
check out his website, check our sources, go get his books,
be on the lookout.
I hope we'll have more with him this soon.
Fingers crossed and never forget.
We are MythVision.
