I did it again. I snooped in on History Valley's YouTube channel. I should probably stop being this
snooper, snooper, whatever you want to call me kind of guy. And I had to drop a few Super Chat
bombs in History Valley's YouTube Chat. Go subscribe to History Valley, my friend Jacob
Herman. He was interviewing John Dominic Crossen. And of course, I don't know what my fascination
recently is with Dr. Crossen, but I had to ask him, Dom, there are some apologists who make
some bold claims. What do you say about it? Before we get to the next slide, we got a Super Chat
question from MythVision Podcast. Thank you for the $5, Derek. He says, amazing guest, Dr. Crossen.
When Paul says Jesus was buried, what kind of burial do you suggest Jesus had? Common grave.
Love you guys. Okay, let me go on to this without losing our continuity. When Paul says
buried, I'm not convinced that he's really thinking of a burial at all. I think it's like
you and I might say he's dead and buried, almost like hyphenated, dead and buried.
It kind of affirms really dead. So I think when Paul says dead and buried, I think what he's after
is Jesus was really dead. Now, there wasn't some kind of a mistake that he was just,
I don't know if he's thinking, I would put it positively, I don't think at all he's thinking
about the finding of an empty tomb. I don't think he's thinking about that at all. That's another
question why that. So I think he's dead and buried, doesn't mean anything more than we might say
dead and buried. And if I said, where's the person buried? You said, well, I don't know,
I just mean he was dead and buried. He's certainly dead. It's a way of saying certainly dead. So I
don't think it gets into that. But we may want to watch, we may want later to talk, because that's
an historical question. And at the moment, we're not talking about an historical question, we're
talking about two versions of it, whether there's a source here. At the end of this, I will come
back, if you remind me, come back to what do I think as a historian about the burial of Jesus
when I read all the materials. I will come back to that. So let me go back then. I think we're
ready for a third one, Jacob, I think with a guarantee. He's got another question that he
super-chatted. Let's take a look at that real quick. I'm going to move on.
Mephishan, thank you for the $5 again. When Christian apologists tried to argue that Jesus
was crucified, buried and rose again, literally, how would you respond to these bold claims?
Well, the first thing I would tell them, and I'm going to be very blunt in this,
most Christians, and I'm saying there's more scholars too, when they use the term rose,
they don't know what they're talking about. Because rose in the first century, resurrection,
did not mean the same as, for example, a ascension.
This gets me into the whole book, Resurrecting Easter. So I'm kind of dancing carefully,
not to jump too far ahead. But please understand, in the first century, there was a pan-Mediterranean
understanding that very holy people, like Moses, are very powerful people, like Romulus,
could be taken up to God, or the gods, upon death. If they happened to die, didn't make any
difference, they were raised up. The term is apotheosis in Greek. They were raised up. Now,
resurrection is not a pan-Mediterranean. It's not a pan-Jewish. It's a sectarian
phariseic concept. It has to do with the fact that there is justice in this universe,
and at the end of time, God will raise all the human race for judgment and heaven and hell
as sanctions. That's the claim of phariseic Judaism in the first century, which says,
to the Sadducees, who are quite happy with the way the world is and thinks it's perfectly
just since they're running it under the Romans, of course, the pharisees say, no, no, this world
is a just place. It's just postponed judgment. Therefore, there will be sanctions. So if you're
talking about, as Paul talks about Jesus, 1 Corinthians 15, being raised in the sense of
anastasis, that's the key word, you're making it a huge claim that anastasis resurrection
with Jesus is the beginning of the general resurrection. And Paul says that absolutely
clearly in 1 Corinthians 15. In fact, he says, if there is no general resurrection at the end of
time, there's no Jesus resurrection, no Jesus resurrection, no general resurrection. It never
occurs to him because it couldn't conceptually that Jesus might be raised as a special privilege
because he's the Messiah, or he's the Son of God, or whatever, by all means, essential. Fine.
That's completely in the thinking of the whole Mediterranean. If I was a Roman, I would say,
you're Jesus doesn't deserve it, but I have to admit that my Romulus got it. So maybe you're
Jesus would get it. I'm going to say, when I show you images of Jesus in Eastern Christianity,
raising Adam and Eve with him, you see it on the cover of the book behind me, Jesus is reaching
out and taking Adam and Eve who represent the human race. They ain't just two guys who he feels
sorry for. When Jesus takes in the Eastern tradition, not in the Western tradition,
the Western tradition, he comes out all by himself, typical Western
individualism. It's all about me. In the Eastern tradition, he comes out taking by hand,
Adam and Eve, the human race. Now, I've never had anyone able to tell me how Jesus literally
took the human race out of the tomb with him. I have had people, and not silly, telling me how
Jesus came out of the tomb all by himself. Of course, whether you think it happened or
didn't happen, you can understand it. It's possible. But tell me how anyone could bring
Adam and Eve out with him literally, and that changes the discussion. No. I think there are
far, far bolder claims being made by saying Jesus saved the human race, Adam and Eve,
than are being made by simply saying, well, he came out. In fact, when early writer said,
Christian writer said, the big claim is not that he came out, the big claim is he didn't come out
alone. Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked
hard in high quality content that are not in public domain. They're only on the Patreon.
You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just want a private
chat. You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people
from more academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full-time gig, and you're helping the community by joining. I'm trying to put together
more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society.
We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies
and history in a way like not many shows do. So please, I could use your help,
and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
