Did Judas Iscariot even exist? You know, the disciple who betrayed Jesus?
When you go to the Apostle Paul, people like Dr. Ehrman have pointed out,
this might have just been God who handed Jesus over, not Judas necessarily.
But what about the Judas of the Gospels? Today, Dr. Dennis R. McDonald takes a deep dive with us
and he explains his perspective on what he thinks about the historical or non-historical
Judas Iscariot. Dr. McDonald, many people who are studying the Bible read about this guy who
betrayed Jesus named Judas Iscariot. He is entered by Satan. He betrays a close friend
and he is one of the closest disciples, according to the Gospels, in the inner 12.
And he betrays and you are saying, I don't think he existed. Now that's some shocking
statements to make for some. I want to see the evidence and I think it's important that we
consider what you're saying today. Thank you, Derek. This is one of the real treats to me of
my research, to be able to trace the history of this villain in the Gospel narratives and outside
of the Gospel narratives. It really is fun for me. But I need to start with the Q document
and I know a lot of people do not trust the Q document and I would say that in that case,
talk about the common traditions that are known by Matthew and Luke. So just think of it that way.
In the Q document, we seem to have a list of the 12 disciples, none of whom plays a role in the
narrative but they have names. And as far as we know, the original list of the disciples
included someone who is called Judas, the son of Jacob or James because it appears in
the list in Luke just before another Judas. This is Judas Iscariot and that already appears in
the Gospel of Mark, who apparently changed Judas the son of Jacob to Judas Iscariot.
But what does Iscariot mean? Nobody has ever been called before or after Judas has been called an
Iscariot. And there is no town that is going to qualify, you know, like from Iscariot. It's a word
that is a compound of the Greek preposition east into and Kyrios, which means a village.
So why would you say Judas into the city? It's because Melantheus, the villain in the Odyssey,
is first appears in the Odyssey and then again later as driving goats into the city
so that the suitors, Odysseus's enemies, can have their perpetual feasts.
So Judas is into the city the way Melantheus is going into the city. Now you'd say, oh,
McDonald, that's a stretch. And I would say, yes, it's a stretch. I agree with you. But not in what
follows because like Melantheus, the slave, who then sides with the suitors against his master,
he arms them and helps fight against Odysseus and Telemachus. And in the end is when the suitors
are dead, Odysseus has a special treatment for Melantheus, namely he cuts off his ears, his
nose and his limbs and gives the body to dogs to eat. So he is the one who gets punished most
for being a turncoat. And of course, Judas is the one who betrays his master, becomes basically
a slave of the chief priest because he's going to do the dirty work. The arrest of Jesus is not
made by anybody else, but Judas is scary at coming and armed with an armed group to oppose Jesus.
And he's the one who has his ears cut off at the scene. He's the slave of the high priest,
and he has his ears cut off just as Melantheus had his ears and nose and limbs cut off.
Hold on real quick. This is interesting. I've seen the scene in like the Passion of the Christ,
right? And on the movie, it's a Roman soldier who gets his ear cut off.
But you're saying that Judas got his ear cut off in the scene in the garden?
Well, it's obviously not a Roman soldier because it's a slave of the chief priest.
And of course, Melantheus is a slave and he's become the slave of the suitors that is of the
enemy of Odysseus. So I'm pretty sure that the author is expecting one to see that Judas
is the turncoat, now the slave, not of Jesus, the disciples, but of the chief priest.
And then so he also has dismemberment. So that's the end of the story of Judas in the Gospel of Mark.
But Matthew has a different story to tell. Now in the Q document, or if you want the double tradition,
the twelve are always treated positively. They are the ones that are going to take up their own
crosses. They're the ones who are given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. They're the
ones who can endure with Jesus the hardships. And because of that, in the hereafter, in Jesus's kingdom,
they will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So the author assumes
that by at his time, the disciples or the twelve, they're called the twelve, are noble and faithful
and suffer with Jesus and will be rewarded with thrones. Mark hates that about the Q document
or the tradition. Judas, one of the twelve, is responsible for Jesus's death. Peter, a leader of
the twelve, betrays Jesus three times and is never restored to credibility in the Gospel of Mark.
Jacob and James and John ask for thrones, which is similar to what you find in the Q document,
you know, can we sit at your right and left hand, maybe with the other disciples?
And Jesus is, nope, that is not mine to decide. That's for martyrs. If you want to be martyrs with
me, that's okay. But of course, they flee at Jesus's arrest and never see the risen Jesus in Mark.
Very radical move. Now Matthew has a problem. On the one hand, he's redacting Mark and so he also
has a Judas who's a jerk, who's the traitor. But he's also redacting the Q document and he
includes the promise of thrones. So we're going to be reading from page 283.
From the logo of Jesus or the Q document, Matthew inherited the following. Quote, go ahead. When the
Son of Man sits on the throne of his glory, you too will sit on twelve thrones judging the
twelve tribes of Israel. So now you have a promise to the twelve, they're going to sit on thrones,
but he also wants to redact Mark. And in Mark, you have Judas, who is hardly worthy of a throne.
So how are you going to make him worthy of a throne? So we continue. From Mark, he inherited
the Iscariot's betrayal. He thus also inherited a problem, how to make disgusting Judas worthy of a
throne. Luke's solution comes at the beginning of Acts where God slays Judas. Lottery selects
Matthias to replace him. So that's the twelve. Matthew's solution, written earlier, however,
had been to make the scoundrel so contrite that he killed himself and thus shifted the blame
to blame his betrayal to the Jewish authorities. His suicide suffice to secure a seat in the
coming kingdom. So go ahead and read. Matthew twenty seven three through ten. Then when Judas,
the one who delivered him up, saw that Jesus had been condemned, he changed his mind, returned the
thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders saying, I have sinned by delivering up innocent
blood. But they said, what do we care? You see it, you see to it. And he threw the money into the
sanctuary, left, went off and hanged himself. But the chief priests took the money and said,
it is not permitted to put these coins into the sacred treasury since they are blood money.
And after deliberating, they used some of the money to buy the potter's field for the burial
of foreigners. Thus that field is called a plot of blood to this very day. Then what was said by
Jeremiah, the prophet was fulfilled and they took the thirty pieces of silver, the purchase price
set by some of the people of Israel and they gave them for the potter's field as the Lord had
commanded me. So this is Matthew's solution to the problem he had. On the one hand, there's going to be
that the twelve are going to sit on thrones. In Mark, one of the disciples is certainly
not worthy of sitting on a throne and to have been faithful to Jesus. So by having this suicide
of Judas, the author is trying to make him so remorseful that he can be reinstalled among the
twelve and have a throne after all. So that's the Matthaean story. But it was not good enough
for Papias or Luke as we're now going to see. Papias informants. Papias was the bishop of
Heriopolis in the middle of Asia Minor, Western Asia Minor. And he wrote a book called Expositions
of Loggia about the Lord. And he has his own understanding of the death of Judas, which he
gets from informants. And one can speculate on who those informants might be. But it's clear
that he does not like, he knows the Gospel of Matthew. In fact, he knows the Gospel of Matthew
in two Greek versions, one of which probably was Q. So he likes Matthew generally, but he
doesn't like Matthew's solution to this problem. That is, Judas got off way too easy.
Papias's informants objected to Matthew's exculpation of Judas and invented a rival
explanation of his death. This is what one finds in Apollon Aris of Laodicea, who quoted Papias
as follows. Judas conducted himself in this world as a paradigm of impiety. His flesh became so
bloated that he was unable to pass through an opening large enough for a chariot easily to pass.
Not even the massiveness of his head could get through. They say that his eyelids were so swollen
that he was entirely unable to see the light. And even physicians with magnifying glasses could not
see his eyes. So deeply they had sunk beyond sight. His penis appeared to be more repulsive and larger
than any such disgraceful member, and bloody discharge and maggots poured from all over his
body, which caused injury whenever he attended to his bodily needs. They say that after many
tortures and punishments, he died in his own plot, which became deserted and uninhabited even to this
day due to its stench. Still today, no one can pass by that place without pinching his nostrils.
Such was the efflux that seeped from his flesh to the ground.
Derek, how radically different is that from what we find in Matthew? And I'm so glad you
read it because I didn't want to read that disgusting passage and you did it so well.
Now Apollon Aris' introduction to this excerpt from the Exposition explicitly links Matthew's
account to those in papius and Acts. In Acts one reads, Judas did not die by, no this is
Apollon Aris, Judas did not die by hanging but survived for a while because he was taken down
before he choked. And the Acts of the Apostles makes this clear, falling face down, he burst in
the middle and all his guts poured out. In two shipwreck gospels, I made the case for the following
chain of literary dependence. Matthew has Judas commit suicide. Papius has God striking
him down after he survived the choking. And Acts agrees with Papius and not with Matthew,
even though it shares some materials along with Matthew. So the chart at the bottom of the page
is very complex and I don't think we need to read it, Derek. I think we can talk about it,
we have the information in front of us. But here is an example of Luke agreeing with a
non-canonical book in its interpretation of the death of Judas, as opposed to a canonical book.
He likes Papius' version better than he likes the Matthaean version. And Matthew is trying to
make nice between the Logoi of Jesus or Q and Mark to make them harmonize in some way.
So this is a beautiful example, I think, of Matthew's mimetic hybridity. He's got Q,
he's got Mark, he's trying to put them together. They don't match. In fact, Mark is arguing against
the Q document that everybody's going to be nice and sit on a throne. It's only for the martyrs
because Mark's writing after the Jewish war. So this is a misunderstood history of tradition
so people have seen for centuries the similarities between the X account and Papius,
but it's usually attributed to a common tradition. And I'm suggesting it's literary imitation. Luke
is agreeing with Papius. Matthew's version is too easy on Judas. Now the reason that becomes important
is for me and in my hypothesis is if Luke knows Papius, he also has to know about Matthew.
And so this is against the Q document hypothesis that requires Luke's independence of Matthew.
Of course Luke knows Matthew, but Luke also knows the Iliad. And when he talks about the lottery
that chose Matthias to replace Judas, it comes right out of Iliad 7, a lottery to decide which
of the Achaeans is going to try to go man-to-man with Hector. And that's elsewhere in the synopsis.
But I'll guarantee you, you will not find, except in my books Elsewhere and Here,
this way of understanding the tradition of the death of Judas, which I find to be so brilliant,
not from me, but that what Luke is doing in the Acts of the Apostles and what Papius is struggling
to do, it really is a marvelous achievement, but it doesn't work fundamentalist for you
because you're reading these things as though they happened in Judas, in fact,
killed himself and so on. No, no, this is PR control. Matthew is trying to control the tradition so that
you can still have the promise of thrones to the Twelve.
Okay, so let's talk about this for a minute. We have obviously elaborated,
exaggerated, if you will, stories about Judas. One,
he betrays and is known as a betrayer to the end and Mark. There is no promise to thrones. In
fact, Mark lacks a lot of Jewish or Israel ideas that you find in Matthew from, I came only for
the last year of the House of Israel, or this is to fulfill all of these fulfillment stuff.
There's a fulfillment narration in Matthew that you don't find in Mark, and this is something
that when I interviewed Bart Ehrman one time, I brought up this passage that we talked about the
judgment of the 12 tribes of Israel, and this was his response, right? Now, mind you, this is
going to show you he's not seeing the Greek, and so this is going to be an evident thing.
And he goes, well, this is an embarrassment that Matthew would say, Jesus would say,
you 12 will be ruling on 12 thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel. And he goes, haha,
Jesus didn't know that Judas would betray him. So this is a blunder that Jesus wouldn't have known,
and therefore he thinks this is a kernel back to a historical Jesus in his mind because he's like,
well, it's evident if he really did know, right, this is a kind of mistake on the author's part
in a way of like leaving it in there, that he thinks Judas is also going to have a throne.
And so it works even in your position because you're saying in Matthew, he redeems himself
by committing suicide and going out of his way to go. I changed my heart and my mind and Matthew's
content with that. Mark doesn't even care. The guy can go out with a bang as an enemy.
Luke comes in and dude, he killed the Lord. Okay, like you can't just go, oh, I'm sorry,
and then get away with that. This is not okay with us. And papias. So they go so far. So I'm
going to throw one idea too. I'm just throwing a bunch of spaghetti and then I want to have this
dialogue and give you wherever you want to go. I've even heard people try to say that the author
is aware of Julius Caesar being betrayed by his inner circle, Brutus, which is sounds in some way
off the tongue, Brutus, Judas, that there might be something here. However, I've thought in a Hebrew
memesis, you have Joseph, his brother, the brother that didn't want him, didn't want to kill him,
but did want to sell him was Judah. And so here you have Judah selling or saying, let's sell him
instead of kill him. So he sells him. And in that context, I think it's 20 shekels, not 30.
I could be wrong, but I think it's 20. Anyway, I saw this overlap. I went, what the heck?
This is kind of weird. I also see some of the passion narrative in a weird way with what's
going on in Joseph's story. He's in prison. He's in kind of a dungeon. And he tells two people
of their dreams. One is a wine bearer. One is the baker, bread. And literally the loaves of bread
are on his head in the dream. The other one is about the wine. The bread dies. He's going to die
in three days. The wine bearer is going to be ascended on and be actually helping Pharaoh again.
And as he's leaving the dungeon, he says, hey, hey, hey, don't forget. Don't forget about me.
Do this in remembrance of me, Jesus says. So I always thought, whoa, something may be going on
there. So anyway, there's a lot going on. These authors are skillful. It's very complex to try
and wrap my head around. But did Judas really exist? I mean, like, what the heck?
As far as I know, from my reconstruction of Q and other reconstructions of Q,
no, he didn't exist. They did not know about one of the 12 as a betrayer.
Now, I think the author of the Gospel of Mark may have read 1 Corinthians. And in 1 Corinthians,
you have with the words of institution in the Pauline version, the night that he was betrayed
or handed over. Now, we don't know who is at the meal in the Pauline tradition. We don't know who
the betrayer was. And by the way, it says on the night that he was betrayed. So the Mark in
the version of Jesus's Last Supper takes place at night. Those, it's at a meal.
Those who are at the meal are the 12. And it's Judas who's the betrayer. And it's the same word
that is used in Mark as it is in Paul. So that I think it's not implausible that Mark saw the
1 Corinthians 11 version or knew of that version of the Last Supper. And then wanted to decide,
wanted to give a name to the betrayer. Now, this business about Joseph and the Joseph
cycle and so on, I want to respond to very briefly. I'm a big believer in eclectic
mimesis. That is that authors are taught in schools how to imitate more than one document at a time.
And we certainly know that Mark has one foot in Judaism and another in the Hellenistic world.
So that the fact that we, that your suggestion is not on the surface implausible. The other thing
to say is the name Judah is where we get the name also Judea and Jew. And by focusing on Judas,
we may have an allusion to the betrayal to a slur on Jews. I'm not sure about that,
but it could be simply an accident. But there may be multiple solutions to it.
But I do find that this history of inter-synoptic disagreement
should call attention to itself so that those who wish to, as you put it, harmonize
or homogenize these stories are really fooling themselves and they're not enjoying the diversity
of early Christian speculation. Last comment. You brought up 1 Corinthians 11. I've always
enjoyed going here in front of what is going on in Paul. I hear from scholars,
this could be easily understood as on the night he was handed over and doesn't necessarily mean
that there's a betrayal and that this, a lot of them interpret this passage to mean God handed
him over. So it's not a person or something like that. It could be understood. You could mistake
it and say it's a person. So then it makes you wonder, is Mark taking Paul, sees this,
creatively checks out the Iliad or the Odyssey and says, hold up, someone betrayed Odysseus
and we know that he was betrayed or at least Jesus gets handed over and finds a creative way of
creating that narrative. I think that's what happened and that's what I say in this book.
Yep. I think that's what happened.
And it was astonishing what I saw. Jesus sails the sea with a crew that is his disciples
that are not nearly as noble as he is like Odysseus. Like Odysseus, Jesus keeps his identity a secret
so his enemies can't kill him. The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope suitors.
They love the best seats in synagogues and they're willing to kill in order to win the inheritance.
Judas plays the role of Melantheus, Jesus's turncoat slave. Jesus has his feet anointed by a woman
like Odysseus having his feet anointed by his nurse Euryclea and she recognizes him from his scar
and the name Euryclea means renowned far and wide and it said of this woman who anoints Jesus
that wherever the gospel is proclaimed, it'll be in her memory. So these parallels were so striking
that I dared not give a new lecture on it because it hadn't been digested.
And so I spent another summer working through the Gospel of Mark creating criteria that
where I might be able to make a claim that there's a literary connection and at point after point
it became clear that Mark was imitating not just the Odyssey but also the Iliad and also
some Tragedian plays and I translated Homer and Euripides and Plato for myself in order to
compare the Greek of the Gospel of Mark with the Greek of these stories and it was unbelievable
what I was finding. I also turned to a study of Greek rhetoric and understood better how literary
imitation or mimesis worked and it was that people were taught how to write by imitating
recognized models and to compare heroes in an activity called synchrosis. Synchrosis is simply
a comparison to show that one character is similar but better than another and of course
that's what's going on in Mark. Jesus is like Odysseus but he's better than Odysseus. He's
like Hector in his death but he comes back to life so that's a synchrosis and it goes on and on.
