Dr. Dennis McDonald, thank you. I'm excited about discussing whether or not Mary Magdalene existed.
There's all sorts of stuff from Dan Brown to she was a prostitute to the wife of Jesus. And
there are all sorts of speculations and that tells you that our sources are kind of funny in
order to even come up with these kind of speculations because it leaves imaginative room.
And our gospels as we've shown many times before have different accounts with different things.
And I'm coming to you because you've made a bold claim. You've said I don't think she existed at
all. She's a fictional narrative character in a story. So let's hear what you have to say.
Thank you, Derek. And this may sound like throwing a wet blanket on feminist readings of the New
Testament. And I don't mean it that way. I mean to be a historian. I also don't want people to think
that this means that Jesus did not exist because I'm a big advocate and have been publicly of
defending the historical Jesus. And in fact, I have great ad for admiration for what I understand
Jesus represented inside of Judaism in Galilee in the first century. And I'm not arguing that the
disciples did not exist. So I am not a mythicist. I do think the Jesus tradition mythologized him
in order to make him competitive in the religious marketplace and to articulate the values of these
growing communities that are growing alongside Judaism and the Greco-Roman religion. But the
issue of Judas is interesting. We talked about this in another clip. It's likely he did not exist,
but there was apparently a disciple of Jesus called Judas the son of Jacob who became the betrayer.
One also can say there probably wasn't a Simon of Cyrene even though it's one of the few people in
the New Testament we have identified with Africa. And I know this has been an important thing for
African-American Christians as has the Ethiopian eunuch who I hate to say, I guess also never existed.
So I'm not trying to say that these texts should be omitted for any sexist or racist reason,
but I as a historian. Now it is curious that in the story we have of Jesus's crucifixion
in Mark, we have the earliest reference to a Mary Magdalene. And it's curious in several respects.
One is Jesus is buried by Joseph of Arimathea. And the tradition has it that the name of Jesus's
father was Joseph. But it's not Joseph of Nazareth who buries Jesus. It's Joseph of Arimathea.
And Arimathea can be understood in Greek as excellent discipleship. That is he's carrying out
the task that the disciples should have, but they didn't and they're absent. We also have
women who come to anoint Jesus for his burial and who watch him die from a distance.
And ironically, two of them are named Mary. But it's not Mary of Nazareth. It's not his mother who
is doing that task, but two other women who are named Mary and Salome. And in the death of Hector,
there are three women who watch Hector die from a distance and then mourn him in books 22 and 24
of the Iliad. One of them is his mother, Hecuba. Another is his wife, Andromache.
And another is Helen, who is the great whore of Greek antiquity. And Salome, the name,
is identified in the tradition as a premiscuous woman. Now Andromache watches her husband die
from a tower from the Porgos or the Pergamon and a Troy. And the name Magdalene appears only in
relationship to this woman, not to a man either. And it probably refers to a Magdal, a tower.
And there was a town that is became called, apparently, Magdala, that had a tower. But
it is Mary of Towertown. That is, she is the mark and equivalent of Andromache,
who watches her husband from a distance die. Now, we'll stay there for now, but let's go over to Paul.
Paul talks about those who had visions of the risen Jesus, including himself.
But he says that he received as a tradition that Jesus appeared to the disciples
and to 500 people at one time. He named some of the disciples. It does not include Mary Magdalene.
Now, it could be that Jesus appeared at one time to 500, but that doesn't square with the biblical
account anyhow, because it's, at least in the Gospel of John, Mary Magdalene is the first person
to see the risen Jesus. Even though the beloved disciple and Peter arrived at the tomb before
she sees the risen Jesus. Now, the history of Mary Magdalene is fascinating. And I think it's an
important character in the mythologizing of Jesus. And you started in your earlier comments to talk
about the rich literature and speculation we have about Mary Magdalene. I'm going to suggest that
she never existed. Paul does not mention her as one of the people that the historical Jesus,
that the disciples and so on saw the risen Jesus. That's absent. Now, some people say it just serves
that Paul's a misogynist. Well, I don't think he was a misogynist, but even if he were,
he's trying to increase the number of people that saw the risen Jesus. So, it'd been stupid to
leave out Mary Magdalene in Libya. So, let's dialogue here at this point. This is great.
I've read a resurrection book by Delcy Allison Jr. He thinks there's more history here. And I'm like,
why would Paul leave out in the creeds the women if they're so significant in the supposed narration
of being at the tomb that you think is historical? He thinks that women at the tomb is historical and
that, well, it was common burial practices were done by women and da-da-da-da-da. So, in some way,
he thinks there's a historical kernel. And in his book, he argues it's more what he says is androgenic
or androcentric and that it's really men focused, that Paul's more men focused in his books.
But to me, if Mark is very Pauline, and it seems that Mark seems to at least riff off of Paul in
some way, and we talked about this with the Lord Supper in 1 Corinthians 11, they're using Paul
somewhat. I have a hard time believing if the early church is so androcentric that they would
have women at a tomb in respect to this to try and have them be the ones who verify that Jesus
rose from the dead. Now, even though it's a disappointment in Mark and it really is to blame
women, it still gets carried on. Matthew, Luke, John, they want the women to be there. They
validate the women tell, you know, this type of stuff, or at least they play a role in one of
the Gospels. Matthew, for sure. So, my point is, is Paul leaves that out and it's like, that's huge.
That's a huge, huge thing. And if you go to the Gospel of John, if women are so viewed down and
their word means nothing in court, and like they have these apologists that run around saying that
women wouldn't have, why is it in John 4, when he's speaking to a promiscuous Samaritan woman,
the woman goes back into her town, tells everyone, they all believe her account,
and they all start praising God and following Jesus. So, like, if women's account didn't really
matter, John did a damn good job of hyping up this woman's testimony of what she experienced
at the well, just saying it's a fictional narrative, but nonetheless, it's a very interesting one.
Well, I don't think there should be any doubt that the authors of the Gospels were male,
and that they had limited feminism in their blood. So, I think there is a patriarchy
and an Androcentrism in the Gospels that we have to own. The question is, to what extent
Mary Magdalene represents an exception to that Androcentrism. Now, you mentioned the Gospel of
Mark, so let's start there. Mark has these two women named Mary who watch from a distance and then
are involved in coming to the tomb in order to anoint him, the same way that a mother
might do it to her son who's died in battle. Now, the young man in the tomb says, sorry,
he's not here. He's going before you into Galilee and go tell his disciples,
as he had told them before, that they'll meet him in Galilee. The women do not tell.
So, Mary Magdalene is not treated well. She and the other women are doing what the disciples
should have done. They should have been around. They should have taken care of the funeral of
their loved one. The father should have. So, they're doing what they're stepping in for Jesus'
family and disciples in doing what they should, but they are also failures. They do not tell,
and the result of that may be that the Jerusalem church in the view of Mark suffered in the Jewish
war where they, if they had gone to Galilee, they would probably have survived. And we know of an
oracle that was allegedly coming to the Christian church in Judea, telling them to flee to the
mountains to avoid the carnage. And Mark is settled with the same problem, and his solution is to blame
the women. That is misogynistic. Okay. Now, the tradition has it that, let's say Mark,
they do tell the disciples, and in Luke, Jesus appears to the women.
You mean Matthew? No, no, no, Matthew. That's right. And then in Luke, Jesus appears to the women
and so on, and so there's a kind of redemption. And in the Gospel of John, it's terrific. We have
a Mary Jesus appearing to Mary Magdalene in this recognition scene, and it's marvelous. Sorry to
say, it's not historical. It's actually a Johannine version of the road to Damascus and the
Revelation to Cleopas and the other disciple. And the reason the woman is chosen is she's an
alternative to the to Agave in the Bacchai. In the Bacchai, Agave beheads her own husband,
and then wants to know where the body is when she gets back to Thebes, and they bring his body in,
and it's without a head, because the head is on the top of the Thursus, the wand,
that Agave brought into the city thinking was the head of a lion. She'd actually beheaded her husband.
And the Johannine account, Mary wants to know where is my body? Where's my body? It's the same
language that's used to say words. And because he's not here, and then Jesus reveals himself in
the Son of the Norsemas, this recognition. So I wish Mary Magdalene existed.
I also wish to be a good historian. And I just don't think there's enough evidence to say that a
real woman existed. And if she did, she was not treated well in the earliest manifestation of her,
that is in the Gospel of Mark. Later, the tradition wanted to make her more noble,
and then she becomes Jesus's consort in some way in later tradition. And there are
then Byzantine passages that talk about Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Jesus, that
talk us, having great laments for the death of Jesus. So they become extremely important in
Christian imagination. But from the beginning, she was imaginary, in my view. Wow, there's a lot there.
Yeah, you definitely see the climb, and even in like
Gnostic tradition and other tradition, they start to really hyper up. Peters like, hold on,
the Lord wouldn't tell some woman. There's also kind of some strange teaching that
the disciples are saying, and I can't remember if this is the Gospel, Thomas or not, but they're like,
hold on, he wouldn't give this woman this insight of salvation. And Jesus kind of says, well, in the
end, she'll turn into a man anyway. It's like, wow, in order to be salvation, in order to have
salvation, you have to become a man, no matter what. So there's some really jacked up stuff. But
I thought that if we were to hypothetically say that she did exist, as you said, hypothetically,
let's assume the character we have plays effective roles, your point. But if she did exist, she was
suppressed and not, she was immediately, it didn't take long before she's out of the picture.
Almost like, if you were looking at a, when the death of a leader in a cult happens, and they had
certain connections and relationships, that squandered after he's gone, other powers that play,
like suck in and take over of the role. So it's better to assume she plays a literary character,
and until you had other evidence to suggest otherwise, there's no reason of assuming out
the gate that she actually existed, because she plays roles with your mimesis as well.
Well, in many respects, we agree with each other in these things. I disagree with your assessment.
Okay. The first is, it's hypothetical, as you yourself know, if she existed,
this is what happened. And so then you said, and her memory was suppressed. I think actually,
she never existed. And she had her, her role is expanded. It's not, and it's not androcentric.
It's not, it actually is to increase her nobility in the tradition. So it's not a suppression of
women in the Christian tradition related to Mary. It's an exultation. So, and it goes right from
the beginning. Mark creates her. And what is she doing? She and these other women are taking care
of their Lord to give him a burial. Now they fail to tell the disciples. So that's a major failure.
But they're doing better than the disciples themselves, right? Then Matthew comes along and
makes her more noble. So the women do tell, then as we get the gospel of John, she's really important
in the gospel of John. Then you get the Christian apocrypha going up to the
Gospel Nicodemus, where Mary Magdalene has these beautiful laments that come right out of the
Iliad derrick of the women who are lamenting of a actor. So I think this business about using Mary
Magdalene to say that the Christian tradition is androcentric is entirely in the opposite
direction. Actually, Mary becomes a target for beautiful Christian reflection and elaboration.
So if anything, there's an impulse to use the figure of Mary to talk about how noble she is.
She's doing something the disciples should have. She tells the disciples in Matthew that they're
supposed to meet their Lord. And so there's a vindication of Mary in the tradition, not a
suppression, in my view. You definitely made a lot of sense there. And I think you're right. I
guess I was playing in my mind a hypothetical of if there was a close relationship originally
and then all of a sudden there's slamming them out the gate, Paul and Mark. You're right. I think
that there is a buildup of the fiction and the legend takes on a life of its own. Now you have
Gospels of Mary. I mean, you've got like all sorts of stuff comes out of it. Yeah. And I think they're
really cool, fun, fascinating, interesting dialogues. And so I hope people will take this
stuff and enjoy. But I do like what you're saying here. I think that there are plenty of reasons
I think these are characters. And if she did exist, your point is we've lost her to real history.
Yeah, that's pity. If she existed, we lost her and that's a pity.
