MUSIC
MUSIC
MUSIC
CABINET
Professor Goodacre, Francis Hill Fox.
Francis Hill Fox, Professor of Religious Studies.
I apologize.
I don't know why I always get goofed up there.
Did Paul exist?
I know this is something that you're like,
what in the world?
There are people out there who legitimately think
that Paul's letters are completely epistolary fiction,
including the Seven Authentic,
for their own, I think there's some reasons behind,
there's probably bias,
is why, let's divorce him from historical verisimilitude here,
or something.
Did he exist?
What are, give us a few points of why.
Well, it's always a difficult one, isn't it?
It's a little bit like conspiracy theories about the moon landing,
that, you know, you say, well, did the moon landing actually happen?
The number of people who would have had to have been involved
in that conspiracy about the moon landing is so many,
and the number of people who would have had to have lied
all of these years, it absolutely is.
It's absolutely flabbergasting that no one would have broken
that kind of line, as someone says, all right, fair enough,
we did it in a warehouse out in Texas somewhere, you know.
And it's a little bit like that with the idea that Paul didn't exist.
It is actually far simpler to believe that a real human being,
named Paul, who came from Silesia,
actually wrote those letters.
If you think about the logistics of trying to do that kind of fiction,
you're not just writing those letters as pieces of fiction,
you are recreating a story, you're creating a story in the background
that then this fictional writer is having to respond to.
So there are cycles within cycles that you have to get to to do this,
and then I have to bear in mind that there are all sorts of other people
mentioned in the letters, who are historical characters.
It's a little bit like when you do the kind of did Jesus exist thing,
that if you say Jesus didn't exist, you then still have to ask the question,
well, what about Keefass? Did this guy exist?
And if he didn't, who did the fictionalizing and when, you know.
So I am a great believer in Occam's razor,
Occam's razor, sometimes people misrepresent it as the simplest hypothesis is the best,
that's stupid, not true, simple is better than, you know, complex.
History is complex, sometimes, you know, there are layers and layers and layers.
But Occam's razor is that you don't multiply entities unnecessarily, right?
And I think when you get into the idea that Paul didn't exist or that Jesus didn't exist,
what tends to happen is you are multiplying entities like crazy
to try and explain the extant literature.
This simple hypothesis here is that there was a human being named Paul.
And it's such a gritty and an earthy story as well.
Not that, I mean, you can write fantastic earthy, gritty fiction,
obviously, but there is a very similitude in Paul's letters that is not born of fictionalizing,
it's born of history, it seems to me.
I totally agree with you.
You brought up Jesus.
I was hoping to ask a separate, but it's important because this is, this one,
I think you would agree to this.
The reason why this can become a more difficult question.
And I'm with you on Occam's.
In fact, I agree with you on Occam's.
And I'm with you on Occam's.
In fact, I apply the same thing and that's what's made me a historicist and lean that way.
I entertain, I listen to mythicists, I consider what they say,
but at the same time, I have really basic, I know if someone will go, that's not evidence,
guys were crucified.
You don't have to say he's in heaven being crucified by demons.
Elaine Pagel's book on the origin of Satan, she points out,
like every time you see Satan or demons and stuff, there's always humans involved,
especially within the context.
There's always a human, they're either working for the devil or Satan entered him
or get behind me, Satan, all this context.
So there's reasons behind why it seems most plausible for sure, Paul,
but Jesus is shrouded in this thing where most people go using a historical method, right?
I love your thing on the empty tomb where we're not going to go there
because I think it's like, you don't even have to say that there is an absolute miracle here
to still say something could be going on here.
I say that to say you might draw a different conclusion,
but walking on water, these type of things, right?
They'll go all of these added things and elements using historical method, you can't prove that.
In fact, they'll say this is elements of myth, this is elements of potential fluff, if you will.
It takes them away from history, it takes them away from reality and therefore they go,
there's so much myth, there's not a guy.
But then people like Dr. Ehrman go, come on guys, you're doing yourself a disservice.
So what evidence is, make it pretty clear on a common sense approach without ad hoc propositions
why there was a historical Jesus?
I think one of the ways I'll put it is that you have to ask what kind of evidence would you expect
for somebody like Jesus?
In other words, why do we think Pontius Pilate is a real person in history
and not someone made up in the literary sources?
Because we've got coins that say pilot on it,
because we've got a dirty great step which somebody found at Caesarea that's got pilot written on it.
So we know that he's a historical figure.
But of course he was a political figure, the kind of person that did mint coins
and that did have his name written on big steps.
Jesus isn't like that. Jesus isn't minting any coins.
He's not leaving behind any clay tablets or anything like that.
He may not have anyone write.
John 8's links.
He writes on the ground and John 8, that's it.
In Luke 4 he seems to be able to find his way to Isaiah 61 which is quite amazing there.
So he might be able to read at least.
I mean Luke thought he could.
It's interesting that in Mark's Gospel you don't have Jesus reading out loud from anything.
So it may well be that Mark is depicting Jesus as at least less literate if not illiterate
because he does have these characters described.
There's a great book by my friend Chris Keith, Professor Chris Keith.
And it's called Jesus and the Scribble Elite.
And it looks at the way in which the Gospels actually contrast Jesus with these characters
that keep saying scribes all the time.
Anyway, what I was going to say is that Jesus is not the kind of person who you would expect
to leave behind actual artefacts that we can then say, ah, here's the...
So the only way that somebody like Jesus lives on is in people's memories,
in the traditions that they're sharing with one another, and in writings.
So if we ask the question, have we got that kind of evidence?
Yeah, we have.
That's what Paul's letters are, that's what the Gospels are, and so on.
That's what you would expect to have.
It isn't, I don't think, a rational position to say, well, I doubt the existence of this person
because we don't have any of that kind of material that we have when it comes to Pontius Pilate.
And let's face it, there are all sorts of other characters that we don't have that kind of evidence for as well.
What about John the Baptist?
You know, John the Baptist didn't mint any coins.
He gets a reference in Josephus.
Right, he gets a reference in Josephus, but maybe Josephus was making that up.
I mean, he wasn't.
You know, you can always do that.
So what about Theodos?
What about the Egyptian, these other people that Josephus mentions?
Did they really exist?
I mean, I think they did.
I think they certainly did.
But did they leave behind any, did they mint any coins?
Did they have that, do we find a big step?
Of course not, because it's not the kind of evidence you would have.
So a lot of the time you have to say, what does it mean to do ancient history?
And when you're doing ancient history, what you're doing a lot of the time is you are dealing with your lack of evidence.
Every day when you're doing ancient history, you wake up and you say, there is so much I don't know.
There is far more I don't know than I do.
And the thing that's valuable about mythicist scholarship is it does put you in touch with the crisis of being an ancient historian,
which is you have to keep saying I don't know.
I mean, one of the things when I do my historical Jesus course is I have to really underline for students
and have this conversation with them about how little we know about all sorts of things.
So for example, who was Jesus's biggest influence when he was growing up?
We have no idea whatsoever.
We can guess that it was maybe Mary or Joseph or maybe when he started following John the Baptist,
maybe it was him, but we don't know.
I mean, maybe it was Rabbi Nathaniel at the Nazareth synagogue.
We just don't know.
We have no clue.
Not the faintest idea.
And that's just to take one thing.
We could go on like that all day.
I mean, everybody thinks with great confidence Jesus was a carpenter.
Well, how do we know that?
One off-hand remark in Mark chapter six, which says, is this not the workman?
Is this not the craftsman?
Something like that.
And then for centuries we have Jesus as the carpenter.
Even things we think we know, we're not quite sure exactly how precise they are.
Maybe they were being sarcastic.
We just don't know.
So I think the value of some mythic scholarship is it reminds us of how little we know.
It reminds us of the nature of the sources.
And I always like to contrast ancient history with modern history.
If you're writing a biography of Donald Trump, not something I would enjoy doing,
but if you wanted to write a biography of Donald Trump, your problem would be too many sources.
You have got so much material.
You have got how many videos to plow through and tweets, living relatives, people that know.
You would never get through even a tiny amount of the material that you would need to get
through to write that biography.
That's the problem of being a modern historian.
Problem being an ancient historian is the exact opposite.
It's that our sources are so limited and so few.
And that means that sometimes the accidental nature of remains, of historical remains,
distorts our vision because some things just survive because of happy accident, you know.
And so we can then start thinking that that is representative.
And it's like when we were talking about Paul.
The fact that Paul wrote letters means that his legacy survives.
And the fact that Luke loved him.
I'm going to write this all down, stuff in Acts of the Apostles.
Apollos, we might never have known about if it wasn't for the fact that Paul mentions him
in 1 Corinthians and Luke mentions him in Acts.
Just a couple of mentions.
We don't know much about him at all.
How many other people are there like that in early Christianity that people just forgot to mention?
And they may have been very influential.
Right, highly influential people.
Yeah, exactly.
It's why I actually quite enjoy counterfactual history sometimes.
I've written an article about Mark's Gospel which tries to imagine a world without Mark.
What would have happened if Mark's Gospel had never been written, you know.
And the reason why it's worth doing that is that sometimes when we approach history,
we do it in this, we kind of assume that there's an inevitability about history,
that there's a sort of fixed side to it.
We get quite fatalistic about it.
And sometimes you have to remember it's so contingent.
What if the guy that grew up to become the author of Mark's Gospel had actually died when he was a teenager?
You know, what if he wrote the Gospel and very quickly it got lost, you know.
I mean, it's good to ask the what if questions, I think.
You know, because it stops us from thinking that the history that we've got is the only possible history, because it's not.
It is amazing.
And I think there's a whole other world that, and I'm going to speak for the skeptics myself,
and I've caught myself doing this, is I feel like sometimes we don't give,
maybe we mistreat the text like we wouldn't treat another document because there might be a chip
or it's a religious document.
And it's like we deal with fundamentalists or Christians who want to proselytize us.
It's not like someone who's just a man of faith or something, but like they have an agenda and a mission
and it's annoying and they're like aggravated.
So they take it out on the book or the text.
And so what happens often, I think is sometimes we're too skeptical with the very book that we're trying to figure stuff out.
Don't get me wrong.
Maybe being cautious is important.
It's the same thing with the groups that try to identify that these are Israelites throughout the entire New Testament
that are getting salvation.
Cornelius was an Israelite.
You didn't know that.
But only Israel gets salvation.
And therefore it's all these ethnic or Gentiles must be Israelites.
And they go to Revelation 7144,000.
They equate that group with the same group after.
They say they're the same group.
The great multitude, every nation, tribe, Kendrick and tongue, they say they're the same.
Therefore they're all 12 tribes.
That's it.
And they do that.
And it makes me really want to probe into the history.
They divorce history.
They don't really go and say, let's look at history.
They say it's fictitious like the Pestillary fictions of Paul and all that.
But it drives me to want to know more.
And so I'm thankful for them.
And when I was a mythicist, I hear interpolation, interpolation.
In fact, earlier when you mentioned in our other recording, you mentioned Paul says that the judgment on the Jews will come.
Well, that to me immediately coming from full preterism, which is a whole thing we don't
even have to talk about.
But also as a mythicist, I said, that's the Jerusalem destruction.
That's 70, 80 because they got the wrath of God.
How's that not in my mind?
And it could be, don't get me wrong.
But do we have to draw that conclusion?
And why am I drawing those conclusions?
I don't have certainty on that.
I just have to make an assumption.
Some groups, for example, go to 2 Peter 3 when he says the element shall melt with fervent heat.
Well, when the temple got burnt, and the elements of the religious practice of Judaism were burning,
you see how far they go?
That's not actually cosmic.
It's just the temple being destroyed.
And I just, like, I'm with you on this.
Well, on the issue of skepticism, the difficulty is that for every historian,
you have to have a healthy dose of skepticism and bring it with you to the texts.
Because that's just how the history naturally will work.
I mean, if you think of the opposite thing, that you went with credulity to everything,
you're not really doing history then.
All you're doing is some form of fundamentalism.
So every historian has to have in their armor that bit of skepticism.
And when I say skepticism, in the broadest sense of taking and inquiring critical mind
and asking questions like, why do I think that's the case?
What makes me think that that's the case?
Beginning from this thing again of, I am confused.
Sometimes just the reason why I basically questioned the existence of the Q document was
it wasn't because I was on some sort of mission to take this beloved text out of the scholar's armor.
It's just that I kept looking at the arguments when I think, I just doesn't make sense to me.
I mean, I just thought, no, I just doesn't.
They said, well, Luke could, I mean, because the obvious thing is that Luke looks so like Matthew.
I think he will surely, you know, this guy could be this guy.
No, no, no, he can't have done because of.
And then the reason would be something like, because nobody would have destroyed the Sermon on the Mount.
And you think, well, every person that's ever interpreted it in throughout history has done something with the Sermon on the Mount,
like rewritten it a little bit or changed it a bit.
Why wouldn't the first interpreters have done that when it wasn't even that, you know, Augustus in a text?
So I think this is really where, you know, I have some sympathy with the mythicist position
because I think what you do when you're an ancient historian
is you actually do have to keep saying, why do I assume that this is the case?
Is this the case?
Ask those kind of those difficult questions.
Because sometimes you'll actually discover that received opinion is wrong, you know.
So I love that.
You just said a gold mine of something and I want to speak on the other half because I was a mythicist.
I understand why they're mythicists and totally respect it.
I also want to say I'd like to see more less derogatory view from both historians, especially the consensus on mythicists.
However, the mythicist I would be speaking to here saying, please guys, don't be dogmatic.
Don't be so certain he didn't exist and stop like, oh, that's not evidence.
What if it is?
You might be throwing out something that could be.
Be more flexible.
Right.
Do you know, I can tell this story against myself.
Many years ago, I was teaching a historical Jesus class and I would hardly give any time at all to the mythicist position.
And I said, and I said in passing at one stage, I said, well, you know, why would you invent something like Jesus coming from Nazareth?
You know, who's ever heard of Nazareth?
You know, that looks like a kind of historical detail.
And one of the students in the class said, yeah, but what about Robin Hood coming from Sherwood Forest?
Who's ever heard of Sherwood Forest?
Well, I have because I'm from, you know, I support Nottingham Forest football team.
And, you know, that's related, you know, but not many people have heard of Sherwood Forest, right?
Except in connection with Robin Hood.
And this student said, what happens quite often with a mythical figure, with a legendary figure is they are associated with some unusual, never heard of before place.
It goes back to this whole thing of kind of having some degree of kind of mystery and secrecy about the figure that then is unveiled.
So I stopped saying stupid things like nobody would have made that up because it's quite clear that you often have legends and myths.
And I don't know to be clear, I don't think it was made up.
Right.
I think Jesus was associated with Nazareth.
And I think the fact that Mark calls in Jesus, the Nazarean, in spite of the fact that Jesus seems to live in Capernaum in the Marks Gospel, it's like what's going on there kind of thing.
But so I do think there was a historical place, Nazareth, and that Jesus, you know, was probably brought up there.
I think that's the best explanation of the data.
But I don't any longer use that as an argument for his existence, as it were, you know.
I like that you could see growth and development.
You should. I mean, it's one of the things that is one of the things that I think is really, really helpful as a scholar, as a student is constantly to challenge yourself and to ask why why do I think I know this right.
And I agree.
I think a lot of my colleagues in especially those that are, you know, got nice kind of tenured jobs will be very disparaging about the mythic disposition rather than engaging it.
We were talking off camera early on, but I've got an article coming out soon called How Empty Was The Tomb.
And the very first footnote in that article is to Richard Carrier.
So, you know, and I'm certainly not afraid to allude to the work of people like Richard if, you know, he's got something good to say, which in this context he has, you know.
So, you know, I, you know, and I think that that is a healthy attitude.
A healthy attitude for anyone.
Wow. Thank you.
