Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Joel Bader, do I exist?
Scholarship 50 years ago wouldn't have dreamed of saying Abraham didn't exist.
It seems like the fringe crazies came out of the woodwork and said this guy probably
didn't exist and I'm only estimating, I'm just throwing a number out there, that at
some point in the distant past this was not even something entertained but maybe a minimal
understanding of him but not the guy didn't exist.
But now it seems to be that shift in scholarship has happened and they think most likely Abraham's
fictitious.
What are your thoughts?
I'm going to hip-fire like characters, we'll just have like a fictional character video
with you or fictional or historical and you can give us your like.
Okay can I start by like, can I start with a caveat?
Please.
There's a difference between didn't exist at all and the biblical accounts of have nothing
to do with a person, whether or not that person actually existed.
In other words, I can imagine writing an entire novel about George Washington that had no
connection at all with anything true about George Washington, that didn't mean George
Washington didn't exist.
Okay.
So, there's a world in which, there's a world in which a character, a biblical character
is not real but there's like something in the past that may have given rise to all of
the stuff we find in the Bible, all of which is so far removed from reality that it becomes
not real.
I don't know how I'm going to mark that whether it's as fact or fiction.
But I'll try and, I'll give initial responses and then qualify them.
I would like to also add my own caveat on this because I think it's important there
are going to be skeptics who might hear your answer, right?
And then go, well, where's the, I need the physical, you know, he didn't exist if you
can't prove that there's this guy who existed, right?
And I think that oftentimes skeptics go too far without giving granting what you're actually
suggesting and what you just said is your caveat because that happens.
Well, and you have to remember, if that were your basis for saying stuff, then we could
prove, who could we prove existed from 3,000 years ago?
Like only the people whose bones we've found, because like people weren't leaving like,
we don't have like their tax records, right?
We don't have written evidence of 99.999% of human beings, like, and if you're going
to tell me that the written records we do have don't count, then like what counts as
proof that people existed?
Thank you.
At that point, you're like dealing with like, I guess nobody existed because like someone
had to exist, right?
There had to be people.
So we, you know, there's, there's a lot, there's a line there.
Okay.
I thank you for making that point.
And I just wanted to clarify too, for the sake of those who are watching this, did Adam
exist?
No.
And you would like full stop and end of end of conversation.
All right.
Oh, the other thing I'll add to this is like, again, right, we're talking about people existing
and we're going to ask questions about the biblical stories about these people.
We're sort of acting as if there's one biblical story about the people.
But again, if I tell you that like, and you know, like Abraham in J and Abraham in P and
Abraham in E, I'll have different stories told about them and like different characteristics
and come from different places and like live in different spaces and like, what am I, like
what does it even mean?
Is it like real or not?
Like at that point, you have to, you have to only talk about like, could there be something
in the past that was like a basis for a tradition or a, anyway, go ahead.
No, no, this is wonderful.
This gets us closer to the point, right?
And I really do appreciate that because when I said Adam, you didn't say, well, in maybe
possible source here.
No, I think that is a mythic and there's a, there's a, there's a line, right?
Right.
Like the first dude, I think we can like, we can safely set aside.
Right.
Cain, Abel?
Nope.
No.
What do they represent?
They're probably nations, right?
Nug.
You know, people like to associate Cain with like this Kenite, a nation of sort of like
Cain descendants called the Kenites that lived down to the south.
I don't particularly care about that.
You know, Cain and Abel, it's, it's a, it's a mythological story.
Like it doesn't have to represent a lot.
There's something to do there, maybe with agricultural versus pastoralists.
It's like, none of them are convinced.
Nothing is convincing me.
It's like, oh, that's the story is really code for whatever, right?
Like it's, there's got a bunch of things going on.
It's a myth, right?
Myths like have different moving parts, right?
There's some historical reference, there's some cultural reference, right?
You can do this Greek myths too, right?
Like, what is that Greek myth reference?
What is it really?
Like, well, yes, it's about agriculture and it's about the seasons.
And it's also about these characters that exist in this, in this greater like mythological
world.
And it's also, you know, like, so it's, it's a lot of things.
Anyway, Cain and Abel aren't real.
So Enoch lived 365 years.
Definitely.
Okay.
And every year was a day and they were, and they were all spectacular.
No, um, Enoch.
Uh, no.
Okay.
No, stop.
There's like nothing, nothing.
You can, you know what I'm doing.
Yeah, you know what I'm doing.
No, no, nothing.
Right.
Nope.
And I figure it's based on Apkalu, possibly you, you wrote a text or something with
Enoch.
I'm just speculating there.
I mean, there's, but like, you're really heavily into Genesis one through 11 and we're in the
full mythological, like none of that, none of that's going to have a, a person.
Thank you for clarifying.
An actual historical, an actual living person that we can even get back to it all.
Right.
So then let's go to the patriarch himself, the infamous Abraham, Abraham, but then Abraham.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And this is the first one where it's really easy to say like, no, like, and again, there's,
this is, this is the, the, the easy one.
There's absolutely nothing in the biblical account that we can say is true of any human
that ever lived.
At the same time, what we're looking at in the Abraham and the Isaac and the Jacob stories
are traditions that, you know, seem to be concentrated around certain areas of the, of
ancient Israel.
So, right.
Like, you know, Jacob's traditions are focused around Bethel, right?
That's his like home area and Abraham is around Hebron and Isaac is around Bersheva.
Right.
Like their stories take place in these places, which suggests that these are stories that
were told by people who live there.
So, right.
The Abraham stories probably originally were passed down by people who lived down in the
south in the Hebron area and who were like, yes, we live here and this is our place and
we are all descended from our ancestor Abraham who, and why do we live here?
Because God gave the land to our ancestor Abraham and that's why we're here today.
But like, none of that is true either.
But like, at some point, maybe there was like some tribal ancestor who first settled there
and they were like, this is my land.
I, whose name may or may not be Abraham, like I claim this land for myself and then generation
of their descendants lived there and the stories grew and they're like the myths about their
ancestor grew until we had like whole complexes and stories and international relations and
all this and the, and the other.
So was Abraham real or not?
Not.
Can I imagine there having been an ancestral figure for that tribal group in that particular
region?
That's not the Abraham of the Bible.
It's like some dude who planted his flag on a piece of land and was like, I'm going to
sit here now.
That's the truth of, truth that I'm willing to grant.
Right.
I don't know if his name is Abraham.
I don't know anything about him.
I don't know that's even true.
But that's like, as far as I'm willing to go.
They're like, it's right.
That's, that's really on the edge of like, you know, factor of fiction.
Like everything, the Abraham story is fiction.
Right.
The character of Abraham is fictional.
Right.
There's, I would not, I'm not going to give up on the possibility that there is some kernel
of something back in a tradition somewhere that resembles nothing like what we have now,
but it was generative for that.
Thank you.
So Abraham.
Abraham.
Isaac.
Jacob.
Joseph is a strange guy who he's connected into Egypt.
You would say that's also kind of in the same vein.
Again, the whole story has got nothing to do with anything.
Okay.
There's no truth behind the story.
But again, Joseph is a name that is tied to a region, right?
The region of Freyman Manasseh is like labeled like the house of Joseph.
Same thing.
I assume that, you know, I assume that we have tribal connections here, right?
Is a Freyman real?
Is a Manasseh real?
Not in the way they are in the Bible.
Are those probably potentially the names of, could those be the names of like long ago
tribal founders or like prominent people such that we became the people of a Freyman because
we live in this territory?
Sure.
And could those people all be like, and we are the people of Joseph because we live in
this territory because like we go back, there's another figure out there?
Maybe.
But like again, there's no connection with what we have in the text whatsoever.
Okay.
So now that we've gotten past the skin, if you will, maybe there's some meat to the
bones on Moses.
What are your thoughts on Moses?
Similar but less, it's a similar answer, but it's a little bit, I don't know, meteoral
to use your word at the center of it.
Again, not a single word in the Bible about Moses can be verified as historically accurate.
Nothing.
The alternative, then you might say something like, well, then I guess Moses is completely
fictionalized, invented character by the Israelites who told this story.
And there's some weird things about that.
Like if I'm going to invent a story about like my super awesome liberated me from slavery
is our like national, one of our great national heroes, dude, I'd probably give him a name
that's like my kind of name, like an Israelite name, because he's supposed to be one of my
people instead of giving him like a thoroughly Egyptian name, right?
So and yeah, like there's the story in Exodus two about like, why is he named Moses, right?
It's found by the various daughter, but like, that's exactly what that story does exactly
the thing I'm talking about.
That story exists to explain why does our Israelite hero have an Egyptian name?
Here's why.
Like, and this is a whole roundabout story about how he got it.
The name for me is something of a giveaway that perhaps there was a real raised in Egypt
person who something, something, something Bible, you know what I mean?
Like, like who's who and it could be a million things, right?
Like he could be like Moses could just be like the guy who helped that one Semitic slave
like get his freedom, like, and then like waved him at the border was like, bye, bye,
have a nice life.
And like that dude was like, yes, I was freed by Moses, this Egyptian guy.
Like, again, all it takes tiny kernel for like the whole like narrative like in traditional
world to explode.
So my guess is that again, nothing in the Bible about Moses is historically verifiable
or even remotely plausible or sure.
Could there have been in history, somebody with a name probably wasn't even just Moses,
right?
Like Moses means son of, right?
Like Ramesses is son of Ra and touch Moses is son of talks.
And like, anyway, like it's, it's, you know, it's a weird thing to name a kid just like
son of generic, like, I mean, I can name your kid kid.
But like, but the Egyptian name of it does make me suspect that like someone brought
with them, perhaps a like legit memory of someone had that name or something like it.
And that's the kernel of the whole thing.
So pretty, pretty far away from what the Bible tells, but a little closer than someone like
Abraham.
Right.
Like we're getting, we're, we're getting, we're edging ever so slowly closer towards
potential historical reality.
So before let's kind of do a broader here in the entire history of Moses in the narrative
of biblical or Joshua, are there any encounters with historical people or they themselves
potentially having a root that you're aware of?
Okay.
So let's skip the judges unless you think there's some judges somewhere that actually
have a history.
Okay.
So the judges is a better one, right?
The judges, again, you're just going to keep getting closer.
You're not going to get further.
You're going to, for the most part, maybe Samson, like you're not going to get, you're not going
to get much further.
But when you get to like the story, when you get to like the few, like the story of Ahud,
right?
Like one of the first judges, like not an important, but like it's got a nice chapter
about him.
You know, he's the story about the one who stabs the dude in the bathroom sitting on
the toilet.
It's a great story.
I don't know why we don't tell that one in like Sunday school, but Ahud's got like,
you know, he's got a nice little story.
He's one of the judges.
There's a million judges.
Like we've heard of a couple of them, but like most of them are like minor, but it's
something like Gideon or a Jephthah or Ahud or even Deborah, is that right?
Like Samson.
But then the weird one's like Tola who has one verse about him.
Are those real people?
Again, I don't know that that story about Ahud like stabbing the fat dude while he's
sitting on the toilet is true.
Probably not.
But again, what we're looking at here, I think even more clearly is like a local tale about
a local hero.
And so I'm totally willing to grant that like in a certain pocket of probably like the tribe
of Benjamin, there was, you know, there are people who told the story about their like
their hero.
Right.
Like it's George Washington chopped down the cherry tree.
Right.
If all you had about George Washington was the story that he chopped down a cherry tree,
it wouldn't be true.
But George Washington would be true.
We tell stories about him.
Right.
I think the judges fall into that category.
Right.
Like there was probably people who had positions of leadership who about whom around whom legends
grew up and some of the stories of the judges fall into that category.
They were probably real people.
That doesn't mean what's in the Bible about them is historically true.
Right.
So.
Okay.
King Saul.
Yeah.
Probably.
He's, he's pretty human in so many respects when you read about him.
Right.
But so is Jacob.
Right.
Like the ability, like the ability for the Bible, for the biblical story or narrator
or text to like characterize doesn't actually tell us anything about whether they're real
or not.
Right.
Like the best novels today give you a character, you're like, that character is so real, but
they're not.
Right.
Like that's not, that's not.
What does it for you then?
Like.
It's, um, you're just, we're just, we're just edging closer to like verifiable stuff.
Extra biblical source.
Yeah.
We get some, like, and there's no extra biblical evidence of Saul.
Right.
There will be of David if we're going to get to it.
I presume in a second.
Sorry for the sirens.
It's okay.
I'm saying some really, uh, heavy stuff and they're coming for me.
Um, but like Saul is a probably, uh, and, and, and Saul's existence, my feeling on Saul's
existence has a lot to do with my feelings about David's existence because Saul exists
in a large part as part of David's story.
So how I think about the David story and its construction and its sort of historical veracity
impacts my, my view of Saul, but, um, you know, Saul is effectively prequel to David
in a sense.
And so, um,
The John the Baptist of Jesus, so to speak.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like maybe we talk about David then because that's, you wrote a whole book on this.
Yeah.
It's easier in a sense to, to do David and then, and then think about Saul.
So people have been debating David for a long time, although mostly recently, as you said,
like 50 years ago, nobody was debating David.
And then people started debating David.
You're hurt.
You're really, I know I'm really pissing everyone off, um, but, uh, David, you know, the folks
who tried to start saying that David didn't exist at all were people who we think about
as biblical minimalists, right?
People for whom the Bible as a whole is a later product with a political agenda and
David is a fully fanciful, like reconstructed, mythic, perfect king, right?
Like who, um, you know, becomes the embodiment of all the, you know, the hopes and dreams
of this later people who want to return to the land and conquer it and all these things.
Um, uh, which was an okay position to hold for a while until in like the early nineties,
we found, uh, uh, a piece of, a Stila, uh, inscription from the ninth century that referred
to the house of David.
Now you can have a house of David without there being a real David, but it's a little
bit weird.
Um, it's a little weird in that, in that kind of context, right?
Like why would the Arameans who carved this like talk about a house of a fictional didn't
really make sense.
And so if they tried to like say that the Stila was fake or like, anyway, none of it
panned out.
That's extra biblical evidence for at least the notion of a house of David.
Um, but my real issue, uh, in terms of the, the reality of David actually comes from the
text itself.
And this is mostly what the, the book I wrote is about is like the way that the David story
is told in Samuel and Kings.
It's told in order to convince you that David was actually okay, right?
Like it's full of rhetorical devices and narrative tricks and characterizations that
are meant to effectively cover up or, um, you know, put a, a good spin, a positive spin
on what looked like some pretty shady stuff, right?
Like, so, you know, we have Saul's like Saul dies in battle against the Philistines, right?
So it's killed by Philistines.
Where's David when that happens?
And according to the Bible's own story, David is working for the Philistines when that happens.
Who does Saul's crown go to as soon as Saul dies gets brought to David.
Like, which is weird.
Like that's weird.
Like that makes sense.
If I don't know, David helped the Philistines kill Saul in exchange for receiving Saul's
crown.
Like that's a plausible explanation.
The Bible's explanation is sort of implausible, right?
That David was not in line for the throne at all, uh, and that Saul just out of nowhere
tried to kill him.
And so David ran away and finally found himself with the Philistines, who he sort of like
agreed to serve.
But when the Philistines asked him to do stuff against the Israelites, he, he just, he tricked
them and didn't do it.
And then when the Philistines went off to go fight against Saul, David like didn't go
with them and like the Bible tells us that he wasn't anywhere near there.
Like he was all the way over here in this other part of the world.
And then when Saul dies, some kid happens to randomly pick up his crown and out of nowhere
for no reason whatsoever brings it to David.
This runaway Philistine like helper guy who has no connection to anything so that David
has the crown.
Like none of that makes sense.
Right.
What it makes sense as is an attempt to be like, I know it looks bad, but, and the only
time you have to say, I know it looks bad, but is in the moment that it's happening.
Right.
You don't spin stuff that happened hundreds of years ago.
And I know this because I know what David's story looks like when it's told hundreds
of years later, because I have Chronicles, which also tells the story of David, but is
nowhere near David's time.
So Chronicles tells me nothing negative about David.
He's perfect.
There's not even a hint of anything.
There's no Bathsheba.
There's no, there's no Abyssalam, right?
Like there's none of the, there's no, like he doesn't kill, like no involvement with
the Philistines.
None of the stuff that looks bad for David, even in our own in Samuel and Kings Chronicles
doesn't tell anybody because there's no need to, you can tell it however it wants.
It tells the perfect David story.
He was a perfect everything.
Samuel and Kings reads like what the genre, ancient genre called the apology, right?
Which is the same way we have apologetics now, right?
Like it's like, yeah, it doesn't look great.
I'm going to explain this stuff away, right?
And just like modern day apologetics, it doesn't really work.
But like, but it also, it needs to be like, it needs to be present day focused.
And we have other examples of ancient apologies written by kings who we knew existed that
look a lot like the David story.
They're like, yeah, okay.
So I wasn't next in line for the throne, but like, you know, I was favored by the gods
and like the real king like just attacked me out of nowhere and I had to defend myself.
And so like, that's how I ended up beating him.
And like, and like now I'm now I'm sitting on the throne and like, this is why.
And like, it's not, I didn't, I promise I didn't, I swear I didn't usurp the throne.
Right. Like it just happened.
Which is very much what the David story does too, in terms of Saul.
So if I think that's what's going on with David is like, it's an in the moment
like attempt to spin for all the people who out there who'd be like, you're not
the legitimate king, right?
You're like some kid who just like work went to work for the Philistines and like
took over Saul, like made a deal with the devil.
And like now you're sitting in Saul's throne.
Like, no, let me explain to you how it actually was.
That's a very present day kind of thing.
So spin implies a reality, right?
You don't spin fiction, right?
You spin real things.
Right. The thing I always say is, you know, like we could do this, the reference
changes all the time, but like, you know, was there a pandemic?
Like, was there a pandemic this past year?
Or like, I don't even know how to say that.
Like, depending on who you ask, right?
Like currently there is spin going on, right?
Like there's not a real pandemic or there is a real pandemic, but it was caused
by a lab. No, it was like, it was, it was caused by China.
It was caused, you know, like all this, the way we talk about it, you know,
those are all, that's all spin.
Like what's agreed on, is it something like something bad happened?
Something bad happened, yeah.
Right. Same thing in the David story, right?
There is an agreement that like, yes, these things happen, but I'm going to spin
them so they don't, so like to make them go the way I want them to go.
If spin implies reality, then David is, there has to be some reality there.
It's not what the Bible says.
Right.
It's what we can sort of extract as the logical background for that explains
why the Bible talks about David the way it does.
Why does, why does the Bible tell me that like David went to this dude's house,
this super rich dude's house and was like, and like walked away and when he
walked away, the guy was dead and David was married to his wife and owned all his
stuff. Like that looks pretty bad.
Yeah.
The Bible explains to me why that's the case.
Like, but that implies that like, why would he even tell the story?
But like, if there wasn't a need to explain it away, if David is real in a
non exactly biblical sense, that implies a reality for Saul to a degree also.
Okay.
Once we get past that, once we get past David, I don't think we're into the
realm of fictional characters anymore.
We have external evidence for plenty of biblical kings, Omri, Jehu, like they're
referred to by other people outside of the Bible itself.
Jehoek, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, plenty of them.
I was going to ask you one last, this, since you've gave us the hot seat for the
rest, we kind of have the gist that they're there, even if there's like fiction
about them or like spinning about these kings, whatever it might be.
Remember, the biblical story of these kings is not right.
It doesn't, it's not historically true necessarily.
Right.
But did they exist?
For sure they existed.
So Solomon is a tricky question because I actually have Russell
Gamerican and we'll do a video just getting your response and ideas about
minimalism in light of that.
But I believe he said that it looks like the narrative biblically of Solomon is
borrowing from Shamanese or the third or something because the chariots described
in all these like numbers of specific golden and silver and this and bronze or
whatever it is that is listed.
That's something that looks like it's taken from another source about
Shamanese or the third, because there wasn't this massive, we have an empire
like Assyria or whatever, it may be a house, a small village or something.
You know, what about Solomon?
I mean, for sure existed.
But remember, the way I'm trying to make the clear point that the way the
Bible describes it in these people is not the historical reality.
Right?
Like, yes, if you were to tell me, I don't know, that's true.
If you were to tell me that the description of Solomon borrows from description of
Shamanese or the third, that doesn't bother me at all.
Like, if I were describing Solomon, why would I not borrow his?
Like, dude, Moses's birth story is taken from Sargon.
Right?
Like, I mean, there's this stuff happens all over the place.
Right?
Like that's how you give prestige and power.
You're like, yes, just like this other thing, just like this other
known powerful thing, that doesn't imply or a lack of reality, right?
Because the description of the person, again, right?
George Washington chopping down the territory.
If I tell you that's fiction, it doesn't mean George Washington wasn't real.
It means that particular depiction of his character.
Like Solomon didn't cut a baby in half.
Like, that's like that story is meant to illustrate his wisdom.
Like George Washington's territory is supposed to illustrate his like honesty.
It doesn't mean he didn't exist.
Like none of those are the it's a category error, right?
To confuse the way that the Bible describes somebody with like, that's not true.
Therefore, that the person they're describing didn't exist.
That doesn't work at any point in history.
And certainly not certainly not for Solomon.
Again, it's like, you know, I don't know how much I think probably there are
some aspects of the biblical accounts of David and Solomon.
I'm convinced that are reflective of truths about their reigns, but none of it
is going to be like, and that's literally what happened, right?
And that's because that's not they didn't write history.
Like they weren't historians writing modern day histories that are meant
to account for the past.
Exactly. That's that's a modern concept of what history is.
It's just it's not it's not native to their time or place.
We to judge it on those bases.
That's silly.
Thank you.
