Dr. Allison, we have a quest for the historical Jesus course. I hope people will sign up for
in the description. Make sure you sign up. You don't want to miss out. It's trust me. Amazing
course. My question is cognitive dissonance theory, apocalypticism. I want to get into this.
And I definitely have followed your work, of course, and many others on this definite expectation
of a near apocalypse, if we could call it that, paracea of Christ in Paul. And in recent rumors
online, the rumor has it, yeah, I know, the rumor has it that you have changed your mind
on this whole topic. And I said, hold on, hold on, I'm in conversation with Dr. Allison.
I can't imagine him completely changing his mind on this idea.
Okay, I have, I know what this is. Okay, so I shouldn't, I shouldn't have said anything,
but if it's out there, let me explain. So I have in a number of writings over the years,
books and articles, argued that Jesus had an imminent expectation. And the impression I have left,
which I intended to give was that Jesus thought the end could come very, very soon. All right,
very, very soon. But I've also argued that he expected to die. And that for him, this was part
of the eschatological scenario, because the traditional eschatological scenario is always
catastrophe, utopia, disaster, bliss, you go through hell in order to get to heaven. That's
what it's all about. And if you look at Jewish sources, which talk about all the horrors of the
end, kind of like the book of Revelation, it includes the martyrdom often or the death of the
saints or the holy ones. So I've always had that view and never been quite sure how to put it
all together, except I thought Jesus probably thought that he would die and that the resurrection
would happen very, very soon after that. So what I'm thinking about twice now is that there are
texts in the Gospels that show some sort of interim period that is, in my judgment, a period
between Jesus's death and the eschaton. It's not a period of decades or even years. I think it's an
indeterminate period of time. And the question then becomes, how do I explain this? How does
it fit my scheme? And so on. And here I'm actually going to be reverting back to a theory of Johannes
Weiss, not completely unrelated to the work of Albert Schweitzer. But Weiss thought that
Jesus was a preacher of repentance and that he was disappointed in the response that he got.
Therefore, he sort of changed his mind. He realized that the end wasn't just going to come,
but that he would have to die for Weiss. It was a sort of sacrifice that would help bring in the
end. So Jesus actually has two sort of scenarios in mind. One, the end is coming very, very soon.
Israel didn't repent, and therefore it's going to be delayed a little bit. So what I've paid
attention to recently is the really close connection in a bunch of texts. And I've never
appreciated the breadth of this tradition until recently, which do associate repentance with
the restoration of Israel, repentance with the return from the diaspora, for example,
which was understood eschatologically in the first century. The connection between
repentance and the end is a constant. So I've had to rethink the issue of, well, given
everything I think I know about Jesus, is it possible that something like Weiss's scenario
took place and that he decided, well, the end hasn't come the way I expected it to. So there
will be some sort of short interim period. So I used to sort of push away these few texts.
I am now thinking maybe I shouldn't have done that. So this is a way of doing justice to some
texts that I probably haven't done justice to before. So that's what that is. And I'm calling it
contingent eschatology. And you use the term cognitive dissonance. I suppose from one point
of view, yeah, you could apply cognitive dissonance theory and say that Jesus isn't seeing what he
expected, and therefore he has a change in plan or change of mind. Anyway, thinking like this
does appear clearly in Jewish sources. It appears later on. I found this, for example,
in the movement connected with the Jewish Messiah sabotage fee when things don't work out exactly
as expected. Some of his followers said, well, Israel didn't repent or didn't fully repent or
something didn't happen. And that explains the change in our expectations. So I found a number of
real, real life parallels to this sort of thinking. And that's what I'm doing. Okay,
I'm still working on it. I'm still working on it. I've given a couple of public lectures
and maybe made unwisely some comment about it somewhere on a podcast. So that's that's what
this is all about. But it's not as though Jesus expected, you know, looked into the future and
you don't saw the Roman Catholic Church in 2000 years of history. That's not what's going on here.
It's it's it's thinking that Jesus saw some sort of interim period for one of a better term between
his death and the consummation. I don't know how to fill out the details of that. I don't know how
to tell you. Well, he thought it would last six months or a year. I don't know how to do anything
like that. But I think there's a place for that in his thought. If I may ask, just as we're probing
into this, I love this topic. As you said, cognitive dissonance theory, we've seen replicated groups
that do exactly this where they expect a real literal something to happen and they might spiritualize
something or they push the time off. It's usually one of the other stuff happens where they they
find a way to rationalize because that's exactly what cognitive dissonance theory actually says.
Hey, the behavior and what I believe need to match what's going on needs to match my reality.
And that's OK. We're humans. This is what we do. I probably do it all the time on little minutia in
my life and don't even realize it. And that's OK. But I'm curious to know in these related
passages, like when I look at Mark, we're getting into a pericope here that I think it's an interesting
one where I read John J. Collins wrote actually an article. I don't know if you published it yet,
but he sent it to me. It was in response to N.T. Wright. And he pretty much was trying to say
wrong. But he was saying, you know, you guys, all you scholars are, he was saying
that it seems almost anti apocalyptic climatic when Jesus going, but, you know, I don't really
even know the day or the hour kind of. And the real question that John and others might ask is,
did Jesus actually even say this? It sounds like Mark, maybe potentially inserting these things.
Or I'm not going to put words into his mouth specifically, but you kind of wonder if Mark,
as Paula Fredrickson described this when I interviewed her in Boston recently, she said,
Mark has like a dual generation position. The disciples don't get it. Don't worry.
Just like Israel and the wilderness didn't get it. Don't worry. It's the next generation
that will enter the Promised Land that will see these things in fruition. And the temple's destruction
is that kind of catalyst for what their expectation of the in near is supposed to be.
And if Luke and Matthew are based off Mark, I know we could probably use Q to reference
and try to go, okay, what did he maybe say that isn't found in Mark that we find is Q material.
My question is, can it be explained in ways that it sounds like the followers are putting
this stuff in the mouth of Jesus because they're trying to rationalize? Okay. Well, if you're
talking about the saying in Mark 13, there are two old arguments. The one is that this
sounds like the church, for example, it uses the title, the sun, which isn't often on the lips of
Jesus in the absolute sense, and that this could be a rationalization after some delay.
That's perfectly possible. The other side would say, well, it's not likely that the early church
would attribute ignorance to Jesus. Luke omits this, John's gospel couldn't possibly have anything
like it. And all the church fathers, with the exception, I think of Aranaeus, come up with
really implausible explanations. So that's the argument. There's also a third argument,
which goes back to a great scholar named C.K. Barrett, who said, well, I think Jesus said
something like this, but the tradition added the sun, you know, the title in order to sort of set
it off and make it less difficult. Look, I'm at the point in my career where I'm not able,
with any great confidence, to say, okay, here's a saying, and here are the reasons for saying
it's authentic or not authentic. As you may know, my tendency now is to look for themes and repeating
motifs and to try to do as much with those as I can, because I'm just not sure about this business.
There are some, of course, there are sayings that I think almost certainly go back to Jesus,
or most likely go back to Jesus. But I think that those are the minority. It doesn't mean that I
think, therefore, all the others are apocryphal. It just means I think our tools are really limited
so that most of these, I have a sort of agnostic view. Yeah, maybe, maybe not. I just don't know yet
how to get there. You know, even with John Myers last book on the parables, you know,
where he just has a handful of parables that he traces back to Jesus, what he says about the others
is that they're just in limbo. He's not saying Jesus couldn't have said them. He's just saying,
I can't get my hands on them. I can't figure out arguments to show that he said this or not.
And I'm sympathetic to that. You know, if you just, Jesus is a first century Jew. He's in
Galilee and he's uttering sentences. And 2000 years later, we're trying to figure out whether he
really said exactly this sentence. It's very, very, it's almost asking for a miracle, I think,
much of the time. So again, I'm Ed Sanders when he wrote his, you know, his book on Jesus
and Jesus and Judaism. He said, the saints are just too hard to get ahold of. Even if you can,
you're not sure of the original audience and setting, you know, much of the time and context
is everything. So he wanted to start somewhere else. I'm doing something similar. But we share,
and we share in common this skepticism, not so much about the tradition. I have to make this
clear because people don't get it. It's simply a skepticism that all of us are Sherlock Holmes.
We're just not in a Sherlock Holmes novel. You can't always figure it out. Lots of crimes go
unsolved, right? And just because you have a saying attributed into the Gospel, in the Gospels,
doesn't mean a modern historian can show to everyone satisfaction that he uttered it or that
he didn't utter it. Much of the time, I just say, well, that could be. But I can see somebody adding
that also, right? You bring up a wonderful point. I think we should all be cautious. That's why I
like to be flexible in my thinking about these things because, say a Christian will go, hey,
Derek, you're a skeptic. We know that. You think, what do you think about the empty tomb? And I'll
go, right now, if you put a number on it, I have no way to calculate this. I'm just throwing a
hypothetical number. I'd be 60% legend. 60% legend because it was well known that empty tombs is
a sign in the Mediterranean and the Roman world that people become divine. The body goes missing.
Usually, there's some type of transportation that is seen as, hey, the reason he's missing could be
this. And this is something I've asked Robin Faith Walsh, Richard C. Miller, many other people
that I'm like, okay, they see this as a translation model that's within the Mediterranean. However,
I also don't say that that is the case. So Christians go, well, what if there was an empty
tomb? And that's where I bring guys like you in and I ask experts who are like, well, if I'm a
skeptic and my model is a naturalist model, how do I rationalize and explain this data? Did his
body get stolen? Did the Sanhedrin somehow the day after relocate him because they only had to
temporarily bury him because it's a high holy day? And then they read, I don't know. I don't know the
answer because I can't prove it. Was he just given a common grave as some people like Bart Ehrman say?
I'm not so sure I'm convinced of that either. I mean, there's just, there's so many possibilities.
I hope people will have fun opening their minds, whether skeptic or Christian,
and explore this thing and be open-minded about it. So I shouldn't say this in response, but I will.
So I'm a historian and I think what I do is important and I also enjoy what I do, but I also
understand the sort of theological response of people like Rudolph Boltman or Carl Bart or Paul
Tillich, by the way, three very different people theologically, but they all say, look, history
is too uncertain. And if we're going to do theology, we're going to have to base it on something other
than what the historians this week think really happened. And so they try to build elsewhere. Now,
I don't, I don't agree with their foundations, which they find elsewhere, but I understand
the unease with the idea that you can build your theology on history, because history
is often ambiguous and it doesn't give you the answers. And that's why often skeptics don't like
me and my more conservative friends don't like me because they want me to prove something one way
or the other. And I'm often just, well, it could be this or it could be that. And it's going to depend
on a bunch of presuppositions or what you want to be the case and so on. But just trying to
stand back as a historian, I see multiple possibilities here and history is full of odd
things. And how on earth do you, you know, say, I know this happened or I know that happened? It's
very difficult. And I, oh, what I'm just going to add, one of my heroes is, is origin. One of my
great heroes is origin from the early third century. And origin at one point says, even if
something happened, even if it happened, it's one of the hardest things to show that it happened.
And he's right. And then he says, and often you can't do it. I think that's the case.
I want to get skeptics because a lot of them are who typically watch me to appreciate what you
just said even more. And that's what I value about you is that you're not a dogmatist because
typically what we find when you're engaging apologists, which is, I would say a different
tactic or a category that might be going on instead of historian, is you find kind of like,
we're right about this. And then you find the opposite in the skeptic community too. Very
dogmatic. I am right. You're absolutely wrong in every respect. But I like the ambiguity of
wrestling with ideas and having fun and join them and not being certain. But then again,
I'm a strange guy, Dale. When I got clean off heroin seven years ago and I looked at the universe
in my mind and said, I don't know. Maybe I don't know. Maybe there isn't something. Maybe there
is. When I got comfortable in my own skin and saying, I don't know, there was so much to learn.
But when you know something psychologically, like, oh, I know, I feel like there's some limit on what
you can come to know when you have that answer already in your mind.
Yeah. And I was just going to, I don't disagree with that. I was just going to add though that
it seems that at least to me, somebody like me, life in its entirety is sort of confusing.
It's very difficult to figure things out. You know, in my spare time, one of the things I like
to do is read philosophy. And the great philosophers don't agree on a lot of things,
right? They don't agree on a lot of things, but they were brilliant people. And that means that
it's really difficult to figure things out. So I think modesty is always a virtue that is. And I
think that humility is also a virtue and a virtue for the historian or maybe anybody.
Well, if we can, just for the sake of anyone watching, please take the time. I hope you've
enjoyed this and go check out the lecture that Delcy Allison's done on the quest for the historical
Jesus. He pours his life's work and research and he's very passionate. In fact, Del, this is not
to be offensive. This is to be just very frank. I did not know you had so much enthusiasm until
I recorded you in this course. I was like, whoa, hold on. So much energy, enthusiasm that your
teaching was amazing. It's an eight part lecture. So anybody who actually wants to take a deep dive
into the history of the conquest, so to speak, conquest, the conquest of Jesus. Check out the
quest for the historical Jesus. You can't miss out. I don't care where you're at on the spectrum in
terms of I'm a total skeptic, atheist, or I am a fundamentalist, Christian, evangelical,
and earnest. It doesn't matter. You should learn the history to understand what's going on here.
I highly recommend it. Everything's in 4K. You learn a lot. There's reading recommendations.
It's full of information. And I hope people will sign up. And I thank you so much, Dr.
Allison. I really appreciate your time. Any final words? No, just thanks for having me.
I enjoyed the conversation, as always.
