Did the Apostle Paul misuse Scripture?
Was he taking it out of context?
Did Paul mean exactly what the Hebrew Bible says,
or better yet, the Septuagint?
Or was he making his own context using Scripture?
Today, Dr. Christopher Stanley and my friend Stephen
Elson join me as we take a very, very deep dive
into the literature of Paul.
If you really want to know Paul, do not turn away.
I understand this is a longer episode than usual.
But we go into the actual pericope and show you
what Paul is actually doing when he is using Scripture.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm the host, Eric Weber.
Today, we're going to discuss does Paul misuse Scripture?
And today I have Dr. Christopher Stanley joining us.
Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you.
Good to be with you again.
Thank you for joining me.
And I will introduce our guest as well.
He's going to co-host with me today.
But first, let's talk about Dr. Stanley.
And he is a social and religious historian
who studies and writes about early Christianity
in the Greco-Roman world.
He recently retired as a professor
at St. Bonadventure University in Western New York.
Dr. Stanley has written or edited six books
and dozens of professional articles
on early Christian text and history
and presents papers regularly at conferences
around the world.
For the first 20 years of his career,
he focused most of his research
and writing on the Apostle Paul's use of Scripture.
He has known internationally for his work in this area
and his books and articles have helped
to reshape the scholarly discussion
about Paul and Scripture,
the topic of our interview today.
His books on the subject include,
Paul and the Language of Scripture,
citation technique in the Pauline Epistles
and Contemporary Literature.
He wrote that back in 93,
arguing with Scripture,
the rhetoric of quotation in the letters of Paul, 2004.
As it is written, studying Paul's use of Scripture,
2008, and Paul and Scripture,
extending the conversation in 2013,
and that is in the subject of Paul.
Now he has other books as well
and be sure while we're at this
to go and check out his books on Amazon.
The link is down below.
All of his literature is there
and he also has a website,
a slavesstory.com,
where it's going through a trilogy
and he's dealing with the Greco-Roman world.
Very interesting material,
so make sure you go check him out,
support Dr. Stanley,
and get ready for a deep dive today
because we're gonna really be going deep.
I don't know if we've gone this deep into the pericope,
but just stay tuned.
All right, now getting back to the intro here,
he also served for six years
as the founding chair of the Paul and Scripture seminar
for the Society of Biblical Literature,
the primary professional organization
in the field of biblical studies.
Over the last decade,
he has turned his attention to other issues,
including sickness and healing in the Greco-Roman world,
the topic of three recent interviews that we did with him,
and is it inter-ethnic relations and antiquity,
a topic that we will be covering in future interviews?
You're gonna wanna watch those as well.
He has also written two historical novels
and a planned trilogy that we showed
on a slavesstory.com.
The third one should be coming out soon,
where he talks about the life,
sorry, to the trilogy that brings to life
the social and religious world of the Roman Asia Minor,
Modern Turkey in the era of Paul.
Information about the novels and links
to their Amazon listings can be found
on this website for the series.
So make sure you go in the description there.
Now, to my special co-host,
who has never joined me yet.
This is the first time I've had the opportunity.
And today I have the pleasure of co-hosting
with my good friend, Steven Nelson.
Welcome, my friend.
Good to be here.
Thank you so much, man.
I've been trying to get you on Mithvision
for a couple of years.
He holds a bachelor's degree in, wait for it,
Russian literature, especially with everything
going on right now, you know,
he needs to know how to speak it,
which has nothing to do with biblical studies.
But for some reason, Steven is obsessed
with learning many languages, in particular Greek,
which is why he's been able to put together
amazing illustrations of biblical text,
which you'll see in a minute.
All the examples today were done by him.
Look, even Dr. Stanley thinks the guy deserves a PhD.
So, Steven, if you don't mind taking over.
Yeah, I just wanted to give a really quick disclaimer
regarding the biblical texts that I used in these examples.
You're gonna see English text paralleled with Greek text.
I tried my best to sort of line them up
as well as I could, like an interlinear,
for the small percentage of people watching
who might want to check it against the Greek.
Most of the English translations
are taken from the ESV, the NASB as well,
and from Dr. Stanley's preferred translation, the NRSV.
But I've personally tweaked some of the translations
to make them line up better with the Greek text,
which is the critical text, SPL, of the New Testament,
and Alfred Roth's 9th edition, 1971.
English translations of the Septuagint
are all from the new English translation
of the Septuagint, the N-E-T-S,
which I mostly borrowed verbatim.
I only modified a couple of key places
where I found it necessary
and consulted Dr. Stanley on those modifications.
So he can vouch for those,
but if anyone disagrees with any of my choices,
translating or paraphrasing the New Testament,
blame it on me, Dr. Stanley did not vet my work on that.
So I hope it's all accurate.
I tried to make it readable.
I'm gonna try to read this stuff for you guys
and not make it boring.
We just wanna make sure that anybody
who's just listening to this and not watching
can listen to the texts that we're discussing
and get some context without looking at it on the screen.
But ideally, you should be watching this,
you should be looking, you should be reading,
screenshotting, pausing, look it up in your own Bible.
And that's my little spiel before we get going.
Thank you again for joining me today.
Finally, I got to pop your cherry on this one.
So Dr. Stanley, what do we mean by scripture
when talking about Paul
and why is it so important to him?
Yeah, Paul, even though we often think of Paul
as one of the, in some sense,
the founder of Christianity after Jesus,
Paul didn't conceive of himself that way.
There was no religion of Christianity in his day
that was distinct from Judaism.
And maybe the we think of today as two separate religions.
That was still being worked out.
Paul himself makes it clear that he was nurtured
deeply within Judaism, he was a Jew.
He was born according to the book of Acts
in Tarsus in southeastern Turkey.
But he says in Philippians three
that he was from a devout family.
They were very proud of their Jewish heritage.
And as such, he would have been nurtured
in the Jewish scriptures.
And it would have been the framework for his thinking
and his framing of his conduct.
He, according to the book of Acts,
he studied in Jerusalem under Gamaliel,
the head Pharisee leader there.
There's no evidence of that in Paul's letters directly,
but he does describe himself in Philippians three
as a Pharisee.
And given that we know nothing about Pharisees
outside of Israel, it might suggest
that it's consistent with what we find there in Acts.
Now, here's where it gets a little bit complicated.
Most people simply assume that Paul,
because he was a Jew, knew Hebrew because the Hebrew Bible,
the Jewish scriptures were written in Hebrew and Aramaic,
and therefore that he must have consulted that text regularly.
Interestingly, when we look up in Paul's letters,
the, do the kind of technical careful study
to examine the text that he actually uses,
there is no evidence whatsoever in Paul's letters
that he ever quotes from the Hebrew text.
What does he quote from?
Well, in a couple, the beginning of a couple of centuries
before Paul's time, perhaps three centuries,
the Jews who lived outside of Israel,
and by the way, they outnumbered the number of Jews
who lived in Israel by the time of Jesus and Paul
because they had left due to immigration
and they had had children in slavery
and various other things.
And they, because they lived in a Greek-speaking world,
even under the Romans, everyone spoke Greek.
The Romans did not try to get people to speak Latin.
To be a good Roman was to be able to speak Greek well.
And so Greek was the lingua franca,
the common language and culture,
and that was true for Jews also.
So Jews had really lost their knowledge of Hebrew
in what's called the diaspora,
the lands outside of Israel.
And so they began to translate the Hebrew texts into Greek.
There's some legends about how it was done
and it might've been done by people in Palestine.
It's not very clear what the story was there.
But the bottom line is that by Paul's day,
all of the books of the Jewish scriptures,
which are essentially the same as what Christians
called the Old Testament,
had been translated into Greek.
The modern name for that kind of collection of translations
that were made over time is the Septuagint,
often abbreviated to LXX,
which is the Roman number for 70,
for those who might remember learning
about Roman numerals in elementary school.
And the reason it's called that, the 70,
is because of a legend in a Jewish text
called the Letter of Aristaeus,
that it was translated by 70 elders of Israel
and that they all independently
and came up with exactly the right same wording.
What do you know?
It's a divine miracle.
I mean, the book was written in order to affirm
the divine authenticity, not just of the Hebrew texts,
but of the Greek text as well.
And so this is the text that Paul would have known
and grown up with and been nurtured in
and that he would have recited, quoted, alluded to
when he uses it in his letters.
So for Paul then, to answer the question, scripture,
the word scripture is just a modern term,
meaning the written things.
It's a shorthand in modern language
for sacred texts of any religion.
And for Paul, that sacred text was the Greek version
of the Jewish scriptures
that we would call the Septuagint.
So we want to see in some slides
when we start looking at pictures in a moment
that Stephen has set out the,
when he shows the text from the Jewish scriptures
that Paul is using,
he has a sort of abbreviation LXX
after the Greek there to indicate this is the Septuagint.
Just a quick little final word.
Even the term Septuagint is
a term that veils a lot of debates
and uncertainties and complexity
because this was not like one translation made at one time.
Books were translated at different times,
some of them multiple times.
People did not have books in a cover like we do today.
A collection of books was simply a stack of scrolls.
And so the Septuagint did not exist
as a collection of books in a single cover
until perhaps the fourth century AD.
So then we've got a collection there
of modern English and a modern collection within a cover.
But for Paul, there's an issue of individual scrolls.
And I just want to say one more word about that
before we move on.
If Paul wanted to consult these scrolls,
where would he do it?
Very few people owned books in the ancient world.
As we'll see in a minute, very few people could read or write.
And certainly as Paul travels,
he's not lugging around a stack of dozens of scrolls with him.
And so really the only place you could consult
a collection of scrolls was in the local Jewish synagogue.
And even they would not necessarily have translations
of all the texts.
What mattered to them was the Torah, the first five books.
And so we'll get into some questions later
about how much does Paul, he's quoting generally from memory,
from when he had access to those texts.
So to some degree, maybe we might summarize that scripture
is those texts that Paul has devoted to memory
sometime in the course of his studies over the years
and is able to meditate on or ruminate on
to quote or allude to when he wants to.
In some sense, that's then going to be a subset
of the actual texts that we find in the Jewish scriptures.
Those ideas found important and relevant over the years.
So I have a few more questions before we get into the slides.
Paul was a Jew who would have known the Jewish scriptures
well, but his churches were made up mostly of Gentiles,
the Jewish term for non-Jews,
who presumably knew little or nothing
about the Jewish scriptures.
Is that a valid characterization of the people in his churches?
And if so, why does he quote and allude
to the Jewish scriptures so much in his life?
Yeah, that's another big topic that we need to say
a little bit about, because it's very important
for understanding what Paul is doing with scripture.
The term Gentile is a modern translation of a word
that in Paul actually is the Greek word ethne, the nations.
It's a Jewish term, just kind of a categorical term
for anybody who's not a Jew,
just like Greeks called anybody who wasn't a Greek
or a barbarian.
And so I'm gonna use the term Gentile as shorthand,
but we have to keep in mind,
we're talking about a group of people
who did not identify themselves
as a single group of people called Gentiles.
They called themselves Greeks or Romans
or Parthagonians or Egyptians
or whatever their ethnic identity was.
In this world, there is virtually no evidence
that people outside of Jewish circles
knew or studied the Jewish scriptures.
The earliest definite quotation that we have
that shows some kind of knowledge of the Jewish scriptures
by a Greek author is from the late first century AD.
So Paul is dealing with people who,
when they come into his churches
and the dominant, most of the people in his churches
were Gentiles, probably had no knowledge whatsoever
of the Jewish scriptures.
In fact, if whatever they knew about Judaism
was probably negative,
because there's a lot of anti-Jewish sentiment
in the ancient world,
why should they be interested in the texts
of these ridiculous people?
And in fact, we have references in some authors
who do know something about Judaism
and vague knowledge of say the Exodus story
and present these garbled or scurrilous retellings
of the Exodus story that make the Jews look bad.
There were, however, among the Gentiles,
some who would have known something of the Jewish scriptures
because there were,
even though there were a lot of people
who had strong dislike to Jews in Paul's day,
there were some who were attracted to Judaism.
They admired its monotheism,
which was consistent with the teachings
of the best of the Greek philosophy.
We admired the strict moral lifestyle of Jews
and their family values.
So some of them actually attended Jewish synagogues
and there they would have learned
something about the Jewish scriptures.
A few of them now here and there
actually converted to Judaism.
Most did not because if you're a male,
it involved circumcision for an adult in an era
which was lacking in anesthesia,
not a very pleasant way to go through.
And also when you went to the baths,
as any Romans did daily,
if you were wealthy and had leisure time
and less often if you were working,
it'd be pretty obvious since they're together in the nude,
there's something's different about Joe now.
I mean, it's very visually marked
that you are now a weirdo.
And of course, obeying Jewish laws
was something that set people apart.
If you're a Gentile, let's start obeying Jewish laws.
But there were a good number of people,
we don't know how many,
who were more or less sympathetic
to greater or lesser degrees with Judaism.
In the book of Acts, Luke calls these people God-fearers.
That doesn't mean they're afraid of God.
It means they are people who respect or honor
or venerate the God at Israel.
And so these people played a vital role
in Paul's ministry to reaching out to Gentiles
because they were able not only to know something
about the Jewish scriptures and help other Christ followers
who didn't know anything to know something,
but also they could translate the concepts.
You say Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah,
that means nothing to Gentiles.
The end of the world is coming, huh?
I mean, these are concepts that meant nothing whatsoever
to people who knew nothing about Judaism.
And so these people served as kind of the bridge.
So there would have been perhaps a few people
in each church, maybe not, we don't know,
who had some prior familiarity,
but the vast majority of people in Paul's churches
would know nothing at all about the Jewish scriptures
before coming into his churches
and only would have known what they would have learned orally
from teaching within the churches
because I guess I forgot to say one other thing,
a very important thing.
90 to 95% of the people in the ancient world,
whether they were Jewish or Gentile, were illiterate.
That is they were incapable of reading or writing
at any level, they might've been able to sign their name,
they might've been able to write some numbers
and being on their business
where they could keep some track of records.
But the idea, even if these scrolls had been available,
which they were not, the idea that a Gentile,
an ordinary Gentile in Paul's churches
could read one of them, at all,
is a historical anachronism.
So whatever they knew was something
they would have had to learn orally
within the context of either a Jewish synagogue
or a Christian church
where these were being interpreted in Christian ways.
Does that answer our question here?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Given what you said about Paul's audience,
what are we to meet of the common scholarly presumption
that Paul expected his audiences to know
and engage with the original context
of the scriptural passages that he cites in his letters
in order to understand what he was saying to them.
Are these other scholars wrong?
If so, what difference does it make?
We do have this puzzling phenomenon.
Of why in the world does Paul quote
and allude to the Jewish scriptures
when he's writing to people
who don't have any background
for the most part in the Jewish scriptures?
That's something I've devoted a lot of my scholarly career
to teasing apart.
In fact, I got started in this area
back when I was working my PhD dissertation at Duke,
exploring the question of,
if you get into the Greek language
and you compare the Greek of Paul's quotations
with the Greek of the text
that we would call the Septuagint,
you find there are a lot of places
where the wording doesn't agree.
And it'd been common to say that Paul,
well, this is just where Paul had memory slips
or something like that.
And what I explored and what I demonstrated
to the satisfaction of virtually everybody
who works in this field now,
is that no, Paul was consciously and intentionally
changing the wording of texts
to make them accord better
with his own interpretations on them,
which raises questions for us
of kind of moral integrity or something like that.
So the rest of what I did
was explored how quotations were handled
by other Jewish authors
and also how Greek authors handled quotations from Homer.
And you know what I found out?
Everybody did this.
They didn't have such basic notions as a fixed text.
Manuscripts were different.
They didn't feel any obligation to quote texts accurately.
So the idea you'd incorporate meaning
into the wording of your interpretations
was simply a normal part of their culture
that's very different than ours.
So anyway, that's what got me into studying these things,
but that didn't get at the question of,
well, what about the meaning of the way Paul is using
the texts in his letters,
which is often in tension
where they're even very different from any natural reading
of their meaning in the Jewish scriptures
and where Christians come to call the Old Testament.
And so the more you explore that,
it raises questions about,
well, if Paul can quote from these texts,
surely he must be assuming that his audiences know these texts.
In fact, Richard Hayes in 1989
wrote a book that's been very influential
called Echoes of Scripture in the Letters of Paul,
where he argued that Paul is expecting his audiences,
not only to know the original context
of everything he cites,
but to go and engage in detail with that context
and even be able to hear and bring out elements
that Paul didn't even state the resonances
between that original text and his quoted text.
And I knew Richard when he was starting this work
and he's a few years older than me.
And we had a number of public engagements over this,
meetings of the Society of Biblical Literature
over a course of three or four years
after I wrote some of my work in this area
where I was arguing that's just not possible.
That's historically anachronistic
because they could not read and they did not know these texts.
And one of my most satisfying moments as a young scholar
was when Richard grabbed me after one of the meetings
and said, look, we need to settle this and talk about it.
We stood there about 10 or 15 minutes in the hall
and he finally said, okay, I get it.
I think you're right.
I should have been clearer.
I should be more careful about how I use these,
and from that time forward, he was.
And so, I've been able to reshape a lot of the conversation
in this area by highlighting the fact that any assumption
that people in Paul's audience is know and engaging
with the original text of his quotations
is makes no sense historically.
It doesn't mean perhaps there might have been a person
who had to in the congregation
who had some knowledge of the original context
and could have taught others.
I'm not totally excluding those kind of possibilities.
But as we're going to see today,
what I've gone on to do is to argue that in fact,
as odd as this might sound,
I think Paul often counted on the fact
that his audiences could not go back and check the context
because we're gonna see some examples where
if you do go back and look at the context,
the original text could actually be used against Paul.
And so, it gets kind of complicated here,
but when you really dig into the evidence in detail,
you find out that this assumption that because Paul quotes,
he must have assumed knowledge is invalid.
And ultimately what I argue,
and we're not gonna quite get into this too much today,
is that no, Paul was quoting from these texts
because he knew that his audiences,
because they had this affiliation with Judaism,
and because they saw the Jewish scriptures
as somehow authoritative,
that they would accept quotes from the scripture
as kind of the decisive voice in an argument.
So like today, when a pastor wants to prove a point,
what's he do?
He quotes the text of scripture.
Now, he may be taking that verse totally out of context,
but as long as the audience doesn't know
and go back and check him, he can get away with it.
You know, you can say, the Bible says,
and if your audience doesn't know better,
it makes it sound valid, right?
You know, the Bible says it, it must be true.
He knows, he's an expert.
And so the fact that Paul could read and write
made him a member of a small minority of people.
The fact that he could know and interpret
these authoritative texts
gave him an authority, a call for respect
that would have elicited, okay,
if Paul can quote scripture about this, it must be true.
Even if we can go back and look now and say, huh?
That doesn't really seem to work so well
if you go back and look at it.
So anyway, that's kind of quick summary.
Yeah, yeah, so a few more,
and then we're getting into these examples.
I'm sorry for taking so long here.
You've said that Paul assumes
only a fairly minimal knowledge of Jewish scriptures
on the part of his Gentile audiences.
How could he presume that they had any knowledge at all?
How can you judge what they did and didn't know
when our only information about them
comes from Paul's letters?
Yeah, you know, one things that I did
in writing one of my books, Arguing with Scripture,
which interestingly Derek and Stephen have read,
and that's why it got them to contact me
about any of this in the first place,
is I went through all of Paul's quotations
and allusions to scripture and his letters,
where he necessarily assumes knowledge.
So we're gonna see, for example,
in a moment in 1 Corinthians 10,
he refers several times without explanation
to various elements of the Exodus story,
and it's clear that he expected his audience
to know what he's talking about.
He'll talk about our ancestors going through the sea
and the cloud and this kind of thing
without explaining what he means.
So I went through his letters
and just kind of compiled all the things
that he assumes his audience has known.
Now he could have been wrong in what he assumed they knew.
So we can't necessarily make a one-on-one equation
that Paul assumes that they must have known it.
But at least he had good reason to think
they would have known some of these things.
And interestingly, if you go through
and compile the evidence,
he does assume they know certain things,
but they're the kind of things
that one could have learned orally,
either in a Jewish synagogue or within the Christian church.
Primarily it's things having to do with the creation story,
the Exodus story, and some of the key laws,
like you love one another,
I mean, love your neighbor as yourself
and the 10 commandments.
That's about it.
And so we can, if it's possible that they knew more,
it's possible that they knew less.
But I wanna say, what do we actually have evidence
that Paul felt he could reasonably assume they knew?
That's it.
And it's no accident, there's mostly stories
because that's how things were passed on
in the ancient world, in an illiterate culture,
in any culture that's illiterate.
Stories are the primary means of communicating ideas,
not doctrinal statements or something like that.
And within Jewish circles,
obviously memorizing key portions of the law, the Torah,
especially the 10 commandments
would have been important as well.
And it's just, it's no accident.
Those are the things that Paul thinks they should know.
So probably somewhere along the way,
Paul himself when he was with these churches
would have taught them some of these basic stories
from the Jewish scriptures
and he would have assumed that they knew them.
But even with Romans, he assumes they know
when writing to the Christians in Rome
where he's not visited, he assumes they know
pretty much these same things.
And therefore, it seems to be something even,
not just as unique to Paul, but was apparently,
he had a confidence, it was an element
of what we would call Christianity everywhere,
that a certain amount of knowledge of these Jewish stories
was a common stock of Christian teaching.
If his audience did not in fact know
how much about the Jewish scriptures,
I'm wondering if that might help to explain
some of the more unusual ways
in which Paul seems to interpret scripture
when we compare his quotations and illusions
with their original context.
Are you suggesting that he deliberately manipulated
the meaning of the scriptures for his own ends
in the knowledge that no one in his churches
could check what he is doing and call him on it?
Or are you saying something else?
Can you give us some concrete examples
to show how Paul interpreted the scriptures
and applied them to his audiences?
Maybe we can get into the slides.
Do you want me to pull those up?
Yeah, yeah, let's do that.
Answering the question of what Paul is doing with scripture,
how he views it, how he interprets it,
is he faithful to it or distorting it?
It's not something you can do just in broad brushes.
Paul does different things with different texts.
And it's rather challenging to even summarize what he does
because there's so much diversity in it.
But as we take time to go through some examples,
I want to, maybe perhaps at the end,
I'll try to summarize as best I can what Paul does.
But anybody who ever offers you any blanket statements
like Paul is faithful to the context of his quotations
or Paul distorts the biblical text,
know by definition,
they don't know what they're talking about
because the reality is much, much more complicated
and nuanced.
For the sake of our conversation here,
I've come up with three different categories
and Stephen graciously has put together
these wonderful slides for us to illustrate them
that the show different ways in which Paul is
or is not consistent with the original texts
of his quotations, but also along the way,
we can look at some of the other things
he does with quotations.
Good job.
I also want to come.
It's a good job, Stephen.
He spent hours.
I mean, countless hours.
He has been amazingly patient with me
making multiple corrections all over the place
and teasing us, getting us all together for us.
So we're going to start with a simple example.
Well, first we're going to look at passages
where Paul is generally seems to be,
what we might today say,
he's doing a reasonably valid
or understandable interpretation of texts,
something that we would say,
yeah, Paul, okay, that makes sense.
Stephen is actually going to read the original texts
of Paul's letters, not the original and the Greek,
but the English texts and the Septuagint texts
and then I'll comment on them.
And then after each one of them, I'm going to stop
and Stephen has put a lot of time
and thought into these as well.
And so I'll stop and see if he's got,
after I make my comments,
see if he's got further questions or comments about them.
We could spend a long time on all of these passages.
We're going to have to kind of go pretty quickly here,
although we will be getting a lot down into the weeds.
And so I, if you, as a viewer,
if this starts getting too much for you,
Derek assures me that there are going to be viewers
who really want to get down into the weeds like this.
So if this just doesn't work for you,
just skip past all the slides on your,
on your playing and go to see the, you know,
where we show up and what we say at the end.
I'd encourage you not to do that too quickly
because I think you're going to learn a lot from sticking
with us through some of the details here,
but don't want you to just tune out
because I think there'll be some things at the end
that are going to be worthwhile in terms of summing up
and applying some of this to,
how do we make sense of Paul and understand him?
So Stephen, let me know what you was going to start
with a passage in 2 Corinthians 9
where Paul makes a short quote from Psalm 112
in our Hebrew version, but you see there in the heading
where it says LXX 111.
In the Psalms, the Greek version is numbered differently.
Some of the Psalms are broken up differently.
And so the numbering of the chapters is different
with the number of the Psalms.
So in this one, if you're reading actually the Greek text,
it's Psalm 111.
Even though in your Hebrew text
in your English translation, it's Psalm 112.
Okay, Stephen, to help to you.
All right, so starting with 2 Corinthians 9, 6-9.
The point is, he who sows sparingly
will also reap sparingly.
And the one who sows bountifully
will also reap bountifully.
Each one must do just as he's decided in his heart,
not reluctantly or under compulsion
for God loves a cheerful giver.
And God is able to make all grace overflow to you
so that always having all sufficiency and everything,
you may have an abundance for every good deed.
As it is written, he scattered, he gave to the poor.
His righteousness endures forever.
Should I move on to the Psalm?
Yeah, go ahead and read the Psalm
and then I'll comment on the relation between them.
Because he will never be shaken.
A righteous person will be remembered forever.
Of evil tidings, he will not be afraid.
Prepared is his heart to hope in the Lord.
Firm is his heart.
He will never be afraid until he looks on his enemies.
He scattered, he gave to the needy.
His righteousness endures forever and ever.
His horn will be exalted in glory.
And I'll just note that he gave to the poor,
he gave to the needy.
They differ in the English versions of these translations,
but the Spanish scene is just, it means to say,
it's the same thing in Greek,
just different words for four needy synonyms.
Good, okay.
So the context here, in 2 Corinthians 9,
Paul is dealing with the Corinthians
who have become rather recalcitrant about
making actually transmitting to him some offerings
that they had promised to make.
He was going around collecting money from his churches
to from the Gentiles to be taken
to the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem
who are suffering and poverty and famine and such.
And so he makes a series of arguments in 2 Corinthians 8
and 9 to motivate them to be generous
in giving this money that they had promised to give earlier,
but because of a rupture in the relationship with Paul,
he is now seeing some hesitance on their part
to follow through on.
And so at this particular point in the argument,
his motivation, his argument is,
you give to God, he'll give back to you,
which sounds something that is somewhat
theologically questionable to some of us today.
You give to God in order to get,
but that was totally normal in ancient concepts of religion.
And we talked about that in a previous slide,
but he basically says, you give to my offering
and God will, as he says,
make all grace overflow to you, et cetera.
And in support of this claim that God will,
essentially will reward them for making an offering,
he quotes this text from the Psalm.
Now the Psalm, if you look at the context there,
it's not talking about people who make offering
to support Gentile Jewish Christians in Jerusalem,
but the principle is quite similar.
And he's talking about a righteous person
and some of the things that come to a righteous person,
a sense of security and stability and prosperity.
And he interestingly, in the Greek and in the Hebrew,
he shifts here in the quoted part to the past tense.
He scattered in the past,
he gave to the needy, his righteousness endures forever.
In other words, the righteous person won't be shaken
in a time of trial and it's implied in the Psalm and in Paul
because he gave to the needy and the poor
and therefore that puts him in God's good graces.
So when trials come, he'll stand secure and firm.
Now Paul doesn't quite say that.
He says that God's grace will be with you,
basically in every kind of circumstance.
It's a similar kind of idea.
You can see how he got from point A to point B.
And so even though he doesn't explain what the link is,
if you don't know the Septuagintic context,
you simply read what Paul says,
God is able to make all grace overflow to you
so that always having all sufficiency
and everything you may have an abundance for every good deed.
As it is written, he gave to the poor
his righteousness endures forever.
Well, it's not exactly obvious
how that, if you don't know the original context,
how that relates to what Paul just said.
But you get the general idea.
A person who gives to the poor is righteous
and that's to be right with God.
He gets good stuff from God.
You can see how there's kind of enough of a relationship
that a person who doesn't know the original context
could say, okay, I think I get it.
A person who does know the original context
could go back and look and say, okay, yeah,
I think Paul's doing, I understand where he's going with that.
That's good, good on Paul,
but he could bring that verse in.
Yeah, God loves a cheerful giver,
sounds like it has a ring to it.
Like that should have been a quotation as well,
but who would know, right?
Like the audience might have assumed
that that was also the saith the Lord.
That's interesting because one of the debates
in people who were studying Paul's quotations,
explicit quotations is, how do you define a quotation?
Let's imagine that there was a verse
in the Old Testament, the Jewish scriptures,
it said, God loves a cheerful giver.
Well, you wouldn't know that
from the way Paul words it here.
He doesn't signal that he's quoting.
Whereas in the Porscheanist Martin yellow,
he does signal it as it is written.
I'm telling you something here that comes from a text.
By the way, he doesn't say written where,
he assumes that they know that as it is written,
it's a signal that is referring to the Jewish scriptures.
Well, and also, I mean, for some people,
they may not know, there are no quotation marks in Greek
and the priest was probably not going like this
when he was saying it, so there was no way to define it.
If I may just to be very strict and literal here,
if we were to be absolutely strict,
Paul does not mean exactly what Psalms is saying
even though the principle he means,
he's reapplying a principle that is in the text
to a new context, does not have anything to do technically
in the literal sense with Psalms,
but the analogy kind of works.
Exactly.
It's similar enough in that both of them
have to do with giving to the poor.
And so we can see how he applies it.
That's right, he is applying a general principle,
the person who is righteous gives to the poor
and is made stable and blessed by God
to a specific situation.
Here's a case where I want you to give to the poor,
based on the general statement,
I can assure you that God will bless you.
So yes, he's applying the general principle
to a specific situation, thank you.
Okay.
So I'm ready to move on from that one.
Steven, did you want to say anything else?
Great, yeah, you want to just click to the next one.
Okay, so let's go to the next one.
I'm gonna go to a more complicated passage
where Paul makes, in that case,
he just referred to one verse,
kind of somewhat almost at random, it seemed, from a psalm.
Here we have a passage where he's got an extended engagement
with the Exodus story.
And he refers numerous times,
and this is a good example, as I mentioned earlier,
where he just refers in passing
to a number of elements of the Exodus story.
And by the term Exodus story,
I mean where Moses leads the Israelites
out of Egypt from Pharaoh.
And also when we use the term, and that says,
it includes the period of the 40 years
he's been wandering in the desert.
Those are, that whole thing is encompassed here
what I refer to by the Exodus story.
There is one explicit quotation marked in yellow here,
and we will talk about it in a moment,
but I'm gonna, Steven will read this,
and I want you to hear, particularly those of you
who know something of the Exodus story,
you're gonna hear a number of references,
allusions there to various aspects of that story.
So let me let Steven read this then.
Okay, so first Corinthians 10, one through eight.
And go ahead and read into the,
through the second slide as well,
I'll go through verse 14, so we get the whole picture.
Okay, I do not want you to be unaware, brothers,
that our ancestors were all under the cloud
and all passed through the sea
and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud
and in the sea and all ate the same spiritual food
and drank the same spiritual drink,
for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them.
And the rock was Christ,
but God was not pleased with most of them
and they were struck down in the wilderness.
Now these things occurred as examples for us
so that we might not desire evil as they desired it.
Do not become idolaters as some of them did.
As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink
and they rose up to play,
nor should we fornicate as some of them fornicated
and 23,000 fell in a single day.
Getting to the next one.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry, I'm following really.
So versus nine through 14, first Corinthians chapter 10,
we must not put Christ to the test
as some of them put him to the test
and were destroyed by serpents.
And do not complain as some of them complained
and were destroyed by the destroyer.
These things as an example happened to them
and they were written down for our instruction
to those on whom the ends of the ages have come.
So if you think you are standing,
watch out that you do not fall.
No testing has overtaken you
except that which is common to mankind.
God is faithful
and he will not let you be tested beyond your strength.
But with the testing,
he will also provide the way out
so that you may be able to endure it.
Therefore, my dear friends, flee from the worship of idols.
Okay, this is a great text.
I'm gonna hold off on reading a Septuagint portion
of that quotation for a moment.
This is a great text for illustrating
a variety of things about
how Paul as a first century educated Jew reads texts
and how Paul as a first century Christ follower
applies those texts to an audience
and even some of the principles,
kind of getting into his mind a little bit
as to how and why he does that
because here is one of the few places
where he kind of comments about
how he gets from point A to point B.
If you look at the back again to chapter 10
verses one to eight, Paul reading through again,
he says our answers as well under the cloud,
referring to the cloud that led the Israelites
as they approached the Red Sea
and they all passed through the sea led by Moses.
Those are references,
but then he brings in a Christian term,
baptized into Moses.
Huh, that's a little odd.
Okay, baptizing is going down in water and coming out.
So you kind of see how he gets there,
but he's bringing in a very Christian term
that is not anywhere there in the Old Testament,
it's your scriptures, in the cloud and the sea
and all ate the same spiritual food
and drank the same spiritual drink,
alluding to the manna and the water
that God provides in the desert.
And you can see how spiritual might be,
it's like miraculously provided,
but you can see in Paul,
he's alluding here to the Eucharist, the communion meal.
So he's basically kind of interpreting the Exodus story
in light of baptism and the Lord's supper,
the Christian rituals that have to do with membership
in and participation in relationship with God
and your identity as a member of this group.
So already we see him kind of Christianizing the story.
He's not de-legitimizing the original story,
he's referring to it as something that really happened,
but he's putting this Christian spin on it.
And he goes on and say,
they all drank from the spiritual rock that follows him.
This is a lot of Jewish interpretive tradition,
we don't have time to get into it,
that Moses strikes this rock in the desert and it gives water
and that it seems to be that rock is there other times.
And so some of the Jewish rabbis said,
how could that be?
And they came up with this idea,
this rock kind of rolled along behind them
and they could strike it whenever he needed it.
And it seems to be that's the background,
it literally followed them along in the desert.
Now, obviously there's,
he's referring, got tying into some Jewish interpretive
tradition there that is not,
and that rock was Jesus.
Oh, what do you mean that rock was Jesus?
I was obviously again, putting a Christian spin on this
and he'll explain a little bit more in a minute
how he does that.
Then he refers to a number of episodes
from the story where he says that God,
he says God wasn't pleased with them and struck them down
and he gives several examples of that
in the following verses.
But notice that middle part, we don't have verses now,
but about two thirds of the way down, key point.
Now, these things occurred as examples for us.
In fact, I can get my cursor there, there we go.
These things occurred as examples for us
so that we might not desire evil.
I don't think the audience can see your cursor.
Oh, okay.
These things occurred as examples for us.
They didn't just occur happenstance,
they occurred for our sake.
And if we go to the next slide for a moment,
he says similarly about a third of the way down thing,
these things, these various episodes of people
complaining and doing other things in the desert
being punished by God happened to them as an example.
They were written down for our instruction
to those on whom the ends of the ages have come.
So Paul and his audience are really at the apex of history.
Exactly.
Well, the end only at the end of time
with the revelation of Jesus
and the fulfillment of God's mysterious plans
worked out all through the history of Israel
now known through the coming of Jesus.
Can we understand the meaning of these texts?
But he goes further than that.
He says they were written down for our instruction
but he says they happened to them as an example for us.
It's like the very fact that they happened was for us.
Unless we think that that is reading too much in,
he makes similar statements
a couple of other places in his letters.
In Romans chapter four, we probably won't get to this later.
So I'll just mention you got this long passage
where he talks about Abraham's righteousness
and Abraham's faith, et cetera.
And he says toward the end of verses 22 and 23.
Now Abraham's faith was reckoned to him as righteousness.
Now the words it was reckoned to him
were written not for his sake alone
but for ours also will be reckoned to us
to believe in him who raised Jesus from the dead.
And again, in 1 Corinthians nine,
a passage we'll look at in a minute
but I'll just jump ahead to it for this statement.
He said this passage about not muscling an ox,
it's trading the grain.
And he says, is God concerned about oxen?
No, God's concerned about us.
Is it not for our sake that he always speaks?
Indeed, it was written for our sake.
So in Paul's mind is audacious as this sounds,
the scriptures were not written for the Jews.
The Jews misunderstand their own texts.
In fact, he says in 2 Corinthians three,
a passage that we may or may not get to
that avail lies over the hearts of Jews
that prevents them from seeing the true meaning
of their own scriptures.
But it's not until the coming of Jesus
and the fulfillment of the end of the days
right before the end of the world,
which Paul expects to happen in his lifetime,
that the true meaning of what God was doing in ancient Israel
and the true meaning of the Jewish scriptures can be seen.
Well, if you're a Jew and not a Christ follower,
that's a pretty audacious claim, isn't it?
And this is why even in the first couple of centuries,
there were, we have especially in the second century,
the series of debates between a church father named Justin
and a Jewish leader named Tripho,
where Tripho is repeatedly accusing Justin
of twisting and distorting the Jewish scriptures.
And you know what?
Tripho had a good point.
From a Jewish standpoint,
Paul and these other Christian authors are,
in many cases, twisting and distorting texts.
They're reading Jesus into these texts.
They're reading Christian faith into these texts.
They're reading Christian rituals,
like baptism and the Lord's supper into these texts.
And they're saying these texts were not written for Jews,
they were written for us.
So on the one hand, we see Paul,
assuming his audience knows the story,
he can allude to it, bring it back to their memory.
And then in the one text verse that he does,
actually quote the one in yellow,
he quotes it verbally correctly
and he uses it in a wet manner
that is consistent with the context.
It's a quote, the story of the Golden Calf episode.
And it says that they, as we have on the slide later here,
I'll just put it there real quickly,
that they had,
Abraham had made this Golden Calf
and they all, we're gonna have a festival the next day.
And he says the next day they sat down to eat and drink
and they arose to play.
So they were kind of making a big thing
out of an idolatrous ritual.
And that's really, that is pretty much what Paul is talking
about, he talks about flea idolatry.
He uses it in a way that is,
the quote is both verbally consistent with
and contextually consistent with the texts that he quotes.
And even the narratives,
he essentially correctly alludes to the stories
that he mentions about complaining and testing,
though there are stories there that have to do
with the Israelites, obviously and not with Christians.
But he reinterprets and applies them in a way
that is essentially Christianizing the texts
and generalizing from them if we had time to see it
in some ways that are not really consistent.
In fact, one that's particularly interesting
as a shading ahead to things we're talking about later,
this little reference to
serpents, the first one at the top of this slide,
who must not put Christ to the test,
if some of them put Him to the test
and were destroyed by serpents.
This is an allusion to a story in Numbers chapter 21,
where the people begin to complain about the food and drink
and God sends snakes among them that kill a lot of them
and they can say, okay, God, you're gay, we're sorry.
And what does he tell Moses to do?
To make this bronze image of a snake,
put it up on a staff and those who gaze on the snake
are gonna be healed.
Well, do you know what that looks like?
Idolatry,
bowing down before a carved image of an animal.
If Paul's audience had really known
and thought about that context,
because it, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Paul,
this doesn't work.
I mean, this is a story that has to do with
what looks to me like maybe it's okay
to bow down before some images.
So, you know, here's an instance,
he assumes knowledge, but how much knowledge does he assume?
Does he just not kind of think about that point?
We don't know.
Anyway, those are the points
that I wanna make out of this passage.
There's more we could say, but we don't have a lot of time.
So let me stop, Steve and Derek,
you wanna comment here before we move on?
I think we'll skip over Exodus in this,
because you already, go to the Exodus slide real quick.
Yeah, okay.
So just in case anybody wants to glance at it,
yeah, glance at that, it's Exodus 32, 4 through 8
and the Septuagint, you could screenshot it,
you could read it in more detail.
I think we just discussed enough details
that it's better just to move on.
And then can you go back
to the first part of the Corinthians passage?
Cause I think, yeah.
So here, I do not want you to be unaware, brothers,
that our ancestors were all under the cloud.
Now, the word for ancestors there is pateris,
which just means literally fathers,
but it's the normative term to refer to ancestors.
So he's really, obviously these are Paul's ancestors
he's talking about, but he says,
Ipateris imon, right?
So unless that's a scribal error there,
he's saying our collective ancestors in some sense.
And so in what sense are they our ancestors?
Cause we're talking about Corinth here,
like this is a Greek city.
Yeah, and that's a great point
because here and another passage is also,
we'll see this also in Galatians three.
Paul kind of fudges back and forth.
Sometimes he speaks as if our means we Jews
over against Gentiles.
And other times he says it in ways our
in an inclusive sense, as if the Israel,
the Gentiles are part of Israel's story.
All right, that's their story too.
And I think that's what he's doing here.
He means our in the sense of we Christians,
these people are now, these are our scriptures.
And therefore these are our ancestors.
And of course later on he's gonna talk about,
he talks about Gentiles being adopted into God's family.
He talks about the Gentile olive branches
being grafted into Israel and Romans chapter 11.
And so in some sense for Paul,
the ancestors of Israel are also the ancestors of Gentiles.
He does that specifically in the case of Abraham,
as we'll see in a little bit.
And I think that in his mind, yeah,
he wants to argue Abraham was a Gentile
and it's a little complicated,
but he's worked out various ways of saying that
in some way or the other, the biblical stories
that Jews would relate only to themselves
also relate to Gentile Christ followers.
Got it.
Okay, so let's go to the next one.
Yeah, so let's move on.
Those are the two examples where we can say that
at least in the explicitly quoted part,
Paul quotes the text verbatim accurately
and he uses it in a sense that is consistent
with the context of the original.
Now he's again, he's very much Christianizing it
in many ways in his illusions,
but in the actual quoted part,
he's being faithful to the context.
So let's turn now to some texts
where there are tensions.
Wouldn't say necessarily Paul is repudiating
or ignoring the original context,
but he does funny things with the texts
where that would raise our eyebrows today
that we would have real questions about somebody doing it.
It was a pastor in a church today
and you went to check out the pastor was saying.
We'll start with a fairly simple example
as we did in the first category.
So this is in a passage before Stephen reads it
where Paul is engaged in a defense of his right
as an apostle to receive financial support
from the Corinthians, a right that he has chosen
not to exercise because he knows that in a world
of patrons and clients where if somebody gives something
to somebody, they are in essence admitting subordination
to the giver and owe them duties.
He says, no, I don't want to be beholden to you.
And so he's arguing as to why he had a right
to have received money from them,
but he doesn't has chosen not to receive it.
So here's where this passage fits in.
So part of a broader argument.
So Stephen, why don't you go ahead
and read first with his nine
and we don't need to read the Deuteronomy,
it's word for word the same.
Yeah, it is.
And you feel free to mute yourself
if you want to like clear your throat
or if you're worried about noise.
So first Corinthians nine, nine through 11.
For it is written in the law of Moses,
you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain.
Is it for oxen that God is concerned
or is it not for our sake that he always speaks?
For it was written for our sake
because it's in hope that the plowman should plow
and the thresher, thresh in hope of sharing in the crop.
If we among you have sown spiritual things,
is it too much if we from you
should reap fleshly material things?
So quick note, it's a little awkward in this translation.
I rearranged the syntax in the English
to line up with the Greek a little better.
The interesting point here is should reap fleshly things,
tasarkika, that's typically translated as material things
because he's speaking about money,
but he's using the word flesh there
in a very particular Greek sense
that doesn't really make sense as a literal translation,
which is why I just put material there in parentheses
so people would see what it actually means.
Okay, this is one we can cover pretty quickly.
If we say what was the context of Deuteronomy 25,
the text that Paul had in front of him,
at least in his mind, if he knew the whole text.
The context is useless here.
This is simply a collection of laws
that are not related in any way to one another in meaning.
Just before Deuteronomy 25, or verses one to three
are about how a person who has lost a lawsuit
to be punished with lashes
and the passage immediately after it has to do
with what happens when a man dies without children
and saying that his brother is to marry the widow
and have children with it,
what we call the levered marriage rules.
So there is zero context here for Paul to be faithful to,
but the actual passage itself in the context
of the Hebrew Bible and ancient Israel
is quite literal.
The point is, you got an ox
and you've got the, you've got, you've picked your grain,
your wheat, and you've got it out on the threshing floor
and it's lying around on the ground.
You've got this ox attached to a rod,
walking around in a circle,
tromping on the grain in order to break open
the heads of the wheat so that you can then get the seeds
out and then take them and further process them.
And he says, you know, there's this, in Deuteronomy,
there's this current of a humanitarian current,
it's often called a compassion
and it extends to animals also.
And so this is one of the passages,
basically he's saying, don't be cruel to your animals,
be compassionate even to them,
don't put a muzzle over the ox's mouth
so they can't eat some of that grain
while he is going around in that circle.
Let him have some of it.
And so it's meant in the Old Testament, the Jewish scriptures,
it's a very literal injunction
that has to do with how you treat animals.
Paul, on the other hand,
draws a spiritual principle from it.
He quotes the words, quotes the passage word for word,
accurately, and we might say that he applies it
as we saw in our very first passage
in a way that at least is understandable.
Okay, a working animal should be allowed to have food.
Well, I'm a working apostle,
I should be allowed to receive money from you
in order to provide for my needs.
If that was all he had said,
I would have put this passage in our first category.
The reason I put it in this one
is because of that part that we already read.
Is it for oxen that God is concerned?
Is God talking about oxen here?
No, God doesn't really care about oxen,
God cares about us.
It's for our sake, he spoke,
he wrote these things for our sake.
So in a sense, he is denying
the literal meaning of the passage.
God wasn't writing this about oxen,
he was writing it for our sake,
for us Christian ministers
who deserve to be supported financially.
Can I comment just real quick?
Yeah, I'm gonna stop there, go ahead.
This is fantastic, and it's short and sweet,
I don't wanna spend too much time on it
because I hope we can get through all of these,
especially with how deep we're going.
This should tell you maybe the kind of mind Paul had, okay?
So when we approach all of these other pericopees,
I want you to really get this guy's willing to say,
and we hear it even today in modern churches,
looking around their own modern examples,
it's always about us.
And Paul's saying, it's about us, everything's about us.
So keep that in mind when he's using the scripture.
I just think that's so important,
he's willing to even say
that it doesn't even mean what it means.
It means this, it's about us.
So I just wanna emphasize that.
Yeah, and fundamentally,
one of the things I'll say at the end,
that I'll say it now as well,
Paul believes that he lives in a day
when God has poured out his spirit
in a way that brings new meaning
and also guides him into the right meanings of texts.
And so he believes he has the authority of the spirit
to know now what God, quote, really intended, unquote,
in these texts in light of the full development
of what God intended from the beginning
that's now come to fulfillment.
So there's very much this,
the fancy word is an eschatological orientation of texts
pertaining to the end.
It's only at the end of time
that the mystery is,
in the first year or several times,
so the mystery that was hidden in ancient times
until it's now been revealed.
The mystery that's not only the sending of Jesus,
but also that God had planned to include the Gentiles.
That's God's mystery as well.
We're gonna get to that in a couple of our passages.
Well, you can imagine how this might be a tough sell
for a Jew who owns an ox
who's following the Ironomy 25 by taking off that muzzle.
And then Paul's just like, this isn't about ox,
oxen, God doesn't care about oxen.
Like, you know, it's understandable
why they might object to that.
Yeah, they get offended.
In fact, I've interviewed a few people,
one of them is sympathetic to Judaism
and another one's a rabbi that actually is reading Paul
and he gets offended by this statement.
So just- Exactly, yeah.
I mean, these things,
we just don't realize how offensive these kinds of language
in this way of,
not only the language with mode of thinking
is to a Jewish mindset.
And then you can start understanding
why not many Jews listen to Paul in those days.
I mean, he's really stomping on their toes consistently
when they hear Paul is distorting the scriptures.
Paul is twisting the scriptures to support his own views.
And you know what?
If you take an unsympathetic view,
that's exactly what he's doing.
He's twisting the scriptures to support his views.
Now, he believes he's justified in doing that
and Christians over the centuries have said,
yes, Paul is justified in doing that
because what he says is true.
Jesus is the Messiah anticipated
in all of ancient Israel.
The Gentiles are part of God's people.
Maybe even they've replaced the Jews as God's people
and a lot of traditional Christian thinking.
These things really were written for us.
Paul is right, yay, Paul.
So there are ultimately judgment calls,
but traditionally Christianity has made
a very different judgment call
about the legitimacy of Paul's interpretations
than Jews would make about Paul's interpretations,
most of which they would reject as illegitimate.
Okay, let's go on to our next passage.
Now, the short one that is a little bit more obviously
deviating or equally obviously deviating,
but it's not entirely breaking with the original context.
Let me give a little context here again
before Stephen reads this.
Paul is writing second Corinthians to a group of people
with whom he's had a major break,
a major rift between the writing of first Corinthians
and the writing of second Corinthians.
And he refers, explains,
alludes to a little bit of the rift
in the first three chapters.
It's hard to know exactly what happens,
but it seems that someone basically
read a letter of ult against Paul's authority
and eventually he's brought them back into his fold,
but he writes the first half of second Corinthians,
essentially trying to paper that over
and reconcile the Corinthians to himself
and to get them to accept his authority again
when they have been kind of questioning that.
And he offers a host of arguments
as to justifying himself and trying to say,
hey, we're all one big family, we're all buddies,
we're all, you know, let's all get back together
in Christ the way we were.
And so previously to this, in chapter five,
he's been talking about how Jesus died for all.
And he makes this, I'll come back to this in a minute.
In chapter six, then he moves back into his appeal
to the Corinthians to be reconciled to him
and respond to him and justifying his ministry.
So as a bit of context, one needs to know here,
so I'm gonna stop and let Stephen read this
and I'll comment on it.
And actually, let's go ahead and read this
and read on into the Isaiah passage
and I'll come back and bring the two together
and we'll see some rather odd things going on here.
Go ahead, Stephen.
The we here, by the way, is Paul.
It could be the editorial we Paul himself
or Paul has traveling companions,
is what may refer to Paul and his companions, go ahead.
So second Corinthians six, one through three.
As we work together with him,
we also urge you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
For he says, at a favorable time, I listened to you.
And on a day of salvation, I helped you.
Behold, now is a favorable time.
Behold, now is a day of salvation.
Giving no reason for taking offense in anything
so that the ministry will not be discredited.
And then here's an Isaiah 49 passage.
All right, so Isaiah 49, six through nine.
Yeah, and let me make a point.
The you here, this is God speaking to the prophet.
So it's a singular you in all of these passages
and he's talking about the role this prophet has been given
to speak to Israel.
Traditionally called Isaiah, those scholars
would say today, second Isaiah,
we're not gonna get into that debate.
We'll just say the prophet who is speaking these words.
So go ahead.
It is a great thing for you to be called my servant
so that you may set up the tribes of Jacob
and turn back the dispersion of Israel.
See, I have made you a light of nations
that you may be for salvation to the end of the earth.
Thus says the Lord who delivered you, the God of Israel.
Sanctify him who despises his own soul
who is abhorred by the nations, the slaves of rulers.
Kings shall see him and rulers shall stand up
and do obeisance to him for the Lord's sake
because the Holy one of Israel is faithful
and I have chosen you.
Thus says the Lord in an acceptable time,
I have listened to you on a day of salvation.
I have helped you.
I gave you as a covenant to nations
who had established the land
and to inherit a wilderness heritage
saying to those who are in bonds come out
and to those who are in darkness that they be revealed
and they shall feed in all their ways
in all the paths shall be their pasture.
Now what in the world does that have to do
with what Paul was just saying in second Corinthians nine?
Let's look at the Isaiah passage first
and then go back to Paul's passage.
So God is saying here to the prophet
that he's called him to bring back Israel to himself.
And notice in the fourth line there,
see I have made you, I'm gonna, a light of nations.
That's the same word that Jews use later
to refer to Gentiles.
I'm gonna say come back to that in a minute
that you may be for salvation at the end of the earth.
Then got this kind of odd language,
hard to really make sense out of even if you,
with the Greek or the Hebrew actually in the Hebrew original,
this part about sanctified, despising souls,
kings shall see him, et cetera.
Come on down to the part where just above the yellow,
he says that because the holy one of Israel is faithful
and I have chosen you again, a singular you the prophet,
the specialness of this prophet to carry out God's mission
to bring Israel back to himself
and something to do with nations.
Then he says, thus says the Lord,
in an acceptable time I've listened to you
on a day of salvation I've helped you.
And again, the reason we know the you there is the prophet,
he keeps on going, I've given you as a covenant to nations
to establish a land.
This is your purpose, you prophet.
Notice a covenant to nations.
You can be read as a covenant to Gentiles
and to say those were in bonds come out
or in darkness, et cetera.
Now, let's forget for a minute
about the second Corinthians passage.
It's often been argued and I think with some justification,
this may well be a passage that was very important to Paul
for justifying his own Gentile mission,
his own chosenness by God.
According to Paul, God appeared to him
and gave him a mission to the Gentiles.
The book of Acts gives a much more vivid narrative
of him being met on a road to Damascus
and being told by God, he's sending to the Gentiles.
Paul doesn't go into that detail.
It's hard to know if they reconcile or not.
The point is that in both is the same.
Paul has a life-changing encounter with God
as a devout Jew, where he believes God has sent him
to preach to the nations.
And look at this passage, God is speaking to a prophet
telling him, I have made you a light of nations.
Salvation to the ends of the earth, I've chosen you.
I have given you as a covenant to the nations
to say to those who are in darkness, come out.
I mean, you can just hear Paul reading this whole passage
as talking about himself.
Exactly.
And you know, it's just there's several places like this
where Paul is not just saying,
Jesus is fulfilling a scripture,
which he doesn't really say that much.
Not just saying the church is the fulfillment of scripture
that God was pointing to.
He says, I am fulfilling scripture.
God has given me a special role in these end times
as that prophet God foretold in this passage
to bring the Gentiles to him.
Wow.
I mean, and again, you can see how Jews would say,
what an arrogant jerk.
Who does he think he is?
So, you know, it's a, let me stop for that
before we got the second Corinthians passage.
Y'all want to comment on that?
Derek seemed to really be getting into that.
I guess the comment I would have just for people,
we don't have time to get into really just making the point
that when this term nations is mentioned,
it does not mean exactly the same.
It has kind of taken on its own,
in Second Temple Judaism and onward,
it's starting to morph into something more individual.
So it's not nationalistic and corporate in the same sense.
And this is something that like audio fear,
Ishai Rosen's fee and all of these people
that I get into this,
we'll talk about the development of that term,
ethne, throughout history,
or Goyim, if you will, takes on a whole new form.
So Paul is anachronistically thinking
this is actually literally meaning what he means
when he's reading his scriptures,
because he's like a modern fundamentalist wood,
who's a charismatic thinker, it's applying to him.
It's applying to us, it's about us.
And this is exactly an idea
that we could use as an analogy for Paul.
Yeah, and if you go back up to the third line too,
I didn't highlight, it's not exclusively a mission
to Gentiles.
It's also a mission to turn back the dispersion of Israel.
Notice the dispersion, the diaspora over in the Greek
and the third line, this is the term that Jews use
to refer to Jews living outside the land of Israel.
Whereas Paul traveling outside the land of Israel,
he does, according to the book of Acts,
preach to Jews also,
he does seem to have some Jewish converts.
So he's not giving up on the Jews.
He doesn't believe he has a mission specifically
to do diaspora Jews.
He's not worried about preaching
to those Gentiles over in Israel,
but this passage is about him preaching
to diaspora Jews and to the nations.
And as it turns out, most of the diaspora Jews,
as he realizes, reject him.
And he has to, he argues struggles with that rejection
in Romans nine through 11.
And he eventually has a solution for that
that we might or might not get into here.
We will in the future broadcast if we don't get to it today.
And I just wanna point out, yeah.
So I'm noticing now that there's a mistake here.
And I don't know, I'll just take the blame for it.
It's probably my fault.
I tried to copy and paste a text
from the new English translation of the Septuagint
in that left hand column.
And then the Septuagint on the right hand side.
So in the line where it says,
see, I have made you a light of nations.
That actually in the Greek is,
So it's saying, I made you into a covenant of the nation,
or the race, if you will, into a light of nations.
So there's actually covenant language.
There's covenant language in the Greek.
There's covenant language in the Greek
that didn't get captured in the English translation.
And I don't know if it's maybe
because we're talking about different additions
of the so-called Septuagint.
That's a whole other rabbit hole
in terms of recensions and revisions to the Septuagint.
So we could just be dealing with an English translation
of a different version of the Septuagint
where the word covenant wasn't there,
or I maybe just skipped a line
when I was copying and pasting.
I don't know why that is,
but just so everybody's aware,
it's I have made you into a covenant for the people
for the nations.
Yeah, so it brings that idea of the covenant,
including the Gentiles.
I'm glad you pointed that out.
I hadn't noticed the issue there.
So...
Yeah, I tried to proofread this stuff as best as I could,
but I did it on the fly.
And if it's a big thing,
I'll dig into it after the episode
and maybe Derek can pull up a proper translation.
It's not that important.
I just needed to flag it because it actually,
so I gave you underneath the quote,
it says, I gave you as a covenant to nations
to establish the land.
There, that's what that says.
You know,
that's known.
So a covenant to nations or a covenant of nations,
it's kind of the same thing in Greek
to establish the land.
Good, okay.
Now, notice the yellow part.
It's not quite clear what's going on with that part
in the original.
God speaking to the prophet,
in an acceptable time I've listened to you
on a day of salvation I've helped you.
That doesn't fit very well with the rest of the content.
We're not having the prophet praying to God here
and being listened to and being helped,
but at least probably one might infer
that the meaning has something to do
with the prophet himself is gonna meet
with rejection and resistance and call out to God
and he'll help him and be with him or something like that.
But the burst itself doesn't really fit well
with its context.
And most likely, I'm gonna speculate on this,
what's going on here is,
Paul has spent time on this passage
because it's important to his identity
and his sense of his mission.
And he knows this is part,
a nice single portion of the passage,
pretty basically extracts that out of its context.
And if you're going back to 2 Corinthians 6,
he wants to get the Corinthians back to him.
He's already said, back in 2 Corinthians 5 verse 17,
a passage that I have never heard anybody mention this
in a church when pastors like to preach
on 2 Corinthians 5
because he's got this language about,
and if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation.
God was in Christ, reconciling the word to himself,
not kind of trespasses against them
and trusting the message of reconciliation to us,
that is to Paul.
So we are ambassadors for Christ
since God is making his appeal through us.
Notice this, he's speaking to Christians here,
he's speaking to the Corinthians.
We are ambassadors for Christ.
We, Paul and his followers,
we entreat you Corinthians on behalf of Christ,
be reconciled to God.
What's he telling them, be reconciled to God?
Well, they're out of sorts with Paul
and therefore they're out of sorts with God.
And so he sees himself as being able to speak for God
and to call them to be reconciled.
And so he pulls out of Isaiah 9, this passage,
at a favorable time, he's trying to say,
hey guys, now's the time to do it.
It's a way of taking a text that didn't mean
a whole lot clearer in its old context.
But he says, hey, I got some language here that says now,
do it now, this is the favorable time,
this is the day, this is the time,
don't keep putting this off
and holding a grudge against me.
And it goes on after that, a few verses further down
at the end of chapter six,
actually in verses seven to six, verse 11,
after the portion of quoted,
we've spoken frankly to you Corinthians,
our heart is wide open to you,
there's no restriction in our affections,
but only in yours.
And return, I speak to you as children,
open wide your hearts also.
And if we skip over to chapter seven, verse two,
make room in your hearts for us,
we've wronged no one, we've corrupted no one,
we've taken advantage of no one, et cetera, et cetera.
He's basically urging, he's urgently trying
to push them in every way he can
to be reconciled to him.
And for him, that means also to God.
And it's like, hey, here's a cool passage
that underlines, do something now,
but it doesn't really bear any close relation
to the original context.
The wording is identical,
but the context is fairly strained.
It's also interesting.
We've done a lot more time on this than...
Yeah, and there's a little,
I'll make a quick geeky note before we move on,
is that, you know, Kiros Dekthos in the quote of Isaiah,
you know, means a favorable time.
And in English, it's just out of favorable time.
And then he says, behold, now is a favorable time.
And he actually paraphrases here.
He calls it Kiros Efpros Dekthos,
which is essentially a synonym.
It just means, you know, favorable,
but it's even more favorable.
It's, I don't know, that'll be totally lost
on anyone who doesn't know Greek,
but it's interesting that he doesn't say, look,
now is the favorable time using the same word.
He actually puts it into his own words
and sort of with some emphasis with the prefix ev,
or ew, which means good.
Okay, so if we haven't lost you yet, viewers,
I think we might do that now.
Actually, I think this is where people
are actually going to get...
There will be chapter markers.
You'll be able to skip to this stuff.
So, you know, people may just see in the description,
Romans nine, they just go right to Romans nine,
if that's what they're really here for.
Now, this is a passage where Paul is putting forth
all kinds of arguments to try to explain why it is
that inexplicably, the Jews are not responding
to the message that he's preaching about their Messiah,
who has come at the end of times,
and all these Gentiles are responding
and nobody really anticipated anything like that.
And he's basically saying in this first in chapter nine,
hey, God is God,
you can do anything you darn well pleases.
Don't question God.
And so this part here about the Potter,
and we'll read this in a second,
but he comes on down toward the end of it,
he begins, he first makes some broad general arguments
that God can do whatever he wants.
And then he brings in some biblical quotations
from two different books, three different passages,
and it's gonna get down into the weeds a little bit,
but if we run out of time and don't get any further
than this, it will still show some of the creative stuff
that Paul can do and some of the kind of sketchy stuff
that Paul can do with texts on occasion
to bring out and support his own point.
So let's start with Stephen,
go ahead and read all the way both slides,
nine 21 all the way down through 27 for us.
All right, Romans nine 21 through 24,
or has the Potter know right over the clay
to make out of the same lump one object for special use?
Honor and another for ordinary use?
Dishonor, what if God desiring to show his wrath
and to make known his power has endured
with much patience the objects of wrath made for destruction?
And what if it is in order to make known the riches
of his glory upon objects of mercy,
which he prepared beforehand for glory, namely us,
whom he also called not only among Jews,
but also from among Gentiles?
You're on mute, Dr. Stanley.
Before I move on to the next slide, let him continue.
I'll note that the quotations now are explicitly
seeking to justify that last statement
that he called us as his people,
not only from among Jews, but also from among Gentiles.
So here's how he kind of justifies that.
As he also says in Hosea,
I will call those who were not my people, my people,
and her who was not beloved, beloved,
and it shall be that in the place
where it was said to them, you are not my people,
there they shall be called sons of the living God.
Isaiah cries out concerning Israel,
though the number of the sons of Israel
may be like the sands of the sea,
only the remnant will be saved.
Okay, and let's hold off and stop there.
Now, let's all look at this.
Let's assume we do not know the original context
of any of these things,
which would be the case with Paul's audience,
as I have argued.
And so we see that he's made this argument
that God can do whatever he wants,
wants to explain how Jews and Gentiles are included.
I'm gonna argue that you don't have to know
any original context to follow the basic idea
that Paul is making here.
Paul says, God says in Hosea,
hey, if God says it in Hosea, wherever that is,
it must be authoritative.
And look, here's a verse where God says
he's going to call people who aren't his people,
and you're supposed to infer from that Gentiles
who were not his people.
He assumes they know they were at one time
and not part of God's people.
I'm gonna call them my people.
And her who was not beloved, beloved.
And in the place where it was said to them,
you're not my people,
they shall be called sons of living God.
Hey, that sounds like a prophecy by God,
way back somewhere in the scriptures,
that there's gonna come a time
when those who were not God's people
are gonna call God's people.
Hey, you know, Paul's taught us,
that's what's going on here in these end times.
Gentiles are being included,
based on what we know of Paul's theology and teaching.
What do you know?
We got a good biblical warrant there
for God, including the Gentiles.
And then he says, and I said about the Jews are included,
but look, he's got a more negative passage of them.
And again, it makes sense without context.
Though the number of the sons of Israel
may be like the sand of the sea,
only the remnant will be saved.
Hey, look around, there aren't that many Jews
that are following.
Look, it was prophesied by Isaiah,
that only a few Jews are gonna come around.
What do you know?
We got two pastors here that say,
at the end time, God is going to include those
who weren't his people, the Gentiles, and his people,
and that most of the Jews are gonna reject it,
only a small number, a remnant, are going to be saved.
Well, Paul, boy, I think you really must be telling the truth
because you can quote good scripture
and support your argument, right?
Yeah, and you can imagine the rabbinical argument
against this, so it's probably anachronistic,
so rabbinical, but you could imagine the Jews
who are opposed to Paul would be saying,
wait a minute, what is this remnant
that you're talking about in the first place, right?
Like in the Greek, it's Epolymy here.
And that is the remnant, the number of Israel
be like the sands of the sea, only the remnant,
a portion of those sands of the sea will be saved, right?
So if you're a Jew, you're gonna say,
but no, that's referring to the Jews.
This is the remnant of Israel.
What are you talking about, Paul?
Well, let's get there.
Let's start by looking at the Hosea passages.
And we're not gonna take the time
to read all of Hosea chapters one and two,
but those of you who had some time around church,
you might have heard a pastor give a sermon sometime
where this prophet named Hosea is told by God
to go take a wife who turns out to be unfaithful.
And she has three children with him though before that.
And they're each given names that are symbolic
of God's attitude toward Israel at the time,
that you're not my people, that you're not pity,
that basically it's Israel's really screwed up.
And so now after, he does say that there's gonna come
a time when that's gonna be reversed.
And we do have the quotes, the past just Paul is quoting here.
He first quotes a little excerpt, let's go back here,
from Hosea chapter two,
he's talked about how Israel, personified as a woman
in Hosea chapter two is going,
has worshiped the false gods
and is gonna go through a time of trial.
And eventually after trial and torment,
she Israel will turn around, return to God.
And in that day then, we have this quote
that we have here on the slide.
She wanna read this, Stephen.
And this is at the end of this thing
of where he's going to say that Israel now,
the woman Israel turns back to God and says,
you're my husband, I wanna return to you.
And this is God's response to that.
Yeah, this is Hosea chapter two,
it's verses 21 through 23
and probably most people's Bibles,
it's 23 through 25 in the Septuagint.
And it shall be on that day says the Lord,
I will give heed to the sky
and it shall give heed to the earth
and the earth shall hear the grain
and the wine and the oil
and they will give heed to Yisra'el
and I will sow her for myself in the land
and I will have pity on not pitied
and I will say to not my people, you are my people
and he shall say, you are the Lord my God.
And it's Jezra'el in English,
the Nets translation of the Septuagint,
transliterates all of those with eyes.
So I read it as Yisra'el.
Now in the context of Hosea,
who are the people who are not pitied and not my people
who are now going to be called my people?
The northern Israelite dispersion.
It's the people of Israel.
Right.
Is there anything here about Gentiles?
Nope.
Mary a word.
Okay, let's go to our other passages that Paul quotes.
He then quotes the excerpt from,
and by the way,
we'll come back to him at the way he does the words.
He then quotes from a little passage in chapter one
where he makes a similar point
where he says is going to come a time,
use a similar language
when there's a similar turnaround time.
And he's just talked about the sons
who are returning to Israel,
the number of the sons of Israel, et cetera.
And so then we,
so read this passage to us.
Hosea 1-8 through 1-11,
this goes into chapter two in the Septuagint.
And she weaned not pitied and conceived again
and bore a son.
And he said, call his name not my people
for you are not my people
and I am not your I am.
And the number of the sons of Israel
was like the sand of the sea
which shall not be measured nor numbered.
It shall be in the place where it was said to them,
you are not my people,
they too shall be called sons of a living God.
And the sons of Judah
and the sons of Israel shall be gathered together
and they shall set up for themselves one realm
and they shall go up from the land
for great shall be the day of Jezreel.
And so who's he talking about here?
Really clear, isn't it?
The sons of Israel, the sons of Judah, the son of Israel.
These both of these passages have to do
with the time that he's anticipating
when Israel after all their idolatry and sinfulness
will turn again to God
and he will then receive them back again.
Not a word here about Gentiles, is there?
Nope.
And he also has to do some funny things with the,
he just pulls a couple of words out of the first passage
that kind of sound good and excludes the rest of it
because the rest of it wouldn't really fit with his meaning.
So Paul is taking a passage here from the book of Hosea
that originally refers to Jews,
I'm sorry, Israelites who are going to return to God
in repentance after being punished
and Hosea elsewhere in the book makes clear
that's exile to the land of Assyria,
that they are then going to repent of their sins
and God will restore them to their land, et cetera.
And so he's anticipating here what he's gonna say later
that on that day, he will once again accept them
as my people has nothing whatsoever to do
with anything to do with Gentiles.
And if somebody had known the original context,
it's pretty easy for them to say, wait a minute, Paul,
what are you doing?
This has absolutely nothing to do,
this does not support your point.
On the other hand, if you go to the Isaiah passage
and let's look at the original passage there,
let's have Stephen read this one.
It's a simple kind of passage about a restoration of Israel.
This is Isaiah 10, 20 through 23.
And it shall be on that day
that what remains of Israel will no more be added.
And those of Jacob who have been saved
will no more trust in those who have wronged them,
but will trust in God, the Holy One of Israel in truth.
And what remains of Jacob will be to the mighty God.
And if the people of Israel become like the sand of the sea,
the remnant will be saved,
for he is completing and cutting short
a reckoning with righteousness,
because God will perform a shortened reckoning
in the whole world.
So this whole passage in the broader context
is talking about a future time
when those who have been faithful to God
will be saved from judgment
and then everything's gonna be great for them
in a wonderful glorious restoration to the land.
We go back to Paul and that is pretty much what Paul is saying.
He's saying that day has dawned.
Now, when a remnant of Israel is going to be saved,
but of course in the Isaiah context,
the saved here has to do with being saved from exile,
restored to their land and given prosperity
has nothing to do with eternal salvation,
has nothing to do with the final judgment,
nothing to do with Christian faith or anything like that.
So the general idea he wants to make,
if we go back a slide here,
that God has including Gentiles in the people of God,
I mean, sorry, including some Jews.
Okay, he's pretty consistent there at least
with what Paul is saying,
but as Stephen was saying earlier,
a Jewish reader who knew the scriptures would say,
but Paul, the same thing is also true
of the first part of what you quote there.
It's all about the restoration of Israel.
Shouldn't you be quoting that to say that actually,
God is going to restore all Israel to himself
at the end of days?
Or okay, you're gonna say this Isaiah passage
might limit it to a remnant, okay,
but nothing here in the context says anything
about any inclusion of Gentiles.
So if I may jump in here,
just to get a few, once again, clarifications,
because you're obviously pointing out,
this is definitely not meaning
what the original context is meaning.
But for us to understand maybe what Paul thought
in his day, when we read the original,
we hear about two houses.
We're kind of getting this idea,
this is all about Israel collectively,
the 12 sons of Jacob is the image Jacob has mentioned.
Jacob can also be kind of representative of,
well, that term Israel, if you will,
would be representative of the Northern Kingdom
if we go back.
Assyria, clearly the Northern Kingdom is exiled
and they become diaspora.
The same thing ends up happening under Babylon
with the Southern Kingdom, Judah, et cetera.
I don't wanna give a whole history lesson,
but I do wanna ask you this.
In Paul's day, when he uses the term Israel
here in his letters, or yeah, his letters,
he means the Jews.
Right.
He does not mean anything but that.
Right, we'll probably have to unpack that
in our session we're gonna do about Jews
and Gentiles and ethnicity in the ancient world.
So I'll just say basically, yes,
if you look at Romans nine through 11,
he seems to use the terms fairly interchangeably.
Thank you.
I just, maybe we can go further at some point.
Could we go back a little bit
to the earlier passage in the Romans time?
Let me say this word about his on social context.
His problem that he's trying to grapple with
in Romans nine through 11 isn't,
why are the 12 tribes, 12 Northern tribes,
which have disappeared entirely from the historical record,
not listening to my message?
Right.
His problem is, why are the Jews in my day
not listening to my message?
And so he quotes these texts from the Jewish scriptures
in an effort to answer that pressing theological question
for him, why are these Jews, my fellow Jews,
not responding to the message that I'm telling them
about the coming of their Messiah?
And so in his mind, he sees no problem applying texts
that refer to ancient Israel and the Hebrew Bible
of the Jewish scriptures to the Jews of his own day.
He reads the two is equal.
And can we go back to the 921 section,
I just wanna clarify.
So yeah, special use is the word to me in Greek.
It's honor and ordinary use is at the me.
I don't remember dishonor.
I don't remember which translations those come from,
but I just wanted to put in parentheses
what the literal meanings were.
So what is he doing there describing these,
skevy, these like objects, these vessels,
that's otherwise literally translated,
the object is a vessel, vessels of wrath.
And what is going on here?
Is this kind of Calvinistic,
like he's predetermined that he's gonna destroy some people
and he's gonna save others
and he knows in advance what he's gonna do.
Okay, let's move on to the next passage.
Oh, that's great.
No, I think that since that has nothing to do
with Paul's use of scripture, which is our topic here,
I will not get into detail,
but I think that this is certainly a passage
that has been used that way.
I'll just make one little point in response.
There's nothing here that's talking about individuals.
His problem is Jews as a people and Gentiles as a people.
Gentiles are a quasi people.
There's nobody, people are not going around saying
I'm a Gentile, but in Paul's mind,
there are two people groups here.
And the question is, where did he each fit in God's plan?
And he's basically saying, God has a right to do
whatever God wants with each of those two groups.
And he goes on to unpack further
in the verses that follow what he means by that.
That is that God has the right to incorporate Gentiles
into his people and God has a right to reject those Jews
who don't respond to his message.
The ones who do are the faithful remnant.
So it's not a predestination of individuals in view here.
It is a predestination of history to some degree,
a guiding of the broad parameters
such that God can manipulate and maneuver Jews and Gentiles.
And of course, later on he's going to say in chapter 11,
God's ultimate purpose in maneuvering these nations
was he wanted Gentiles to come to faith
to make the Jews of his day jealous.
So they'd say, hey, I want some of that too.
And therefore God has this ultimate plan
that there's gonna be this restoration of Israel
in some vague, ill-determined way
that can be read in different ways.
So the whole passage is about the maneuvering
through history of what God does with the Jews
and the Gentiles, the people of Israel
and the people of the nations.
And he really says nothing in here about individuals.
Okay.
Okay, that good enough to move on?
Yeah, yeah, skip on.
Okay, we're taking more time to plan
but I guess we really have to at least cover one
in the category that clearly conflicts
with the original context.
And it's a complicated one.
I'm gonna skip parts of it, but Galatians 3.
Let's skip verse 14 and verse 14 and just looking.
And second one is four.
Maybe Derek can put these slides out
for people who want to read these for themselves.
But let's go to Galatians 3.
And I'm gonna only spend a moment on this first part of slide
but let's go ahead and read all.
Let's read just this slide and I'll come in briefly
and we'll spend our time on the second slide.
And I think we have to wrap it up there
to kind of get to the concluding portion here.
So go ahead and read us this slide, Steve.
All right, so we have Galatians 3.6 through nine.
Just as Abraham believed God
and it was reckoned to him as righteousness,
therefore recognize that it is those who are of faith
who are sons of Abraham.
The scripture foreseeing that by faith
God would justify the Gentiles by faith.
I think I have a duplicate there.
Preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham
saying all the nations shall be blessed in you.
So then those who are of faith
are blessed with Abraham, the believer.
Yeah, I corrected some of the errors in these slides
and what you're seeing now is an older draft unfortunately.
Don't worry about it.
So we have here the, Paul is dealing with these Christians
in Galatia and central or southern Turkey
by our modern geography.
And some people have come into this church
after Paul has preached to these churches
and told them, you know, that Paul guy, he misled you.
He told you that this new that as Gentiles
you're like something different than Jews.
But if you look at these Jewish scriptures,
they say that even Gentiles who want to be part
of Abraham's family in Genesis 15 have to be circumcised.
And therefore you folks in order to rightly be part
of God's people need to be circumcised.
And you also need to obey the laws
that God gave to his people later.
And Paul hears about this and he goes,
ah, you know, that's not true.
Cause for him, while Paul is never clear
about the question of Jews
who become Christ followers observing the law,
he seems to feel like that's okay.
It doesn't matter they can do or not, I think,
but he's not clear about them.
But he says to tell Gentiles
after they have expressed faith in Jesus,
turned from their idols and turned to follow him,
that now they need to do some visible outward sign
of circumcision instead of obeying these laws
is to miss God's purpose.
That was only for the Jews.
And so he wants to, he's making an argument.
He does an ingenious argumentation here
and he does it somewhat differently
but a similar argument in Romans four.
He basically says, hey, God had this two tracks.
He had this one track where he was talked to Abraham
about all his descendants were gonna be blessed
and they meant literal descendants.
And that's the Jews of our day.
And then he's got this other track over here
where he said, and all the nations
are gonna be blessed in you.
And he goes on to unpack this in various ingenious ways
to say, that's where God foreshadows his plan
to include the Gentiles.
Remember this word nations is exactly in Greek,
the same word, ta ethne,
that's translated as Gentiles in our English versions.
So Paul reads that, Paul preached the gospel,
scripture preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham saying,
all the Gentiles shall be blessed in you.
He quotes the text word for word
and he's using it in a way that
is arguably, I mean, it's not clear in the Genesis passage
what is meant by the nations being blessed
in Abraham's descendants.
And one reading is blessed themselves by you.
Like, you know, Abraham is,
we wanna be like that, like that Abraham.
You wanna show that slide with the difference
in the word.
Yeah, there are different passages.
It could be, it's vague enough,
it could be any of these three.
Yeah, I've tried to highlight where,
there is not one single one of these four passages
that matches Paul's wording.
Exactly.
The first three.
Yeah, I mean, there's,
so I'm not gonna read all of these
because they're repetitive,
but in Genesis 12, it's,
all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed in you,
which in you, shall be blessed in you is consistent with Paul.
But then in Genesis 18, it's all the nations shall be blessed.
In him, that's a mismatch.
And Genesis 22, it's all the nations of the earth
shall be blessed in your offspring.
Again, mismatching with Paul.
And then Genesis-
But with Paul, you could see how Paul would easily say,
in him, sure, that's Jesus.
In your offspring, the offspring of Abraham is Christ.
So everything becomes Jesus and Paul and us.
And I could see how he would do this though.
It's just that you just can't point,
you just can't point at like,
oh, this is where he got it.
Like he got it from 22 or 18 or 12.
It seems like he just sort of took the ideas from all of them
and just made his own unique sentence here
that has pieces of all of these,
but there's not a single,
you can't say he's quoting this verse there.
Yeah, I think he probably has Genesis 22 in mind
for the reason that Derek was just saying.
For our translation there says,
I will make your offspring and all the nations of the earth
will be blessed in your offspring.
As Derek pointed out, the Greek literally says your seed.
And a few verses later in Galatians 3,
Paul makes the rather audacious claim,
that seed that Abraham was talking
that God was telling Abraham about, that's Jesus.
God was, and it's through faith in Jesus
in that the Gentiles are made right with God.
And it goes on in Abraham, in Romans 4,
make a slightly different argument
that God justified Abraham by faith when he was a Gentile.
So Abraham is in Romans 4,
a model of how Gentiles are right with God by faith
before God told him to be circumcised,
before there were any laws.
Abraham is he circumcised,
a non-circumcised Gentile, just like you people.
So he's doing a number of different things
to basically find a place somewhere way back
before the law was given
that Gentiles are acceptable to God.
Because he's got this problem he's gotta deal with
that in Genesis 15, he says,
circumcise the foreigners born in your house,
i.e. Gentiles gotta be circumcised.
So he's gotta quote scripture
against the scriptural arguments of his opponents.
I think he does a pretty ingenious job of what he does.
I mean, it's kind of, you say,
okay, is this what Genesis was talking about
some future time when Gentiles would come to faith in God
through Jesus not obeying the law?
No, but can we see how he got there?
Can we see the path of interpretation
and how he could take that as referring
to this kind of separate plan God had
to eventually lead to the Gentiles?
Well, yeah, you can see how he gets from point A to point B.
And of course, Jewish opponents of Paul would say,
Paul, uh-uh, yeah.
And can you go back to Galatians three
just so it's on screen?
So again, just reiterate a specific point.
You know, when people were hearing this in Greek,
what they hear Paul saying is that by faith,
God would justify Taethni, by, it's, you know,
it's by, yeah, the second iteration of by faith,
there shouldn't be there.
It's by faith, God would justify the nations, Taethni.
Here it's translated as Gentiles with a capital G.
Preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham,
saying all the nations, Taethni, shall be blessed in you.
So when you are reading this in Greek,
or when you're hearing it in Greek or back then,
it is the exact same word being repeated.
And when it boils down to us in a translation
for our benefit, you know, the translators,
the translation conceals this double meaning
because what you see here is you see Gentiles
with a capital G, and then you see nations
with a lower case N, and you don't really get
that it's the same word unless you're looking,
you know, at the Greek.
Yeah, so we could see how, at least if Paul
were engaging with a non-Christian Jew with this,
we at least saw, you see how he could make his case
that this passage might be something about
another path for Gentiles, you know,
he wouldn't automatically be run out of court.
But when we come to the second part of the passage,
this is where it gets kind of wild and hairy.
So let's, and this is where I'm gonna argue,
Paul could not have counted on his audience
knowing the original context
because these verses could easily be used against him.
So read Galatians 3, 10 to 14.
For all who are of works of the law are under a curse,
for it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide
by all the things written in the book of the law
now that no one is justified by the law
before God is evident,
for the righteous one will live by faith.
However, the law is not of faith.
On the contrary, the person who performs them
will live by them.
Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law.
Having become a curse for us, for it is written,
cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree.
So that in Christ Jesus, the blessing of Abraham
would come to the Gentiles
so that we would receive through faith
the promise of the spirit.
Okay, let's look at this passage again
with no knowledge of original context.
And here's what Paul is doing rhetorically.
He's trying, he says, those who are of works of the law,
he's mean, those who are doing what these outsiders
say you should do, being circumcised
and obey the Jewish laws.
Well, look, I can quote a verse from the scriptures.
It says, that's not a course of path of blessing.
That's a path of cursing.
Look, here's a passage that says,
if you don't keep all those laws, you're cursed
and implicit is an idea that doesn't state,
nobody's able to keep all the laws.
So he concludes that he wants them to draw the inference.
Okay, this is a path of cursing, not a blessing.
Then he makes the next point to say further,
you can't be justified by the law
because look, I can quote this passage
from the Old Testament that says,
faith is the way that you're made righteous.
And he says, but the law, that's not about faith.
You gotta do the laws.
He's setting out two paths here,
one of faith, one of obeying laws
that are radically different.
Yeah, again, you don't need no context
if you trust him that he's rightly interpreting texts.
And he says, Christ became a curse.
That's where the curse falls, the curse falls on Jesus
and on those who try to obey the laws
and don't live up to them.
If you go back and look at the actual context here,
we find Paul is doing some strange things.
The first quotation,
I'm not gonna put the original context up there
because there's not much of a context to it.
This is long chapter in Galatians, Deuteronomy 26,
where Moses pronounced all these different curses
if you don't obey this law and that law and the other law.
And it ends with an example.
I don't have to read it
if you just want it to be on screen when you talk about it.
Well, I don't think it really needs to, yeah, it's right there.
Oh, it's not the full context anyway.
Yeah, I mean, there it is.
Basically, if you don't obey all these laws,
you're gonna be cursed by God and to say amen.
In one sense, Paul is being faithful to it.
He's not doing, he's quoting it word,
almost word for word.
And the basic idea, okay, you're cursed
if you don't abide by it.
But the idea that you can't abide by them
is never demonstrated, never proven.
And in fact, Paul says them for Philippians three rather,
he himself was blameless in accordance with the law.
Wait a minute, what?
He was blameless.
So he would say, he's already seen in Philippians three,
he did not fall into that curse.
So there's something odd going on.
He wants them to draw an inference
that he himself doesn't upheld elsewhere.
Well, let's let that one pass.
Where it really gets challenging is the next part.
I'm gonna skip over the righteous one first and go
to the second one, Leviticus chapter 18 verses one to five.
He says, well, we'll talk quickly
about the Habakkuk passage.
If we look at the Habakkuk passage in its context.
Skipped over.
Yeah, skipped over.
There.
This is a passage where Habakkuk is speaking
to the prophet about a time to come
when God will work out his purposes.
It don't seem to be being worked out in the present.
And he says, basically stick with me.
The just shall live by my faith.
That's not a very good translation.
Literally it says in the Greek over here,
the righteous one will live on the basis of my faith.
And there's my is God here.
The word faith in Greek is also can be translated
into the context is faithfulness.
And that's clearly what's going on here.
It's God's faithfulness.
He's not talking about an individual's faith.
In the midst of all this, God is faithful.
You can trust me that I'm going to bring down
these Babylonians who are oppressing you people
and that doesn't seem to be any righteousness.
And where's God in the midst of all this?
Trust me, I'm gonna be faithful.
Paul takes that and leaves out the word my
and then translates it kind of literally.
If you leave out the word my,
you come up with this exact same Greek over here.
So out the my, it literally says,
the righteous will live on the basis of faith,
which is kind of what he's got here.
The words of the quote support what he claims.
He said, that's not what Habakkuk was saying.
Habakkuk was talking about God's faithfulness
at a time when things look difficult and nonsensical.
Even worse is what he does with Leviticus.
If you go over to chapter, to Leviticus, chapter 18,
at the end of a passage where he's talking about
the importance of obeying God's laws.
You need to obey these laws.
He says, my judgments, you shall perform my ordinances.
You shall keep the walk in them.
I am the Lord your God.
And you should keep my ordinances and all my judgments.
You shall do them.
And as the person, the things the person does,
you shall live by them.
Or it could say, the man who does them will live by them.
Paul is saying-
Or in them.
Yeah, in them, getting in or by.
In other words, Moses is saying Leviticus,
you need to obey these laws.
That's how you live.
That's how you have life and blessing from God.
Just like he said in the Deuteronomy passage,
you're cursed if you don't obey them,
you're blessed if you do.
The next chapter in Deuteronomy is all about
blessings that come to the people who do obey God's laws.
I should have said that earlier.
He assumes they can obey them and receive all these blessings.
Humans have a choice to obey or not.
And Leviticus, by obeying those laws, you live.
But Paul, on the other hand, wants to see that
as contrary to faith.
The simple Jewish answer to that is,
I obey the laws as an expression of my faith in God.
There is no radical bifurcation between faith and laws
in these passages, Paul.
In fact, there's no bifurcation of faith in law
anywhere in the Jewish scriptures.
Law is the terms by which the people of Israel
are to live out their faith, their devotion,
their faithfulness to the covenant with Yahweh.
And so it's very easy for a Jewish interlocutor
who knows these texts to say,
Paul, these texts actually say something,
they support your opponents.
They say-
And the opponents, which clarify who the opponents are
in Galatians, right?
These duty-izers.
Yeah, Christians who think that these Gentiles
need price followers who tell them these Gentiles,
they need to observe, be circumcised
to obey the Jewish thought.
He's not saying you should have never become Christians.
He's saying to be rightly related to the God of Israel,
you need to be circumcised to obey the laws
that they're saying that, and he says that's wrong.
They just gotta come around and quote these same verses
back to Paul and say, look right here,
it says, obey the laws as an expression of your faith.
Okay, so real quick, I get the hint,
and I mean, this is speculative,
but I get the hint that he's talking about Peter,
or at least people in that, using him as an example, okay?
Cause he's like, you hypocrite, what are you doing?
Like you're trying to pretend you're this to one-
The relationship to one.
Yeah, and that seems to be the like template
for this outline of this issue.
And I think he might be dealing with the Jerusalem church
that gave him a thumbs up and then gave him the thumbs down.
I think that's what's going on.
But in Galatians 4, since we're in,
I know it's out of this pericope,
but just your thoughts before we let you go,
cause we have to go in and maybe finish these things.
There's this huge problem that came up in Galatians 4
that I was wrestling my head around.
We're talking about all of this is being done
so that the blessings could come to the Gentiles.
And Paul says in verse 4 of Galatians 4,
but when the time had fully come,
God sent forth his son, born of a woman,
born under the law to redeem those who were under the law
so that we might receive adoption as sons.
And because you are sons,
God has sent his spirit of his son, et cetera, et cetera.
Do you know what he's trying to do here?
And is he talking to Gentiles?
Is he talking to both?
Maybe Stephen could take over better from this part
to kind of give you-
In the interest of time, why don't we postpone that?
But I will say Paul does some funny things there.
And also in this passage with shifting himself into we,
sometimes he seems to include himself with the Gentiles.
And in that passage is especially evident,
but I think there's some funny things going on rhetorically
there that would get us a little afield here.
So let's come back to that another time.
And that happens here too, because he says,
so that the blessing of Abraham would come
to the Gentiles or the nations.
And then Lavomen at the very bottom
is like so that we would receive.
So what is Paul a Gentile?
It seems to be identifying with that side.
Or a whole new family of God.
See, that might be the point is
where there's a one family in Christ
and this is a whole different category.
Anyway, Dr. Stett.
Before we leave, we've got to bring this to wrap this up,
but I have to say a quick word about the last one there
from Deuteronomy 21.
Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree.
Hey, obvious there's the curse that God put upon Jesus
for the sins of humanity, right?
Well, let's go look and see what Deuteronomy 21
is actually about.
Stephen wants to read this one for us.
All right, Deuteronomy 21, 22 through 23.
Now, if there is in someone's sin,
a judgment of death, and he dies,
and you hang him on a tree,
his body shall not sleep upon the tree.
But with burial, you shall bury him that same day
for cursed by God is anyone hanging on a tree,
and you shall not defile the land
that the Lord your God is giving you as an allotment.
So what's he saying here?
When you punish somebody and you might hang his body,
his dead body up on a, as a public example for everybody,
you can't just leave it out there for the crows
to eat his body up.
That defiles the land.
That's what those other people outside do.
You got to give him a proper burial.
And so what you should not do
is hang somebody on a tree and leave them there.
You can see how Paul would see,
okay, hanging on a tree, burial.
Okay, yeah, this is about Jesus crucifixion
and burial and resurrection, right?
But the passage has nothing whatsoever to do that.
It's not being, it's not that hanging hung up,
even if you give him the possibility,
it's crucifixion, which is not being talked about here.
This is not hanging on a tree as a means of death.
It's a means of public display after death.
But even if you granted him that,
the curse is not in the hanging on the tree,
it's being left without burial,
being left there and it's a curse
that upon that person and the land and all, et cetera.
So basically, this passage has nothing to do
with crucifixion and has nothing to do
with the curse coming upon a person
because that person is crucified.
Paul just finds some words that involve cursing
and hanging on a tree and burial.
He says, okay, this has got to relate to Jesus.
He quotes a portion of it, leaves out the rest of it,
reframes the wording, leaves out cursed by God
because that might be a bit of a problem for him.
Jesus was cursed by God.
And it's one thing to say Jesus is,
the sins were cursed, but say Jesus was cursed.
So he leaves that part out and just says,
so he finds some words that seem relevant.
So basically bottom line,
and we've got to end our deep passages with this,
is this part, Galatians three,
you can easily see how a Jew who knew the context,
if we either want all these texts would say, Paul,
okay, you just need to go back to school, Paul.
I mean, you need to go back and look at these passages again
and realize that they actually undermine your argument,
that none of these things say the things
that you want them to say.
In other words, again, I think Paul is counting on
his Gentile audiences, not knowing the original context,
accepting his ability to quote from scripture
as an authoritative, literate Jewish male.
And he makes, if you grant him just what's there
without the context, you say, oh, okay,
he quotes scripture in light of the,
in support of his idea, Jesus died for us.
It's become to him through faith, not by obeying laws.
We shouldn't listen to these guys who are coming in
and telling us we need to be circumcised and obey the laws.
Thank you, Paul, for showing us that from scripture.
Well, well put, let me just make one,
let me tell you one example of how this made me think.
When I was part of a KJV-onlyist,
King James Version-onlyist church, charismatic,
speaking in tongues, rolling on the floor,
the whole nine type of church,
we believed that Jesus died and descended into hell,
not to reign, he also was tortured in hell.
I'm not making this up, this is what the church taught.
Yeah, and he was punished for three days,
and we knew that a day was like 1,000 years,
so technically we could be literal in saying, in God's eyes,
he was tortured for 3,000 years,
but this is the kind of wild speculative interpretation
we did, but we would read the Psalms,
and we would find these cries of agony,
and we believed that this was the voice of Jesus
crying in hell, and we really interpreted it this way.
And I'm not making this up,
eventually I started to become more serious
about understanding maybe what is really going on
in the context, became a Calvary Chapel guy,
and then eventually a Presbyterian in the reform faith,
and then it was history from there,
I got excommunicated for coming to some positions.
I just kept moving my ideas,
and became a full Preterist, et cetera.
The point is, this is a radical reinterpretation
of just looking for Jesus in places that he may not be,
but you see him, because this is the mindset of Paul
looking in scriptures to find how this fits his day, et cetera.
So my final question to you would simply be,
given what we've seen in these examples,
how would you summarize what Paul was doing
when he quoted or alluded to Jewish scriptures?
And what does that do for us today, right?
Yeah, I mean, I think that even though we look at these things
through the lens of modern ways of interpreting texts,
we look at them in the post-enlightenment era,
we believe that any text, not just a biblical text,
you need to look at it in its literary context,
in its historical context,
and that's where we determine meaning,
and we might be able to apply that meaning to our own day.
And again, I'm not talking about religious texts only,
it could be the Constitution.
This is what the Supreme Court does
when they're interpreting the Constitution.
It's kind of a modern way of thinking about
how you determine right and wrong meanings of texts
or uses of texts.
You look back at the original context,
you look at the meaning of the words,
you look at them, how they fit in their literary context.
That is, quote, the right meaning,
the true meaning of a text.
Paul and the Jews of his day didn't have that idea.
I mean, Paul is not the only person doing this.
You go back and you look at the Dead Sea Scrolls community.
These are Jews who believe, like Paul,
that they are living in the end times
and they interpret the Jewish scriptures
as talking about their group, about their teacher,
their leader, and their role in the end time plan of God.
And so other Jews who did not have this apocalyptic mindset,
if you work some in the rabbinic texts,
they similarly come up with all kinds of things
that we would define as free meanings
because we start with this notion
that meaning is to be determined by historical context
and literary context, et cetera.
And all of these people are more concerned
about their life context.
How do you apply it?
And in that sense, Paul is simply doing the same thing
with his group, the Dead Sea Scrolls community
is doing with their group.
And somewhat in a less direct way,
the same kind of thing the rabbis are doing
to apply to the post-70 Jewish community in Israel.
In other words, they're all driven by similar concerns,
pastoral concerns, and meaning-making concerns
to understand who they are, their place in history,
what they should be doing, and what is coming ahead.
And so in a sense, the kind of people you were talking about
that you were in, and really much of historic Christianity
who wouldn't hold to the same idea as you held,
but would interpret these scriptures
as they were saying to Jesus and the church,
basically do the same thing Paul was doing.
In other words, within Christianity,
all the way through history,
is this assumption that the Jewish scriptures
were not written just for the Jews.
They were not written just about Israel,
that they are talking about Christianity,
in one way, shape, or form.
And so therefore, we have a right,
because they are our scriptures,
to go back and mine those texts
from meanings that may not have been intended or known
by the original authors, but that were known by God,
and that God can now lead us into the right understanding.
Now, obviously that opens up all kinds of cans and worms,
because we know that people, Christians,
have said all kinds of scurry things,
and have disagreed about virtually everything,
as far as this is God's true meaning of these texts,
and his true application of those texts.
And so the principle, if we try to follow it,
as long as we get the thousands of Protestant dominations
with all kinds of different teachings, et cetera, et cetera.
And yet, is there a way out of that?
In a sense, no.
I mean, really essentially grammatical historical
interpretation, which is what I meant
by the real meaning of the text,
is in looking at the history and the literature context,
that is a way of trying to honor
a set of interpretations above other interpretations.
And one of the funny things in literary studies
for the last few decades is basically to say,
texts don't have meanings,
meanings are either in the author alone,
who brings them to the text,
or they emerge in the engagement of an author with a text.
So we might say that in many ways,
what Paul is doing is what readers have always done,
with all texts, when they're in a community
that has an identity that they want to apply though.
So just as Supreme Court applies to the Constitution,
to our country, to say, what does it mean for us today?
Paul is doing it out of the scriptures.
And is he doing it rightly?
Well, traditionally, historic Christians would say,
yeah, because, I mean, he was Paul.
He was led by God.
He was the one whose words got in the scriptures.
We trust, we obey, we just have to say,
Paul got it all right.
But as we've seen today,
if you look at Paul through another lens,
you gotta say, well, if he got it right,
he sure didn't do it the way we would.
In fact, I'll close by saying Greg Beale,
he's a more conservative, actually, scholar.
But he wrote a book back in 1994.
I've never actually read the book,
but I love the title because I think it might encapsulate
some of these things.
It's called The Right Doctrine from the Wrong Texts.
In other words, one could still argue
if you wished to as a Christian.
Paul does scurry things with texts,
but his intentions are good
and the meaning he derives from is true,
even if he isn't really getting them from these texts.
So I think a Christian who wants to allow Paul
the rim to do scurry things
and still without pouring him out entirely,
can kind of look at it through that lens, perhaps.
But I think it's dishonest to just kind of veil these things
and pretend Paul's always kind of following the context
in some way.
If we kind of hold our mouth just right
and do it on the right day,
in the right hour, in the right moment,
or just say, God alone knows,
one of these days we'll all understand this in heaven.
Steven.
Yeah, I mean, thank you so much for all your help with this,
for the examples and for explaining all this to all of us.
You know, I was doing research on sort of Paul misquoting
or taking things out of context.
And what you find if you're just Googling
these sort of things or just looking in commentaries,
it's like there's a lot of tension in various communities,
especially between fundamentalists
and people who are maybe more liberal.
And you find a lot of apologetics that aren't open
to the idea that Paul could be taking things out of context
because in our modern culture, that's taboo.
It's taboo to take something out of context.
I was like, oh, you're quoting him out of context.
People object to that.
And so I think what your book,
especially arguing with scripture,
that's the one that I found
that finally made sense of a lot of this stuff for me,
you know, and I breezed through it in a couple of weeks
over the Christmas break.
And, you know, it was the first time
I've ever seen somebody really approach Paul's audience
and quotes, not as, yeah, there you go,
not as a monolith, that's right, it's the red one.
So you don't treat Paul's audience and quotes
as a monolith, assuming that people in Galatia
and Corinth and Rome are just sort of like the same entity,
right, with the same level of understanding.
And it's like you have, you actually put yourself
with every single, almost every single example
that you analyze in that book,
I highly recommend it to everyone,
is, you know, you take it from the perspective of,
okay, how would somebody view this quotation
and interpret this who is on the same level of Paul?
And then how would somebody who knows nothing interpret it?
And what about the people in between?
And sort of, you know, taking case studies like that
that I think is extremely helpful for people
to sort of break away from the idea
that there is such a thing as Paul's audience
and that, and the idea that Paul wouldn't refer
to something or say something without assuming
that his audience already knows what he's talking about,
right, because nowadays, you know, you see this
like Martin Luther King can refer to the Exodus
in a speech that's very powerful
and draws from that imagery of the Exodus
to relate to the, you know, modern day African-American
predicament in the civil rights movement.
And nobody sort of is bothered by that, right?
Like obviously that source text, if you really dig into it,
yeah, he's taking it out of context,
but, you know, they were slaves and they were slaves
and there's enough common ground
where he can make that connection just to sort of,
because, but the key difference is most of all
the people he's talking to, he assumes, you know,
they're there with their Bibles every Sunday reading
that stuff, like so he knows that they all know
those stories very well.
And if you don't know them, it's kind of lost on you,
whereas in the ancient world,
people weren't sitting there with their Bibles,
people weren't reading it independently.
They only got, you know, a few verses at a time
on Sundays when they were meeting
and it was read to them out loud.
And so, yeah, great book, great job.
Where it gets really fishy and where it gets funny
and fishy is there are people who take
what Martin Luther King's did literally
as prophetic fulfillment, right?
And then they say, don't you see
that the African Americans are literal Israelites?
So there are people who take this so far
that they anachronistically look at Paul
and assume Paul's Gentiles, for example,
are actual Israelites because look at the quotations
and they think he's being faithful
to the original context and somehow are connecting
what you clearly show in your book.
And of course, in this episode, that's not what's happening.
And they do the same thing with Martin Luther King
and they go, well, our ancestry,
this is a prophecy that Israel would be brought back
and would be brought out of bondage.
We are Israel, literally.
And this is the kind of stuff we see happen
with some very minor, it's not usually the majority,
but there's a minor set of people
who start literalizing these things.
And actually, yeah, I'm glad you brought these examples up
because, and yet on the other side,
we have the Christian identity movement,
a white supremacist mode of interpretation
that has very intricate interpretations
of the Old Testament and the new to say
that Israel is white people.
And they've got all kinds of justifications.
And if you grant them a couple of presuppositions,
it's almost an airtight interpretive system.
And it's easy to see how people in their group
would respect their leaders who seem to know scripture
inside and out and tell them what this is what it means.
And so they go along with it.
I think Paul's followers are much the same way.
Paul seems to know these things.
He knows what he's talking about.
If Paul says that's what it means, we'll go with him.
And of course, we like Martin Luther King,
we affirm Martin Luther King's interpretations
because we like him and what he was doing.
We reject the white supremacist interpretation
because we don't like what they're doing,
but both of them do sometimes similarly loose things
with the text.
Well, I hope people will obviously stay tuned
because we're gonna be dealing with groups like that
in our fundamentally just dissecting their methodology
and understanding of race and ethnicity
and things like that in the ancient world.
We will be doing follow-up episodes on that
and other episodes as well.
I hope Stephen joins us.
It took enough for me twisting his arm over the past few years
just to get him on this episode.
So I hope everybody will like this video.
Let us know what you think.
If you made it this far, I know that you'll be like,
wow, okay, this is interesting material you're showing.
Go get Dr. Stanley's books.
He's got a lot of them.
He also has the website,
a slavestory.com where he has a trilogy of works
that he's dealing with in the Greco-Roman world.
And of course, we've done episodes on magic, et cetera.
Those are novels he might mention.
Oh, those are sort of novels, right?
Yeah, and they have a lot of great information
if you wanna get down into the history
of what's really going on in that time.
Of course, anyone who supports these scholars,
they find reason to wanna come back on the episode
and to educate the general public.
This is doing a lot of good in the world.
I know that for a fact, for people who are watching,
getting a better understanding of what was really going on.
And consider also supporting the Patreon on MythVision.
This will be up early on Patreon,
and then we'll find a way to get it out there
to the general public.
So please consider doing that.
And thank you so much, gentlemen.
Any final words?
No, thank you, Derek.
It's really been, it's not often I get a chance
to talk about these things.
In fact, almost never I get a chance to talk about these
with anything but scholars.
So this is a new experience.
I hope we've not totally bored your audiences
or put them to sleep by now.
I don't think so.
I think we did good.
And Steven, thank you.
Thank you, Chris.
Appreciate you.
Great.
Talk to you later.
Don't forget, we are MythVision.
