This is only the beginning.
Now it does take about one half hour...
to finish a run usually ready to remove the�
The instructions we learned earlier are
You have to squeeze out the missing skin
This is what it looks like
This is a different procedure
We are picturing how many totu przypadku have we got
We show Handclaps
Look at the booby PVC
No problems
Dr. Delcey Allison, Jr., I have a friend named Polygia online.
He makes these really interesting videos on YouTube, and he's good at graphics, so he
has cartoons and all this stuff pop up.
He engages with a lot of apologists, and he is more on the skeptical side.
But he has some interesting questions he'd like to ask you, and I think he's a fan of
your work, even if there are things you guys would disagree with.
He says, we'll just chip at them as we go.
Let's assume that Jesus really rose from the dead as Christianity professes, but that
before returning to heaven, he appeared to only one person, only to Peter.
Other than conceding that the appearance narratives were legendary development, are there any
other historical facts that would contradict this notion?
In other words, is it logistically possible that the entire pre-Pauline church sprung from
just Peter's testimony?
Okay, so I don't know how to answer this because I've never thought about it before,
so this is a new hypothesis, and I'm slow on my feet.
I'm from Kansas, it takes me a while to come up with the things here.
So is it theoretically possible?
I think the answer is yes, although I would have to ask whether this scenario includes
a story about an empty tomb, because that might make a difference, and then who discovered
the empty tomb?
So can you really have Peter's testimony by itself, and if it's by itself, what do you
make of the empty tomb?
How persuasive would Peter have been if the appearance had been just to him?
I don't know, but here's where I would go a different direction.
I think that the appearance to the twelve is better attested than the appearance to Peter.
So there is no story about Jesus appearing to Peter, there's a note in 1 Corinthians,
and then there is a note in Luke, he has appeared to Peter, that's it, it's disappeared.
The question of why this story has disappeared is a really interesting one, nobody has the
answer, all we have is speculation, but with regard to the twelve, we have in Paul the
same we have for Peter, that is, he appeared to Peter and then to the twelve.
But if you look in the Gospels at the end of Matthew, and then implicitly in Mark, if
it ended in verse eight, and then in Luke, and then in John, you do have stories of the
appearance of Jesus to the twelve.
Now I think, although these four stories are very different, I think they have enough in
common to posit that behind them is what I call a proto commissioning, an early account
of the appearance to the twelve, I think there is an early story, and one of the things very
interesting about this story is that in all its forms, even in John, although John's a
little different because he pulls out Thomas and makes it a separate episode, but there's
a note of doubt in each version of this story, the disciples are having trouble believing.
So if I were to pick just one, one, I wouldn't pick Peter, I'd actually try to figure out
how to do this with the twelve, and that would then be the testimony, presumably if more
than one person.
But the other thing is, is that I think that the story of the appearance to Mary, which
is in Matthew and in John, I think that probably goes back to a memory, and for my money, and
I try to argue this in the book, I think Peter is probably a latecomer, so my view is that
if Mary is truly a follower of Jesus, and she, like the disciples in Luke 19, thinks
the kingdom of God is going to appear immediately, and if she thinks that his tomb is empty,
and if she has an appearance, and she has an appearance before anybody else in John,
she would be the game, Matthew, she would actually be the person who got this ball rolling,
and I suspect that Peter, while he may be the mover and shaker, is actually furthering
an interpretation that may have first occurred to Mary Magdalene.
The Gospels are not, by and large, they are not interested in playing up the role of women,
and Matthew certainly isn't interested in this.
So I suspect that is an old story, and it has no place in Mark, it has no place in Luke,
that doesn't surprise me, it has no place in Paul, that doesn't surprise me.
So I would go, I would go with the 12 first, and then I would go with Mary, and then actually
I would go with Peter, but if you just ask the hypotheticals, the honest answer is I don't
know, and I have to think about it further.
I think that's an interesting way that you took us through, so technically to respond
to it in a more direct way from your own understanding to apology, it would simply say, I mean, yes,
it's possible a single guy had this, I guess, and then everyone else came on, but if we're
taking the evidence we have, the evidence we have talks about appearance to 12, so at
the very least you would say, if you're going to take a skeptical approach, as you could
tell, he's kind of going that way, but he's saying, assuming it's true, you would say
some type of experience happened to a group of individuals based on the text we have,
not just a single one, even if there are other appearances that seem, well, we're a single
and sky out, maybe you had another appearance later or...
So just a footnote here, and I don't know if this is relevant to the argument being made
here about Peter, but I think there is a sort of instinct among many to think that, well,
if something happened, it should be an individual because a hallucination is easier to imagine
with one person in the room, if you've got a group in the room, it's much harder to credit
that or think that really happened.
The truth is, again, to go back to the parapsychological literature, which many people deride, but when
it comes to simply recording experiences and telling you what people said, they have been
doing that for a long time, and there are tons of stories of collective visions.
It's a recent book that came out of, it's five or six years old now, it came out of Iceland,
and if you go through all these stories of people supposedly encountering the dead, quite
a few of them, I went through and checked them, quite a few of them involve multiple people.
I think in some footnote at some point, I actually catalogued these from this book,
and four people, three people, five or six, that sort of thing, so again, I think there's
a sort of a bias that they, well, if we're going to explain it in mundane terms, one
person, but as soon as you raise the possibility of a collective vision, that's much more difficult
to explain in mundane terms, right? What's going on there? Did one person see it, and
then convince the others who were there, and they sort of talk to them, I mean, it's harder
to do.
Okay, suppose I'm hypothetical, suppose Mary isn't a historical memory, and only speculation,
so let's just say, well, Mary, why does Mary pop up in Mark and Matthew? Well, narrative
suppose, and Paul, literally, leaving her out, we could argue Androcentric or Androgenic, like
you talked about in the text, or we could say, well, this is part of his narrative, he has his
narrative, one might go, well, that seems really ridiculous, especially as an embarrassment,
so to speak, but I just wonder if this carries some type of literary motif, and we can get in
that area. Yeah, we, well, I kind of wonder, I mean, I'm open minded to this, and going into
another video, maybe talking about that a little more, but I ask if we put that aside, and it's
only men, and Peter, as he's saying, he follows up with this second statement, I guess, is be good
to get into, because he says, if yes, that it's possible that the Peter may have had a vision,
and others somehow fall in line, and it's not to a collective group, if yes, would the same
be true of a Peter who was merely mistaken about seeing risen Jesus, so that's the easiest question
that's going to be asked, the answer is yes. Right, that's it, and if it's 12, though, I guess
the question is, could they be mistaken, you know, it's a little, yeah, well, that's a more difficult
question, and it is difficult. So if you look at Marian visions, outside the Catholic Church,
there is total unbelief about them, and a skepticism about them, but some of them are
interesting, and they are collective experiences where several people at once say, we saw,
you know, Mary, so what do you do with this, what the heck is going on? In fact, in the book,
one of the things I talk about are Marian visions that occurred in Egypt, the church
outside of Cairo, in a Cairo suburb, in the late 1960s, and I say that I'm simply stumped,
I say that, you know, I don't have a Mariology, which encourages me to think that Mary is showing
up, but I actually have no mundane explanation for that series of events, and all the mundane
explanations I've read don't compute, they just don't work for me, so...
Isn't it true, too, that the church also recognizes that they don't accept some of these as
actually true? Oh, yeah, yeah, so the Roman Catholic Church does not, by any means,
welcome all these Marian visions, they know that people can psych themselves up into seeing
things that are not there, people can be carried away, and so on, so the church hierarchy is actually
pretty resistant to new stories of Mary appearing. And I guess, and a final note before we get into
his other questions, that I find are very interesting in this vein of thinking of
the resurrection, it literally went in my head and just left my head, too, as I was explaining this,
maybe it wasn't meant to be asked. Yeah, I was thinking of his whole position here and trying to
understand what is going on, but I literally lost it. Let me look at his next one, and maybe it'll
come to mind. So we're talking about the Greek word, do we want to get into that here? Well,
I don't have a whole lot to say, but one of the things that I did with the verb is I simply
looked at the dictionary, I didn't pull up my TLG, which is my complete electronic
concordance to every Greek text written up until the fall of Constantinople, I go through and look
at all the instances. Can I read it, though, for our audience? Yeah, the Greek word, a tafe,
I hope I'm saying that right, in 1 Corinthians 15-4 is used in non-biblical literature to refer
to anything from a luxury stone cut tomb to the lowest peasant ditch grave. Is there anything about
this word that would exclude the Romans putting Jesus into a criminal's ditch grave?
So I, again, to repeat, all I did was work with the dictionaries, and I didn't find anything
in connection with crucifixion or with disposal of criminal bodies. So is it possible hypothetically?
I guess yes, but I haven't done all the work. I do know that it's, in every text that I have
looked at, it is used for some kind of burial that is, you know, even if it's just digging a ditch
and putting dirt on it, but I don't know why the Romans would have done such a thing. I'm not sure
or they would have done that. The usual argument is that bodies were left up on crosses,
or they were just thrown into piles for the dogs and the birds to come and feed on, and that would
be the final degradation. So they didn't actually bury them? It seems unlikely to me. Why would they
do that? Why would they do that? Hmm, interesting. Okay, maybe we go into four. I think, hey, we're
on a roll, we're on a roll. All right, all right. What do you think of the minimal facts approach
to proving the resurrection? Okay, so I do have a little section on that in the book, and what I
say is that I actually accept the minimal facts that are being forwarded by, in this case, what?
Is it Habermas? Yeah, Gary Habermas and Mike Lacona, right?
I thought that William Lane Craig was also a proponent of this, but Mike told me that I had
misunderstood something. So in any case, do we think of these two folks? And I agreed with
this and then said, but I can't infer a resurrection from it. So what I did is I constructed an
alternative scenario, which accepted all the minimum facts and yet didn't entail Jesus rising
from the dead. You know, I did this plain devil's advocate, but I thought he did a good job of playing
devil's advocate. So I don't know how they will respond. Gary's supposed to have a big giant
book on resurrection out fairly, fairly soon. But what I did is say, okay, here are the minimal
facts. You say they point to resurrection. I say, let's take these minimal facts. And here's an
alternative scenario, which is a skeptic scenario, not my scenario, but it's a skeptic scenario
in which all these things are true and Jesus did not rise from the dead.
Interesting. Wow. I definitely need to relook at that again in your book. So what can we be
confident in about the activities of the original 12 disciples after the death of Jesus?
My answer to that is not much. And all you have to do is take some of the names out of the list
of the 12. And so we know something about Peter, we think. And we know a few things about John.
John shows up in the book of Acts, and there are traditions about him and Ephesus and so on.
Then James the son of Zebedee, there's the story of his martyrdom in the book of Acts.
But then try to think beyond that. I mean, what happened to Matthew? The answer is we have only
legends. Actually, years and years ago, I decided to look at early church traditions about Matthew.
And what I discovered is that they were all different. In other words, there didn't seem to
be any memory at all. People were just making things up. So, you know, if Matthew didn't have
anything to do with the first gospel, we don't know anything about him. Bartholomew, tell me
all about Bartholomew. Well, nobody knows anything about Bartholomew. Thomas, well, there are traditions.
Maybe it has a memory that, you know, he goes off to India, but it's shrouded in legend and
hagiography and you can't do much. And as for the rest of them, Thaddeus, Tom, I mean, the answer is
we don't know anything about these people. The way I think about it is what if a couple of these
people or three of them at some point, you know, after two years said, you know, we're going to
check it in now. We're not very good evangelists. We're going back to Galilee. I'm going to be,
you know, I'm going to fish or be a carpenter or whatever. We wouldn't know anything about them.
So we don't know that we don't know what happened to most of these people. We don't know how
faithful they were. We don't know what their theologies were. Did they all agree, you know,
exactly with Peter? What we do know is that every single one of them in legend gets martyred.
But as I've pointed out, this was just read out of Acts 1. Jesus says, you will be my witnesses.
The word for witnesses is also the word for martyr. And Jesus says, you will be, you know,
martyrs. And so, of course, church legend has them all being boiled in oil or their heads cut off
or, you know, whatever it is. It doesn't mean there might be some memory and some of these legends,
but I for the life of me can't figure out how to fish it out. I think Sean McDowell wrote about
this as well. Yeah, he did. And that is actually a very good book in the sense that he's collected
all these legends, right? And it's nice to have them in one place. But I don't follow him in thinking
that he's really made a strong case that most of them were martyred. I'm skeptical of that. And
once you do that, then the argument from the sincerity of the 12 doesn't work. Now, you can
still make the argument from the sincerity of Peter and John and James, Paul, I'm sorry, not John.
James the brother of Jesus, James of Zebedee, Peter and Paul, because we know those four people
were martyred. Unless you really go so far as to say what's written in Acts is also part of
legend. But then again, that's a whole... Well, so I'm in Acts just like the Gospels. I've been
toying with writing an article called What Acts Gets Right. And I think Acts gets lots of things
right. And I think there are memories there. Acts is right. If you read it carefully, the early
Christian stuff, the end was near. You can see that in the book of Acts. You can see it in Acts
two and three. I think this was a charismatic movement with miracle workers. You can see that
there. I think this was a movement that was scripture based. I think you could see that. I
mean, you can go on and on and see these general things that it is remembering. And if you go to
the Acts of Thecla in the second century and ask what it's getting right, I think the answer is
a lot less. All right. I think Peter and Paul were leaders in the early church. They are leaders
in the book of Acts. Even the fact that they had like kind of a communist community seems to be
like an early memory. That's probably a memory. So despite the fact that there are legends in Acts
and again, everything's tailored to the author's agenda. He certainly wants to make people look
like they get along better than they did. By the way, that makes his note that Paul and Barnabas,
Paul and Mark had it falling out. It makes me think, well, maybe that's a memory there. I mean,
why make that up? They didn't get along with each other. They went huffing and puffing in
different directions. So no matter who wrote Luke or what time exactly you debated, you dated,
again, I think it gets a lot right. Interesting. Okay. Okay. So I think we've got one or two
more. And this has been a fun conversation. What can we confidently say about the identities of
the authors of the four gospels? I mean, we know, and I'll say it like this, like we all know from,
I mean, not all, I want people to kind of hear it from your own mouth, if you will, that we're
not even sure. Mark wrote Mark, Matthew wrote Matthew, Luke wrote Luke, and John wrote John.
We don't know who the actual men were who wrote them. However, maybe you could tell us a little
bit about what, who these authors were, like what, what can we kind of intuitively learn from them
by the writing, if that makes sense? Oh, that's, that's a huge question. You're right. So Martin
Hingo thought differently, but I haven't been convinced yet. He thought the titles were probably
original to the gospels. I think they're probably second century add ons, which would explain,
for example, why the title according to Mark occurs sometimes at the beginning, sometimes
at the end and some of some of the documents. Anyway, I guess you're asking me for a sense
of these, these people. Matthew, I think, is a learned Jewish Christian. I think that he knows
scripture very well. I suspect he could read Hebrew and maybe Aramaic. If I look at the text
in the first gospel, I see some evidence of what you'd call nonceptual to a gentle
readings. And it's possible that he just had alternative readings, but I suspect he knew
Hebrew and maybe Aramaic. Also, there are these little hints, and they're too complicated to
go into here, but there was a German scholar in the 1920s who made the argument that Matthew
was probably like Paul, a trained rabbi, and that you can actually see connections between
his gospel and traditions or legends about Yonan Ben Sakai, who is a rabbi who survived 70
and was a leader after 70. And there really are a few things in Matthew that are strikingly
rabbinic. So if you compare Matthew to Mark and Luke, there are places where his parallelism is
perfectly mechanical. That is, do not store up treasure in heaven, where blah, blah, blah,
but store up treasure and do not store up treasure on the earth where blah, blah, blah,
but store up treasure in heaven. Look, if you compare that to Luke, Luke's parallelism isn't
perfect. It's not mechanical. The words are a little varied. This is a phenomenon that occurs
over and over again. And then if you ask yourself, where else can you find this? It's not Greek
literature. You don't find it in Greek literature, but you actually find it in rabbinic texts,
especially a text known as Mishnahavot. The parallelism is just perfectly mechanical.
You can have a sentence A followed by sentence B and it just has not in front of it. I mean,
that's really interesting. And I think there are enough hints like this, even some connections,
as I said before, maybe to Yonan Ben Sakai, to speculate, to wonder, to hypothesize whether
this is somebody who has spent some time around rabbis or had been like Paul, been a Pharisee
or something before, and was a convert. Ulrich looks in his commentary on Matthew is open to
this possibility and notes some of the parallels between Matthew and Yonan Ben Sakai. So that's
my sense of Matthew. He's very Jewish. I also think that he keeps the law. I think that he keeps
kosher and that if you compare him to Mark, he's much less radical when it comes to the law.
Mark is the hardest one for me to get a finger on. The tradition that Mark
was John Mark, the author was John Mark, who knew Peter. Unlike many of my colleagues,
I think this is possibly true, but I don't know that it's true. So I don't know that it's false.
Many of them know that it's false. I don't know that it's false. And if you look at Joel Marcus'
commentary, the Anchor Bible commentary on Mark, he says after looking at all the evidence,
I don't know what to say. I don't know if it's true. I don't know if it's false. Okay, so that's
where I am. But if you don't accept that traditional authorship, then you don't know anything about
the author. So all you can do is infer things from the text. And a couple of things that might be
of interest. One, I think there are links between Mark and Paul. I think Mark is probably a Pauline
text. It's within the Pauline sphere of influence, right? And it's more open to Gentiles and the
Gentile mission than Matthew is. Luke is really interesting. And I can tell you this. I don't
think John wrote John. I don't think Matthew wrote Matthew. And I just told you, I don't know that
Mark wrote Mark. But I'm a conservative here. So I agree with Adolf von Harnack and Joseph
Fitzmeyer that the tradition about Luke is probably correct. Okay, now that puts me with
the apologists and the conservatives. But all I can do is follow the evidence. I am not interested
in what company this puts me, right? Right, right. But I am sure that whoever the author of Acts was,
he's an itinerant. He's familiar with all sorts of different places. One of the things the
archaeologists discovered years ago is that whenever you go to a town in Acts and you refers to the
authorities, the leaders, he gets their titles right. And if you think about how Luke and Acts
are set up, all the people travel, all the heroes travel, right? So whatever this guy was, I'm sure
he was an itinerant. I'm sure he's moving around the Mediterranean. He's comfortable. He's been
in lots and lots of different places. John, I have no idea who wrote John, except that again,
and I have a conservative opinion here. A lot of my colleagues think I'm really out to lunch here. But
again, for reasons I can't go into here, I think the tradition that John of Zebedee wrote,
I wrote the fourth gospel is wrong, but I think he is the beloved disciple. So I think that there's
a school or a group of disciples or some kind of group that revered him and has some traditions
from him, but they have been very much rewritten. And there are some scholars today who are trying
to revive the use of John as history. They are much more confident than I am. I think there are
memories there, but I think there are fewer memories than that are in the synaptics. So
John for me is always the last thing to look at is always a supplement. It's not the first thing
to go to. Thank you.
