Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where
thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, when
neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal, for
where your treasure is, there will your heart be also judged not, let ye be not judged.
Dr. Del C. Allison Jr. Thank you so much once again.
I have a skeptic.
Dr. Richard Carrier, who would like to ask a question, and I don't want to put too much
into it because I don't know exactly the meaning behind it, but I will give a little context.
I think it's pertaining to Q, because we had a show we did with Dennis McDonald and Richard Carrier.
One is Q plus papious hypothesis, one is a far position, and he asked Dennis,
give me something before the war about Q, because he takes everything's post-70, I think,
as most the critical, skeptical scholars do, and here's his question.
Dr. Richard Carrier says, Dennis McDonald has claimed that there is one reference to sacrificing
in the Sermon on the Mount, that disproves your otherwise persuasive argument that that
sermon was a post-war construction in response to the loss of the temple, and this is in Matthew
5, 23 through 24. You do address this in your work, but can you explain what your response
to that argument is for a general audience? Okay, well, if I understand the question correctly,
the first thing I would say is that there are post-70 texts which speak as though the temple
is still standing, and the prize example of that is the Mishnah. So texts that are written after
70 do not, by that very fact, speak of the temple in the past tense. In fact, the rabbis are always
talking about what's going on in the temple, even though it's long. And that early Christians
couldn't do that, doesn't make any sense to me. The passage you have in mind
in this question is from Matthew 5, 21 through 26, and McDonald is correct that most exegetes think
they just assume, take it for granted, that this is about sacrificing the temple.
I think that is a mistake. So if you read the passage, it's about hatred, it's about murder,
it's about brothers, and it's about offering a gift at the altar. Now in Judaism, the key
text when it comes to discussing murder and anger is Cain and Abel, who were two brothers,
and the murder is caused by or happens after a sacrifice at an altar. And if you look at the
church fathers, they, some of them just assume that Jesus is not talking about temple sacrifice,
and he's actually talking about murder and anger with reference to the story of Cain and Abel,
because that's what you do in Judaism. That's the go-to text when that's the subject. So you've
heard that it was said to those of old thou shalt not kill, I say to you, and then it becomes angry.
It's about anger, do not be angry with a brother. So I reject the premise of the argument that
on two grounds. One, I don't think that a post-70 text has to speak about the temple as
per se, but in Matthew 5, this is a second point, I do not think that you were talking about the
temple at all. Now beyond that, I do think Matthew is a post-70 text, but I think it incorporates
pre-70 sources, and I'm a Q guy. I've defended my belief in Q at length. In fact, I have an
article coming out very soon on this, and one of the things that I think is clear, although Mark
Goodacre and Francis Watson others don't agree with me, but I cannot imagine that the Sermon on
the Plain is constructed out of the Sermon on the Mount. I think that the Sermon on the Mount
could be constructed from Luke 6 or from a Q text that's very much like Luke 6, and one of the
things I do in this article is I go through Matthew's text and I say, on the assumption that Matthew
used Mark, what can we guess are likely methion editions here or methion redactional sentences
or methion vocabulary and so on, given what we otherwise know of Matthew and what he does,
apart from whether Q exists. So I come up with all these characteristics that are in the Sermon
on the Mount, and it turns out if you subtract them all from the Sermon on the Mount, you end up with
something looking just like Luke 6. So that's my thought experiment, and I take that as a reason
for either believing in Q or thinking Matthew is using Luke, which I don't think is likely. I think
that's that's much less likely. So at the end of the day, I'm a Q guy. I think Dennis would probably
side with you on that. That's probably one of the pericapies that he looks into and says,
oh, this is definitely a Q idea that Luke's later. It really drives me to ask, I guess,
further like this whole pre 70 stuff, is there indication in the Gospels that you can think of,
and I know this is like off the cuff, that supports something pre 70 that might seem Q,
like the idea of Q, because a lot of people go, look, if it's not before Mark, like the
far hypothesis, why do we need it? It's hypothetical. We don't really have that. We have to make these
arguments about it. Well, of course, it's hypothetical, but that doesn't bother me at all. The truth is
that most texts from antiquity have disappeared. Somebody a church historian recently went through,
and I'm not going to get the number right, but went through all the books that are mentioned in
the extent Christian writings from the first three centuries or four centuries or something like that.
The vast majority of them do not exist. We simply don't have them. And if you look at the dead sea
scrolls, we have even with computers, we have tons of little pieces of text that don't go anywhere.
They're from books that have disappeared. The Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible itself has,
I don't know, eight, nine, 10 references to books that it's citing or quoting from,
and they have disappeared. So one of the things you have to remember is most of the books in
antiquity are gone and that there were some early Christian texts that are gone. Well, actually,
we know there were tons of them and that Q might be among them. You know, we wouldn't have the Gospel
of Thomas except for Oxyrhynchus papyri, which, you know, trash that were, you know, discovered
120 years ago or so. And then the one copy of the Gospel of Thomas, that's it. It could easily have
just disappeared and we wouldn't know it exists. So I'm not, I'm not, I'm not troubled by that.
But going back to the Sermon on the Mount business, I think that the central part of the Sermon on the
Mount comes from Q. And if you look at it, there are really interesting parallels in First Clement,
in Polycarp, in the Didache. And if you look at the alleged parallels between Paul and the Jesus
tradition in Romans 12 through 14, a bunch of them also appear here in the middle of Luke 6. I
personally think that there's an old discourse, and I'm sure it's pre-70. I think it's pre-Paul
line, that would put it before 70, that is reflected in the Sermon on the Mount,
the Sermon on the Plain, First Clement, Didache, and in Polycarp. They all show interdependence.
They all, I'm sorry, they all show similar things and different things at the same time.
The agreements and disagreements are so complex that there's no simple answer to literary
relationships. So I think that there is this collection of things attributed to Jesus,
that's very early, and that it ends up in Q. It ends up in Luke 6. Matthew expands it.
First Clement has a version of it. The Didache has an expanded version, probably influenced by
Matthew. And then Polycarp, also some independent version, like Clemens, which is influenced by
Matthew. Anyway, I'm fairly confident that there's this old discourse there, or collection
of sayings that's in place before 70. It's already, in my judgment, a tradition for Q.
Since we're still on the Richard Carrier question, I might as well say something that
was mentioned in a video I recorded recently. And I think he used Clement and said that he thinks
scholars are wrong on their dating of Clement. He thinks it's a 60s document, and he says one of
the things- 60s? 60s. Okay, well, I don't know anyone else who has argued that. Maybe John Robinson
did, I don't know. But anyway, go ahead. Yeah, I think his point was, is if he was written in the
90s, and I mean, this is still speculative, but he thinks this is good evidence to say,
Clement puts, and the Lord said, and then quotes the Septuagint. And he's like, if he had the
Gospels, if the Gospels were there, wouldn't he have just said, hey, I'm quoting Mark or Matthew
or Luke, or a tradition that's already there about what Jesus actually said. Instead, he says,
Clement is quoting Septuagint when he says the Lord says, and there aren't any references to a
Gospel in any way, shape, or form of Jesus saying. So, how would you respond to that?
So, he's saying that when Clement says and the Lord says, and then you get these saints that
have parallels in Luke 6, that they're actually from the Septuagint.
I don't know about that. Because he does say the Lord says, and then he quotes material that is,
has all its parallels in the Sermon on the mountain, the Sermon on the plane.
Now, the question of why people are not quoting Jesus more is a very interesting one.
But you'd have to say, this is the case pretty much until the middle of the second century,
that people are not going on and on about Jesus, and they're not quoting him that much. I mean,
that's the old question of Paul and Jesus. And there are all sorts of factors,
explanations. In my mind, one of the things that's important is that Paul was trained as a person,
as a rabbi of some sort, and rabbis were trained to argue from the Hebrew Bible in the Old Testament,
and that that is who he is, that's part of his rhetoric, and that the Hebrew Bible anyway,
the Septuagint, whatever he used, dwarfs by comparison any Jesus tradition that could have
been around there. So, he simply used to constructing arguments from the Old Testament,
and most of the Jesus tradition anyway is ethics and doesn't directly address
theological issues. It doesn't address most of the issues that Paul is really
interested in, right? When it is relevant in I Corinthians 7, he can say, oh, I do know a word
of Jesus about this, so here it is. Or in I Corinthians 9, here's a word of Jesus about
missionaries and how they should get their pay and so on. So, when it's relevant, he can do this.
Anyway, I would say that all sorts of texts, for example, the book of James has parallels to the
Jesus tradition. I think the book of James may know Matthew, but in any case, I think it must
know some of this material as coming from Jesus, but it doesn't say so. 1 Peter doesn't say so.
You could just go on and on. And there's this constant thing of saying,
according to the Scriptures. And that's a huge red flag for me. Like, when you talk about this,
it's like, you're right. The Hebrew Bible or the Septuagint trumps, if you take that position,
it trumps the idea of the earthly ministry life of Jesus. Yeah, sure. Again, it's not till Justin
and Aaronaeus that you begin to get, I don't know what you would call them, proto-New Testament,
or Nazism, the New Testament coming to be, collections of Gospels and things like that.
And the Bible is, in fact, the Jewish Scriptures. And the rhetoric and the habit and the tradition is
that's what we're going to argue. That's what we're going to argue from, right? And we're going to
quote. That's what we're going to quote from. So it takes a hundred years or more for the
saints of Jesus and the deeds of Jesus and all that to sort of get up to speed to have equal
argument to, maybe not force, but to get to the point where people's minds go to that
as often as they go to the Old Testament. Again, you go back to Clement and whenever it's written,
I still think J.B. Lightfoot was right and it comes from the 90s. There's a Tennessee to try
to date it a little later. But Clement is just Jewish tradition and the Hebrew Bible. I mean,
it's just everywhere. It's who he is. He's very Christian, right? He knows Christian traditions,
he knows Paul and all the rest of it. But most of the stuff is straight out of the
Jewish Scriptures. He's writing to the same churches, Paul. That's right. And he's doing
what Paul did. Because if you go through Romans, again, in Romans 12 through 14, there are things
that I think come from the Jesus tradition. But most of it is just out of, he's arguing from
Jewish Scripture. That's his rhetorical tradition.
