Another discussion on mythicism with Joel Pearson. Me and Joel have a good conversation back and forth.
Make sure you guys add your thoughts, comments down in the comments section.
I mean, did Jesus really exist? Was he really a historical, you know, character?
And what does the evidence look like? Really, the strongest place to go would be Paul,
according to Joel, and Paul does not seem to be talking about an earthly Jesus,
but rather some type of angelic or celestial or even possibly some type of divine beyond
regular human Jesus. So you guys check out the show. Listen to what Joel says about his personal
research and as he studied some of these guys over time and where he's at, you know. We're not
scholars in the field or anything like that, but we have a really good discussion on what's
got us thinking. So make sure you guys subscribe, hit the like, don't forget to comment. Let me
know what you think down below. We are myth vision. Welcome back, everybody. Your host,
Derek Lambert. Thank you for tuning in. I have a special guest. Every one of my guests are special.
So if you wonder why I say that, well, it makes them feel special. You know what I mean? It's just
part of what we do. And today, I think it's going to be great. We will have Joel joining us back on
mythicism and kind of have a little freestyle discussion pertaining to it. How are you doing,
Joel? Nice to be here again. Joel Pearson is on Facebook. He's one of my friends and he's part of
the groups. He's obviously taken a little bit of a vacation, so to speak, to do his research and
enjoy family time. And we all got to do that from time to time for sure. So I'm going to actually
be quiet this time around with you on this show. And I kind of want to allow you to go into your
where you're at, what you've seen, things you've wrestled with, different things. And I guess the
way to start is, are you still minimal mythicist? And what are your thoughts?
Yeah, I'm still leaning towards mythicism. I just haven't seen any really good arguments come the
other way. And all the scholarship seems to side with mythicism, which is quite interesting,
because the opinions of the scholars themselves tend to side majority with historicity. And
most of the arguments for historicity cite consensus rather than the individual bits of
evidence, unless they focus on particular pieces of evidence while leaving the majority out.
But yeah, I definitely still side on the side of mythicism, because I don't think that there's
any single figure you could point out and say, yeah, that was the guy who kicked everything off,
unless of course you count Peter, who may well be the guy that kicked everything off. But
obviously, I think if people said that Peter was the source of Jesus, then yeah, that wouldn't be
quite the same thing. That would be mythicism. And I think it's important to say everybody
that's a believer in some sense is a mythicist. And do they hate this? They hate this. Like,
what do you mean? Well, do you think that Romulus exists? Do you think that Zeus exists? Do you
think Mithras existed? Do you think Baal existed or Baal, however you want to pronounce it? Well,
no, okay, then technically, you're a mythicist. These other guys don't exist. And I know it's
a strange way of kind of coming at it. I'm just being funny, but your research has led you to
stay minimal mythicist, even though you're open to historicity. Have you considered like
other figures like Lena Einhorn thinks it's the Egyptian, or we've had other scholars that think
maybe Judah the Galilean, or some magician, is any of those historicity positions before we get
into mythicism, convincing or one of them more convincing than the others? Like, who would be
the most plausible historical Jesus if there was one in your view? Well, so there's usually
tenuous connections to many other figures. But I don't see any of them as having more than, say,
five percent connection to the overall story, the one that was put together in the end. So,
now, I mean, possibly you could say it was any number of killed, crucified, or stoned,
supposed messiahs before the point where Peter or whoever, possibly a precursor,
actually created what we now know as Christianity. And I think what you would get is
just a trend rather than an individual. You have messiah after messiah after messiah failing,
being killed by either Rome, being rejected by the wrong people, being fringe cults that never
make it anywhere. And after this many failures, and I think in particular with the might of Rome
coming down on insurrectionists, that would be a great time for the Marx version of Jesus to come
forward, the Gospel version. Because if you make your Jesus have a spiritual victory rather than
a military victory, it means that they can't take that away from you. Any military messiah can be
taken. The spiritual messiah cannot be taken from you. That was really well put. And I agree. I
think that that is a very fascinating way. So, technically, it's not necessarily one guy in your
view. It's multiples. And you think they wrote it as like a victory. Like, all right, you guys,
you know, we have to win out. You always got to be, you know, we've got to have a winning story
somehow. So, we're writing a victorious spiritual Christ. But weren't there developing ideas already
with like Philo Judea and other Jews who were becoming Hellenistic in their philosophy of
Platonic philosophy, etc. that were already kind of blending these ideas and said, you know what,
this is the perfect time. You know, we, God's going to keep all his promises, but they weren't as we
thought they were. Therefore, you know, my kingdom's not of this world, that kind of stuff.
Yeah, I wouldn't say that Philo influenced early Christianity. I'd say it was an independent
development. But from the same cultural zeitgeist, the same influences coming in from outside.
Just because of Hellenism in general, you've got all these different
influences coming through. And Jerusalem in particular was a bit of a melting pot,
bit of a trade hub, lots of different cultures mixing that together. So, by that point,
the Jewish culture had already been able to coexist a little bit with the other cultures.
Obviously, if you read the Old Testament, it's very much about, you know, killing anyone who's
from a different culture. But that's, even then, that was old news. They'd had to adapt and change
and benefit from trade, basically. Your empire or your kingdom is not going to prosper unless you
learn to live alongside the others in peace. And of course, Roman's rule pretty much did that for
everyone. You guys live in peace and start fighting each other or will come and crush you.
I agree. That makes a lot of sense. So, you've been reading a lot lately. Do you want to discuss
any of the works that you've been currently reading that have got you kind of, I guess,
you'd say, got your enthusiasm? Just an eclectic mix of science, philosophy,
psychology, history, and just so many different things. So, not focusing so much on
historicity and metacism. Although, the next thing I have to go through is the great courses
Bart Ehrman on the historicity of Jesus. So, that should be quite interesting, because of course,
it's not on the historicity of Jesus. It's on the historical Jesus, because Professor Ehrman
thinks that he knows who Jesus was and what he did, and he thinks he has some minimal
facts to work with. So, it's really interesting listening to the books in audio format and thinking
whenever he says something confidently to the students that he's presenting to, and I'm thinking,
but you don't know that. Well, that's not true. So, it's very strange, because he's a fascinating
guy and he's worth learning from. He has so much knowledge at the time, but sometimes he makes
these little leaps, which I think come from his fundamentalist past, and he's never really
thoroughly questioned why he has that idea. So, yeah, it's like a pinch of salt sort of
reading when I'm going through Ehrman's work. I really enjoyed his book, The Whole Forged.
That was a really good one, and I didn't want to encounter poetry. Yeah, that's a work about that
book. Yeah, he's brilliant. Someone, I think it's Derek. I can't remember his name. He wrote
an article, actually, discrediting Ehrman's take on dying and rising gods, if I'm not mistaken.
Is it Derek Bennett? I don't know, but I do know that Ehrman has retracted some of those
claims that he made. So, in the earlier books, he was just doing things off of his
sort of, from his memory, from what he learned earlier on. But when he went and did the research
for things like the triumph of Christianity and later on books, I think there's a new one coming
out on Heaven and Hell. He's changed his view on some of those things, or he's contradicted
what he's written earlier, so I think he's developing and still learning. And yeah, so obviously the
dying and rising thing isn't really a question, because Christianity ended off as a dying and
rising saviour cult, and Jesus didn't actually rise from the dead, regardless of whether you go
hystericity or mythicism. So it's not really relevant. I've lost your audio, but you're on mute.
You're good. Sorry. The Osiris cult, you know, he's killed by his brother Sat. According to what
I'm familiar with, killed by his brother Sat, cut into 14 pieces, and his wife Isis decides
I need to sleep with my husband tonight. Oh, he's not there. So now I got to go find this penis
somewhere, because I found all the other parts to him, but I'm just being funny. But yeah,
there was a magic dildo story, I recall, but there were multiple myths, obviously, so you can
pick and choose what was and wasn't said about Osiris and about most of the others. I mean,
obviously Jesus himself had 40 odd gospels written about him with contradicting stories.
That's true. And that's something to consider when you're researching the Osiris stuff, too.
I thought it was interesting. I wanted to ask you, just saw this on the post, that
the mummification and preservation of bodies in Egypt has somewhat of a connection to how the
Jews and their physical resurrection concepts tie in and that maybe the pharaohs or the Egyptians
had a physical resurrection idea, possibly in their in their ideas, why they would preserve
the bodies, so that one day they would be rising from the dead. And Osiris does resurrect, according
to the narrative, but not physically, of course. Well, yeah, so you have, as you already know,
from talking to Rabbi Tobias Singer, isn't it? He pointed out that the Jewish resurrection was a
physical bodily resurrection, which was the same body. And that seems to be what you get in the
gospel narrative, or at least, I mean, it's sort of open to interpretation up until the point where
he does the see my hands thing, because that's the particular resurrection narrative they were
pushing. But Paul's theology, which I would assume is closer to Peter's than Marx's, Paul's
theology actually has a different body than the resurrection. His idea was more of, you won't take
your old broken body, you'll have a new heavenly body, which I think comes from his, you know,
multiple levels of heaven, things being replicated within heaven as they are in earth and everything
having sort of copies. So this was also part of later Jewish theology. I have no idea if it's part
of current mainstream Jewish belief, because I think that sort of went as an offshoot, because
it was associated with Christianity later. I suspect that that was pretty much left as a minority
and rejected by mainstream Jewish theology. But I'm not sure about that. I'm not an expert. I'm
just amateur trying to put this stuff together. Yeah, I watched a debate about this whole thing,
and it seemed like Dr. Carrier and the other gentlemen can't remember his name. When they were
arguing over this Paul thing, this guy seemed like he acted like Carrier's going way too far on an
edge to try and assume that Paul didn't know anything about a guy and about an actual person named Jesus
or some physical, you know, because that's really where it hinges, right? Most mythicists get to
Paul, and they go, really, he didn't know anything about Jesus in this world. And recently on Godless
Engineer, John pointed out with Tom, and I thought it was interesting hearing him explain this, that
the only references revelation, and that's why he never met Jesus, he appears to him on the road.
And it's like, how can you say you know anything of this real earthly guy, and why would you need
to appear to me on road? Then turn around and speak to the people who supposedly knew him.
You have to make sure that you don't get Luke's account of the Damascus road experience mixed up
with Paul's account of his own conversion, because Paul is quite vague about it. And, you know, so
it is a visionary experience, but we don't know exactly what happened. Whereas Luke goes into
building this whole story, and including, you know, appropriately, mystically named people and
places, and tries to tie it into his narrative. So I'm not sure how much of Luke's account is
actually accurate as to what Paul actually said. And just regarding the way Paul doesn't mention
knowing if it's called Jesus or historical Jesus or anything like that, I think the only way to
reasonably defend a historical Jesus is to admit, yes, Paul didn't know a historical Jesus,
but you would have to say that the people he was debating against did know a historical Jesus,
and you have to sort of try and hearsay around that, try and infer what they thought from what
Paul said or didn't say. And I think the best argument I've heard for historical Jesus,
given that Paul doesn't mention one, is that Paul doesn't want to bring that up,
because it's a point of weakness for him. So he's focusing entirely on the revelation side,
saying, well, I know as the risen Jesus, you guys only knew the old, you know, the human Jesus.
And especially if you go with the earliest theology being sort of adoptionistic Marx theology,
and then you could say the angelic Jesus pre-existed, he's the one that Paul knows,
he was put into his human body, which is how Paul explains it, and then killed. So it's just
that human body part of it. If you assumed that that human body was a historical person,
then knowing him wouldn't help you at all, theologically.
It makes sense.
It's a really convoluted thing when you get into theology, because there's just been
layer and layer of explanations to try and handle why things have happened a certain
way or not happened, and apologetics exist purely to muddy the waters of this, I think.
So digging through the layers and trying to get back to what originally happened is a nightmare.
It makes me think Philippians, when he talks about pre-existing and coming down,
and of course, the book of Revelation also does the same. But in Philippians, when he talks about
he took upon himself, he came down and lowered himself below the angels, etc.
Whatever position, I try to think of it from both sides, I always do.
And that's how you know when we're not just some cult movement that Jesus didn't exist.
The way I answer that is, if he did, I want to know exactly who or what. It fascinates me, because
the whole, I mean, Christendom literally stands on this. And if it doesn't, if he didn't exist,
what does this do to this entire system? You might as well have stayed Gnostic from the
get-go, guys, because you took the wrong path, because down the road science has developed and
kind of got you. So looking at Paul's pre-existence, I said, well, could this have been a guy
that was like somehow famous enough and great enough that they would apply their
angelology to him, which is the only way that it would make sense to me, is that either he's
an angel or just below Yahweh or duality type concept with Yahweh, because that's another
concept that can be the case is that he's, there's like a dual Godhead, so to speak, Jewish dual
Godhead. And that is now being applied to an actual guy or what makes more sense.
Look at the Old Testament story of Abraham, for example. You know, God comes down to visit him
during a time of trouble with three men, and it's like God came down to see Abraham. This is weird.
So he's seen, it appears in bodies. Well, no, that's the angel of the Lord. Okay, so what's going on?
Well, so that there's a danger in saying a famous guy then was used as this sort of carrier for
an angel. Problem is, the argument from silence then comes into play, because the only way to
argue for a historical Jesus is to say that he was a nobody to the point when nobody should have
written about it. Because if you say, okay, he was a nobody, and we work from there, then the fact
that nobody mentioned Jesus for 100 years, you know, apart from the cult belief, then that
doesn't take you either way. You know, the fact that nobody mentioned someone that nobody would
have mentioned is fine. As soon as you start bringing it into this was a famous guy, this was
someone who, you know, made waves during his own lifetime, then you start to get it less likely.
Because you've got to account for this silence as well. Particularly if there was an association
with insurrectionism, and if you go down the Roman crucifixion route rather than Paul's approach,
which is so vague that it's consistent with stoning and hanging as well as crucifixion. So Paul
not mentioning Romans is a problem as well. And then you've got the other thing, which is the
cult of personality approach. If you say that the person rather than being an inspiration for Peter
to kick off the cult, so in that case, Peter is the personality years before Paul comes along
with his own personality. So it has to start with Peter, James, and John, I believe would be the
pillars, the original start. Probably with Peter being the nickname, he would be the leader of the
lot, but it's hard to tell. The thing is, if you have Peter be the personality, the strong one who
brings them all together, builds the cult, grows it, and eventually it's successful, to the point
where Paul can expand even further, then you have to say that Jesus wasn't the personality.
Because then you've got two strong personalities, which in small cults doesn't work. You have to
grow it before you can do that. So I think it makes it less likely to say that this was a
cult of personality based on Jesus, because then where did Peter fit in?
This is interesting. Peter never really paid attention to him too much. And I hear a lot of
talk about he may have existed, even like even Dr. Bob says, you know, there could have been a Peter.
I mean, for all we know, there could have been a Peter. And if there was, it appears to me,
just my assumption based on looking at Pauline literature is that him and Paul are on the same
boat. You know, they're definitely not friends. And whoever's writing acts is trying to say,
let's make them friends. You know what I mean? Yeah, because from Paul's perspective,
Peter was a false prophet because he was getting in his way.
That makes sense. That's what he calls it, basically. Yeah.
In the Galatians passage, I think. Interesting. So Peter, do you think if you took that approach
on Peter, what do you think Peter, if there was a historical Peter, and Peter was this guy who's
like in charge of this cult, do you think he had an interest?
I don't think the historicity of Paul and the history of the people he was opposed to.
I think that's fair enough. We have enough writings that seem to be consistent, and the cult
have to start somewhere. So it seems fair that Paul's admission that he came in and took over,
that there were people there beforehand, and it does seem to be Peter that he focuses on.
What do you think they believed about Jesus? I know that's completely,
like, you know, do you think he had a historical Jesus? Obviously you don't, but I'm saying,
can you wrestle with that idea with us? I mean, I can reach out my opinion, but of course,
everyone has their own perspective on this, and it's very much speculation, because we've only
got Paul's account, and even that's been messed with. So we've got a sanitized version of Paul's
account that made it into the canon, and then you've got loads of rewriting going on in Acts as well.
But from what I think Peter probably believed is, I think it's very similar to the theology of Paul,
and I think all Paul did was take Peter's theology, add his own spin on things that
hadn't been covered yet, like, you know, new situations that hadn't been encountered as the
church grew, and as people started to fight each other, it seems to be very much what Paul's focusing
on, just infighting in churches. But it would be, you know, the visionary Jesus appeared to Peter,
in fact, as 1 Corinthians 15 puts it, pretty much Paul lays it out there. The visionary Jesus,
the first time anyone sees Jesus is after his death, after his direction. He then comes to
share with Peter, who's presumably by that point been sitting up all night trying to find something
in the scripture that would free his own cult from the temple corruption, I think seems to be a
good motive for him that he was angry with the Sadducees and the moneylenders at the temple,
that sort of thing, just that whole temple cult, the way that it was all about money,
and the way that they were stopping people like him that he believed he was the true believer,
he was the one true person of faith, you know, the one who had it right. So he believed that
there had to be another way around this. You've already got all this other influence going on him,
including the blood sacrifice rituals, the influence of Hellenistic mystery cults around him,
the idea that these other cults have it better, that they don't have a place they have to physically
go to every year, spend money, get an animal sacrifice and all that stuff. So what Peter's
doing there is building the Jesus that we almost know is just minus the earthly history, but the
actual angelic Jesus of personal savior, that Jesus is what's going on in Peter's mind at this
point. And he just has this moment of revelation. Now whether he made it up, whether he experienced
it or not, difficult to say. I would say that it's likely that Peter was already a highly educated
religious leader. So he was a religious leader already part of Judaism, of course, already had
his own ideas, takes it one step further. He already has an existing audience who respects him,
because you're talking about a cult of personality. So you've got Peter already with people who hang
on his every word. And when he says, I've got a new idea, he wouldn't say, I've got a new idea,
it's a God has revealed to me. And then it goes from there, doesn't it? This is where he builds
the legend. He takes it out in this new direction. It's all the while saying, this isn't blasphemy,
this isn't anything different from what we already do, what we know. This is an extension,
this is a new revelation. This is the same God, the same history, the same theology. But I've got
this extra piece of information. You said something with 1 Corinthians 15 that I haven't really thought
about in this way. And it seems that as a lot of people would argue, well, someone like a
historicist might say to you, you're telling me Paul never met Jesus at all. And we can argue that
clearly show you that, well, there's nowhere that indicates he met him actually in the world.
So if there was a history, Paul thought it was even possible to meet Jesus in the world.
Interesting. Yeah, we can't even argue that. You can't really show that that's the case, right?
So here in 1 Corinthians 15, and I wanted you to remark on this, I think this is good in line of
the arguments you just made. Paul acts like this resurrection. And he says, oh, he appeared to such
or such, he appeared to such. So this resurrection, it appears Paul has the same experience, he equates
his experience with meeting Jesus as the same with these other guys, he never needs to reference an
earthly experience or earthly teaching. It would have been important, I think, if he did reference
earthly teachings, that would have really knelt the whole coffin shut and say, well, Paul might have
had, you know, you you mythicists are right, Paul might have been somewhat of a weird spiritualist
Jesus type guy. But the other guys weren't. He kind of says every time he mentions the 12 or
mentions the others, he acts like he mentions the 12 once on a single time.
Right. Now the other like the super apostles, he makes like negative connotations for them.
Loads of apostles that don't appear anywhere in the other disciple literature. I think they're
just picked 12 names that were significant to them at the time. And of course, each gospel picks
different people. Right. There is no 12. There's no actual 12 apostles or 12 disciples. It was
it's just a hodgepodge of different lists of depending on which particular sect he belonged
to as you were writing this literature. Is it fair to say, though, that Paul's saying his
he's trying to say that his experience is the same as these whoever these others are?
Oh, yeah. And he definitely comes across with that. He's very confident. He
is quite happy to say, I received this sort of relation. Therefore, it's true. And there are
cases of omission as well. Like when he's talking about taking wives or anything like that, he never
says, Oh, Jesus never took his wife with him or anything like that. He never mentions anything
like that, even when it would have made his case, especially when the things in the gospels, when
Jesus says something in the gospel story that would have been relevant to Paul when he was
making his argument. And he goes on this whole long convoluted path trying to explain his reasoning,
whereas all he would have had to do if Jesus had some something like that is say, Jesus said this
in one of his preachings, nailed the case down that way. Now he has to go and argue and make his
case because he's only getting in his own head. And then he has to present this out to people.
And he tries to not overplay his hand by saying, This is revelation from Jesus to you. This is my
own opinion to try and say, you know, not everything I say is directly from God. Because
obviously he probably get lynched if he kept saying things like that. But yeah, he's very
persuasive and his argumentation is very strong. But would be much stronger if he just said,
Jesus said this. He definitely doesn't do that. And in another thing that I noticed here,
all right, talking about how Paul's supposed experience is the same
as the others. And I think that you're on to something with that. And if we delve deeper,
wouldn't you think that had been a very good point? Like Paul argues against all sorts of stuff
when you rise to these churches, wouldn't you think that would be an excellent argument coming
from his opposition continuously is saying, Listen, you never met the Lord on earth,
we know him and knew him. You've never actually met him. Wouldn't that have been the driving force,
the driving argument on saying why he's not one of them? Instead, does Paul argue
in defense of something like that? Does it seem like that kind of critique is coming at him in
his own writings where he's defending himself? Or is that not there? He doesn't ever seem to respond
to the idea that other people have met Jesus and he hasn't, he's on level footing with all the other
apostles, which is probably why they then moved to the mode of taking Gospels and making that
their canonical scripture. In fact, some of the later forgeries reference Paul's writings as if
their scripture, which is quite interesting in itself. But yeah, the Gospels were written with
the intention of becoming scripture. Paul's letters were not written with the intention of
becoming scripture. There was just Paul's correspondence, which was later assembled
because people realized we need some sort of body of work here to help us. But yeah, so from Paul's
perspective, he doesn't seem to ever have to respond to any claim like that because it never
seems to occur to him that it's possible for someone to have met Jesus other than an individual.
And it doesn't seem like Paul, you know, because it seems people are discrediting his apostleship.
So you would think like there would be some poke at him for that. And he doesn't argue
back saying just because you've met the Lord here on earth, you know, that he doesn't make
that statement, that would be a clear statement to say just because you met him here.
It would have come out in Galatians, wouldn't it, when he met Peter and another guy called James.
But yeah, so from a historicist's perspective, when the ones who do try and claim that James was
physically the brother of Jesus, instead of just the brother of the Lord, and they often misquote
that, I don't know whether it's intentional or not, but it does give the wrong impression.
Yeah, if he was physically the brother of Jesus, you would have thought he'd
say something more about that or have actually talked to him instead of talking to Peter,
or you know, it just never comes up as if he isn't a brother of Jesus, just he's just a brother of
the Lord. Just I feel like, so from my perspective, what happened there was Paul had to go and meet
Peter. Peter being an important guy, you know, was in his office or talked to people or something,
so the guy who met him at the door was just a guy called James who was one of the cult brothers,
you know, brother James, call him as if he's like a monk. That guy then says,
I'll see you Paul, okay, come here and wait in this room, I'll go and get beat for you.
Because when Paul is relating what happened in Galatians, he's making the point about exactly
who he met, so that if someone else says you stole that from another person,
you didn't get that by revelation, you actually got this from, you know, another Christian,
you talk to someone, you're not getting this in the only way allowed by the cults, which is
visions and scripture, which by the way means Peter was literate, because otherwise Paul would
have had that above him and say, look, I can read, you can't, although they're all reading the Greek
one, so that's a bit weird as well, they're not even reading the Hebrew, but anyway, so this
brother James, then Paul's only mentioning him as an afterthought, he's saying, I didn't meet any
other apostles, just that one guy who met me at the door, just his way of listing everyone that he
could possibly have gotten information from, so he doesn't leave anyone out, because if he leaves
someone out, then someone else, I know you talked to that James guy, you've got to go all this
information from there. Interesting. So yeah, it's pretty much the opposite of what we would
expect if there was a historical Jesus, if there were people who met him, and especially if this
James was supposed to be his actual brother, and what's another nail in the coffin as well,
since you mentioned Philippians before, I think it was Earl Doherty pointed out that Jesus was
actually a name given to him, did you notice in Philippians, is it Paul or somewhere, it says
Jesus was a name given to him after the death and resurrection, it was a reward, it was a title.
It wouldn't surprise me, and the reason- Which means he wasn't called Jesus before he died.
Well, to me, this is what gets me.
The Gospels, even in the Gospels, when you're reading the angel Gabriel coming to Joseph,
to tell him of his newborn child that's coming, he tells him, for you should call him Jesus,
he will technically, he says you're going to call him Jesus, he tells him what to name him,
then he tells him why, I believe, I believe his name carries the meaning, it's not just a common
name, I hear historians always do this, and I get it, I get the argument, there's a common name,
got it guys, I totally understand that, but this narrative, even in the Gospels, which if you go to
the Gospels, you can try and argue really like, what's her a guy, here's the thing, even in the
Gospels, they're naming him Jesus, and it appears his name has the meaning of, for he shall save his
people from their sins, he's going to be named Jesus because Joshua, because he's the savior
of his people, he is that messiah of his people, I think that's why they're naming him that,
so regardless. There's symbolism from the, I was going to say, historical Joshua, the
non-historical Joshua, the story of Joshua, and of course the parallels to Moses in there as well,
but yeah, it makes sense that they named him savior hero, basically.
Yes, I was just going to look for that reference, but I didn't even google it,
trying to find the Philippians one, but anyone can go and,
Philippians 4 right, I'm probably going to expose my ignorance of the actual verses now.
It's all good.
So, all of this stuff gets discussed by Dr. Carrier, and he has been influenced by Earl
Doherty. Philippians 2-9, there you go, that's the actual, 4-8 is another famous verse.
2-9, okay, and why they named him Jesus, and I know Dr. Carrier's been a huge influence on you
research. He breaks away from Earl Doherty, and I haven't done much reading on that. Do you know
why him and Earl, don't see eye to eye, is Earl a believer, or? I don't actually know if Earl's a
believer, so I've only read fragments of his work, I've read pieces of his writing in other books,
like the refutation of Hermans did Jesus exist, their response to it, that a whole bunch of
different scholars put together. So, I've not read the Jesus puzzle, which I believe was the one
that kicked everything off. So, I don't know, I think they are almost the same, it's just that
Carrier went one step further in doing, you know, like a full, was it a six-year research project
that he did, and because he's got the qualifications to do it, just was more thorough, and tried to
jump to fewer conclusions, you know, tried to keep it all evidence-based, keep it mainstream
scholarship, and I think he generally does that, he works with what the existing consensus is, what
the existing evidence shows, it's just the overall conclusion that is different.
I don't know point by point what their differences were, but I would have to read
Earl Doherty and compare him directly to Carrier, which is some of my list of things to do.
Yeah, I plan on getting Carrier back on here as well, I was going to discuss that with him.
I recently was helping with Dr. Price, we did an article together, it's going to be in the
Journal of Higher Criticism on Osiris, Joseph, and Jesus, and we did a parallel, and of course,
you know, Historicus, parallelomania, but you know, the thing is, looking at the Osiris myth,
looking at Joseph and Jesus, this parallel is just, I mean, it's so,
it's so clear that there's a parallel, I mean, even if you get into numbers, these numbers overlap
on purpose, and you can look at numbers with the combination of certain type of archetypes,
and you know, myth archetypes, and a variety of different themes and elements that I think are,
it's all based on probability, and it's going to be what do you think, you know,
what are the odds that something's using another source or something,
like the Genesis creation account, you saw the Genesis one recently did,
so he's talking about Prometheus, and Zeus, and the food, and the meat, and you know,
the food is for the gods, and Yahweh's in a sense, if you read that pagan, that pagan one,
and then you turn to the Bible, technically, if you use that and look over, you'll be like,
dude, Yahweh's trying to hold out on these people, like he's trying to hold out on Adam and Eve,
he doesn't want him to eat it, you know, or it's just funny, I think this is just funny how he
does that, so we're getting to Jesus, and Jesus himself mimics Adam in a lot of ways, and Paul
is referencing him as the last Adam, would you do that with an actual guy? It's just hard for me
to believe that all this is on one man. Well, yeah, you're always going to get legendary accretion,
so I think when it comes to some of the later myths, anything that's sort of spiraled out,
which is why Carrier doesn't see the Gospels as reducing the odds of hysterity, because you can
get legendary accretion whether there's a real guy or not at the beginning, so I don't put too
much into these later myths moving away from hysteristic, because yeah, that can happen to
anyone, so I kind of lose interest after a certain point when it comes to finding the parallels,
because yeah, I know there are loads of parallels you can see where it's not divine, because they're
getting inspiration from other historical, or non-historical figures, other cults, and Osiris,
of course, being one of the prototypical mystery cults, is one of the ones that we know the most
about mystery cults because of documentation of the way the Osiris cult worked about having the
mysteries, and Paul even uses the same, you know, mysterious, the same concepts as the other mystery
cults, the same vocabulary as the other mystery cults, which is what makes this quite a juicy
thing to delve into and find out all these things lying under the surface that are only hinted at,
but we can never know whether it was definitely there, so yeah, I do enjoy seeing the parallels,
but I try not to get run away into them, you know, you can go too far with that,
but I appreciate that there are scholars who do delve into this properly.
Yeah, and I've actually considered that some of these narratives might have some type of
astrological theme in the back of the whole thing, kind of like Samson. Someone can read the story
of Samson said, dude, this guy was born, okay, yeah, it was miraculous because an angel appeared,
but not from a virgin, okay, because his mom and dad did have sex, and they had him, and the angel
literally does like a proclamation like you see with Jesus, where he's like, listen, he cannot eat,
or he cannot drink or eat from the vine, period, he cannot touch anything dead, and he cannot cut
his hair, just remember that, and his legend will live on, and I'm just kidding, but like, no, he will
be just fine, Nazarite vow for life. Well, this same theme carries over into Jesus, you see these
patterns, and we can see that Samson, the judge of Israel, is holy, I mean, like, so fictitious,
and if we want to get caught up in the details, we can, but to me, it's just as fictitious to say
Samson killed 30 men for guessing his riddle, or a thousand men, you know, on a hilltop,
or with a jawbone of an ass, depending on how you want to, you know, interpret that phrase.
Doc Matta did that brilliantly, where he had like, guys 999 and 1000 queuing at the back to be killed,
going, are we sure? We shouldn't like, sneak off or something.
Did you would think after 500 of them are laying on the ground by the time you get there, you're like,
I'm good, man, I'm just going home, but yeah, you're right, you jump into the new, and what do
you see? Well, you see them beating 5000, you see these huge numbers, it's obviously twice as well,
feeding 5000 and 4000, and they were surprised the second time. It says they weren't surprised,
oh no, they did, yeah, they were surprised, that's right. They were just a surprise the second time,
it's as if it was there as part of one of the, you know, the Mark and sandwich, what is it called,
the, the V shaped approach to writing, where you have a sandwich of two different accounts,
there's a word for it, totally blank on that. Dr. Bob actually just mentioned that in one of the
last episodes, he's like, they wanted to keep the tradition, that's why they did that. According to
Dr. Bob is they kept two accounts on purpose, because they didn't want to get rid of something,
you know, sacred, it was a common thing for scribes to keep like the Genesis wanted to, yeah,
yeah, that kind of thing. And so with that though, this, it's so funny, it's like every miracle he
ever does, they're shocked, like, I can't believe he can do miracles, even his own disciples seem
like, you can do that, I didn't know, you know, and then, yeah, they are cartoon characters. Yeah,
that's what I feel like as a cartoon. And they say they're going to go do the same thing, they can't,
you know, there's just, and then later on, they're like, you know, in the, what are they called,
public service announcements, where you've got someone who was totally incapable of doing
something and then they go, oh, try using this or like, you know, an advert where they go,
oh, no, I can't mop this floor, use our new special mop. It's like that kind of person,
the person who's unrealistically incompetent. That is the disciple characters.
They're, that's pretty funny. This is literary to the core man. So we have, we can't start with
the Gospels at all, to try and figure out who the guy is, you got to go to Paul, if you base him
the Seven Authentics in the first century. And I'm about to do a show with Dr. Bob on Marcian
and going into the development of Pauline literature. I want to know more. So I'm going to pick his
brain and maybe you can, maybe you can, I don't know, throw some questions to me or even join me.
Who knows, we'll see, like, just, I'd like the timing, doesn't it? It does. It does. Yeah.
Yeah. So I'd love to hear Dr. Bob talk about that.
Yeah. And if you did join me, I know you'd have some better questions than I would.
Well, I'm not as well read on Dr. Bob's books. I still need to read The Amazing Colossal Apostle.
That's one that's coming up on my list as well. It's, it's very magnifying glass is the best
explanation I could put it is that he goes down into, he questions the, the thread, like,
I'm wearing this shirt here and he like literally says, do you really know what material that
shirt's made out of? Are you sure? It's all patch quilts and yeah, might not be kosher.
Yeah. You never know what you got. So yeah, anything else you'd like to touch on?
And well, I think it's just interesting going through that narrative and seeing how you can
logically build an example of there being no Jesus and it curving off into what Christianity became.
You could equally build one where there is a Jesus and it went off into Christianity.
There comes a point in a return where it doesn't matter anymore whether there was a Jesus or not
because the two paths have to converge on what we currently see. Otherwise they wouldn't work.
They'd have no explanatory power. So yeah, you do have like a cut off date, presumably around the
time of the death of Paul, I would say after that you've got, you know, anything could have run off
as soon as you've got no apostles left. Because there were never any disciples probably.
Yeah, after that, you just can't tell. So you've got to go to earliest accounts and all we've got
is Paul. And obviously it's going to have Paul's bias in it, which is something we don't mention
that often. But yeah, Paul was obviously heavily biased. He could well have been lying about
everything he wrote. He was lying definitely about not knowing about Jesus before his conversion
experience, because of course, if he was persecuting Christians, he had to know at least the basics of
Christianity to consider a heresy. I don't think they would have used the word heresy at the time,
but it works. Right. I get what you mean. And that's a whole nother, that's a whole nother like
exploration on that. Because isn't it outside, it's not just in the book of Acts that he claims to
a persecuted Christian. Paul's own writings, he said that he was a persecutor and sort of just
lays out, he doesn't give us much really, but he is, because he's admitting something embarrassing.
Now, I don't hold with the whole, what's it called, argument from embarrassment or the
criterion of embarrassment. I don't think that holds much water. But there is something to be
said for the idea that Paul is sharing something that obviously is already in the minds of everyone
he's writing to, which is why he has to mention it and why he has to make excuses for it. He's
responding to these people saying to him, well, you persecutor Christians. So I think there is
something to that. And yeah, we don't really know what that entailed. We don't know exactly what he
did. Did he interrogate them? Did he just sort of turn them in by giving their names to the local
authorities or who knows what happened? But he did claim to be a Pharisee, which is quite interesting,
because then it would have been the Pharisees persecuting them. Or was it really a Pharisee?
Because he would have been, he would have been reported to the Sadducees in that position.
So that's kind of a weird one. Maybe, maybe he didn't actually say Pharisee. Maybe someone's
changed that word at some point. We don't necessarily know that what we have is this
original writing could only speculate really. There's a lot of that story that doesn't add up.
Yeah. And Dr. Bob points that out, even in the same chapter, and I got to read Colossal
Apostle, I think, you know, I'm speaking too soon. I don't want to say too much. But
from what he's told me, and I'd like to assess it myself, I don't just buy everything that Dr.
Bob tells me, I really don't. I take into real serious consideration what he says. And I say,
well, this guy is brilliant. Why would he, why would he go down that path? Because if there's
anyone I cannot pin down, it's him. For example, what I mean by pin down, I don't mean that in any
like, aha, I'm talking about like, what do you think of this? You know, and like, if I told
Carrier, what do you think, Carrier will not take 10 minutes to tell me what he thinks of something.
He will say, this is what it is. And this is why Dr. Bob was, well, see, there's source material
in the, and, and then he explains it goes into Abraham Simpson.
Let me tell you the story of this onion. One time ago, long, long, yeah, no, but he goes
into all these explanations and it's like he's setting up in his mind while he explains
the argumentation. So you can hear in his brain as he explains, which white people love listening
to him, just go on because he's, well, you know, the, the, the Assyrians and you know,
there's a lot of Zoroastrian, the blend because the Zoroastrians were apocalyptic and they,
and you just go into these different things. I always take what he says and goes, why doesn't he
just hook line and sink or say, this is it. And later on, I've realized this over the past year
of doing this show. I'm not even kidding. Like multiple times and it wasn't just with Dr. Bob,
I do this with others. I could take Carrier's word for something and just believe it. Oh,
I accept it. But down the road, at first I didn't. At first I was like, let me just interview
multiple people and kind of get a general idea of where I sit. Today, I've learned that skeptical
approach is the safest because as soon as we define the term, we think that's what it means or
we think that's what it says. A new scholar or someone else that I interview on the show
literally comes on with this wonderful approach and the perception seems clear.
There's no muddying of the water to think it looks like that's the path. And then I'll like,
whoa, that's it. Like I just did with Lena Einhorn. She did an awesome job showing why Jesus
predominantly is this guy called the Egyptian. And then when I got done, I started going and
she goes, well, there's problems with some of the conclusions of where she goes. I'm not going to
mention that till you see the show. But nonetheless, she says he's the Egyptian. And I thought, wow,
she convinced me in so many ways that this guy is like the main heart, if you will, of the
Gospel's narrative. And when she got done, I said, I got some problems though. I have some questions.
Paul, I've got the actual references we have to the Egyptian is what? Josephus?
Josephus. Yeah, so that is very fragmentary. And what she does though, she takes Josephus
and goes to the Gospels and shows in her book called A Shift in Time, she shows where the Gospels
and the timing in Josephus don't match. So it's not just that did Jesus really live on
her Pontus Pilate? Okay, that's very simple. That's basic. Because Jesus is a phantom,
so to speak, like you can't really pin this guy down. He's not that important during the time
that he's... Yeah, the dates we work off are based on two references, both contradictory. So
it's very vague. And of course, there's the theory that Paul was writing in the 17th BC as well,
I think. That's impossible. I'm not going to rule anything out. That's where I'm at.
I think there's little bits of evidence about the place names he uses and the name of the king,
of course. Was it Aretha's the fourth or third people are arguing over?
I've seen the pieces of evidence and I think, yeah, he probably was writing in the sort of 50s
is roughly where we think Paul was going, not the 70s BC. But you could make a case for it. It's
just there's little bits of evidence that make me think it's AD, not BC. Oh, you're saying BC?
Yeah, so 70s BC, there is an argument to be had for that. It's something that Carrie mentioned,
and I went digging into finding out there's a few people who do expose that position,
because there isn't really anything that's solid that the nails pulled down. And that would give
even more time for the cult to become legendary and grow. And, you know, so by the time you hit
the Gospels, then you're well outside of that racket. Who espouses that theory? I got to reach...
I want to hear someone who's like takes that position serious. And it's come up in the historical
versus mythical Jesus group a few times. Yeah, this isn't some of the threads in there. I'll
have to take them out for you and send them to you. Send them to me, brother. I'm interested. If you
guys are watching this, show my friend here some love. He's got a YouTube channel. What's the name
of the YouTube? Religious debate, although you have to search for religious debate and then
channel is the option because it's obviously did not got that many views and we've not done
that many videos recently. So we're going to put that down in the description. Yeah,
make it easy for you, brother, because I want people to be able to contact you and do that.
Are you available on Facebook? People can reach out if they want or?
Yeah, I'm on Facebook if people want to just send me a friend request or send me a chat message.
Okay, I'll put the Facebook link down too. That way people can reach out if they have
any questions and I appreciate what you join in the groups the easiest because then you can talk
not just to me, but loads of other people who are interested in discussing this and the Facebook
debate group. I think that's what I'll do. I'll just I'll just link the Jesus, the mythical Jesus
versus historical Jesus group. If you have a Facebook account, make sure you guys go down below.
Make sure you jump in there. Bring your two cents over there. Drop a comment on this video. You
know, put a like comment. And if you guys are interested, you know, subscribe to the channel
and let us know what you think of this little dialogue. Me and Joel, we do this all the time.
Well, what we haven't for a while, but we do this all the time and we don't usually record like we
should be when we talk about this stuff because I don't think we're just conversations,
neither of us are professionals. Right, it's just, but you know, the sad part is,
too many times, I mean, this is just a conversation. And people are joining in just
kind of listening to us go back and forth. This is not like a professional like we're doing a show
and we're trying to, this was just a fun dialogue and understanding where you're coming from. So
more reasons to just not be so certain. And I honestly think that over time,
scholarship is going to start being a little less confident in their approach, in my opinion,
I think it will get not same as the age of the US that changed over time due to theology getting
in the way of science. You're right. And I mean, it's just kind of sad. Last question, bro.
Do you think that, and this is just a guess and you can't judge someone's motives,
but do you think that Dr. Ehrman is super confident because of his career, if you know what I mean?
It's difficult to tell. So he has used, indeed uses exist, for example,
appeal to the force in the sense that you will lose your job if you openly espouse
mysticism and you're in a teaching position. And he has these really stringent criteria about who
he would accept seriously. So he does seem to have that in the back of his mind. The idea is that
supporting mysticism would be dangerous to your career. I don't know if he personally feels that
though, because obviously he's well known for being an atheist and, you know, he's already in
quite a Christian populace, not only country, but state and teaching Bible courses he's surrounded
by Christians constantly. So I don't think he's got an actual fear. But who knows, I think what
he's coming from there is his history from being a fundamentalist cemented certain assumptions into
that he hasn't been able to undo. So I think that's where it's coming from. It's not a case of
worrying about losing his job. I think it's more to do with not questioning certain fundamentals.
Interesting. Well, I appreciate you joining me here on MythVision and don't forget, we are MythVision.
