Did the Old Testament endorse slavery? Dr. Joshua Bowen, his most recent book.
You're definitely going to want to stay tuned to this show. This show is going to be power packed,
full of information pertaining to slavery and Old Testament context. However, I want to read an
excerpt that I found on Amazon pertaining to the book. He also has a YouTube channel called
Digital Hammurabi. Make sure you go down in the description. The link is there. Subscribe to his
channel. He can teach you Sumerian. There's all sorts of lessons and interesting ancient Near
Eastern things that he has learned and his wife who's the brains behind the old activity. Stay
tuned. Listen to this. The God of the Old Testament commanded and endorsed many practices that we
find morally reprehensible today. High on the list was the institution of slavery, which features
prominently in several sections of the Hebrew Bible. Fathers could sell their daughters into
slavery. Masters could beat their slaves. Creditors could carry off children for failure
to repay a debt. And foreigners could be kept for life. Passed down inherited property. How are
we to make sense of all this from our modern point of view? Atheists and skeptics will also say that
the God of the Old Testament was a moral monster for endorsing such atrocities. Christians will
often respond that slavery in the Hebrew Bible wasn't as bad as we think and was more like having
a job or owning a credit card while both sides of this debate are sincere in their positions.
Neither are ultimately correct. Our conclusions must derive from a thorough understanding of both
the Old Testament and ancient Near Eastern context. Make sure you guys stay tuned for the show.
Like this video. Subscribe to this YouTube channel and hit that bell. And don't forget to comment
your thoughts down below. This helps the channels grow. This is the way to grow channels on YouTube.
For anyone you like and shows you like, this is what you need to do to help them grow. Also,
we have a patron. If you guys like what you're hearing, you become a member of MythVision
by becoming a patron. Be sure to check it out in the description below. And thank you guys for
your help and everything that you do. We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Derek
Lambert, your host. I have a really interesting show. We're going to be talking about slavery,
okay? And we have Dr. Joshua Bowen. I was going to introduce him, but I said it's best for his
first show to go ahead and tell us a little bit about yourself and what your expertise is
and go into that. You also have a YouTube channel. So if you could tell us some of these things,
that would be great, brother. Yeah, absolutely. I really appreciate you having me on. I think it's
going to be a good time, even though we're talking about something like slavery. I'm Joshua Bowen.
I have a PhD in a seriology from Johns Hopkins University. I got a master's degree there as
well in Ancient and Eastern Studies. I'm minored in Hebrew Bible in my PhD program. Before that,
I got a master's in theology from Capitol Bible Seminary just outside of D.C. And then before
that, I got my bachelor's degree at Liberty University. So you can kind of see I had a
very fundamentalist track record. But my wife and I run a YouTube channel called Digital
Hammurabi. And my wife is also at Hopkins, or she was at Hopkins until very recently,
getting her PhD. And basically, the channel that we run is focused on the ancient Near East,
which includes the Hebrew Bible, Egyptology, archaeology. And our goal is to try to bring
good scholarship to non-specialists and to try to explain what was it like in the Ancient Near
East, what was it like in the Hebrew Bible, and to clarify topics that kind of come into that lane.
But yeah, we have a scholarship program that we run every spring. And it's crowd-funded.
And we offer individual $2,000 scholarships to current PhD students in the field of Ancient
Near Eastern Studies. So the contributors are just online people that contribute.
And the applicants come onto our channel. We interview them for half an hour.
And then the people that have contributed money get to vote on who gets the scholarships. We
gave away three last year. So $6,000 went out. And someone from Harvard, someone from Berkeley,
I think, got one. I can't remember. I never remember where the third one went. But it's to do summer
research projects. So they go and they travel to Europe somewhere to collate tablets, or they
work in a museum and try to do research. Or just to kind of get them through,
PhD students don't make a lot of money. So it can be difficult. But yeah, so that's what we do.
We're very excited about it. So I'm excited to kind of talk with you, Derek, about slavery and
anything else that might come up. Yeah, I could see plenty of shows coming from what you've learned.
And you're similar to me coming out of fundamentalism, except you went, I'm going to be a student.
I do not claim to know. I tell a lot of people that. I love being a skeptic, though. I have to
admit because I used to have to have the answers. I used to have to know. I had to be right. Now
I'm like, you know what? I'm okay with not knowing some things. It's okay. I'm trying to learn. And
it makes me more of a student because if I don't know, I can learn. If I know, I know better. And
therefore you can't teach me a lot of times. I see that a lot with a lot of people. And Megan Lewis
is his wife, and she is the real brains of the operation. So we want to give credit to her.
Don't worry, brother, I got you back. Now, I totally was surprised to find out
that she's going down the same educational route and learning what you do. So we're going to have
to do a tag team show at some point with the wife because I can't imagine you guys together
probably going to kill it. So slavery in the Bible. There was a recent show that I was watching
of a fundamentalist Christian. Mike, what's his name? Winger. Mike Winger. And he, man,
he loves his Bible. And look, I'm not trying to be disrespectful in any way. I was super fundamentalist,
okay? And I obviously can laugh now and I can joke about the Bible and stuff. But Mike Winger gets,
he's very emotional and he's defending the Bible and slavery. He's explaining slavery.
I'm sure you've seen it probably. I have. Excellent. And for those of you who haven't,
I'll try and find the video link and put it down in the description. She could see Mike Winger
discuss how he's trying to defend the Bible. Now, you being the expert, I'll let you take it off
from here and tell us something about slavery. What was it like in the ancient world?
Yeah. So just to sort of couch this, you know, I really like Mike. We've interacted a fair amount.
And of course, he and I disagree on things. I wrote a paper and then produced a video responding to
his interpretation of the prophecy against Tyre and Ezekiel 26. I don't know if you're familiar
with that, Derek. I've also responded to his Daniel, the dating of the Book of Daniel video series.
There's one primary video that I responded to. But, you know, I think a lot of him, he works very
hard at what he does. And he seems to be a very kind person. But, you know, I think something
like slavery is an issue that we really should try to nail down a little bit more
here on social media than we do normally. So slavery in the Hebrew Bible,
there are essentially, in my experience, there are two sort of realms where this is debated.
And they're very different. There's the academic realm, and then there's sort of the social media
realm. And while there are topics that are debated in similar ways in both of those realms, slavery
does not appear to be one of them. So in the academic realm, you debate things like in Exodus 21,
are these chattel slaves? Does this law, you know, apply to chattel slaves or does it apply to dead
slaves? On social media, what I have encountered is, is there slavery in the Old Testament or not?
And so that's not something that's debated in, you know, academic circles. But
so maybe I can kind of start off, I'm sure many of the listeners know what the problem is, but
let's just all start off on a good baseline. You have passages in the Hebrew Bible, Exodus 21,
Deuteronomy 15, and Leviticus 25 or the Big Three. And they describe different laws that are in place
and the, you know, in the Torah, in the Pentateuch for the appropriate practice of slavery in,
you know, in that context. Now there's, you know, the whole, we'll set aside the whole discussion
about the redaction history of the Pentateuch. We'll just assume for the moment that we're,
you know, we're going to set that aside because then that gets very complicated.
But the problem is that you have passages that are kind of confusing, like Exodus 21.
It's hard to tell sometimes. Are we talking about an indentured servant? Are we talking
about a chattel slave? How do we understand these different laws? And then in particular,
in Leviticus 25, verses 44 to 46, you have the laws about chattel slavery and how the Israelites
are legally allowed to take from the nations around and from the, you know, resident aliens or the,
probably a better way to describe them, be like tenant farmers that are living in the land.
They can be taken as permanent property. They can be passed on as inheritance,
and they are to serve forever. And of course, this, you know, type of language creates difficulty
for, it would have definitely created difficulty for me as a fundamentalist Christian had I thought
about it. But it can be very problematic because, you know, we know today, looking back,
owning another human being as property is immoral. It's something that we consider to be immoral.
And how could an all loving, all powerful deity, you know, allow something like slavery to go on
and not only allow it, but I would argue to endorse it, to get public approval of it. So
that's my problem is, it's not that slavery exists, okay, an open theist or someone who has
a theological position that God intervenes when necessary or when he wants to for whatever the
purpose may be. Maybe they have a soteriological approach and they say, well, God only intervenes
to save his people, whatever. There's no strict do not practice this. In fact, here's some laws
to live by when you do practice these things. And there's other red herrings and issues,
in my opinion, that you should really look at when it comes to like, when a man rapes a woman,
are they really going to kill her? Or is he going to, she going to marry him? Like there's,
you know, today, can you imagine in America, and I'm not trying to make fun of the Bible,
I'm serious about this, this is a very important topic is, can you imagine if I went and I performed
something like that, I committed an act like that, and then that person's family now has to
give her to me as my property, because technically the woman is the husband's property in this type
of religion. And now she has to live the rest of her days or however long I choose to want her
to do what I want. Anyway, there's a lot that's rabbit rolling out of that topic. I'm just making
the point, though, there's there's a lot of, I'm thankful that we live the way we do today.
And I briefly had Aaron Ra, which you were on a show. He's a militant atheist. Okay,
this guy's like, you know him. But he brought up a fascinating point, we're talking about
the morals of a religion. And at the end of the day, all the heinous acts that act in the name
of religion, and those who are non religious. So you have to say, is it religion that really
gives us some moral values? Or is it us humans intrinsically? So, excuse me, but yeah, if you
please, I don't want to take you off of slavery. No, no, I mean, so this is really the issue.
And, you know, I was having a conversation yesterday with Dr. Stephen Cook, we interviewed him on
our channel. There's a fascinating interview about apocalyptic literature. So might be something
that your viewers want to check out. It was a lot of fun. But you know, he's a Christian,
he's an Anglican and brilliant Old Testament scholar. And we were talking about slavery.
And it's interesting to me that so many of the things that I talk about on the channel,
that, you know, sort of come into the the Hebrew Bible lane,
they're only problematic for certain types of Christians. And generally, it's those that have
a particular view of what inerrancy and inspiration of the biblical text means.
And the word that came up over and over again in our stream was nuance,
nuance, you know, being allowing for nuance. And slavery falls into this category, I think,
primarily because, you know, when someone stops and thinks, well, how could how
I believe that morality comes in as persons as I believe that morality comes from God,
it's it's in his own nature, or, you know, divine command theory, that which he commands,
that's moral or a little bit of both, you know, when you have God then either allowing best case
scenario, or endorsing worst case scenario, a practice like slavery, one has to either say
it wasn't as bad as what we think, or that morality develops, and our sense of morality
develops. And of course, that's, that's not a good thing for an objective morality, you know,
in that sense, rooted in God's nature, and commands. And so, you know, that's where I think
the problems arise. If you if you if you allow morale, excuse me, if you allow morality to,
you know, develop it by no means a philosopher. But if you allow us to have developed sense of
morality, you know, this isn't, this isn't problematic. So slavery, slavery sort of the
teeth, it loses its teeth, as far as you know, when a skeptic would bring it up.
I'm going to close this window because I can hear the dog barking, I'm sure that you
know, we can't hear anything. You can't. Okay, no, you're fine. But yeah, I can see where you're
going with this. And I totally agree. I mean, you know, you don't even have to really explain
any further in terms of the the progressive idea that morality does evolve. But you know,
I've heard the defense, the slavery that happened in the Bible, and during the times of the biblical
narrative, is nothing like the slavery that we experienced, not too long, not too far in our
past here in America. And I can't, I can't, I do want to say that maybe the right to some extent,
I mean, we, there was, it was a racial thing, but wasn't it racial then? I mean, wasn't Israel
God's chosen race? And they had a special superiority above anyone who was not liked. And
now I don't expect them, they weren't like a world ruling nation, like, imagine Babylon or
something else, you know, but there's still some overlap. And I'm not going to say they had them
like treated them the way that was recently treated in America, which is a past that,
you know, none of us like to think about, you know? Yeah, I mean, there are a couple of things
to think about here and sort of as a caveat, I always say this when we talk about it, I'm not
an American historian. So my, you know, knowledge of anti-bellum slavery is incredibly limited.
The question that I keep asking it, I don't take the time to research it,
maybe because I don't have that time, but is, you know, there's, there's definitely a distinction
to be drawn between what the laws on the books were and what was actually practiced. And sometimes,
you know, you see this in the biblical texts quite clearly passages like, I don't know, Nehemiah
5, Jeremiah 34, you know, you see instances of people mistreating slaves from a legal standpoint,
keeping them longer than they were supposed to or, you know, not setting them free according to law.
So you have this distinction between what, you know, God commanded in the text ostensibly for,
maybe for the sake of argument here, at least from their point of view, and what they actually
practiced. And that was often a great distinction. And sometimes I wonder what it would be like,
you know, what I would find if I went back and researched, you know, the laws during
the period of slavery in anti-bellum South, would there be a large chasm, you know, between
the laws that were in place and what was actually practiced. But, you know, setting that aside for
the moment, the best thing to do, I think in these circumstances is to define our terms
and do so based on the context, you know, that we're trying to evaluate. So when we
think about the Hebrew Bible, there are essentially two types of slaves that we see
to primary debt slaves and chattel slaves. So debt slaves, we usually see them,
usually see Israelites, you know, playing the part of the debt slave.
So you see in Exodus 21, right in the beginning, if a man, you know, purchases a slave, he's to,
you know, serve him for six years, and then in the seventh year go free. And then you have the,
you know, the stipulation about if he came in single, then he goes out single, if he came in
married, he goes out married. However, if he came in single, and then the master gave him a wife,
then the wife and any children belong to the master, and he goes out single. And so, you know,
then the question is, well, what if the guy loves his wife, children, his master? What if he
doesn't want to leave them? Then there's a provision for that. He can have his ear, you know,
talks about piercing it through with an awl. It's argued, I don't know that it's definitive,
I don't know that it's definitive, but it's argued that that probably has some type of a,
you know, deforming effect upon the ear, but it would allow people to,
you know, see at a glance. This is a permanent slave. But once he has his ear pierced,
then he serves the master for life, and he stays with his wife and his children.
You know, so this is sort of this indentured servitude that can go, you know, either the
normal direction of release or the, you know, the other direction of permanent servitude.
But it's by choice. Might be under duress, we would argue, but it's choice nonetheless. So
you have that sort of slavery that's in place. The other type is chattel slavery.
And, you know, chattel, we're just using that word to define, you know, property that is movable.
So it's not landed property. It's not, you know, the land that is owned and inherited by the Israelites.
This is movable property. That's how it's being described. So when you go to a place, again,
the sort of quintessential passage is Leviticus 25. But I mean, you can see it other places
in the Hebrew Bible, you know, priests could purchase slaves, and there could be
home-born slaves. And, you know, the distinction between a debt slave and a chattel slave is
one is temporary, generally by contract, and the other is permanent. So, you know, setting
up those terms, setting up that distinction, you know, people can come into slavery by being
born into it. People can opt to stay in it forever. It's not something that's beneficial
necessarily for them, because they choose it, like we see in Exodus 21, because of this type of
duress, I would say, that they want to stay with their wife and children. If you're a foreign slave,
I'm sorry, if you're taken as a slave, purchased as a slave from the nations around, or as a,
you know, a slave that's living in the land of Israel, and either defaults on a loan,
those slaves can be kept permanently. And the text isn't specific in Leviticus 25 about how
those foreigners come into slavery. There's a lot that we could talk about. Probably be a
little too much here, but. No, you're fine. I think the idea that they have a choice, you know,
that's, that's, you said under duress, that's that word that you said doesn't speak. It doesn't
say enough, you know? I mean, when we really think about that, can you imagine your family? And
yeah, I'm allowed to leave now, but I have to leave this, this family that I've built,
the emotions that are involved, and how much is attached there to just leave that and know that
this could be a bad master. I mean, there's just, you just never know. And I like what you said
earlier, because this is a little rabbit hole, and it's not definitive. Someone like you, with
your expertise, or someone who's able to find some other literature that might back this up. But
you talked about what they practice and what's written. And that's a very interesting point,
because why are these laws in place to begin with? And Dr. Price, Dr. Robert M. Price, he always says
when you're reading stuff, you got to ask why it's even there. The critical scholars look at
these things, and they go, hmm, why is this law here? Well, that's obviously because people
weren't doing the thing they're telling them in this law to do. It's being implemented there
for that very purpose. So you can only imagine, and just using it to get it off the slavery for
just a second to give an example, because that's an emotional topic, and people don't like going
there on polytheism. There are laws against worshiping other gods, because Israel was so
often doing the very thing the law's saying not to do. And this could very well apply to
the slavery. Now, someone might go prove it. There's archaeological evidence in the antiquity
to show that Israel was definitely worshiping foreign gods. Oh, yeah, there's no question.
Right. So if the law says, and yet archaeology backs up the claim, we just don't have a way to
prove, I think, unless there's maybe I maybe there is a way to prove that they did not actually do
these laws like they were supposed to towards slavery. So it could have been ugly, uglier than
we think. Yeah, I mean, well, I think we we have examples in the in the biblical texts themselves.
So, you know, Nehemiah 5, Jeremiah 34, you have examples of people that are are either taking
Israelite slaves to kind of make sure that it's all set before I talk about how they broke the law.
You know, in Israelite in Exodus 21, in Deuteronomy 15 was allowed to take a Hebrew evad, a Hebrew slave.
And they were allowed to keep them for six years. In the seventh year, they were to set them free. Now,
in Exodus 21, that's it. You know, then you have the stipulation about if you know, he's he's been
married, you know, then that whole thing. But in Deuteronomy 15, arguably a later text,
the law has developed. And in Deuteronomy 15, the text says, yeah, they serve for six years, go out
in the seventh. However, when you set them free, you are to provide for the slave liberally from
your wine press room, your, you know, from your vineyard, you know, in other words, you're to give
them food and supplies. Because ostensibly, you know, when you took them, it was because they were
in debt, and they were in debt so much that they had to sell themselves to you. So what we don't
want to do, God is saying is, send them back out only to become enslaved again to you because
they go into debt again. So, you know, the response of the people is anticipated. Well, wait a minute,
you know, I was just collecting on my debt. How am I supposed to, having collected on this debt,
now give this guy a whole bunch of stuff? From an economic standpoint, that doesn't make any sense.
You know, now I'm going in debt, you know, to how am I going to come up with that money? And God
says, essentially, I will supernaturally provide, just do what you're supposed to do. So in Jeremiah
34, in the MI5, you have examples of them disobeying this law. So they keep them past the six years.
They sell them to foreigners when they're not supposed to be doing that. You know, so we have
examples in the text of them, of them breaking the law, of them not following it.
The other thing though that I think we need to, you know, make sure we understand is the subtle
distinction between what I would call practical volition and legal volition, right? So practically
volunteering for something and legally volunteering for something. So if you look at Second Kings
4, there's a, you know, a story about the widow woman who's now dead husband, took out a loan and
defaulted on it and, or took out a loan and then when he died, it looks like, you know, the loan
was defaulted on. And she says to the prophet, help me, because, you know, you know that my
husband was a good man and he served the Lord, but now that he's died, the creditor is coming to take
my two sons away. And we look at that legally and we say that was a voluntary act, right? It's
legally voluntary, technically legally voluntary, because the man said, I take this loan, I enter
into this contract knowing that if I default on it, you know, I have to either put up myself or
my children as collateral, essentially for the, for the loan. And so, so nobody, like you couldn't
say that the creditor was coming in kidnapping the kids because he's not, right? It's, it's legal
volitionally, from a legal standpoint, it's voluntary. However, there, she's not practically
volunteering, volunteering them, right? She's not saying, woohoo, I really, I'm, this is great. I mean,
she's trying to find a way out. So we have to be careful with that distinction. You see in text of
the ancient Near East, that there are examples of people that sign indentured servitude contracts
to go into, you know, into servitude. And some of them are infants that are signing their rights away.
You know, see, you know, legally, you know, legally, it's voluntary, but I mean, it's a faux,
you know, sort of legal text in some cases. So anyway, that's a good distinction to keep in mind.
But when it comes to, and this is where I think this gets difficult for, and feel free, by the way,
to break in and no, you're fine. You're fine. This is where it gets difficult because in Leviticus 25,
which is part of the holiness code, and it's, I think general consensus amongst scholars is that
it's, it's the later, the latest of the three, you know, Exodus 21, Deuteronomy 15 and Leviticus 25,
it's the latest. So it, it's the, the most developed, we would say,
passage about this. And in Leviticus 25, you have the text now saying, you know, God is saying,
you cannot keep Israelites as evads, as slaves. You can't take them, even as indentured servants,
can't do it. So Exodus 21, yep, and keep Israelites as indentured servants. Six years,
you gotta set them free. Deuteronomy 15, yep, indentured servants, six years, and you set
them free. Leviticus 25, no more. Wow. It says you were slaves in Egypt, so you're not going to keep
your fellow Israelites as slaves. And it gives a, a sort of progression of them falling into debt.
So, you know, somebody has to sell something that they have, you know, or if they have to sell their
land and then ultimately they have to sell themselves. The stipulation, the law requires
that you not, a fellow Israelite, not keep another Israelite as an evad. They have to
keep them as a hired worker. So there's a whole different set of regulations. It's much easier
to be a hired worker than it is to be a slave. Right. And so you see this kind of development
in the law. It's, and so what's interesting about that is that two things. First, the text is saying
slavery bad, like in the sense of Israel. Right. And not from a moral sense. I don't,
I don't know that I would argue that in a moral sense it's wrong. What I would say is that in
the same way that God says, don't charge fellow Israelites interest on their loans.
But you can charge foreigners interest. Right. If it was moral, then he to clean slate the whole
thing. Right. Exactly. So I think we have to distinguish when we say like slavery is bad
in Leviticus 25. What I mean by that, I think what most would mean is that it's not beneficial.
It's not, it's not, what do we call it? You know, whenever, when the dust is settled, it's,
you know, the good doesn't outweigh the bad for the slave. Right. And so that the stipulation,
though, is that you cannot keep an Israelite slave. And if God stopped there, you know,
in the text, if, if the text stopped there, God speaking, we'd have a really good case,
I think, for this idea that God was, you know, condescending to man and dealing with him and,
you know, allowing him to, but slowly backing, you know, backing them off of slavery. But the
problem is that then the text in verse 44 says, now as for your male and female slaves,
you may take them from, you know, you may purchase them from the nations around you.
You may also purchase them from the, the tenant farmers and their children. It's difficult what
that means, but whatever it's, it's from the, you know, the residents that are living in the land,
you may pass them on as inheritance. They will be your property. You know, hand them off to your
children. It will serve you forever, but you may not treat your fellow Israelites this way. Right.
And that's technically the evolution is good for Israel. They probably saw it didn't work out very
well. And whoever wrote this or wanted to make additional redactions together, there was probably
a collective mind in Israel that said, Hey, this isn't working for us. This is creating more division
in Israel. We're causing more harm to us as a people. We need to make ourself special in a way
where we don't treat ourselves like we treat the foreigners. We need to be technically holy. We need
to be treated a little bit more special to ourselves than the neighbors. So, and that's
definitely, you know, I think that's the, the idea that you see throughout the text, this whole idea
of Israel being set apart, you know, Israel being holy, distinguished, you know,
but the interesting thing then that comes out of that discussion is,
and it's moving the slave or discussion on a little bit. We can, I'll go wherever you want to go.
Is that there's this great distinction between what was practiced in the wider ancient Near East,
you know, the horrible, horrible Assyrians and Babylonians, you know, or the Phoenicians or
whoever people want to bring up, the horrible wicked practices of those godless people compared
to the, you know, the great developments that were made in the Hebrew Bible. And part of the point
that I was making in the book is that while there are certainly developments
for the Israelites, that there really isn't that great of a distinction between what was generally
practiced and what was in the legal tradition of the period in the ancient Near East and what was,
you know, what was on the books for Israel. So, for example, indentured servants having
to serve for six years and then being set free, you know, you can read through the law code of
Hammurabi and you see that actually indentured servants served for three years
and then were set free in the fourth. So, you served in Israel double the time.
And, you know, that doesn't, that doesn't fit well with the narrative. But I guess the overall
point that I would say about this sort of, you know, trying to draw these big contrasts, the
Bible's really, you know, developing morality and you don't really see that in the text. You
don't really see it in the record. You know, where it talks about, oh, look, if you, Exodus 21,
for example, verses 26 and 27 talks about if you put out the eye or the tooth of a servant,
you have to set them free. And people have interpreted that to mean like, well,
if you do anything to them, if you hit them at all, you know, then you got to set them free.
And it's just not the case. And it's a, you know, there's some difficulty in Exodus 21 trying to
sort of tease out the meaning of these, some of these laws. But I mean, there's wide consensus
on what, what these things are talking about. So for example, excuse me, in Exodus 21, 20 to 21,
the really popular set of verses, it says, if a man beats with a rod, his male or female slave,
and they die immediately, then the master will be punished. And that word punished is very difficult
there. Does it mean that they'll be killed or does it mean that they'll have to pay a certain
penalty that the judges see fit? It's debated. But that's not really the crucial point here.
However, it says in verse 21, if he survives a day or two, and the meaning of that is also debated,
does it mean survives and then dies? And like lasts two days? Or does it mean survives and then
gets back up? It's not terribly relevant, I don't suppose. But in either case, if he survives for
that day or two, then the master's not to be punished because he is his silver, right? He's
his money. He's his property is another translation that people use. And you know, that's, that's
difficult because, you know, what people want to do with that is highlight one aspect or the other.
They really want to focus on verse 20, or they want to focus on verse 21, you know, and neglect
the other one. So if you're, if you're defending, you know, the morality, trying to, trying to,
you know, make the morality of slavery better in the Hebrew Bible, then you say things like,
well, look, if they killed them, they were killed, right? And then they tie verses 26 and 27 to this
law. And they say, so look, there's penalty, no matter what you do. So if you beat them with a
wooden rod, which you're not supposed to do, then if they die, you die. But if you, if you hurt them
at all, then they just get set free. So lots of problems with that interpretation. One,
it probably the primary one is that children and slaves, if you read through the proverbs,
children and slaves are expected to be beaten like period with wooden rods. I mean, I think it's
Proverbs 29 says a servant or a slave will not be corrected by words alone, right? A slave
pampered from youth will become a child, essentially will become, you know, having the expectations
of a child, meaning that, you know, they're going to be treated a certain way. And so
it's anticipated that you're going to, to, you know, to discipline that slave with a wooden rod,
just like you would discipline a child. It's not like it was some crazy thing.
And, and certainly there's difficulty with verses 26 and 27 with the eye and the tooth.
Different, different people have different views on this. The one that I kind of came down on, but
you know, very loosely is, I think, so you see, for example, in ancient Near Eastern texts and
law codes, different penalties for someone putting out an eye, someone putting out a tooth, you can
see this in the law code of Hammurabi, for example, you know, a cheek, a hand, you know, there are
different things that incur different penalties. That being said, you know, I'm, you know, provisionally,
convinced at this stage that the, the damaging of the eye, the putting out of the eye or the
putting out of the tooth is indicate, is an indication that the master was hitting the slave in the
head or in the face. And given the vulnerability of that area and the significance of the eye and
the tooth for life sustaining function, particularly in that agrarian society, you know, that was a
significant thing. It was probably showing abuse taking place. And as compensation for it, the
slave is set free. And I, in other words, I don't think that what's happening in 26 and 27 is that
there's this sort of catch all, if you hit them at all, that they're there to be set free.
Doesn't this say spare the rod, spoil the child type concepts? I mean,
yeah, absolutely. It's kind of encouraging you to use a rod and discipline. So yeah, you make a
good point. I want to ask you something about the the law of Hammurabi. Did I pronounce that
correct? You did. Yeah. Now this is, is this the Assyrian law code? No, so there are, there are
several different law codes that we have. And I always have to say this, I put, you know,
code and parentheses, because it's not really a code. We, we come to say that because it was
originally called a code, but it's, it's sort of case law. It's describing the legal tradition that
was in place. But it's not like, it's not like judges were saying, okay, I've got, you know,
Jim Bob and Sam Smith coming before me. Let me turn to the code. Let me turn to the, the, the,
the steely here and say, okay, what is it that, oh, that's what I'm supposed to do. Okay. All right,
here's the judgment. Really, that's the product, the result, I suppose, of the legal tradition
that was in place. Anyway, and what, what, what nation is this a particular nation? So yeah,
the way that, the way that Mesopotamian history kind of goes is during the second millennium, this
is first quarter of the second millennium, you have, you have these major players
in the north, in the south, you have Babylon, which is, you know, what, where Hammurabi comes from,
he's Hammurabi of Babylon. And Hammurabi does some really strategic things and he kind of kicks ass
and takes names and becomes the major power in the region. And in doing so, probably toward the end
of his reign, right around the middle of the 18th century, he has this steely erected, and it has
all these, you know, these, these laws placed on it. And so yeah, it's Babylon is a right sort of
in the middle of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers over in Iraq. And so these, these are, you have
laws that come later, different laws, you have laws from earlier, you have, you know, legal
texts that come down, codes that come in the middle of Syrian period and the first millennium and the
new Babylonian period. So we have a lot of them actually. And the reason that the law code of
Hammurabi is famous, other than the fact that it's on this really cool monument, is you have a lot of
parallels in the biblical texts, particularly in Exodus 21. And so that's why it's one of the reasons
that it sort of gained some traction for the public. That's actually why I was asking, I'm
big into parallels and trying to see if there are things that people keep telling me stop using that
word. But I do try to find commonalities between different nations and different cultures and
antiquity. And I wanted to ask you pertaining to slavery, we can focus purely on the Bible,
and I don't mind that, but I didn't know if you could take us and give examples like you did earlier
with the three years and set them free on the fourth, that seems a little bit more lenient
than seven years. But if you find any overlaps, feel free to.
Yeah, so I wrote, shameless of me, I apologize, please. I wrote this book, did the Old Testament
adore slavery. And in the book, there are four chapters. The first is giving an overview of
slavery in the Hebrew Bible. The second chapter is an overview just generally of slavery in the
ancient Near East. Is that how I set it up? And then third chapter, yeah, that's right. The third
chapter is going through the major chapters in the Hebrew Bible and showing the comparisons
between them, between what we see in the ancient Near East and what's, you know, what's
subtaining in the Hebrew Bible. And then the fourth chapter is answering other common questions,
like that I hear from apologists in particular. So, like, due to Ronomy 23, 15 through 17, where
it talks about the runaway slave. And, you know, if, if, if a slave runs away, you know, you probably
hear a fair amount of a slave runs away, they were supposed to not be returned. They were supposed
to be set free. So then if a slave doesn't like his situation, he can just run away and the law says
he can't return to his master. Well, that's probably talking about a slave from a foreign land
running away from that foreign land coming into Israel. And there, there probably is a
reference there too, or a, you know, it's implicit that it's talking about extradition
treaties. You're not supposed to have an extradition treaty with a foreign nation. So it's not this
all encompassing. Anybody can run away. And, you know, but, but those are, they're difficult
because you read that and it seems like, oh, well, that must be what it's talking about. So I,
I talk about that stuff. But some other interesting things that I would, I would point out maybe are
there seems to be this, this concept, particularly in Christian apologetics,
like fundamentalist Christian apologetics that, you know, slaves in the ancient
areas, you could do anything you wanted to them. They're, they're like a beat up old couch, you
know, and you can just get rid of them when you want, you can beat them however you want, you
know, and, but not in the Bible, you know, not in the Hebrew Bible, there's all these laws that
God's put in place. Well, the reality is not so flashy. So you have laws, you know, even in the
Law Code of Hammurabi, they talk about if, you know, if a man takes an indentured servant,
a distrains someone because of a debt, and that person dies an unnatural death, well,
there's to be punishment for that on the master, right? In the middle of Syrian palace decrees,
you know, you have laws that talk about if a, if a mistress
is, you know, has, is offended by her female slave that she has to, she has to go through
a certain process, you know, and the king has to say, okay, you can inflict this punishment,
you can inflict that punishment. And if the mistress takes it upon herself to just
do whatever she wants with her slave, then the mistress is punished, right? It's, it's,
they're not property in the sense that people are, you know, applying all these no rights,
no legal protections. It's not that case. It's not that way in the biblical text,
and it's not that way in the ancient Near East. Another example is, I can't remember, I think it
might be, I can't remember what law it is in, in Hammurabi, but it talks about
how if a slave says to his master, you are not my master, I'm not your slave,
you know, with the idea that he's trying to get out of his, his, you know, slave status.
If the master takes him before the judge, you know, takes him before the ruling authorities
and presents evidence, probably documentary evidence, you know, in the form of a tablet,
saying he is my slave, then the master may disfigure his ear. But as harsh as that sounds,
Raymond Westbrook, who's a very prominent, was the very prominent legal scholar
in the ancient Near East and Hebrew Bible, you know, he said, as backwards as this might seem,
this clearly shows rights that were extended to slaves because the master couldn't just take it
upon himself to punish the slave in that way. Right. He had to go get permission from the
ruling authority. So, you know, those types of ideas that a slave has no rights, they're a beat
up old couch, it's just not the case either in the biblical text or in the wider ancient Near East.
But what's interesting to me, probably most interesting to me about the biblical text is
there are two different kinds of, there are two different ways that slaves get treated
under the law. They sometimes get treated in the biblical text under property law
and sometimes they fall under like family law. And a good example of this is seen in Exodus 21.
You can see kind of both examples of this. So, in Exodus 21, the passage we were talking about
for where the slave, if the slave is killed, then the master is killed, that seems to be
falling more under family law. However, if you go down to like verse 32, maybe of the chapter,
sorry, I'm pulling all this stuff from there, we're fine. There's the ox goring incident that's
described and I don't know if you've read through that passage or remember it, but
you know, it talks about if excuse me, if an ox is a known gore, right? If, well, it says if an
ox gores a man and kills him, then what do you do, right? Well, it sets up two different
circumstances. Was the ox known for goring? Had it gored in the past? Did it have this propensity
to gore? If it did, or if it didn't, then it's just, you know, nobody's fault. There's no punishment
that falls upon the owner of the ox, because he didn't know. However, if it could be demonstrated
that the ox had a goring tendency and the master knew it and didn't take the necessary precaution
to keep it penned up or whatever and away from people, and the ox gores a man or a woman or
a daughter or a son, then the master is to be killed. He forfeits his life.
Now he can ransom it if the family says, so let's say, you know, a wife is a woman is killed,
a free woman is killed. The husband can say, all right, I will let you buy your way out of this,
but I set the price. That's what the law called. Oh, wow. In other words, what's in a master,
what is your life worth to you? And actually, there's a very sidetrack here, but there's an
excellent recent video that's a lecture that went up on the Oriental Institutes
out in Chicago, University of Chicago. Martha Roth, who's another brilliant
Ancient Near Eastern scholar, she talks about Lex Talionis, you know, the law of retribution
in that passage, in these passages, these types of passages. So yeah, Martha Roth,
Lex, I can't remember what I think it's called Lex Talionis is the lecture, but anyway,
it's up on the Oriental Institutes website. But she talks about this sort of thing where
what is it about, you know, eye for an eye. So when you think about, let's say, you're a leather
worker, and you have to be able to have good depth perception to be able to do your job.
And I'm sort of an old man, right? And I don't really have a job like that. If I put your eye out,
if the law is calling for my eye to come out, well, that seems unequal, right? Your eye was
much more valuable than mine. So what she's determined, and it sounds reasonable to me,
think about as much, she's obviously very intelligent. But she argues that
what would happen is that if I put your eye out, you now have a right to my eye,
you can call for my eye to be put out. However, you retain the ability to say,
all right, Josh, I will allow you to keep your eye for this price. In other words,
what is your eye worth to you? And so that was a way to sort of even out
the balance there. And if my eye is worth 100 shekels of silver to keep,
then that's what you're going to exact from me, right?
I can't even imagine. I would give everything I had and just start over from my eye.
I can't, you're not going to take my eye out. I'm just being honest.
Right, right. No, I think that was the concept.
They didn't have anesthesia. I mean, anyway.
But so when we think about the ox scoring incident, you kill a free man, a free woman,
a free daughter, a free son, death to the master of the ox. However, the text says,
if that ox goers a slave, 30 pieces of silver,
and that's to be paid to the master of the slave.
Right. The property. That's all they are.
But in that, so in that passage, you have what seems to be pretty clear examples
of a slave falling under property law, but then earlier falling under family law.
So it's like the text.
It's complicated.
It's almost like their legal system values certain things more than other things.
It's almost like a strange thing. It's like you and me, you know, if an accident happens out here
somehow or somewhat of an accident by another animal or something, hey, we got, you know,
they're kind of a rule under property, so to speak. Like, hey, you just made my servant die.
I need to replace this person, but if it's more direct, if there seems to be more of a hands-on
type issue where you are explicitly involved in harming, almost like a, like, you know,
they say shooting a gun and killing an enemy in a war zone is one thing.
Back in the day, you had to breathe the same breath as your enemy using a sword.
And can you imagine that up close personal? So I don't know if that implication.
It's interesting that you say that because what's been argued by, oh boy,
it just, they all start to go together in my brain, all these, all the scholars.
But the argument is that under the earlier portion where it talks about the master beating,
it was to keep abuse from happening. That was the idea, treat them under family law
to keep abuse down. However, the idea was ox, oxen will be oxen, right? And you, you know, so
if, if they go out and go or somebody, you know, that the deterrent, I guess, is very different.
So yeah, I think that's actually what you said was actually very astute.
It makes sense. I mean, it does. If my dog bit your kid running by, either I owe you,
I'll probably get charged in modern day law, or the dog's going to be put to sleep,
or the family's going to sue me, something will happen there. But if I myself killed or hurt
their child, the law plays a lot different role on me today. But see, we're also talking about
a time and I'm not, you know, I'm not out here trying to just, let me talk crap about the Bible,
but you know, all of antiquity out with these things in very similar ways. And that I like what
you did in said earlier was you had these laws in the ancient Near East that are very similar,
maybe different in some ways, of course, because there are different nation that are performing
different practices and probably even that nation, like you said, had older laws and then newer laws
down the road that change. But what we usually find what happens in, in, I think this is just a
natural tendency for us as Christians that we were, is to get to the Bible and treat it special.
We have to make sure it's different than anything else. And it doesn't fall under the same rules.
We have to treat it, we have to find a way to make it look better than what, what the other nations
did. And look, I can argue, it'd be my opinion, I'd love to hear more from you on how the other
cultures, did they treat their own nation of people special, like Israel treated their own
nation in their laws, like with slavery? Is there any special ordinance for the Babylonians to treat
their own kind of like Israel had their, their views of their own people? Yeah, I can't, I can't
think of anything that, you know, off the top of my head that kind of says that sort of thing.
One of the things that you do see though, is there's this idea that there were protections
in the Hebrew Bible for foreigners. I mean, you see that all over the place, right? You know,
treat the, there's one law for the foreigner and for the native born, you know, don't, don't
oppress them, those sorts of things. And of course, people take that, what I consider to be too far,
and say, well, how could you, if you take them as a slave, that's oppressing them. Therefore,
there can't be slaves, because the law says you're not allowed to do that. It's like, well,
that's not how they viewed it. They didn't view it as oppressing them. But what's interesting
is you do have in like the, the laws of Eshnuna, I think it's number 41. If I got that right,
I'm really proud of myself. Where it talks about if, if there are three different types of foreigners
that are mentioned, and if any of these foreigners bring their beer to be sold by a tavernous,
the tavernous has to sell it at the going rate. And you could very easily just blow
right by that law as you read it and say, well, you know, like not thinking anything of it.
But the idea is that you're, you know, you're not allowed to abuse the foreigner. You can't,
you can't take his beer and sell it at a different rate so that you can profit.
You know, you have to treat hit that the foreigner because they're in a vulnerable state,
right? So yeah, I mean, I think part of the, part of the issue is,
and I haven't really thought this through, but I suspect there, there's some of this involved.
The biblical text is, you know, arguably a great deal later. And they, they may be very much going
out of their way to, from a say, propagandistic, but, you know, the text is doing something.
And it may be, I'd have to think about this, it may be that the text is trying to set up
its treatment of fellow Israelites in a way that is distinguishable from the other nations
amongst themselves. But I have to think about that. No, I, I'm not going to say, you know,
I don't know, but I could see that being the case. This is side note when I was reading the
Gospels, of course, this is not the Hebrew Bible, but it's in the vein in a way. And when you read
the Gospels, I was recently interviewing Dennis R. McDonald on his memesis criticism and showing
that the Homeric epics and the Greek mythologies are incorporated in the synoptics. And then,
of course, you can go to the Dionysian Gospel. He has a book I'm currently reading right now
on the fourth Gospel of John and how Dionysus and, you know, there's Euripides and all these
different things that are factored in the Gospels. And what I found interesting that the Gospel
writers did when they incorporated their version is they made Jesus not only far greater than
Odysseus, but greater on the same level, if not greater than the gods themselves in Odysseus's,
you know, narrative. When he's going to Troy or, you know, all these different narratives that are
going on in the Homeric epics, he actually has more mercy than the gods and can perform the same
things at the dot. So they made themselves, they made themselves, if you will, this character Jesus,
that much more fantastic and better. It wouldn't shock me, though, if they're a holy nation,
Israel, setting themselves apart for special treatment within the vacuum of themselves,
if you will. That wouldn't shock me, you know, because I do see that. I do see implications
that they do that to them. They treat themselves special in a lot of ways on purpose.
And I mean, I think that we always, we always have to read texts with the, you know, in mind,
or within, with the idea in mind, what is this text doing? You know, what is the writer doing
with this? And so when you read through, for example, this thing behind me, where is it,
right there? This thing is a prism. It's got a cuneiform inscription on it.
It's a royal praise him to the king Shulgi. And it's, you know, Shulgi is essentially the first
person praising himself, talking about how brilliant he is and how powerful he is and
how he, you know, speaks seven different languages and he can run, you know, superhuman speeds and
all this stuff. You know, if you read that sort of, as Dr. Cook said yesterday, sort of flat-footed
then you have to think like, wow, he really ran from this city to that city and back in one day.
Man, that's crazy. You know, but of course we don't do that because we understand the genre of,
you know, this, this type of literature that can be very hyperbolic to praise the person,
right? And calling himself a dragon, you know, a warrior from the womb, you know, we pick up on
those types of metaphors. So yeah, and I think when we read through the biblical texts, we have to
do similar things and understand the genre that's at play and what is the person doing in the text.
So I mean, if we look at the clear, there's some clear texts that I mean, and I don't know, I suspect
the other cultures did the same thing in some ways, but that their God, it's almost like my daddy can
beat your daddy up. Like my God is the better and that happened often, but they, no matter what,
wouldn't let go of it in that monotheistic approach. So yeah, you know, in the first millennium,
there is this, there's development that takes place in Mesopotamia,
where you kind of go from a focus on individual cities having their own deities,
that's, that isn't a eradicated, but the focus becomes more, you have a, like a national deity.
So in the first millennium, you know, the, that whole area of Mesopotamia is dominated by the
Neo-Syrian Empire. And the Neo-Syrian Empire had as their deity, their national deity, Asher.
And he's a mountain, you know, but he's like the singular deity. And that doesn't mean that
they don't believe in other gods, that's not what that means, but he's their national deity.
And it's interesting because there's a creation story that you probably heard of called the Anuma
Elish. And it features Marduk, the Babylonian god down in the south. And what he does in this,
in this, this literary text is you've got this huge challenge that needs to be faced. These,
these, you know, this couple of group of deities that need to be beaten. And all the gods are too
they go through several of them one by one saying, well, you go out and fight and they,
they go out and go, no way, not me. And Marduk volunteers, I'll go out there and do it. Right.
And, and, and he's able, he's so powerful, he's able to beat them without actually doing much,
you know, one of them gets defeated. But as he's coming toward him, just his, his, all his power,
his presence defeats him, you know, one of those like martial arts from their, or they're like,
yeah. And then people like, oh, which I think is totally real.
But what's interesting about that, so then, you know, Marduk becomes king of the gods, right?
That's, it's the, the elevation of Marduk. Right. What's interesting is in the north,
there's a point where the new Syrian empire comes down and conquers,
like it really does some, some damage to Babylonia. And when they do, they take this several of these,
at least one of these, they take a whole bunch of tablets back and one of them is this
Enuma Elish. And we have the tablet where they, what they did is they replaced Marduk's name
with Asher. And the story is essentially the same, right? But it's, they just replaced the name Marduk
with Asher. And why that's so interesting, you know, just from a research standpoint,
I'm trying to understand what it is that was going on in their heads. It didn't,
it's not like they didn't know that this story was originally about Marduk.
The point is that by physically putting in, actually putting in the name Asher,
you know, their deity, it imbued, it made that a reality in a very real sense.
And so I think, you know, when we consider, you mentioned the word parallel, you know,
and you hear this things like plagiarism, right? Or, or borrowing or whatever. These words, you
know, we have to understand it's fine to use them in a sense, but we have to understand
what they, what, what they were actually doing. And, you know, it wasn't that they were plagiarizing
in Emma Ailish from the Babylonians, they were doing something with that text.
And by putting their God's name in, it was, it was a powerful thing that they were doing
from their standpoint. And so, yeah, I think the same thing is true with the biblical texts.
When you read through Genesis one, and you see this sort of demythologizing that's going on,
that's, that's, that's, I think that's probably pretty reasonable conclusion to make that
demythologizing this whole like watery chaos, battle scene, and sort of taking the teeth out
of these other deities by demythologizing them. Because we see, I think pretty, pretty clearly,
we see in other passages, this, this early type of battle scene during creation. But nonetheless,
you know, I think saying that the text is
a type of polemic against these other Near Eastern stories is, you know, a legitimate thing to say,
because as you said, it's, it's not their God doing it. It's our God doing it. And I think that's
very reasonable. You know, I literally was just trying to pull up something with my buddy because
he, he actually has been trying to figure this out. And I've asked a few
Jewish rabbis, if you will, this question, but I didn't get the time to really get their response.
And then, of course, there might be bias as to why they respond. But in Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 32,
I believe, there's a place where we have a conundrum. And in a Dead Sea Scroll fragment,
there is an additional two sentences that, that were there in a Dead Sea Scroll fragment that
are not there in the Masoretic text. And in it, it appears to be polytheistic in nature,
or some reference. So I didn't know if you've heard of that. I was trying to find the exact
reference, but you're talking about where, you know, he says he's placed different deities over the
rest of the nations. But Yahweh is over Israel. I don't know if that's it. Where's that one at?
I think that is Deuteronomy 32. It's definitely a sore spot. Even Emmanuel Tov,
you know, he's looked at it says, listen, yeah, it's a little bit of an embarrassing part here.
But overall, of course, the Masoretic text, of course, is more accurate to them. And traditionally,
it has done a good job of keeping it's keeping the translation, or if you will, the transition
throughout time. But we have a clear couple sentences that that were in one of these Dead Sea
Scroll texts and are no longer in the human. I mean, you know, set even even setting the the
textual criticism aspect of that aside. I mean, I don't know that anybody could really get away
from the idea that there are there are divine beings that are over the different nations,
right? So even if you go to something like Daniel chapter 12, you know, and you see this,
this Daniel's there, and he's receiving this vision from his explanation from this intermediary
being, he says, I was resisting the Prince of Persia. And when the Prince of Persia is gone,
then, you know, the Prince of Greece will come. You know, this idea that there are divine beings
that are over the nations, and that, you know, Israel is set aside specific as Yahweh's
nation. I mean, I don't I don't know that you can get away from that in the in the in the theology.
But I, you know, from a monotheistic standpoint, and this is like this is certainly not my,
you know, area of expertise. Right, right. But but I, I don't think it's something that
we necessarily that even a Christian would necessarily need to shy away from, because
I mean, gosh, even even I as a fundamentalist Christian would have believed in angels,
obviously, and in demons. And, you know, these are, I mean, they're divine beings. I mean,
you know, it's I mean, however you want to, you know, define that, I guess you could define
divine differently. But no, it's interesting. I mean, isn't Satan the prince of the air or
something? And then Jesus is the prince of peace. What if they're using Daniel language,
you know, and they're, they're borrowing from a concept that there's the prince of these nations
and the prince of that, you know, I don't know. And I think, I think Michael Heiser may have
dealt with this. I haven't read his book yet. He would be the guy. He would be. But I mean,
like, I know I'm pretty sure he wrote his dissertation on this topic. And it seems like
it's been a lot of a lot of interest to him. But I think that I would probably I would
from from what I have read or seen of his work, like I would probably agree with
much of what he says. I think where he the step that he takes that I would not take, for example,
is, you know, maybe tying these interpretations back to a complications about historicity of
certain passages or, you know, super supernatural events that took place and their reality like
but I mean, I think that yeah, I don't think that there's any real
I don't know that there's any real problem in a scholar from a scholar standpoint of
the Hebrew Bible talking about these, you know, divine beings that are, you know, over placed
over the nations, according to the, you know, the text. So let me ask you this because just
going back to slavery for a moment, I think it's important. The, well, what a Christian might say,
and they do this a lot, I did it. That's why I know this is something that's done.
Well, God in the Old Testament was fire and brimstone. You know, he really showed his wrath.
Things were hard then. So yeah, okay, I concede. I concede, Josh, I'm going to I'm going to go
with what you said, but in the New Testament, we don't have that problem. We have God's wrath
poured on his son. No longer do I have God's wrath and in this concept of slavery, no,
it's not like it once was, it's better. Is the New Testament teaching still a slavery kind of
concept that we see? So the, there's a really interesting thread. There's a Duke PhD student
named Laura Robinson. I don't know if you're familiar with her, but she runs, she and a friend
of hers, I think run the Newt podcast, New Testament podcast. But she's super sweet and
very brilliant. I really enjoyed talking to her, but she did a thread because she's a New Testament
scholar. You know, I kind of let, not let, but I called on her. I always tend to shy away from
New Testament things in general, because even though I had six years of Coine Greek training in my,
in my master's degree, it's not what I got my PhD in. So, but that being said, I think that
there's something that's critical to understand about the difference between how the New Testament
is presenting, particularly like the Pauline epistles, presenting slavery and how the Hebrew
Bible, and she brought this up as a, and I think it was excellent, the way that she said it, there
is a very much a top down versus bottom up approach. So the Hebrew Bible is much more of a top down.
God is giving the laws from a theocracy, right? It's his rule. It's his reign. He's giving the
laws from a top down perspective. In the New Testament, you know, Paul is writing things like
from a bottom up perspective. Look, things have gone to pot here in a sense, we just need to survive
until, you know, the apocalypse comes until that eruption into our space from the divine world,
and Jesus returns in all his glory and kicks ass and takes names. We've got to just, we've got to
hold steady, right? Rock steady until then. And so from that perspective, he's saying, look,
if you're a slave, don't try to get free. And it's not because he's giving some moral treatise,
I don't think, on whether slavery is good. He's saying, look, here's the reality, you're a slave.
Look, if you try to get out of this, it's going to cause you a lot more problems, I think, and
we don't have much longer to go. So look, here's the way that you can, and Paul talks about this a
lot, living at peace, being at peace, trying to, you know, in other words, create equilibrium as
much as you can in the environment that you're in. So I don't know that going to the New Testament
does a lot for us. Now, I will say that, you know, there's a book out. It's Oxford.
I can't remember what it's called, but it's an edited volume, a bunch of different papers put in
there by different scholars, New Testament scholars, early Christian scholars, and they talk about
slavery in, you know, in the period of the New Testament and after in the early church. And
there definitely was a struggle, it appears, with early Christians on what to do with slaves.
So in other words, I think my point is that neither the old nor the New Testament really did
anything in this sense to make inroads into getting slavery abolished, right? In fact, you're supposed
to become a slave of Christ. From what I understand, the language appears to sound like a actual
slave of Jesus or, you know, Christ. But I find it fascinating that you bring up the whole Pauline,
you know, that there was an implication, he was anticipating something,
because in that same vein, if you will, the bottom up idea, it is interesting he's not telling them
to obey laws. He's no longer forcing Torah on these people he's communicating with whoever
they may be. So yeah, we're rabbit trailing pretty big here. But yeah, no, that's pretty
interesting. And I've heard it say, you know, be good to your, it's like the same repetitive thing,
be good to your slaves and slaves, be good to your masters, like, no, there's, I don't know,
I'd have to read some books on that, if you will. I mean, I know that I see, I see a lot of times
on social media, you know, the quoting, there's neither male nor female, bond nor free, we are
all one in the body of Christ. And that's true. I would say that's a positional distinction,
rather than a practical distinction. So, you know, if you if you want to make the argument that
the New Testament text is no longer seeing slaves in a practical sense, well, then they're no longer
seeing females, you know, in a practical sense, no longer seeing a distinction between men and
women. And of course, we know that that not to be the case. The point is that in Christ,
their positional standing in the body of Christ as having been redeemed, justified.
And that position in Christ is what equalizes, right? And I think there's something to be said
for that. Because I think you see Paul within a book of Philemon, talking with Inesimus, you know,
the idea of Inesimus is coming back. And I think there are some, but I don't think that this is
from a strictly moral standpoint. I don't know that Paul is really making that argument. What I
would say is that it seems, and again, not my field of expertise, but it seems as though this is
much more from an apocalyptic standpoint. Jesus has said this generation will not pass away until,
you know, you see the Son of Man coming in power. Paul is saying, you know, in 1 Thessalonians 4,
we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. I mean,
I think that there's a very good case to be made that Jesus was an apocalyptic teacher,
even though that's not settled. I wouldn't say that that's settled. But that, and that Paul
is apocalyptic in his outlook, because again, I think there's much more of a survival mode
in place. It's what you see, certainly it's what you see in, you know, the apocalyptic community
there in, you know, the 2nd century BCE with the book of Daniel, and it's this idea, you know,
there's the reign of God is coming, you know, and it's going to break in to our realm, and
all wrongs will be righted. Right. No, you're right. There was a fever. It was in the air, for sure.
I totally agree with you on that. And if there was, I did a recent show on this, you know,
with the probability of historicity, you know, and talking about this. But ultimately, if there was
a guy running around, and there's good reason to believe there could have been, then he would have
clearly taught something in line with an apocalyptic message, in my opinion, it's implied.
It's implied in Paul, it's implied in the Gospels, even the Gospels are fictional,
all get out. There's still implications of something like that, an imminent, you know, end
throughout. So yeah, I'm 100% with you on that. And I don't think you have to be an expert to
really kind of see that. I think anybody who takes common sense in this looking at that can say, hey,
they thought something was about to happen, which is why Bertrand Russell has made his
publications and stuff and said, this is why I'm not a Christian. I'm going to tell you why.
The things didn't happen. Then you have that movement, full preterism. I'm not going to talk
about that right now, because that's what I came from. But slavery, I wanted to mention, and during
our discussion, I learned a lot already. I would make a huge distinction between what I've heard
in history classes of what happened with African Americans who came to America during the times
of slavery. I mean, they were taken, sold, of course, to the Americans who came, and they started,
you know, obviously using them in the farmlands, etc. But I, you know, it's a more recent history,
so we can really have the emotion still there. And there's a lot of horrible things that we know
recorded. We have absolute evidence of the horrid things that happened. Who's to say that those
things weren't taking place back then, because, well, it was more common. Number one, I think it
was, it was implemented. And it still was, I suspect, even 300, 400 years ago in some sense. But
it was very common. And the, if you use the same critical method that Dr. Price talks about,
why is a law in place? Because people were breaking this idea. And that should say, hey,
people were mistreated very often in these types of things. This was not a, hey, Bob,
can I come work for you for seven years? I'm just not, I'm not going to say there weren't
voluntary situations where someone is in debt, how voluntary can you be when you're absolutely
broken, you're starving, and you have to eat. But nonetheless, it's a different world. I don't
want to try and broad stroke it using modern conceptions and how we think today, I'm not trying
to do that either. But I do think that if, if God knows, you would think he would have said,
you know, one day, we're going to get rid of this thing. Even just saying that would have been good
enough. Right now, we're going through a troubling time. But we're going to go, we're going to destroy
this thing of slavery completely. And I think, I think the real, the other thing that Leviticus
25 does, particularly in tandem with Deuteronomy 15, is it makes it even more difficult for someone
to argue that God was just sort of going along with this economic necessity. Right? That's an
argument that I hear all the time. What else were they going to do? You know, because the problem is
that that argument could very easily be in place for the Israelites. Well, you know, why is it that,
why is it that they're allowed to take them even as temporary slaves for six years? Well,
what else were they going to do? Well, God solves that problem in Leviticus 25. Right? How does he
solve it? He says, you can't do this. Right? And the rationale, particularly early in chapter 25,
I think very clearly as you get into chapter 26, is that there's blessing, supernatural blessing,
for obeying the laws, extensive provisions for obeying the laws. You know, they'll have reign
and due season, they'll, you know, have their storehouses filled so much that, you know, in other
words, God is saying in Leviticus 25, no more treating Israelites as slaves. And in anticipation
of the response, well, wait a minute, don't we need those? Isn't this like an economic necessity?
The point is that God is going to supernaturally provide. So I think point of fact, it's,
it's very, I think my two-year-old is breaking in. Hi, buddy. No problem. That's,
we needed this. This is commercial break coming to you.
But, um,
Hi, buddy. I love you.
Sorry.
But, uh, you know, so, so God, the means were there for God to supernaturally provide in order
to do away with slavery. So if this were something that were a moral evil in God's eyes,
you know, as presented in the text, um, he could have very easily said no more slaves.
And then when people said, wait a minute, isn't it economic? No, I, if you obey me and, and, and,
obey my law, don't take any more slaves. Like I, like I said, with don't take any more Israelite
slaves. Had he just broadened that to say no slaves at all, um, I will provide supernaturally.
Yeah. I'll be honest with you. I, if, if that was the message, just that alone in the biblical
narrative, there would probably be more Christians. I mean, like that haven't deconstructed said, you
know what? I can traditionally still stick to these ideas because they did not care what society
brought, what the, what the going rate was. They, they went against the whole thing. Now,
of course they were unique. They may have done this inside their own ranks, but, but, uh, they
still implemented the system. And so you would think an all powerful, all knowing fundamentalist
approach to God, you know, that this would be solved or at least expected to be solved. And
him saying, I despise this whole thing. I had abhor it. You know, no, we don't really see that.
Yeah. I mean, because he, he does it, he does it for the Israelites. You read the Leviticus 25,
you see very clearly that slavery is bad, but it's bad for Israelites. And that,
that doesn't carry over to foreigners in the same way that it doesn't carry over with interest
bearing loans, right? You can charge interest bearing loans to foreigners, not to Israelites.
And you can take slaves from foreigners, but not from the Israelites. And I think that's telling
in two ways. One, it shows us, I mean, it shows me that this, this idea of some fixed objective
moral system, um, in the particulars is, is not something that the biblical text, if you're a
Christian, I don't think that's what you need to be looking to the biblical text for. I don't think
you're, you should be looking for this ultimate grounding, you know, uh, in, in the nature of God
or in his divine commands. Cause I think that's very problematic. Um, because I think we using,
as you said earlier, sort of our common sense, we, we recognize slavery bad, right? And there's
a reason that we're trying to, you know, people try to soften the old test because we realized
that slavery is bad. Um, and I think, you know, a hundred years from now, you know, if, if, I mean,
I think that beating your children with a wooden rod would be a bad thing. You know, I, I, I think
spanking is a bad thing, but you know, that's, it's very common still today. I think a hundred years
from now, if, if spanking is gone, and I say this in the book, if, if a hundred years from now,
it's grossly immoral to spank your child to everybody. And people read back through, uh,
like a newspaper article talking about spanking in 2000, uh, 2020, and they go, oh my God,
what a horrible people those fathers must not have loved their children. Well, that would be
really unfair. Yeah. Right. In the same way that something more crazy, uh, in the same way as if
we found out that grass feels pain, right? And like all the scientists discover, oh my gosh,
grass feels pain. When you mow it, they're screaming, you know, in pain, right? And we just
say no more cutting of grass. No more walking on grass. Yeah. No more nothing because it feels
pain. Well, then a hundred years from now, if they were to look back and go, oh my God, they mowed
their lawns every, you know, every week, what horrible barbarians. Well, no, I mean, we didn't
know that you can't, you can't, we can't judge ancient peoples, uh, based on their moral systems,
but, but, and I don't think that's what anybody's trying to do. No, no. But we do, but what we
want to make sure that in my opinion, the thing that I want everybody to take away from this is
that look, it's okay that we've developed morally. Um, it's okay. Let, let them have done what they
did thinking that they were doing something moral, um, and something that was beneficial. Let's not
hold them to that standard, but that's not also, you know, try to play down the severity of what
was done so that we can keep God in some pristine, you know, moral idea that we have. Um, yeah.
Can I phrase it in another way? Please. Yes. This is a way that the way I hear you saying it and
correct me if I'm wrong is what I'm seeing is there's the protection of the book. This book
is special. They wouldn't do the same type of treatment to foreign ancient Near Eastern cultures.
They would let that ride the way that it is. They won't try to cover it up. They won't try to somehow
make it defense, defensible. Um, but they, they take this God and the moral values of the book,
they take what they like, they try to argue around what they don't. And rather than saying, like you
said, where we evolve in our, I'm not trying, I'm no scholar in any way, but that we have gotten better
with our, um, system of morality. What you do is if you're going to be consistent and use the Bible
as your source, technically I could move to a foreign country right now, probably buy a slave
somewhere and use them as my, for the rest of their days and say, listen, you're, you're mine,
you're my property. Using this book, I should be allowed to do this as long as I obey these laws.
There shouldn't be a problem with it because this book says so. Now I know that none of us
practically live that way. None of the Christians who would make the case is like, dude, are you
kidding me? Whom the sun sets free is free indeed. But I know that that doesn't have anything to do
with the actual laws of slavery. Um, but I get where you're coming from, but this is where it
gets really in. Okay. Two, three hundred years ago, the white slave masters used this book,
and there are books written on that, which I have not read, but I know they're out there
where people talk about how the slave masters used the Bible in a lot of ways. And, and they,
there were some bad ones and there were some that were trying to do what they thought was right, I
guess. Uh, in the time that they were in, I don't think any of it's right, but that's because I live
in today in a time where we're free, at least free in this sense. Some say we're still not free, but
in a different way. I look some say we're in the matrix, you know, yeah, yeah. Anyway, yeah, I'm
with you. I hope that phrased, I phrased that. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Yeah. So your book,
can you pull that up one more time? I'm definitely, and when did you guys get this published?
Uh, this year, actually. This year. So it's a digital homerabi press. Um, it's really,
it's got a cool picture of us on the back. Nice. There's the brains. Yeah, there she is. Uh, yeah,
we published that one and it was, it was very shortly after we published that one,
which has been incredibly popular. Learn to read ancient Sumerian. We're gonna have to do a show
on the Noah and, and, you know, Noah and the Sumerian text and Genesis, if I'm not mistaken,
isn't Genesis coming out of us? Or are there some things from the Sumerian text that come into
Genesis play? I know Dr. Price believes there are some things there, but it's, you know,
intertextuality is complicated. Definitely. I don't think there's anybody that really
questions that the flood story, um, in Genesis six through nine is pulling almost directly from
Otracossus. So, you know, the second millennium, um, the Cadian flood story, you can see it in the
epic of Gilgamesh as well. Uh, but, you know, that the flood story has a tradition, arguably, that
goes back to the beginning of the second millennium, probably not much earlier, as I understand it.
I don't, you know, because you have a Sumerian flood story,
but it probably comes from the old Babylonian period. I'd have to think about that. But, um,
but yeah, so you, you have the biblical texts that are, there's a lot of over, a lot of intertextuality
between what's in the Hebrew Bible and what's in Eucharistic texts. But you, again, you do see this
sort of thing, um, in some of the Acadian and Sumerian, um, literary texts. So yeah, there's,
there's a lot of intertextuality. Probably, I would say probably the biggest thing is to remember
that there's this sort of, um, literary tradition, mythological tradition that exists in the area.
You, you have a legal tradition that encompasses ancient areas during legal texts and the Hebrew
Bible. They're all kind of coming from this similar tradition. And so, um, we want to be
careful when we say things like plagiarize or borrow. There are some places where it's very
clear that they're, they're trawling from a particular story or text. You can tell they're
using the same words, you know, the same, the same lines. Other times there's just sort of a motif,
there's an idea. That was in the air. It was something in the air. Okay. But, um, yeah, there's,
there's, it's fun to try to, uh, kind of piece it all together and tease out, tease out little
threads. But you know, what you, what I would say is what you don't want to do is treat the Hebrew
Bible as some sort of, uh, you know, standalone book that existed in a vacuum. Um, it wasn't
affected in any way, um, by, you know, those around those cultures that were around the
literary traditions that were around because they, they definitely were. Yeah. Yeah. We're
going to definitely have to do more shows. Look, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for staying this
long. Make sure you guys go to their YouTube channel and that is digital Hammurabi. Okay.
He, dude, he covers a lot of different topics and you're always doing shows. You're, you guys are
staying constantly doing shows. So please go show them some love. Like I've said before,
I want to give you guys a little insight. If you're not familiar with how YouTube works,
I'm learning. Um, if you like every video that we do, like it, don't dislike it. Like it. This is
how you promote the content of the channels that you guys are interested in seeing growing. Comment
on the videos. So go over to his YouTube channel, like his videos, comment on his videos and interact
if you will, or even just say, Hey, I'm commenting because I want the algorithm to see this. Okay.
And watch the video through that video retention is extremely important. Of course,
subscribe and hit the bell so you're notified when a new one comes. If you don't have time to watch
the videos, let it play, turn your volume down, set your phone down, let it play. I'm telling you,
this is how you can grow this content. If you value this information and you want this to get
out there more, and to keep having it being brought, this is a way to help channels like his
grow and make sure you guys go do that. That's down in the description. His books will be in the
Amazon link down below. And do you have a website? We do. It's digital homerabi.com. Okay. So you guys,
if you don't want to go through my Amazon affiliate link, which has hundreds of books,
you just have to sift through up to find a better system at some point and like separate,
you know, for, for you, if we do more like series and stuff, I'll just have an affiliate link
specifically for your books. But regardless, you can go to his website and get these books,
everybody. So yeah, we've got our, all our information on there, any papers that I have,
I try to make all the papers that I write free for download. I've got a paper on Ezekiel 26
and the prophecy there. My dissertation's up there. If anybody's interested in
reading Old Babylonian Sumerian, but yeah, we have our scholarship, all the scholarship
information's up there. If you're a PhD student and you're interested in getting the,
one of the 2000 scholarships competing for it, there's a form that you can fill out online. And
yeah, so it's all out there on the website. Absolutely. And we're going to have to have
you back on because you were talking with Aaron raw, I believe on apocalyptic stuff or
pertaining to prophecy of the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible. And I do want to talk to you about
that because I heard there's some failed prophecies that were predicted and I heard that there were
some things that I really want to wrap my head around and leaving this as a cliffhanger, I guess,
is the idea that the end did happen in the first century is preterism. And I don't want to go there
right now, but they go to the Hebrew scriptures and they see what appears to be apocalyptic literature
and they say, Oh, that's just metaphorical or allegorical. It's not literal. Dr. Price said
that there were scholars who've written saying, Listen, they thought this was it. I mean, they
thought this was going to be there. So I would like to just have a show with you more awesome.
So thank you so much for joining me. Oh, thank you. Pleasure is all mine. Absolutely. And everybody
who knows me knows we are MythVision.
