Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, we've got a question from WM Law on my Patreon.
Derek, I'm only on page 124 of his book, being ex-Mormon, ex-Reformed Christian who's
read the Old Testament chapter one was a recap of the biblical story that I'm familiar with.
My question relates to the Assyrian Kingdom.
As a Christian, we would be told that the Assyrian Kingdom was a brutal kingdom that
terrorized its neighbors and gave no quarter.
But that there was a period of time when it waned.
The Christians would say that that is evidence of Jonah having preached to the Ninevites
and them repenting.
Is there any evidence of such a period in the archaeological record?
A period of them repenting?
Well, it seems like they waned from being such cruel overlords, if that makes sense.
And so Christians would say, see Jonah did preach repentance from their wicked cruelty.
So taking the book of Jonah like that, trying to look for historical, seeing this as some
sort of a historically reliable account of Jonah's life is probably not a good way to
go about engaging in the text.
One of the things that's clear about ancient Near Eastern history, and you can see it with
the Assyrians quite clearly, is there is this pattern of expansion when a nation is strong
and contraction when a nation is weak.
And normally it hinges upon the ruler himself.
So if you have a strong, sort of aggressive, clever ruler, you'll see expansion.
You'll see annual campaigning, particularly out to the West from Assyria, and this growth
of Assyria proper and taking over, creating vassals and getting tribute and those sorts
of things.
So one of the kings that sort of epitomizes this big expansion after a period of contraction
is to Gleth, the police of the third, and he comes to Throne in 745.
So you know, eighth century, this is something that would be important to in the history of
the nation of Israel.
And we see this reflected in the biblical texts.
So the Neo-Syrian Empire has its periods of real strength.
If I talk about in the book how toward the end the Neo-Syrian Empire starts to wane,
and there are probably a lot of different reasons why it happened.
Not because Jonah went and preached to them and they decided to give up their, I don't
know, militaristic ways.
First of all, the picture that's painted of the Assyrians or the Canaanites or the Amalekites
or any of these people, of course, is that they're grossly immoral and wicked.
They do everything horribly and they're just terrible.
And of course, hopefully we all recognize this bit of propaganda going on here.
And of course, the Neo-Syrian Empire did this as well.
So if you read through Mario Leverani's book, for example, on Assyria, which is actually
right here, you'll see him talking about how the Assyrians portrayed themselves and
justified their holy war.
And when they did that, what they did is, much as the Israelites did, and much as every
ancient people would have done in this position, you create an other that you have to bring
into subjection, bring into control.
And the way that you justify doing that is you don't say, I just want to go conquer those
people because, sorry, it's my three-year-old up there, because that doesn't look good,
it doesn't reflect well, because there's still this idea that you have to have justification
for doing what it is that you're doing.
And the gods don't look kindly in the ancient Near East upon people doing oppressive things.
Much to everyone's surprise, maybe that's in fundamentalist evangelical circles, the
idea that the ancient Mesopotamian gods would have been against oppression, they were.
You don't oppress the poor, you don't oppress the weak.
So the king still needed justification for doing these types of campaigns, and so one
of the ways that they do it is the same way that you see in the Hebrew Bible, and that
is they vilify the other side.
Go figure, right?
It's how we all do this.
You think about the way that the Germans are portrayed when you watch like Captain America
or something, the Germans are always super bad, right?
And that's not to say that the Nazis weren't bad, of course they were bad, but it can spread
to all Germans, for example.
Anyway, the point is that it might not have been a good example.
I want to be clear that the Nazis were horrible, right?
Just be clear.
But that vilification, that type of vilification is something that you see in the ancient world
all the time.
And so because of that, the Assyrians would say those people out to the West, the God
Asher, our God Asher, extended his benevolent arm to them, to bring them in and to care
for them.
Right?
And of course, they rebelled against his arm, and so I have to go out and conquer them.
Same thing seems to take place kind of in the Canaan, or even another example, biblically,
would be when the vilification of all the kings of the North come from the Southern
Riders.
I mean, are they really that bad and that horrible of a king in the North, or is this
an anachronistic explanation saying, well, the reason why this happened, all these bad
kings happened to be there, or why did, and I'm leading into the Assyrian thing, is like,
why did they stop being so, well, maybe they lost power.
Like when Egypt, the reason why the Exodus, you know, if we have this story as Ronald
Handelsauce, well, what happened was they kind of went bankrupt and they collapsed,
and now, boom.
Yeah.
I mean, this is what happened right around 1200, right?
So if people are interested in that sort of thing, Eric Klein has a phenomenal book that's
right there called 1177, and we'll have him on the show here, I think, pretty soon.
It talks about this regional collapse, international collapse.
But you know, like a good example maybe, maybe the German one wasn't all that good, it was,
but you see this in the vilification of people from Arabic countries after 911, right?
Everybody from the Middle East was then vilified, right?
And you saw it horribly here in the United States, right?
Now, certainly these terrorists were terrible, terrible people.
They did terrible, terrible things, and I was on active duty when that happened in the Air
Force, but that doesn't mean that all Arabic people are bad, right?
And so they get vilified, they become the other, become the other, and that justifies,
you know, this sort of-
Well, do we get the same thing with racial tensions too?
Yes.
Are all bad in some people's eyes?
Or you look at these, you know, these cross-burning Klu Klux Klan members, and now all whites
are the same.
You know, you can get the same thing happening in almost any situation.
And so then if you're, but I think for me the material point is if you're trying to
justify, just like somebody in the Klu Klux Klan was to justify their hatred, just like,
you know, people that were incredibly anti-Semitic against the Jews during World War II, anybody
that wants to look at all Arabs and justify that bigotry as being, again, as being justified
is okay to do, they're going to construct this narrative of the other, and they're going
to say that the other side is doing things oftentimes that they would never do, right?
What do they call that, virtue signalling, I think is what they call that.
But so what we see then in the biblical text is this sort of othering, and we see it with
the new Assyrians as well, a really good example of this.
I feel like I want to clarify this because this came up recently in my book on the chapter
on the, on archaeology and talking about the Canaanites.
There is this sort of vilification that you see of the Canaanites when it comes to child
sacrifice.
You see it all over the place in the Hebrew Bible, oh, they're sacrificing their children
to mullak, right?
They're doing all these horrible, horrible things.
And so I asked the question that Heath Durell asked, and that is like, let's get to the
bottom of what evidence do we have for child sacrifice among the Canaanites?
And as it turns out, there isn't much, right?
So then the question that we have to ask is, all right, sure, do we expect to have a lot
of evidence for child sacrifice, like physical evidence in the archaeological record?
Probably not.
But what evidence do we have that people are using to justify their position, to justify
the position that the biblical text is historically reliable?
And the evidence that they're using is late evidence.
It's from Carthage.
It's not from Canaan.
And so what evidence do we actually have from, you know, Canaan proper?
Nothing really solid, right?
And so then if that's one data point that's, all right, we don't have this positive evidence.
So then what other evidence do we have?
Well, we seem to have evidence in the narrative of the Hebrew Bible that the Israelites were
also practicing child sacrifice.
So with those two things combined, we don't have any positive evidence from the period
to say that, yes, in the second millennium, we've got child sacrifice.
And that's why the Israelites had to come in and do this conquest.
And we have seemingly positive evidence that the Israelites are doing this in the first
millennium, which is the time that we probably think this Exodus story came to its, you know,
in its form.
Those two things combined, what's more reasonable to conclude?
It's this othering.
It's this othering that we see.
And so again, the, the, the new Syrian empire is othering and doing these campaigns.
But when they don't have the strength to do it anymore, sort of bringing this back, when
they don't have the strength to do it anymore, they're, they're having to deal with problems,
financial problems.
They're having to deal with rebellions.
They're having to deal with local issues.
And all of those things make a, a, an administration, the king, you know, kingdom focus in on itself
in the same way that if you're having problems at home, it's difficult to go, you know, be
successful doing something outside of the house because you have to deal with your own
problems internally.
And when you have internal problems, the empire tends to shrink back in on itself.
And so it's a really convenient thing to say, oh, well, in 586, I mean, you know, in
I mean, not in 586, sorry, in, in a seven times thinking about the fall of Jerusalem, but in,
you know, 712, 710, when the new Syrian empire falls to the new Babylonian empire, new
Babylonian empire, you know, this is sort of the culmination of all these things, contracting
the new Syrian empire in, and I think it would be foolish to say, well, it's, you know, leading
up to that, that the contraction that we see, that must be because, you know, we see repentance
from Nineveh because solely because we have that in the biblical text.
I don't think that's good historiography.
Thank you.
