Go in the description, subscribe to the New Testament Review Podcast with Ian Mills and
Laura Robinson.
Ian Mills, thank you for letting me interview you on this.
So you've written a lot on the topic of pagans having interest in reading Christian literature,
Christian writings.
Can you elaborate on this and give us some insight?
Sure.
Yeah, in 2019, I published a piece in Virgilio Christiani titled, The Pagan Readers of Christian
Scripture.
And here, I argued against what is sort of the current consensus, the working consensus
of mainstream scholarship.
Most people don't believe there was any significant audience outside of Christians themselves
for Christian scripture, for Christian apologetic writings.
Even apologetic writings, which is ostensibly addressed to pagan readers, Justin writes
his apologies to the emperor.
Most scholars believe this is intersectarian literature.
They're writing these texts for other Christians to read, sort of in this mode of outside address,
this is mode of apologetics.
And this is also true, of course, of scripture.
Most people believe that the gospels were written for as sectarian literature, for themselves.
And I've argued this is actually a substantial body of evidence that's been neglected by
scholars that pagans were in the first, second and third century reading Christian scripture.
And that therefore, it is totally plausible to see in the text tradition that the way people
are changing these texts, and also in rewritten scripture, as we get other gospels written,
to see an interest in reaching non-Christian readers, to see sort of apologetic, externally
facing interest in addressing the sorts of concerns that pagans bring to these texts.
This might be like a dumb question, but it might be needed for some people who might
be watching this.
What is a pagan?
Oh, sure.
And this is a good thing, because the use of the word pagan is actually fallen out of
favor as well.
Pagan is not a theory, or is not, pagan is not a term that if you went and asked, went
back to the first century, anyone would have recognized themselves as pagan is a term that
Christians used to refer to people who weren't them, and who weren't Jews.
And so it becomes this othering word, and it's probably originated as an insult, meaning
either some sort of like, bumpkin farmer, or possibly having something to do with a
military terminology.
But it's definitely a term that Christians used to refer to the outsiders, and because
of sort of the Christian legacy of European scholarship, it's become the term we adopt
to describe traditional Roman piety.
We call that sometimes pagan religions, even though both of those terms are very anachronistic.
There is neither a single thing called pagan religion, nor is there a single thing that
is their religion.
But pagan readers of Christian scripture, I argue that if you look at all of the autobiographical
conversion accounts, that is Christians telling you how they converted, how they came to Christianity.
For Constantine, you find that four out of six, there's six of them, four out of six
say that what occasioned them coming to Christianity was happening upon a Christian text.
They run across a text.
The two that don't, Justin and Clement of Alexandria, both give this highly stereotyped
philosophical conversion narrative.
There's this trope in Jewish pagan, and Christian texts that you travel to different teachers
to do different kinds, and then you finally settle on the true philosophy.
Justin and Clement both give this sort of very stereotyped narrative.
The interesting thing about those, these two outliers that don't feature that, is they
both highlight the final teacher, the one they come to that tells them the truth.
They both highlight that teacher's use of books, and so it is their use of books that
attracts Justin and Clement finally.
Justin concludes by saying, therefore, if you use our texts, you too will convert.
Because it seems to imply the sort of importance of books even in his own conversion narrative.
Now, of course, any scholar who's noticed this before, and there haven't been many who
have discussed this, has said this is just a trope.
This is just a retrojection of what is important to later Christians back onto their own autobiography.
You always recount your autobiography for a rhetorical purpose, right?
Justin is not introducing this in the vacuum, trying to give the most reliable account he
can.
I'm going to start with this.
But the problem is, if you look at stereotyped, clearly idealistic, and also fictional conversion
accounts, you go read the pseudo-Clementine literatures or the Martyr Acts, or even when
Tertullian or others are discussing how people do convert, they never talk about books.
Books don't seem to be part of the Christian ideal of a conversion account.
They just seem to be part of the conversion account when people are recounting their own
autobiography.
And I think this strongly suggests that there probably is some reality to the fact that
these people are coming across books they understand as Christian scripture.
Some of them were, like, in Taysian's example, were the Jewish scriptures, but he's getting
them as Christian scripture, framed as prophecies that are being fulfilled in Jesus.
They're coming across Christian books, and that is what is drawing them to the Christian
faith.
And how to explain that?
Well, I'm sure there's a bunch of people, there's evidence from the second, third, and
fourth century, referring hostile, they're not happy with this practice, to Christians
distributing, disseminating, and publicly reading their texts.
We have Tertullian says, you know, bad people, heretics, read their texts publicly to pagans.
We have this thing called the Clementine Pistols on Virginity that also compares Christians
who display their texts to outsiders, to actors and flute players, which are both bad
categories in ancient antiquity.
Actors are the lowest of the low.
And so they're saying, this is something you shouldn't do.
And of course, we have, you know, Lucian, his Life of Peregrinas, or it's the Passion
of Peregrinas, talks about Christians reading their texts publicly in prisons.
And Celsus, who is a critic of Christianity, origin writes this treatise against Celsus,
counter Celsum.
Celsus says there are Christians who are bringing their books around and doing miracles with
their books.
And so we have here this sort of like public disuse of books again, that would have occasioned
how it is that pagans saw Christian scripture.
So.
This is interesting, fascinating topic.
Do you think that that's an accurate quote by Celsus himself?
He's saying that?
Or is he, he's kind of just giving you the idea that they're using their texts?
So what we, we don't have Celsus's work, but we have his origins critique of it.
And origin says that Celsus said Christians were doing magic with their books.
They were reading magical names out and using them to perform exorcisms.
And he says Christians aren't doing magic.
They're using the name of Jesus, type of thing.
And so he doesn't deny the charge.
I mean, he, he complicates the charge, you know, he says, you know, there are bad Christians
who do stuff.
There are good Christians.
And there is in fact, you know, power in the name origin would agree.
And so he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't seem to be misquoting Celsus.
This argument wouldn't make sense if he's, he's not making up the charge that Christians
are in fact using these books.
He's probably quoting a late second century, Celsus is very hard to date.
We don't have any other evidence for who this guy was, but he's making up, but he's
probably, origin is probably not making up the charge that Christians are doing miracles
with barbaric names using their books.
I find that interesting, you know, you would think that people within the initiation, if
you will, within the circle of Christianity, of course, would read Christian books.
But going beyond that, that makes you kind of wonder if there's a logical connection
to my question prior to the show here was, did pagans have an interest in the Jewish
scriptures apart from Christianity?
And you said yes.
But obviously right now you don't have sources, tons of sources on hand.
But well, the thing is, OK, so what I need to frame this whole conversation with, and
I do in fact, you know, bring this up and discuss this in the article, is that most
pagans didn't read books full stop.
Most anybody didn't read books full stop.
The literacy rate in antiquity is probably somewhere between 10 and 15%.
That said, you don't have people to read books to be influenced by them.
Reading an antiquity, William Johnson has done some amazing work on this of Duke
University. Reading antiquity is a public event.
And you are usually reading aloud in public, or at least for some audience.
Even people who read at home in their free time are usually reading aloud.
Interestingly, Tayshon makes a whole point of the fact that he's not reading
aloud when he discovers Christian books.
I'm not sure how to unpack that.
But moving past that, there is, like you were saying,
good evidence that non-Christians, non-Jewish people
did encounter Jewish scripture.
We have Jewish attestations to this, as well as
people who are quoting, pagan people who are quoting Jewish literature, quoting
Genesis one, for instance, we have philosophers, quote, Genesis one.
We have all this hostile attestation to folks like Numenius and Numenius, who are
these pagan philosophers who use Jewish scripture.
Galen has some passing familiarity.
He can characterize Moses as making assertions and not giving reasoned arguments.
And this, of course, for Galen is a negative thing.
But we do have admiring philosophers, ethnographers, who discuss Jewish scripture.
And then we've got things like Josephus is against Apion, which is discussing
popular critics of the Jewish people and their literature.
So we have pagans reading Christian literature that aren't Christians.
We have Christians obviously reading and hearing Christian literature.
We briefly summed and talked about the idea that pagans read Jewish
literature that was not Christian.
And finalizing that, I guess we can get into pagans converting to Judaism,
obviously reading Jewish literature.
Yeah. So this is a big debate in the field.
Scholars like Paula Fredericksson and Goodman have argued that there isn't,
in fact, a lot of evidence for Gentile converts to Judaism,
that this is a sort of Christian innovation.
And I actually think it's wrong.
I think there is significant evidence, I mean, for at least some kinds of Judaism
and some kinds of Gentiles who converted or joined or adhered, maybe a better word,
even the language of conversion, some people have argued, reflects a sort of
Protestant belief about a sort of Protestant conviction that what matters
is belief, what matters is doctrines, and that may be the wrong language to use
to talk about ancient movements, what we might call ancient religions,
although that's also using anachronism.
But at some point, you've got to use anachronisms.
And Dr. Paula Fredericksson does that in her lecture,
he's written in her book, Paul's Hayden's Apostle, she does go into that.
She's like, don't say convert, I meant to have to do it.
She says term, she also used the word term.
Which, I mean, isn't that basically what the word convert means?
But it does have this sort of Protestant baggage on it.
So I'm sympathetic to getting away from that language,
even though I do continue to use that language in my publications,
it at least gets a footnote.
But I think there is evidence.
Ego Black can look at Josephus' antiquities, where he's discussing
the rulers of Adi Abenei.
And I think some, the people who argue that there aren't Jewish converts,
I think after sort of misread this passage, there's a controversy over
whether or not the rulers of Adi Abenei should be circumcised.
And one, the initial missionary who gets there, Anais, says no,
that they don't have to be circumcised.
And these people often latch onto that and say, look, circumcision
of Gentiles wasn't required.
But I think if you read the text as a whole, you see that
that is the reason the rulers don't have to be circumcised in that instance
is because doing so would offend the people.
And they said, God will understand is what the missionary says,
which is to imply that the normal expectation would be that you should be circumcised.
And then another Jewish person comes along later in the story
and he does believe you should be circumcised.
And so this isn't evidence for a differing of opinion.
I'm not denying there was difference of opinion.
Judaism is a massively diverse movement scattered across the Mediterranean,
you know, the Roman Empire and the Persia.
But this isn't evidence for that difference of opinion.
We have here both of them believe that the ordinary thing to do is to be circumcised.
And we have discussion over whether or not this is a special case.
And of course, we've got discussions of Jewish missions in Matthew,
you know, you cross earth and sea to make a single convert.
People have argued that that is a sort of Christian retrojection.
That is, it's Christian polemic.
It's absolutely Christian polemic, no argument.
But the thing there, the polemic there, if you read how that is working in Matthew,
he takes something which he expects his readers to agree on.
The fact that, you know, Jewish people do follow the law.
They do tie, you know, if you read through all of these examples of this polemic
and then makes the polemical point.
And so in this case, in Matthew, we have you cross, you know,
you cross great distances to make a single convert,
but you make him twice the hypocrite that you are.
Well, obviously, the last bit, that is the bit that people aren't going to agree with.
That's the rhetorical bit.
The first part, if you understand how this rhetoric is working,
that's the bit that Matthew expects you to buy in to agree with.
And I think we see other evidence.
So that has historical presidents that, in a sense, you know,
being someone like you who's very cautious and saying,
well, what we can know historically, that can be used in a sense to say,
look, there was real active movements of Judaism
that were out trying to make converts or at least trying to bring people into Judaism.
Right. And that looks different for different people.
I mean, what Philo, what different people expect of the Gentiles differs.
We have evidence of Alexandrian Jews who believed that the the pagan gods,
they were fabulous, for instance, is the example of this.
The pagan gods were set up by God, the God of Israel,
as sort of the thing to buy the time, to let them buy their time, right?
And we have folks like Philo, who believe that the Jewish law
is sort of the transcription of the natural law.
And so it is the best way to, you know, live naturally.
And pagans should all see this and things like circumcision
are meant to sort of help you curb your passions.
And so you have a sort of diversity of like, why someone should or should not?
Whether someone should or shouldn't join the Jewish movement.
And that looks different in different places.
I mean, we have the God fears, of course, which is another whole controversy
that I don't want to get into that involves all sorts of fascinating
archaeology and a variety of sources.
But there were people who were in my ring of the Jewish tradition,
who would, in some degree, in the different, probably in different degrees,
participate in Jewish worship and the reading of the Jewish law and things like that.
But didn't feel the need to be circumcised.
And probably, in some cases, didn't feel the need to abandon their traditional gods.
It would have been weird to have to have paid into a worship of traditional gods
to think that just because I'm going to go read Jewish scripture
and admire the practices and beliefs of the Jewish people,
that doesn't have anything to do with the fact that I'm also worshiping Zeus.
Like, those are those are disconnected.
Those are relevant. If I need to get healed, I go to a Skelipius.
If I want to learn something about barbarian wisdom, I go to the local synagogue.
Those aren't incompatible things in the Roman imaginary and the traditional imaginary.
It is a strange development of Christianity and, of course,
growing out of Jewish precedent to have this sort of totalizing discourse
that you must either be a worshiper of the God of Israel or a worshiper of Zeus.
And so this is part of why we see this whole spectrum of the relationship.
What what Jews are expecting of their pagan neighbors.
Fascinating response.
And, you know, this brings us right into, in my opinion, the Pauline discourse,
which we're going to get into Pauline, the new, you know, new ideas pertaining to him.
So thank you.
