We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Dr. David Skirbina joins us again
today. Welcome to MythVision, my friend. Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Derek. Happy to be here again.
I'm so glad you're here as well. I want everyone to go check out your website,
davidskirbina.com. You guys, it's super important you check out his books. He's got a ton of them.
He's written on this, and of course, he's a professional philosopher, but he's written on
the topic of the Jesus hoax, and that's a book that's really an interesting one. I think a lot of
people like jumping to that and go, what the heck is going on here with this Jesus movement?
It's on Amazon as well. You can get it on candle for $4, but of course, you can get it in paperback,
$20, something like that. You guys can go down in the description. It's in the MythVision
recommended books in that link, or you can go to his website and find it either way.
I want everybody to know a little bit about you before he actually gets started here. Dr.
David Skirbina, he is a PhD, of course, and was a senior lecturer in philosophy at the University
of Michigan, Dearborn, from 2003 to 2018. He taught a graduate course in technology and
sustainability at the University of Helsinki. Am I saying that correct? Yep. In fall 2020.
His areas of interest include philosophy of mine, eco philosophy, philosophy of technology,
and environmental ethics. Real quick, a funny fact, if you will, I don't know if it's a funny fact,
it's just a fact, is that you've actually been in contact with the Unabomber in the past, if I'm
not mistaken. Can you tell us briefly about that before we actually delve into this topic?
Sure. Yeah. Well, yeah. One of my areas of interest is philosophy of technology, in particular,
critical views of technology. I've been studying that for several decades, going back to the
80s, 1980s even. Yeah. Early in my career, I developed a new course called philosophy of
technology. It was a critical look at modern technology, industrial technology. I included
some stuff from the Unabomber Manifesto in the coursework, and I wanted to hear more directly
from him. If it was possible, I didn't even know, because he was in prison at this point,
it was in the early 2000s. I just sent off a quick letter saying, hey, I'm using some excerpts
from your manifesto. I had a few questions, just general stuff. I'd never written to a prisoner
before. I had no idea whether it was going to get through, expecting nothing. A couple weeks later,
I got a nice handwritten response from him. He answered all my questions and kicked off a long
multi-year correspondence between me and Kaczynski on basically just philosophy of technology,
critical views, how to respond, what to do, strategic things. It resulted in the end in
Kaczynski's book, which was called Technological Slavery. There was an original edition. There's
a revised edition out now. About one quarter of that book is Letters to David Skrubina. He reprinted
many of the letters that he wrote to me in response to my challenges and queries, and he put that in
that book. I just thought it would be interesting to actually bring this up. My audience probably
didn't know this about you. There's another thing they can explore. You're on the series too, right?
Exactly. There's a lot of stuff. I was in a Netflix film, Unabomber in His Own Words. I was in a
couple of episodes of that about a year ago. There's a lot of stuff out there, completely
distinct from the issue of Christianity and Jesus, but interesting nonetheless.
Yeah. Interesting note. Check it out. Let me know what you guys think. If you haven't,
go look on Netflix. Look up the series. Paul is a strange figure in history because
he's sometimes known as the, I guess you'd say, the actual starter of Christianity to some. To
some, he is an infiltrator or a Roman spy. To others, he is some type of guy who's butthurt
about the original movement. He wants to change some things. Others, he's just an old school
TV preacher trying to get the money out of people. I wanted to throw out there. There's even some
who say he wasn't even historical, but these are people that aren't in academia. They really
doubt everything so much that they just don't trust any literature that comes from this time
period. They think there wasn't a guy. This is fictional too. Can you take us into the subject
matter of the apostle Paul? Did this guy even exist? What have you found?
Right. It's a great question. I thought maybe we could just sort of set it in the context of
the hoax story for the people who aren't familiar with that one. It's a pretty basic argument.
My book on the Jesus hoax, it's not a long book. It's hard to read. The basic argument is pretty
simple. In the short version, it goes something like this. Jesus allegedly performed all these
miracles, walking on water, raising the dead, calling the storms, and so forth. If those in
fact happened, almost certainly there would be contemporaneous evidence during his life,
during his ministry, shortly thereafter by observers because there were hundreds or thousands
of observers to these miracles. It would have been the local people, the local Jews. It might have
been local Arabs or Greeks who were living in the area. It might have been the Romans who were
there. It might have been other Jews who weren't directly involved with the movement.
The problem is, of course, we have nothing. Absolutely nothing. Nothing from Jesus' lifetime,
nothing during his three-year ministry, nothing for decades after until the letters from Paul
start to show up. Those are the first bits of evidence. You would expect evidence of this
miracle man. There is no evidence. The logical conclusion is that the miracle man did not exist,
at least as a miracle worker. The problem is, Paul comes along 20 and 30 and 40 years later
and he claims that there was a miracle man. He describes how this guy rose from the dead and
he's the Son of God and he's here to save your souls and promises you eternal life.
So what's my conclusion? Well, Paul basically constructed the story. He basically lied.
He created the story which was not true, portrayed it as truth, and he was close enough to know that
it did not happen. He's a liar. He constructed this lie, a deliberate lie, that he clearly
must have known was false because by any reasonable means it could not be true.
So the question is why, right? So why would he do this? As you said, maybe he did it to kind of
become a, you know, a back room preacher or something. He wants to raise, you know, build a
church or something. Just that doesn't really seem plausible. That doesn't seem very likely from what
we know. Most likely is it was set in this context of a Roman invasion. We know that the Romans moved
into Palestine in 63 BC through the Jewish tribes who were in charge out of power.
Paul was a member of the Jewish elite. He was a Pharisee. Those were the people who were thrown
out of power by the Romans. As far as we know, all the Roman, all the Jewish elite would have hated
the Roman rule. Just hated it. I mean, they came in, they took over, they blasphemed the religion,
you know, and, you know, of course, ultimately destroyed their temple.
So probably the most likely cause is that Paul is doing this deliberately. He knows he cannot get
back at the Romans militarily because Rome is far too strong, but he can get back at the people
through a kind of moral or ideological subversion, kind of a spiritual subversion through this story
of a Jewish rabbi who came to earth, son of the Jewish God. And if you can believe that story,
then you're sort of, you know, 90% of the way to the Jewish side already. And you've pulled the people
away from this sort of powerful Roman pantheistic worldview that they had at the time. So to be
fair, actually, in this is Paul is actually going after Gentiles that are, well, these are pagans.
These are people in the empire. He's pulling numbers over from them. He's kind of playing war
in a different way in your view. Yeah, exactly. It's a kind of a sort of subterfuge that he's
using against the masses. He's a self-proclaimed apostle to the Gentiles. So he wants to go to the
non-Jews. He's surrounded by a Jewish milieu there, of course, but he wants to go to the Gentiles,
to the Romans, to the Greeks, and draw them into this quasi-Jewish sort of new religion
that he constructs based on this guy, Jesus, to get them away from the Roman outlook, right?
So I guess we should also be clear that some people said this Jesus figure never existed at all.
He was purely mythological. And I guess that's possible. It doesn't really matter directly for
my case either way, but I think it's far more likely that there was a real flesh and blood man,
a Jesus of Nazareth. He probably was a Jewish rabbi. He probably agitated on behalf of the poor
and the oppressed, probably got in trouble with the Roman authorities, probably got himself crucified,
and then he was taken down and buried in some unknown location, and we'll never know where that
is. So that probably all was true, that this flesh and blood guy lived. And I suspect that Paul
heard about that. Maybe there is any sort of a movement formed around this flesh and blood man.
Paul, within a few years, probably heard about this man and maybe hit the movement and said,
hey, I can make this into something really big. I can make this guy into a miracle worker. He can
be the son of God. He can promise us eternal salvation. And I can play that one up and I can
get people to worship this Jewish rabbi and worship the Jehovah, the Jewish God. So you can see
sort of this logic going on. It's not a big stretch by any means from where Paul was standing.
And he sketches out this very basic sort of theology. There's no complicated story. There's
no biography of Jesus. Of course, we know in the letters of Paul, it's just this very basic
story. Here's this guy, son of God, got killed, believed in him, and you get eternal life. So
it's a very logical process that Paul constructed this story to get back at the Romans and to
undermine Roman rule. So let me paint a picture for the audience and have your stamp of approval or
maybe comments on this. The book of Acts, Acts of the Apostles, which to the most people would
really, really see Acts of Paul. I mean, it's like Paul's central figure and they make Peter and Paul
best buds and all that crazy stuff that really doesn't sound true in Paul's, if we count the seven
authentic. But looking in Acts, Paul's out here in Athens. He's at the Aeropagus. He's preaching
the wrong Epicureans and Stoic philosophers. That doesn't sound very Israelite at all. It sounds
very pagan. And I say that to say, it's like he packaged his, this Jesus narrative to demigod type
figure for the audience he's going to, which would you agree? That's also why we see this in
the Gospels. Gospels come after Paul. They're kind of using a Paul narrative. Here you have a demigod
figure now starting to use the Jewish story, but replicate a Greek idea, taking in this new
Hellenistic view of Jesus being this Jewish guy. But really, we're going to open this up for the
world. Am I on the right track? Yeah, I think you're right. Absolutely, right? I mean, think
about it, right? If you're going to construct a mythological Jesus story, Jesus hoax, and you want
to reach the pagan masses, you're going to use concepts and ideas that they're familiar with,
that they like, that they buy into, and you will work those into your little story, because that's
the way to reach these people. And this idea, I mean, the whole idea of Jesus as a demigod is
perfect, right? So Jesus, a demigod technically is half God, half human, right? And that's, of course,
what Jesus was. He was impregnating Mary right from God. And so he's sort of half and half or
something like this. That's a very old concept, right? That goes back to Homer. If you read the
Iliad in particular, the battle in, for Troy, the battlefield is run amok with these demigods,
you know, these, these are great, the great warriors, the great soldiers had
God or goddesses as, as one of their parents. So that was an old story. I've been around hundreds
of years, these demigods, these are the great, the, you know, the, the strong and the powerful and
the most noble, these guys had one parent who was a God or a goddess. So that's, that's a perfect
idea. So it makes sense. Well, we'll work this little story in through the gospels. That was not
Paul's idea. That doesn't show up in the Paul, Pauline letters, but in the gospels, it's perfect,
right? We'll work in this little demigod theme. And, and you know, Paul, even though he doesn't
directly refer to that, he still wants to draw from pagan Greek concepts and philosophy. He's a
smart guy. He's a learned guy. He's going to draw from their ideas. When he's talking to the Greeks
or to the Romans, right? He's famously all things to all men, whatever it takes, you know, I'll,
I'll go to your, I'll go on your turf and I'll talk in your language and whatever it takes to
get you to this, this new story, he'll do it. Interesting. So I want to rule out a few things
in your view of what you think about it. And this is your guess, because it's anybody's guess, to be
honest, a lot of the stuff is a speculative theory of facts that you try to try to get the best at.
Do you think Paul could have been hallucinating and actually experience something or,
or do you rule out that idea and say, look, I think what to you makes more sense that there's
political and maybe even financial gain in the reasoning behind this more so than
him hallucinating? Well, right. So there's a couple of issues that we need to discuss. First of all,
whether Paul would actually exist as a historical figure. So we'll get to that in a, in a minute.
Okay. Yeah. And then the question, of course, is what did he really believe, right? So he's writing
this is the most passionate thing in the world to him. And he's, you know, completely committed to
this story. So, so, you know, what's going on, you know, either he had a miracle vision of the
real Jesus, I guess that's a possibility, either he had a pure sort of hallucination, like he was
on a drug trip or something, or he made it up. I don't, I mean, the only really sort of a few
options, if you accept that there was an actual guy, Paul, who constructed this story, maybe you
should build us up on the historical guy, I guess. Yeah. All right. So, so yeah, well, yeah, we'll
get to that in a second. But just in short, to answer your question, I don't think the hallucination
thing or the vision thing doesn't doesn't really work. I mean, I mean, remember, you know, you've
got the gospel writers who come after Paul, Paul is dead. He dies in mid mid to late sixties. The
gospels, the first gospel mark shows up in around 70. And then, you know, 10 or 15 years later,
Matthew and Luke, and then another decade later, the Gospel of John. And these guys are all buying
into the same story too. So either they all had the same hallucinations that Paul had, you know,
or somehow they were all completely convinced by him. I, you know, it's a little bit hard to tell,
but, you know, I don't know. I mean, you know, I sort of, I sort of, yeah, I've argued, you know,
you know, I mean, these people were clever people. They were smart. They were intelligent, you know,
I mean, you're probably not going to believe just off the cuff, you know, some raving lunatic who
says I had this great vision and now you need to follow me forever. I don't think it was that easy
to kind of just suck people in, you know, they sort of had to have real evidence themselves,
or they had a plan. And I mean, to me, it's much more obvious to say these guys had a plan,
rather than say they were all sort of part of some collective hallucination or collective,
you know, miracle vision or something.
Yeah. And this, I want to get into the evidence because I can think of some things other than
that position, like, like modern cults that people are duped on and there's no real miracle
working. So there's a lot of psychological stuff. I think if you're just charismatic enough and you
carry enough action and you're convincing enough, I think some people could potentially follow,
but I'm tracking you, you know what I mean? I'm trying to see, okay, that is a plausible
explanation that you have. I'm just trying to rule out what other possibilities could there be,
but the question of there being an actual guy, you know, I've got people who watch this channel
who go, there wasn't even a Jesus, but then there's some very few that I've seen and they go so far
to say there was never a Paul. In fact, every character is fiction, the whole book, everything,
like they just go all the way. And so. Right. Exactly. Well, I mean, so we need to look at
what evidence we have, right? It's, it's, it's, it's hard to give really a sort of cut and dried
case because everything is pretty vague back then. Some people said that Paul wasn't really one guy,
maybe he was multiple guys writing under the name of Paul. So that's one possibility, right? Maybe
there wasn't any one figure, just it was the name that the guys use and they attach to these letters.
So that's, I guess that's possible. That's one possibility. But it doesn't really change the
hoax thesis. If they were still Jews who are opposed to Roman rule and were writing about the same time
as the letters in the 50s and the 60s, it doesn't really matter if there was one guy named Paul or
if that was a fake name and it was, he really had a different name altogether or, or if it was 10 guys
and they were all just decided to use the same name. So I mean, that doesn't really change things.
I mean, stylistically, the letters are pretty, pretty uniform, which strongly suggests there was
really a single individual behind those, at least the authentic letters, right? You have the normally
the 13 letters of Paul, but probably only six or seven are really, really by him or by the one person who was him.
So I mean, like, what other evidence do we have? So as you mentioned, we have acts, right? So the book
of acts, which talks all about Paul, like he's a real guy and it's kind of a biography of his life.
And so this is, this is typically dated, you know, in the mid 80s, about the same time as Luke,
in fact, probably written by the same author as the Gospel of Luke.
So if you have a document in the mid 80s, that's talking about a guy, Paul, and it
talks about his life and his exploits and his travels and so forth. I mean, that's one piece of
evidence that there really was a guy, Paul, a historical guy. We have a couple of other documents.
We have a couple of the epistles by Clement of Rome that seem to be dated in the 90s,
in the mid 90s, and they also mentioned Paul as a real person.
We have Ignatius, who wrote this epistle to the Romans. This seems to be written in the early
100s, maybe 105 AD. He mentions Paul. So you have a couple of sources from individual
early church figures. I mean, they're part of the church, but still, they're mentioning a guy,
Paul, like he's a real guy. It's not too far after the time of Paul. I mean, it's some decades later,
but it's close enough that it suggests that probably there was a real person,
most likely there was a real person at that time. So the little bits and pieces of
circumstantial evidence that we have seems to point to the fact that there was a Paul. I guess
the other piece of the story is if there wasn't, we have to answer the question, who invented him,
and when, and why. So you can't just throw it out and say, well, Paul is just made up. Well,
wait a minute. We have documents to refer to a guy named Paul, like he's a real guy. So if you
don't think he existed, someone made him up at a certain point in time for a certain reason.
And you have to give sort of a plausible story there. You can't just sort of whitewash the whole
thing and say, well, it's all just mythology. You got to have a cohesive theory. And I think
the guys who doubt Paul's existence, they have a really hard time describing who, when, and where,
and why somebody constructed the myth of just a regular guy, Paul, who was pushing this church
theology. See, that's the, the tough part to me is that I, and I'm speaking to the hyper critics.
I like to call them hyper because they're just so like, they need more evidence that it's like,
hold on, they concoct these theories about why Paul's an invented person. And to me, I think
there's a lot of ad hoc going on there, whereas it makes more sense that humans exist, people exist,
people all the time. This is like, it's what makes the most simple sense. And until they
have another theory that outweighs the common sense that there was probably a guy, there's no
reason to ultimately doubt that Paul didn't exist. It's to me, you have to be so conspiracy-minded
on this. And you have to, you have to believe that there's this, don't get me wrong, there's
conspiracies in the world. I don't want that to be derogatory. I want that to be like, give me a
reason why every single thing written here is all of a sudden fiction and created and hidden in secret.
And you can concoct the story. Don't get me wrong. Anyone can create this story, David. The problem
is, is it's like, what makes more sense? And to me, it seems, there's a Paul guy. Paul, and a lot
of people say Paul probably existed, most likely. There's a way better chance he did. I wish we had
correspondence from an enemy and had evidence like that would be like overwhelming evidence to say,
oh, we have a really good reason. Joe Cephas doesn't like the guy or mentions this guy was a
douchebag in the fifties or something. You know what I mean? Like that would help us. But yeah.
No, you're right. You're right. I mean, but, but, but, but yeah, I mean, that's a good
point, right? You really, anybody who's going to challenge his, the existence of Paul really
kind of needs to give a more compelling counter story with, with sort of enough, enough details
that it, that's plausible and becomes more likely than the usual one, which says he was just a guy
who did basically what we think he did, right? I mean, like, so here's just one little, one
little piece of evidence. If somebody constructed this Paul character and forged the letters to look
like they were written, you know, in the, in the, in the fifties AD, they clearly would have done it
later in time. So either they did it around the year 100 or maybe 150. I don't know. I've heard
some different dates, but if you're going to construct a story of a Paul who's spreading the
gospel of Jesus, for example, probably that Paul would mention the gospels, right? The four gospels,
or maybe he would talk about the Jesus, what Jesus said a little bit more about what his life was.
You want to show that this guy, Paul was really on intimate terms with this guy, Jesus. If you
forging a letter by this guy, Paul, but as we know, but as, as we know, none of the letters of Paul
mentioned even the existence of the gospels, right? So it's clear to a couple of things are clear.
First of all, they, they, they must have been written before gospels even existed,
which means prior to the year 70 AD, as far as we can tell, right? Unless we're shifting all the
timelines, then we have to create a whole new story. But, but, but a later forger almost certainly
would have put reference to the gospels, at least one of them in the letters that he was forging.
In the fact that you see none of that strongly suggests that there was no such forger, right?
There was nobody who was later in time, who was retroactively writing these letters that supposedly
came from, you know, 100 years earlier. It just doesn't, it doesn't make any sense. I mean, even
if you wanted to somehow believe this, you know, forge letter, everything about Paul's mythology,
just the evidence on its, on its face doesn't make any sense. You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, like why, why create the argument in Galatians? For me, there's other explanations.
I've heard people try to make this, you know, point, but to me, it's like, that's kind of embarrassing
or writing. I'm not a liar. Why is your fake call forger writing? I'm not a liar. Exactly. Who would
say that, right? Only a liar would say that, right? A liar would, that's exactly what I'm saying. I
don't lie. I'm not lying, right? But a forger wouldn't say that, right? Someone being accused
of lying, which tells me someone thought he was lying, even if he wasn't, let's say, someone
thought he was. So at the very least, someone thinks this guy is lying. Now you can go the step
further like you do and say, yeah, they saw what this guy was doing or they, they, they caught him
on his crap or caught him in a lie or something. So I just think it's interesting, like that whole
argument of embarrassment could play a part as to why this guy historically existed. It's just
why create this constant accusation that he's a liar and then put it in there. I'm not lying.
Exactly. You can create a story and people who are skeptical, they do, but the story is just not,
the weight of it isn't the strength of what the consensus says about this, in my opinion.
Yeah, absolutely. You know, I got a nice quote. If I could, if I could just read one, one quote from,
from a Christian scholar, this guy, John Oakes, he's written about a dozen books. He's a rational guy.
He's a professional chemist or something, right, for, for, for his living. But, but he also writes
these Christian books. He's a Christian. So he's a believer, but, but sort of here's what he says.
Here's a nice passage. He says, as far as I know, there's not a single reputable scholar,
including atheists, Jews, Muslims, skeptics or anyone from any background who doubts that Paul
was a real person. Even the fringe people who doubt the reality of Jesus don't have the nerve to
claim that Paul was not a real person. It would have been like doubting that Seneca or Ovid or
Cicero lived, right? So yeah, who does that? Bart Ehrman, we know Bart, right? One of the biggest
critics of the reliability of the Bible has debated unscholally atheists who claim that Paul is not
real and struggled not to laugh at his atheist friends for making the foolish and unfounded
claim that Paul was not a real person. So yeah, so Oakes is making a good point. I mean, pretty,
pretty much across the board, from believers to nonbelievers, to skeptics, to most mythicists,
there's a few, right? But the evidence is so scarce and it's so, so extreme to say that there
really was no Paul. You know, it just doesn't have much standing at all, unfortunately.
I would love if we found more data that, you know, just shocking information we found, a letter
of the enemies of Paul or someone who's trying to circumcise Paul's audience. Anything would be cool
if we did find that. But I, one of the criteria that I've been using is most people on planet Earth
that have ever existed have never had anything even written about them and they existed. I
use this because I heard this from a guy named Holy, well, he goes by Thomas, but he's got a
channel called Holy Kool-Aid and he brought up an interesting point that I thought, man, I never
really thought about it that way. Most people existed. Really, people don't exist in history
and most people who existed didn't have anything written about them. Now you've got people written
about that did exist and there are some few God type things, if you will, that probably didn't exist.
One can argue euhemerism, if you will, and say, well, you know, back in the ancient world, some of
these gods may have been men that were deified. We don't know with certainty, but there probably
are some mythical people that have been completely created. The idea that Paul was completely fictional
and created or concocted requires, like you said, we don't have the evidence, I think, to argue.
That's a more plausible explanation. Then there's an actual guy on the ground with boots, arguing
with movements, trying to make a change and we see the actual effects of it. It's the same thing I
have a problem with this. There's a group that I constantly bring up that comes out of the same
vein, a full preterism that I did called Israel only and they argue that the Gentiles, and we had
a discussion about this briefly, if you don't mind me taking us here just for a second, the Gentiles,
they argue, are lost biological Israelites. They argue that all Paul's Gentiles are ethnic Israelites,
not Jews, but Israelites and they're northern Israelites, so they're paganized Israelites as
their argument. Well, they argue this and then I said simple question, basic, very, very simple.
You should have a very powerful explanation for this that benefits the data than what we see in
the consensus scholarship. It doesn't fit the data, but nonetheless, this is what they say.
I asked them, when did pagans actually join the movement? Because you say non-Israelites
would never have done this and it's purely a message only to ethnic Israelites, Abraham's
literal seed. If pagans joined the movement, well, sometime after 70 AD, when the temple was destroyed,
these faux Christians decided to join the movement. But for what purpose and for what reason would
they have ever joined, I say? They don't have good explanations. The most plausible is Paul
brought this thing to pagans and this is the initial beginning of why pagans ended up taking
over the church. Maybe he cracks the door open and it gets slammed wide open. I don't know, but
nonetheless, it started somewhere and I see evidence in the New Testament. They don't,
they don't permit that. So when you talk about the evidence for the existence of Paul and people
go, oh, I don't permit that, I don't trust any of these letters, it's like, then why,
like, give me something better and they don't have a better explanation than the one that you have,
in my opinion. Yeah, exactly. Well, I mean, and again, you know, in the context of this of this
little hoax thesis, you know, we can almost, we can almost completely write off Paul anyway,
we can almost concede the points like, yeah, okay, mythical letters are forged and so forth.
You still got four Gospels, which tell you basically the same theology, give lots of more
baloney details about miracles that never happened and so forth. And they're still pushing the same
story. They're pushing this anti-Roman message, which we see that there's a subtle kind of this
subtle message of resistance to Roman rule and fighting Satan and defeating the powers of the
world and all this stuff. I mean, it's still there in the Gospels, which sort of are indisputable. So
even if you want to just completely write off Paul and all of his letters, right, you still
have the details of that story, which are still part of the same hoax. You know, I think at one
point recently, somebody was trying to argue that Paul didn't exist. And I said, well, you know,
if you can really convince me, I'll just have to change the title of my book, right? I'll just say,
how the cabal fooled the world for 2000 years. Okay, we don't want to take Paul anymore. We'll
just take Paul out of the picture, just take him out completely. It doesn't change my story.
It's still a cabal of Jews who constructed a story against the Romans to draw in the pagan masses.
I mean, so it's still there, too. You'd have to wipe out that whole New Testament story
to really defeat this hoax thesis. So that's a huge task, really.
I think it's interesting how you view it as a Roman jab in the side, where other guys, like
I've had you discuss with James Stevens Valiant when we had this debate, and he's like, no,
in his is the maximalist view. So let me put it like this. The minimalist position in this whole
framework is that really, this is a jab at Rome. The maximalist position that James takes is more
it's a top down is no, Rome's involved in this act of trying to pacify rebels. And then there's the
middle ground. And the middle ground sounds like this is the way they explain it. Well,
when you see passages like what is Pontius Pilate is innocent, or a Roman centurion has greater faith
than on Israel, or Paul saying, you know, obey the Romans, blah, blah, blah. The way that they'll
explain it is, well, this is butt kissing. This is really butt kissing. Now you might agree with
that butt kissing in a sense, too, because you say, well, they're hiding it. They think it's, well,
we don't want to get our asses kicked by these Romans. And really, these Jew leadership, the way
I understood it is like Second Temple Judaism is like, not liking these leaders in the Roman,
the Romans have obviously put these guys in a lot of the places, the Herodians and whatnot, and
the Hasmoneans, some of them are in power, and they're not liking the leadership that they see.
And then of course, the accusation of Pharisees and Sanhedrin and the Sadducees and whatnot.
And they're saying, huh, so I just want to make mention that you can comment if you'd like,
I just thought it was interesting how different you guys all view it.
Yeah, well, so right, you got to imagine the context, right? Again, what's what's going on,
right? So the Romans move in in 63 BC, they throw out the Jews, they really have problems of
resistance anywhere. When the Roman Empire is moving in, they're going to get resistance
in many cases. They do that not because they want to destroy everybody, they want to incorporate
them into the empire, they want things to go well, they want them to be part of the empire and be
productive members and whatever, taxpayers and all those kind of nice things. So the Romans are
moving in, they don't want to slaughter people, they don't want to make enemies, they want you to
be part of the part of the empire, right? And so it takes help, right? You're moving into different
sort of strange areas and strange tribes and you need local, probably lots of local leaders,
puppet leaders, right, who are going to work with the Romans and going to sort of, you know,
keep the order and talk to the natives in their own language and so forth, right?
So this makes sense. The Romans are going to find the Herodians that they're going to put in charge
that will sort of acquiesce to Roman rule, sort of keep the local, you know, rowdies under control
and then try to balance things while keeping a little bit of power there and then that's going
to cause conflict because you're going to have the hardline Jews in this case who are going to,
you know, hate all support, don't want any collaboration with the Roman rulers, just want
them dead and out of there and then there's got others who are going to be more pragmatic and say,
well, we're just going to wait them out. We'll just sit here and, you know, we, you know, Jews
are really good there. We'll just take the long-term view. Those Romans won't be here forever. Romans,
thousands of miles away and we'll just wait them out, you know. So you can imagine you had a whole
spectrum of views at the time on how to deal with these Romans and probably there was a lot of
infighting about, you know, do we fight back militarily? Do we fight back ideologically?
Do we just shut up and go along with it? You know, how do we do this? So you can imagine a lot of
conflict and I think you see that conflict in both the letters of Paul because he's talking about the
resistance that he's getting from his fellow Jews. So obviously there was some conflict there. They
didn't like his strategy. They didn't like his approach. They didn't like this Jesus story of a
Messiah because, of course, Jews didn't believe in any Messiah coming yet and you see it also in
the, in the Gospels, right? You got the story of, you know, the Jews are against us and the Jews
killed our guy Jesus and, you know, and you see anti-Jewish passages in some of the Gospels,
particularly the last Gospel of John. So I think that's all completely understandable in this context.
You're going to see this kind of conflict built into these stories. That's part of what was going
on. That was, you know, works its way into these, into these themes and into the stories. So it's,
but it's, it's, it's not inconsistent with this idea that there was sort of a fabricated story.
It's not consistent, though, to get back to the main point of a pro-Roman theology, right? So they
want to say, well, look, you got these pro-Roman passages, you know, render deceaser and pay your
taxes and obey the laws and so forth. And you hear these themes and you sit and you, and when you
actually do the work and you look for these actual passages, I mean, literally, like on one hand,
you can list the pro-Roman passages in either Paul or the Gospels. There's like five or six of them.
Would you say that four Roman passages are kind of butt-kissing passages to kind of say chill out,
like don't cause any problems yet? Probably. Well, so, so my hypothesis here is, of course,
you're writing basically an anti-Roman document and it, and it can't be too explicit. It can't say,
you know, we hate the Romans, slaughter those Romans, cut their throats. I mean, I mean, that's
not going to fly. You're going to get yourself killed in an instant, right? So you have to sort of
downplay it. You got to say, yeah, yeah, we're going to, we're going to follow the laws and,
yeah, we're going to pay their taxes. And all the while in the background, you're working at
sort of subverting their, their ideology and their worldview. So probably it's just, it was just,
my thought is just, those are just covered passages, these literally four or five or six
passages is just sort of there to placate the authorities. Yeah, we believe in Caesar. Yeah,
we're going to pay our taxes. And then in the background, we're fighting evil or fighting
Satan, you know, the, the time is going to come when all ruling powers will fade away.
And you see only put on the armor of God. I mean, all these sort of little militant,
rebellious passages, I've gone through and document them. There's something like over 50 of them,
about half are in the letters of Paul, about half are in the gospels, these anti-Roman,
rebellious or revolutionary passages that are in, in those documents, they, they far out number 10
or 20 to one, the handful of passages that could be counted as pro-Roman. So if you look at the
actual evidence, I mean, to me, it's not even close. Interesting. It's an interesting thing to see
both sides running with different theories of trying to explain the data. And I really do
appreciate that. So someone out there needs to hear this that might be doubting Paul's existence.
What do you think? I know you're going to comment. So I'm interested in hearing your thoughts.
And yeah, maybe you'll check the comment section out down the road, Dr. Skibina and
see what the people have to say. Some people are just hateful, but you know, this is just you trying
to, you know, figure out what you think is the best for what you've researched. And so I can
appreciate that. I ask everybody to go and check out your website, please. I mean, you know, this
is, this is how I always help bring people on is to go and check out what they do. If at least
check out what he's done with the unabomber on peak. This is like, like, who talks to this guy,
right? Like, what did he say to you? Like, well, you're going to find that out. So go check him
out. He's got a ton of books and his expertise is in philosophy as well. So you guys, if you're
interested in dubbing in the philosophy, he does a lot on that. And his book here, The Jesus Hoax.
So I guess if there's a theme in those books, Derek, it's that, you know, I don't, I don't take
the conventional story. I'm pretty much anything. I mean, I'm really sort of taking counter views
on almost everything that I'm writing about. And to me, those are the most interesting ones,
because there's several things, philosophy of mind and technology and religion and so forth.
There's a lot of pressure to cover up sort of what's really going on. And, you know, the professional
academics don't want to talk about it. The media doesn't want to talk about it. People are sort of
scared. They don't only have the backbone to talk about these things. So much of my sort of writing
career has been dealing with the truth of these things. And, you know, I guess I'm in a position
I can do it. I, you know, I don't really worry too much about, you know, people don't like this stuff
or whatever. That's up to them. You know, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not relying on these books
to make a living. You know, I'm probably secure enough financially that I can afford to tell the
truth. You've got some, some people in the, in the Jesus business who are literally, that's their
business. And they need to get on TV and they need to do the circuit and they need to sell books.
And so they're going to sort of give you something that's marketable. And they may, they may not touch
on some of these more delicate topics, right? Like the Jewish role in the, in the, in the story or,
you know, whatever, you know, whether it's a Unabomber story or whatever, there's things that
people don't want to talk about, just because it's not very popular. It's not politically correct.
And it's somehow they're, it's going to hurt their career. So they, they almost willfully
avoid the truth. I guess that's, that's what I'm seeing. So to me, it's like, you know,
life is too short. You got to, you got to get to the truth because there's just too much bullshit
out there. And we need, we need to get right to the hardcore truth and, you know, come what may,
somebody's going to do it. So that's kind of the common theme, I think, in, in all of my books,
is I'm like, I'm, I'm just going to cut right to the truth. And I do it in an academic way. I
document everything. And I, you know, I have good sources and I try to be solid and rational about
it. And if you don't like it, then come up with a better story. I don't know what to say. You know,
you can, you can call me names if you want. I don't care. It doesn't really bother me. I've
been called every name you can imagine. And to me, it's more important just to get to the truth and,
and just to be honest about it. Well, you heard it from him. He said you can call him name. No,
I'm just kidding. Thank you so much, Dr. Skrivina. I appreciate you joining me here talking about Paul,
the historical Paul. If there was a guy, and it sounds to me more plausibly, there was,
and I am with you on that. I'd like to hear your guys' thoughts, comment,
subscribe to the channel, go check his website out. Let us know what you think down in the
description. I'd like to hear your thoughts. I know some of you guys are a little more cautious
and aren't interested in, or you think, no, no, no, this guy didn't exist. Well, go ahead and
comment down below. But I personally do think that what you've said today, as well as what I've
read and what makes the most sense to me is there was a guy at the basis of this. And yes,
so we have forgeries and we have such, sure. But I think those red flags don't caution us from saying
there ever was a guy, in my opinion. But thank you so much, Dr. Skrivina. And let's do this again,
if you will. Absolutely. You know, I just as a last message, I would really encourage people to
make sure that they read the whole story, right? Because I get a lot of criticism of people to
take one little snippet of the piece and say, well, that doesn't make sense. And I don't disagree,
I disagree with that. But I'm like, well, wait a minute, you didn't give the whole story a chance,
you got to look at the whole argument for anybody, not just me, right? So that maybe that's the last
message for the people who want to be critics and skeptics. And that's fine. And I'm happy to have
that kind of debate and pushback. But you got to look at the whole story, you got to get the whole
story in so that you're knowledgeable. As I said, I don't mind critics, but I want you to be a
knowledgeable critic, at least know what you're talking about, be well informed, and make a good
case. And then you can give intelligent discussion, then we can have intelligent debate. But don't
take one little aspect or one little snippet that you saw, you know, on the book cover,
one line that you didn't like, and then zoom, you're making all these great conclusions. I mean,
that's not, that's not good, right? At least I just encourage people to sort of just do a little
bit of work. You know, in this case, it's an easy read book, it's not demanding, it doesn't take
any background, it'll walk you right through the whole thing, just give the argument a chance.
And then, and then if you want to criticize, that's fine.
Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen, never forget, we are MythVision.
