Was Joseph Smith really a con man? Was he a fraud? Many of you who are out there who are skeptical
and non-mormon will say absolutely he was a fraud. He was a con man. He lied this this and that.
But at the end of the day, did he believe in what he was actually saying? Did he believe
in what he was preaching or did he make it up? You know this enigma of a question has been asked
of not only the Prophet Joseph Smith but the Prophet Muhammad. People like Paul and most people
don't even realize the Apostle Paul saw himself as a last day's prophet. How many prophets tend to
have these characteristics that people say are frauds or liars? Paul said, I am not a liar. I lie
not. Paul continued to defend himself. Was he possibly making up stuff yet still believing
in his own stuff? And I say stuff because that covers a lot of material.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. Today I have
John Hamert with me. I really appreciate you joining us today. We're going to be tiving into
Joseph Smith, early Mormonism, the development of the movement and kind of going into various
things historically I think that might give us clues as to whether or not he believed in his own
stuff to put it simply. So I look forward to that. If you don't mind, John, your first time
appearing on this show. So can you tell us a little bit about yourself, your background and
what makes you I guess an expert in this topic? Sure, absolutely. Thank you so much for having me
on the podcast. So by way of background, I'm a pastor in Community of Christ which is the second
largest church within the Latter-day-St. movement. And so that's part of my background. So in other
words, I'm part of the religion, but I've also a historian within the Latter-day-St. movement
or Mormonism. I've, for example, published an anthology of study of the movement called Scattering
the Saint's Sism within Mormonism and several other history books and articles. I'm also a past
president of the John Whitmer Historical Association, which is this study of the movement more broadly.
So maybe a lot of folks who know anything about Mormonism, they're pretty much only familiar with
the LDS church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Headquartered in Salt Lake City.
Those are the guys who knock on your doors. Those are the guys, you know, Mitt Romney's
a member of that church and so on. But they might be aware of kind of the smaller, some of the
smaller Brighamite, we call them the people that followed Brigham Young to Utah, in that Brigham
Young tradition, some of the smaller Brighamite churches, which are like the FLDS church, the
fundamentalist church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Warren Jeffs, and so on, the Polygamous
and things. But they're less likely to be aware of other branches of the movement that are not
from the Brigham Young side of it. And so Community of Christ also traces its origin to the same
original church that split apart when the Prophet Joseph Smith died. We specifically
are the ones who stayed in the Midwest, who were opponents of polygamy, and then our second
prophet is the eldest son of Joseph Smith, Jr., which is the founder. So Joseph Smith the third.
Interesting. So at the end of the day, there's always a split, it seems to happen, whenever
the leader of any movement ends up going in different directions, right out the gate. You
know, there's all of these ideas about Jesus, for example, where when he died, was it just one
movement that eventually fractured off? Or right out the gate when he died, you have people already
arguing and disputing and not on the same page. That seems to make the most sense, especially
using a historical example like Joseph Smith or Muhammad or whoever might be. So the same way,
like we say, people are probably familiar with Islam. When Muhammad dies, who's going to be
the successor now? He's the last prophet, according to himself. And so therefore, who can be his
successor or Khalif? Is it going to be his companions? Or is it going to be his family?
And so the companion guys, the Sunnis and the family folks is the Shiites. And so in the same
exact way, is it going to be Joseph Smith's companions, his apostles like Brigham Young,
who lead people off to Utah? Or is it going to be his family? So we're kind of like the Shiite
Mormons. Got it. Interesting. So let's ask this question, because people who are wanting me to
compare Paul or some other figures to Joseph Smith, I host a skeptic channel. Lots of people
who are in my chat are going to be like, you know, if I do a video, they're like, oh, he's full of it,
or he doesn't, he just wanted money. And this, it's only about power. And I thought to myself, I'm
like, hmm, like, I remember being a fundamentalist and people would look at me and probably think
I am ridiculous. But to be absolutely honest with you, I really believed in what I was saying
and what I believed that I would preach and try to get others to think that way. So it's hard to
try and determine those motives. And that's the question of the day is, did Joseph Smith really
believe in what he was teaching like through and through? And can you give us like a historical
backup to what I guess you say like his life to why you say yes or no?
Yeah, exactly. So no, I think you're totally right. I think on the one hand, when people are
approaching from a fully, let's say, secular or skeptical perspective, they maybe just naturally
assume that people don't believe these things. But in fact, actually, a lot of people are very
firm believers in all sorts of things. And so part of what we have to do to deconstruct this
is go behind also the way stories are presented in modern times and the way they existed at the time.
And so one of the things that is going to be a disconnect for people is that when they actually
maybe if you've ever seen the movies that the Mormon Church makes and portrays
what Joseph Smith is experiencing in a very, let's say, special effectsy kind of way. So there's a lot
of magic and science fiction stuff that's happening in terms of visitations and that kind of a thing.
That's how it's portrayed now by that church. But if you actually go back to the sources and
what people are talking about at the time, and if you really kind of understand that we're talking
about, let's say, visionary experiences that people are experiencing with their spiritual eyes,
these are the kinds of things that people can envision things today. This is something that
we're in a post enchanted world where we are so used to special effects and our imaginations are
so turned off because of screens. Everybody assumes that everybody had to have been on hallucinatory
drugs in order to see anything. But that is not historically true. Historically, people have been
able to, anyway, be more imaginative than that. They didn't have all the things that we have now.
I think that there's all kinds of different reasons. If we go back to the actual sources that
we can say that Joseph Smith at the minimum is a complex character and there might have been
multiple voices within his personality, the way we had listened to different things we have
self-doubt, but we maybe also feel a sense of calling. There may be things that we believe that
are inherently contradictory within ourselves. I think that there is adequate reason to believe
that some part of him is definitely believing what he's saying because some of his actions seem
to indicate that. Some of the things that he ends up doing, it's hard. You'd be hard pressed to
understand why he would do that if he wasn't also believing some of the even supernatural
things that he's talking about. This leads us into a perfect time of saying,
what are some of those things? If you were to say, Derek doesn't believe, what's a good example
that I could use? Derek doesn't think that he'll be successful with doing YouTube full time at all,
but I put all my eggs in the basket and here I am running a podcast. I'm doing this full time,
but he doesn't believe in doing the thing that he's doing. It's hard to say that someone is
completely fabricating it. Now, I've heard some stories historically about what happened with
some of the battles and wars that took place. It's like, can you really go into that as a fake
and a phony and a fraud? It's hard for me to know. What are some of these examples?
So you can. In other words, there are people who are frauds and who are conscious frauds,
and so that's not to say, I'm not going to sit here and argue and say that that's not possible.
So what we have to say when we're looking at a historical figure and we're looking through
the lens of history, what we have is the evidence and so you can never get it precisely into a
person's mind even now. So for you, Derek, I don't know you enough to know what you're in
terms of those beliefs, but what I can say for everybody in terms of their own history,
you may have had this. You may have had, you may now, now that you have done this, now that you
are gunful as a podcaster and you're doing this full time, when you now retell your life story,
it may be that there are things that brought you along this path that got to you to this place.
At the time that it was happening back in the past, it wasn't important to you,
but now you look back on it and say, hey, guess what? That was one of the stepping stones that
led you to this. And so now in hindsight, in retrospect, you emphasize that moment in your
life way out of proportion to what you would have thought at the time. And if you were just
keeping a journal, that might not even made it in or whatever. There might have been something
else that was so much more important to you at the time that's not important to you at all now,
because you didn't go down that path. You might have gone a completely other different path,
but you didn't. And so that's what happens is that because we know how it goes, then there is a,
we, historically, we go back and identify things as out more important in retrospect than they were
at the time it was happening. And so we can say that kind of thing for, in all kinds of different
ways. And so for Joseph Smith, what is the actual kind of context that he is coming in? Where is
he? What are his different beliefs? And so when people tell the Joseph Smith story today,
they tend to start with his, what's called retrospectively called his first vision.
And so this is this moment, if you go to Salt Lake, and you see it in the LDS Church History
Museum, you go into kind of a little tiny IMAX experience where you are overwhelmed by,
you kind of enter into this Lord of the Rings, and, you know, and you're having this kind of
otherworldly experience as God and Jesus appear to the 14-year-old Joseph Smith Prang in the
woods kind of thing. And so I've heard, you know, like ex-mormon skeptics who say, I really would
love to have a time to see and go back and see what was what Joseph Smith was actually experienced.
And I was saying in response to that, you do not have to go back to worry about that. What you
would see as a boy praying and you would see nothing, you know, because that is because things
like that, this is a visionary experience, this is not something where there is such a thing as a
visitation in my view. So anyway, as a theologian and as a historian, but in any event, that's my
view of that. So real quick, I just want everybody to know you have the book for those who are
interested in diving deep into this topic. Bryce Blinkenigel recommended this totally. He said,
this is a wonderful book, Scattering of the Saints, Schism within Mormonism. Also, the YouTube
channel, it is center place, and I'll leave these down in the description. Go subscribe. He talks
about some really good stuff on tangling Greek and Roman mythology, giants and fallen angels,
all the fun stuff that everybody likes lost, you know, the lost gospel queue, the documentary
hypothesis, you name it, he's into it, go subscribe. You can't pass that up on myth vision.
Anyway, just coming right back to this because Oh, absolutely, absolutely. I when I see the images,
I'm like, I'm gonna have to go watch it too. So, so Joseph Smith has its self-proclaimed
visionary experiences. And for me, as a skeptic, like I have no problem with thinking people have
experiences. You can say whatever might be what what what might have caused the experiences
might be natural or you say supernatural, either way, discrediting. I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, I'm just gonna say, by the way, we can also say as a historian, this is actually amazingly
common. So Joseph Smith is not the only person in the 1820s or whatever the you know, whatever
the year is there that this is happening, because this is the second grade awakening
in US early US American history, where there's suddenly all of these revivals, he even talks
about how a revival is the thing that sparked him to go and pray. Revival preachers of the
time, this is like the beginnings of evangelical Christianity. It's the beginnings of this brand
new theology of preaching hellfire and damnation so that a person feels like they are convicted
of their sins, so that they will go have a born again experience. And so what Joseph Smith is
just describing here, especially in his first earliest recollection of the first vision is
simply that what an evangelical would call a born again experience. So he's born again,
he's convicted of his sins, and he goes and prays for forgiveness. He has a sense of Christ
speaking to him and say, your sins are forgiven you. And so that's the earliest recollection of
that. And we have, there's hundreds of accounts that are just like that, you know, from that time
period and to this day, you know, and frankly, you know, and so it isn't anything that we have to
say, oh, he made that up or anything like that. There's one of the main historians of all of the
early documents, a guy named Dan Vogel, a good friend of mine, he is a ex-mormon, he's also an
atheist, and he doesn't doubt that there is an experience here because Joseph Smith keeps going
back to the experience. What he's saying is, it's not though, as it's portrayed in LDS movies,
where you're actually having a sci-fi event where visitation is happening outside of the body.
Yeah, this reminds me of like pre-charismatic, you know, a Pentecostal type, you know, I've been
there, I've seen things and experienced things myself. And so I know that's why as a skeptic,
I'm like, you know, I'm a skeptic, I identify as an atheist, and I'm like, I just don't see why
we're dying on that hill pretending that was all fake. Now, there are going to be questions we're
going to get into about maybe are some things invented, or what are the, or how do we interpret
them like the golden plates? I think these will be interesting discussions because there seems to be
like a historical, so someone says it's like looking through a mountain and like seeing the plate,
like he's not showing them these actual plates, but they're visioning them or something.
But I'd like to know if there's something there. But before we get into that, I just want to make
one comment. You brought up something fascinating. The world in which he lived in, the milieu is
this kind of thinking and magic played some significant role. Absolutely. So I think that
needs to be emphasized as we get into this because looking at someone like Paul, the Apostle Paul,
you notice he comes out of a weird Greco-Roman Hellenistic apocalyptic Judaism blend. So there is,
if I can use the term superstition in the air about the end at any moment now, while Hellenism's
trying to, you know, really isn't trying, it's already embedding the minds of all of these
people practicing this Judaism. So I wonder, you know, I'm thinking like, how do I parallel these?
So please, maybe we go into like Joseph Smith and show us like some more things that you think are
valid. And then maybe if there are some things you think you may have purposely lied about for
whatever motivation, if you think there's something like that, I'd love to hear it.
Well, so I would say one of the things that is operating, especially if you go now all the way
back to Paul, for ancient people, ancient people do not make a distinction between they don't have,
they don't have the same sense of, let's say, having figured out how natural operations work,
right? And so they have much less Aristotelian sciences is much less evolved than our, you know,
modern modern science, right? And so being able to differentiate between causation is not something
that they, they particularly have. And so they don't actually differentiate between
divine forces and what we call may say natural forces, they're all divinely caused. And they
also then are not aware as much of like, say, things that actually can happen and things that
do not happen. You know, and so and so for people back then, they're not making, I mean, so it doesn't,
people are largely, it's not a matter of deciding whether they believe in God or not, because
when you're talking about things like that, you're saying, well, you don't mean you don't
believe in lightning, you don't believe in, in death, you don't believe in, in love, all of those
things are, are expressions of God or the gods in antiquity. And so they don't actually make this
distinction that we made these days where we talk about the supernatural, supernatural, even though
this is a Latin word, supernatural, this didn't exist until modern times, it's a modern invention,
they weren't talking about that. They did talk about superstition, but, but the Romans, the Romans
had that word, but they, they kind of applied it prejudicially, right? So like our stuff is the
real stuff, everybody else is superstition, right? You know, and so, yeah. And so, but for me, I use
the word superstition to mean belief in physical magic. And so, and so a physical magic is different
from, from what for me, religiously is, is this, what is the spiritual is the immaterial,
its ideas, it is that sort of a thing as opposed to walking on water or something like that, which
would be a supernatural physical magic activity. So for me, in those, those are literary, and those
are written, for example, by ancient people who didn't know the difference between how cause works
and how, how those kind of things work. They are recounting stories that were spoken, let's say,
in the spirit that early Christians had. In this particular case, I think it's probably a
retrojection of a vision of the risen Christ that somebody has walking on water that is then
transposed by the author of the Gospel of Mark into a living Jesus story, right? And so, so it's
made into something that had occurred into his life, when it's probably initially reflecting a
visionary experience of the risen Christ or something like that. But in any event, that's
how, that's how I would approach those in antiquity. What I'd say is that Joseph Smith is living in a
time where this is this enchanted worldview is collapsing. So in other words, at the tail end
of the Enlightenment, but at a time period when, let's say, people who have, he's also not a very
educated person, but anyway, when regular people who are reacting against ideas like that have evolved
like deism, where, where we are pulling away from doing the kind of thing that I just described,
right? So in other words, taking the physical magic out of the text, people want to still
continue to believe in physical magic, and they still aren't differentiating causation enough
that they could still kind of do that in the early 1800s. And so, if you look at a lot of
Joseph Smith's program, it is, it's trying to make it so we can still believe now in a, let's say,
a literal reading of the Bible. And so everywhere where there's a problem in it, he can, he can say,
well, that's a translation error, and so he crosses it out and fixes it so that it doesn't say that,
you know, and so, and so it's a way to try to preserve literalism. And he's still in a year
where people felt like that enterprise could be, could happen. People still think that now,
but anyway, it's, but they can't swear that with actual academic reality.
Interesting. Yeah. So he's, he was into physical magic.
Yes.
From what I understand, actual physical magic, like, like,
magic too. So he's also a folk, a practitioner of folk magic. And so it's his parents too.
And so they're in an, in that sense, an enchanted worldview in that, in a, in a sense that's,
it's still, they're still Christians, but they also believe in, like, lots of country folk in,
in, in remedies. And so this was very common and widespread. The kind of very physical magic that,
that Joseph Smith is engaged in, that he very likely believes in, I think, there's all kinds
of indications that his whole family is what we would call, what I would call superstitious
in terms of their kind of various folk magic beliefs. They believe, for example, in like,
using dowsing rods, right? So you're probably seeing those, you can use those to find things.
But they're also kind of proto-spiritualists. So the great age of spiritualism comes in the
second half of the, of the 19th century and the early 20th century. This is this idea of,
where we get of seances and crystal balls and so on. But that actually emerges out of an earlier
folk magic tradition. And so Joseph Smith operates as a, what we, what he called a seer.
And what we usually say is a treasure seer, which is to say that he is using what is sometimes
called a seer stone, but functionally is like a crystal ball. And he is using that to scry.
So he's using his spiritual eyes and using the stone as a spiritual medium focus.
He is using that to determine, let's say, where a lost object is or where buried treasure is.
And spiritualism comes into it because the folks, including Joseph Smith, his family,
and so on, they believe that the treasure that is buried is guarded by, by spirits,
by guardian spirits. And so certain magic rituals have to be performed in order to
be able to appease the spirit and access the treasure.
Yeah, I played video games that actually do that kind of stuff, to be honest with you. But
it's interesting how people thought and he comes out of that kind of worldview. So
maybe I'll bring up some examples. We might as well cut into the, into some of these examples to
get your thoughts as a historian. And this is, you might have actual texts that can back this up.
If you talk to an enemy of Joseph Smith, they're going to say it's baloney. If you talk to Joseph
Smith's followers, they're going to say it's true. And I wonder, is there some line in the middle
where we're just not quite, and I'm not saying what he did was true, but I'm saying he is convinced
that what he's doing is true. And these people at the same time, just they have a point in saying
it's not necessarily true, but they, they go so far. You know how critics are. So his, let's say
the, first of all, he has his vision of Jesus and God, which kind of tells you something about
his thinking about Jesus being not so, so to speak, doesn't sound Trinitarian sounds like
something else. But either way, he has these golden plates. And I think he's gone to some of these
people early on to tell them, look, there's treasure here, you know, pay me. God has told me this,
this, that, you know, we're going to find treasure, you know, if you give me money. Do you think that
he was at some points bribing people out of money and like, wasn't he convicted for something
like this supposedly? And yeah, exactly. So, so yeah, it's pretty hard. In fact, it's not possible
to deny that Joseph is involved in being a treasure seer, because we have like so many,
so much records. So the sources, the difference between when you've done like origins of, of
the historical Jesus and things like that, and, and Muhammad, even the difference between the amount
of, you know, the amount of historical records we have, Joseph Smith, we have way too much, you
know, we have plenty, we have, we know everything, you know, I mean, there's just so much of it
that's available. So I'll just mention, so in terms of you're talking about this, the first vision,
so seeing God and Jesus, again, there are multiple accounts that he gives over the
course of his life. And the earliest accounts don't actually, it's not a vision of God and Jesus,
it's essentially just Jesus. And so, and so the account that people tend to quote is a
count that's written right at the end of his life, when his theology has evolved, and he has
definitely become kind of a non-Trinitarian. But, but when that would have, when the original
vision would have occurred, and certainly when the earlier time periods, when he's first recounting
it, for example, the, the, the concept of God that is expressed in the Book of Mormon. So in
other words, we can see what Joseph Smith's thinking is, you know, right at that initial time
period is, is not modern LDS, you know, God and Jesus and the Holy Spirit are totally separate
beings, and they are limited physical beings and so forth. All of that kind of very non-Trinitarian
stuff developed much later. So what we can say in the Book of Mormon, the Book of Mormon is, is,
it's sort of Trinitarian. It's a country person doesn't understand, Trinity is very hard to
understand. So it's, it's, it's expressing, it'll sometimes say, Jesus is the Father, you know,
and, and so on, you know, and so it'll, it tends to express what people sometimes have called
modalism. Yeah. So it's a, it's a kind of Trinitarian, it's a kind of, you don't really
understand the Trinity, but you kind of believe in it, the Trinity. So, so I would say when the
first vision is happening, he is not entertaining this later idea of Mormon theology that exists in
the, in the Utah tradition. We, by the way, are Trinitarian. So when we, we expressed this earlier
form in Community of Christ. Yeah, I've sticking that, that, that was something that was there
early on, because when he was developing and growing the church, he was appealing to a large
audience of also, it seemed Trinitarian churches. But talking about the Golden Plates. Yes. Were
they really there? Is this something that he made up? People wanted to see them, I hear.
So, so exactly. So what happens in terms of the Golden Plates is that this, at this kind of,
this time period where he has been a, a treasurer seer, where the, he and his family very fervently
believe and his friends and so on, very fervently believe that there are various very, very treasurers
and they go on expeditions to find them. They perform certain spells and rituals. He's acting
as a seer to say where the treasure is as they're kind of digging down and the treasure gets slippery
and moves because again, it is, it is being guarded by a, by a guardian spirit and so forth.
And as you mentioned, at a certain point, he is arrested for kind of on that for doing that in,
in New York and has put on trial for being what's called a glass looker and, and, and for what's
called under the vagrancy unsavory persons kind of laws. And so they're essentially a local person
who believes very much that he has buried treasure on his property is paying people to be a seer and
also to dig for treasure on his property. And he very much believes in it. And so his sons
who think that their father is being defrauded out of their property, out of his property,
take him to court and, and he gets convicted for, because you can't be a glass looker, that's illegal
under the vagrancy laws. So anyway, so he, so the guy who is being, who his sons think is being
defrauded, he testifies on behalf of Joseph Smith. Oh no, we're doing that, but he's a real treasurer
in other words, he has that power. And so he, and so that pretty much convicts him even though it's
friendly testimony, right? Right. And so then he has to kind of, he flees. And so he takes leg
bail, as they say, and doesn't actually serve or anything like that. But he leaves that leaves
the county and that, and that, and they're fine. They don't care. They just, they want to get rid
of him kind of thing. But that, that's showing kind of what's happening. So in that same way,
as the story of the golden plates kind of emerges, some of the earliest accountings of it that we
have sort of as, as Joseph Smith's father explains it to some of the neighbors, again, an old spirit
has, has said that there is a buried, what's a treasure, what we might call a treasure, but in
this case, the gold is actually a book. And so the book actually also has a record of this lost
people that everybody at the time believe in. So it's believes in. So European, European Americans
anyway. So European Americans, the settlers have encountered all of these earthworks everywhere.
So it used to be in the Northeast and especially all across the Midwest.
There were mounds and some of the mounds have survived. But generally speaking,
the settlers just destroyed them all and got rid of all of these earthworks. And they, you know,
ground them under to make their farms and everything like that. But there were the,
these earlier remnants of, you know, like these Mississippian cultures and things like that earlier
native vast earth complexes and things like that. And because of the condition of the Native
Americans by the early 1800s, nobody, and because of how racist settlers were, nobody in the settler
culture in the European American culture believed that the natives had ever had a high enough
civilization that they could have built these vast cities and earthworks and everything like that.
And so there was a widespread understanding, what's now called the myth of the mound builders,
because it's a totally wrong hypothesis. But there was a widespread understanding at the time
that there had been this great civilization in the North Americans, that the natives had come
along as barbarians and had exterminated them. And that and that now all that was left is the
ruins and the natives. And so anyway, so that that's why it's a good background though. I like
how you're leading up to give us, well, that's why they thought that there's buried treasure.
Right. Right. Because in other words, because so all of these things that are under the Indian
mounds, there's a, there's some kind of thing that they're going to find the same way that
everybody now in Europe has been digging everything up. They went to Egypt, Napoleon went to Egypt,
and they got the Rosetta stone and all these treasures of Egypt. Everybody has been started
doing this kind of big, it becomes archaeology right now. It's just grave robbing, you know.
Yeah. Yeah. And that kind of thing is just taking off and everybody's excited about it.
Thomas Jefferson is going and, you know, it was going and actually are, you know,
excavating Indian mounds. DeWitt Clinton, the governor of New York, you know, is speaking about
how tragic it is for in the New York Antiquity Society, how tragic it is that we don't have
the history of this lost people and that we'll never, we'll never have it unless,
unless somehow buried in one of the mounds is a record that's written on, you know, metal or
stone that, you know, that, that, that would actually record this lost history, because
if it was written on paper, it's all, it's all gone. Yeah. Wow. Okay. So we get the background,
the buildup to the golden plates. Yes. From what I understand is he had actual plates,
that it wasn't just a book, that these were actual golden plates that he had in a box.
And he had a box for sure. Right. So yeah. And he said the plates were in the box. So yes.
Yeah. But then like when people wanted to see it, he was saying, no, you know, no,
you can't say, do you think that there might be a mix of dishonesty and his real hope?
But like this, people believe, I'm gonna give you an analogy, people believe Jesus is coming back
any day. Yeah. I can give you a thousand reasons why that was all supposed to happen in the New
Testament period. Of course. Cognitive dissonance sets in and you can't be wrong. So whether we
want to say flat out liar, as some people would run to, rather than say somewhat of a dishonesty
here might be playing a role. Overall, though, he does believe in what he's doing, but he might
be getting caught in something here. What do you think about that? Do you think that's, so,
so what I, what I'm going to say, say, I'll just do, you know, there's all kinds of possibilities
here. But I'll say what I think is the case, what is that I think that, that he believes in his gift
as a seer. And over time, he begins to interpret that gift as a gift from God. So in other words,
it's not, he's not getting it through evil genies or something like that, or how whatever kind of
treasure magic we might think hits a Christian magic. And so he believes this is a spiritual
gift that he has from God. And that he believes that, that there is this, this ancient record of
this people, and that it is, you know, in the form of these gold plates. And so, and he wants to obtain
these plates. And so he spends years going through the different magic rituals and things like that
in order to actually access the plates. And at a certain point, he starts to say that he has them
now. But what I would suggest is that it's conceivable here that he thinks of the real plates
as an entirely spiritual artifact. And that he that that is is available to him if he can,
and the same way that a spiritual medium can communicate with the spirits and get the, you
know, to get actual text or something like that, you know, the spirit is telling you some message
from beyond, that he would be able to essentially as a medium, bring that, bring that forward.
But at a certain point, everybody wants to see these plates so much that, that he is definitely
engaging in a deception, which I think he, you can see where he is justifying it,
where he tells people that it's in the box. And so it's not, they are not, there's no plates in
that box. You know, this is, there are no gold plates. So anyway, this, this, this whole history
doesn't exist. The Mount builders as a myth, you know, in some other words, that's, that's what
everybody thought was the history. And you, everybody believed it. But there, but there are no
plates in the box, right? And so, and so we can, how do, how does he justify it? He justifies it
in the Book of Mormon, it says, you know, they're one of the characters in order to bring the,
bring the Bible with them as their fleeing Jerusalem, one of the characters to found the,
you know, the native civilization here in the new world. One of the characters commits murder
in order to steal the, this copy of the Bible engraved on plates to bring with them. And the
justification is, it's better that one man perish than an entire nation to window an unbelief. So
there, right, there is a, let's say, a pragmatism philosophy that is even justifying murder. And
so if you, if you're trying to bring up this great cause, for example, like the Book of Mormon
claims, which is to bring all of Native Americans to Christianity, this is incredibly important from
a evangelical Christian perspective of the early 1800s perspective, that great end. So as far as
Joseph Smith is concerned, telling people that there's plates in the box is a, you know, is a
means to that end. And so, and so anyway, so I would say there's definitely a deception there.
It's not my philosophy. I would not justify that. I actually also disagree with the,
the component in the Book of Mormon. So in other words, I don't think that you're supposed to
murder the guy in order to do that, right? So, but, but you can see the thinking there in terms
of that theological or philosophical proposition. Yeah, that's a really interesting way of, of
viewing it. And I don't think many people who are skeptics like me take the time to actually think
like that. Too often, it's like polemics. So I really do appreciate you taking the time to explain
it. And you do it in a great way. What other examples can we give that are like red flags to
people that think that he's just a con man? And there's actually not saying he's not lying or
being deceitful as we see with these golden plates, right? But they take it and they run with it rather
than saying, yeah, he might be lying about that or being a little bit deceitful about this particular
thing. However, this is really in light of this bigger picture. So are there other examples you
could give? Well, so for example, in terms of like believing in your own, your own gift as a
treasurer, at a certain point after the church is founded, and they moved to Ohio and they build
this big temple, the Kirtland Temple, they bankrupt themselves to do it. And so the church is in just
terrible financial straits. And yet, right at this moment, when you know, it's pretty desperate,
Joseph Smith decides to go on a on essentially a treasure seeking expedition, where he again
re adopts this treasure seer business, he takes the church leaders, they go to Salem, Massachusetts,
they, they've heard that there's a buried treasure, they ultimately identifies the house where it is,
they rent the house, they dig up the basement and things like that. There is no treasure there.
So they go back even more bankrupt than before. So why, if you didn't believe in this,
you know, in this treasure seer stuff, why, you know, you can see why, okay, you're making,
you know, in that earlier case with the Glass Looker Court case, maybe you are, maybe you can
say, okay, that guy was just defrauding that old man out of his money. But later, why are you defrauding
your, you know, yourself, right? And so same thing, because the same thing had happened to Joseph Smith's
dad. So they're, they're going bankrupt. He, he's got a farm there. You know, it's, you know, they
have a loan on it and everything like that, a mortgage, and they, and he's supposed to farm it
to make money as a farmer. But instead of doing that, he goes on another treasure digging thing in
order to bring the treasure back to, you know, get rich quick and so on. So I mean, he clearly
believes he's going to get the treasure because he ultimately they lose the farm and they're going to
go to, to, you know, debtor prison or whatever it is, you know, and if they hadn't, if they hadn't
get bailed out at the last minute, you know, because of the, because they believe that they're
going to get rich quick doing these things. And so I think that there's a lot of cause to believe
in. He's continuing to have, you know, various kinds of, and some various kinds of things that
you would, you would expect that, you know, like a lot of cases, a medium, let's say, even let's say
in the present after the spiritual movement, a lot of cases, a medium is aware that some of the
things that they're doing, you know, are more dramatic than what the people who are outside of
the know, right? But that doesn't mean that they aren't themselves superstitious and that they don't
believe in spirits and so on. Some of them maybe do, right? So there's some people who are just
straight up con people or something like that. But there's a whole bunch of people
who are very, very superstitious, but understand that they have to, that they have to do a little
bit of the performance in order to make the whole thing happen and also to make the people who are
outside of the know, you know, kind of be on board with the whole thing, you know? So that's what I'd
say. Yeah, interesting. Yeah, I know about the golden plates in that particular, then there's also
the kinder hook plates, I think is another one he kind of falls for. Because if I'm not mistaken,
it's the same wishful thinking that he has, I like to call it wishful thinking. It's a nice way of
saying, you know, he's still into this magical thinking. Is that also, would you agree with me
that there's something to that? I'd say they're very different. So the golden plates are an entirely
spiritual artifact to the extent that they exist at all, that no one ever saw. Right. So that despite
the statement of the witnesses and so on, the reality was at the time people, he was hell people,
it's like the Ark of the Covenant. Nobody's allowed to touch the Ark of the Covenant in the
stories because anybody who does just like God will kill him, right? And so that happens left
and right in the Old Testament, right? And so, and it happens in the Indiana Jones movies, right?
You know, if you look at the thing. So in that same way, you cannot, nobody's allowed to look at
with their physical eyes at the plates, you know, because they'll die. And so anyway, that's the
golden plates. The kinder hook plates are a people who don't like their Mormon neighbors,
so at a certain point the Mormons are refugees in Illinois. They've gotten kicked out of the state
of Missouri. They're actually living in this town of Kinder Hook, which is where my great,
great, great grandparents were living in Kinder Hook as refugees from Missouri. They might have
been the people that were immediately tricked by, you know, by these local Illinoisans. So local
Illinoisans who are think, boy, these Mormons are stupid and we hate them. And so they take a
piece of kettle pot or whatever copper, they scratch characters that they're copying off
a Chinese something or other, you know, or whatever onto a bunch of these, they bury them in an Indian
mound, and then they go and do a mock, a mock digging up of it or whatever. And they make sure
some Mormons are around when it happens. And so when they unearth it, the Mormons are like,
I know what these things are. And you know, I understand, I have the context for this, you
know, they get the essentially the Illinoisans are putting it over on them, right? So then and
then they take them back to Joseph Smith. And and Joseph Smith also appears to be conned by them.
In other words, he believes the local Mormons who have said, we were there when they were unearthed,
we you know, and so and so he doesn't actually produce a translation of them, but he makes some
journal entries that that he identifies what they're kind of about me, maybe he's going to in the
future. But so what I'll say about the difference is this is a real artifact. And we also know how
it was made. Right. And one of them I think still exists. There's in a museum in Chicago, I think.
But anyway, so that so those are those are real, as opposed in terms of physical,
as opposed to the golden plates, which there's no physical artifact. Someone might go, you know,
they should probably consider this though, that he seems to have fallen for it himself.
Which means he's, if he was a con man, think about it, if he was like come through and through
con man, I know that if I was trying to trick people and all of it was BS, and someone brought
me something like that, and I know it's BS, I'm going to call BS. I'm not going to fall for it.
It seems to be you get what I'm trying to say. No, I see what you're saying. Yeah. No. But by the way,
everybody believes that this history is true. Right. Right. And so every and so lots of people
are finding these things. And actually, lots of people are are wishfully or hopefully making them
and so on. You know, there's a whole there's a whole host of them in Michigan called the Michigan
artifacts where where these guys are are are putting things on on slate and things like that
and burying them and you know, but so but like you say, the the people in general, he in general,
I think definitely believes that there is this this history, whatever his personal view of
and his understanding of how the Book of Mormon was was, you know, what the story actually came
from, whether it's something that he channeled or however he understood it to be, you know,
it's hard to know inside his inner mind. But I think yes, you can that's a good example of maybe
how he definitely believes this kind of history of the natives. Interesting. Okay. How did how do
modern Mormons handle the notion that Joseph Smith was into magic, like physical magic?
I know that there are various sects as your book is going to tell you, you know, like, hey,
you're not going to get one size fits all when it comes to Mormonism. Everybody has a different
little spin right here. But if you don't mind, like, I think I've heard people try to say that
the Mormons are kind of like, no, our prophet didn't do those things. Our prophet did not
go around with wands or try treasure hunting or had a seer stone or did any of these things.
It probably depends on the apologist you're dealing with, but what is it?
Well, so I'd say in our church, largely, we've accepted, you know, the decision of the academic
historians. And so, and so like myself, and so I'm a church leader, I'm also a historian. And so,
I would say that in general, I've already just explained my view of Joseph Smith. So that doesn't
mean that he doesn't, we maybe have a very different view of what a prophet is than a
fundamentalist does, because a fundamentalist is viewing prophets as almost like a supernatural
figure who is exercising, again, kind of a physical magic, whereas we see people who have a sense of
calling, who are perhaps inspired and are trying to respond in human terms to what
the divine is inspiring them about, right? But they're limited because they're humans and they
make all the same kind of errors that Paul makes or any, anyway, well, Old Testament prophets that
are actually historical makes and so on. Yeah, so you are definitely, I could tell just by talking
with you, you're far more advanced when it comes to the reality of things. And that is something
that I really do appreciate you. I don't care about your ontology, meaning I don't, like it's
neither here nor there and what you conclude ontologically. At the end of the day, though,
I just want honest discussions. And that's what I really want on this channel is discourse that's
honest and what you're presenting, I think, is a very honest and balanced approach that I think
is fair. It sounds like he definitely did believe what he was doing. And he believed it till
he died, I guess. I mean, are there moments where you would say no? Well, so again, for us, it also
doesn't matter. So, I mean, for me, it doesn't matter. So I'm saying it's possible that he believed
and that's also possible that he that he knew, you know, it's also possible that he entertained
the doubts inside himself too, right at the same time. And in a way, we can have contradictory views
in ourself either way. But in the very same, from a church perspective, it doesn't, this was settled
even Christianity with the Donatist heresy in the fourth, fifth century or something like fourth
and fifth century. If it doesn't matter if a priest or a bishop, let's say, is in a condition of
mortal sin, all of the sacraments he performs are still valid, you know, for the for the members,
right? Right. So in other words, if so, obviously, you don't want that to be the case, but it's but
it's not that if a bad bishop ordains all of these people, none of those ordinations are real or
count or that the bad priest marries all these people, the people aren't actually married. And so
they're, you know, and so they're sinning or whatever it is, you know, so that that is not how
so functionally, in terms of, you know, of the of a prophet for us, it's it scripture only becomes
scripture again, in the person's own life in the living now, it when it is responsibly interpreted
and faithfully applied in our view. So it's not a supernatural text where the text itself has
some kind of magic that you have to worship, but rather, it's text and it doesn't in that sense
matter where it came from. It's that the church decides. So but but for the vast majority of the
other Mormon sects, it would be the opposite way. So in other words, regular most Mormonism,
including the the LDS church, even though even though there's one church that's called the
fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ, the Latter-day Saints, most Mormons are fundamentalists
in terms of their overall perspective and that kind of a way. And so most Mormons are literalists
and like you say, will have all kinds of apologetic ways that they will try to make these things not
be as bad as they seem. So yeah, it's a house of cards. It really is. I think you're taking a
better approach, of course, at the end of the day. There's there's so many things, you know,
toward the end, when I did this series with Bryce Blankenagle on Joseph Smith, I, you know, for a
while, I was like, this guy, is he a good guy? Is he a bad guy? You know, you kind of torn between
both sides? Like, is this really a good guy or bad guy? But you'll it's like any TV show I get into.
I was like visualizing and I was like, I don't want to see him go. I don't know why I don't want to
see you know. So and that's coming from someone who doesn't believe he's a prophet. I definitely don't.
Well, so I would say I've got a mixed review of the guy, pretty mixed review of the guy. So I think
that he I think one of the reasons why it sometimes can be easy to condemn people that come out of this
when a person's coming out of kind of a folk tradition, and they aren't very educated, they
make all kinds of mistakes that all of us who have, you know, are who are more educated and who
are able to think these things through and how we sometimes are able to say, whoa, that's really
that was that's pretty boneheaded or, you know, this is so obviously a mistake and all those
kind of things. On the other hand, I think we need to kind of like step back and think about the
context a little and understand that there are other ways to live life validly and you don't
have to be from the academic class in order to have a legitimate and meaningful life and that
kind of a thing. And so I think that that there is a some positive things that he's trying to do
and that there are some positive results. But on the I also think though that it's undeniable,
but by the end of his life, he was surrounded by so many yes men, he had lost perspective, this
kind of pragmatism in terms of his philosophy had caused him to kind of go off the rails in a
lot of ways. And so by the end of his life, he is engaged in several very serious abuses of power.
And the most critical, I would say, is this starting secretly practicing and starting polygamy.
And so we call this and I call this specifically, but it's a church historian says abuse of
priesthood authority is a broad category for it. But the way this abuse of authority took form,
for example, is Joseph Smith came to my great, great, great, great grandparents in Navu,
Stephen and Nancy Winchester and said, if you give your daughter to me in marriage,
and she is sealed to me, then our whole family will be sealed together in the eternities.
And so they gave their 14 year old daughter to Joseph Smith to be a wife, you know,
secret wife, you know, and so anyway, I think that's a pretty serious abuse of authority.
And I absolutely condemn Joseph Smith for doing that kind of thing. And I also, like I said,
do not justify his, his Clintonian I call it lying, you know, where he like pretends he's he
says something that's supposedly true, but then it's meaning to deceive you. And then also outright
lies like plates are actually in the box kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. I appreciate your honesty on
that and telling us all these things. It's kind of interesting hearing someone who's in the faith.
But of course, I'm more progressive. I like to use the term position. Yeah. And yet is willing
to say this about the profit. Something fascinating about what you just said there that came to mind
too, though, getting off of that subject just to point out the sexual position. All of these leaders
seem to have it's like, you know, where there's power, I don't know, people get off on it. And it
seems Mohammed had the same thing. Oh, God gave me a God told me, you know, he told me that you,
you're supposed to not marry her. She's mine. I think it's to his nephew or something.
And this happened. He married a lot of times. And there seems to be this indication. I don't know
how historically reliable some of this is. It might be a little later, but there might be a
kernel of truth to this seems like people in power seem to get to this point where they now want
women or the opposite or the complete opposite. The Apostle Paul is a strange enigma in this case.
Just depends on who you ask. And Rabbi Tobias Singer came on recently. He's he's he does a lot
of studying on the New Testament. He thinks Paul was actually homosexual. Yeah, I have a
lecture on my channel was the Apostle Paul gay. So I think I don't normally do that with a lot of
historical figures, because there's a lot of more speculate. But actually, there are some
pretty amazing reasons, I think, why, you know, that we can we can kind of see that there's a lot
of interesting evidence within Paul's own writings and things like that about about that. I'm sort
of convinced of that. And that that actually hasn't been good for gay people because of what Paul
ended up musing on as topic that he was very worried about. Paul has this big long aside where
he's like, trying to figure out why it would be that that good Jews like him would, you know,
just couldn't couldn't stop thinking about how sexy guys are kind of thing. I mean, it's not he
doesn't quite say it this way, but he says, I understand why this happens with with the Greeks,
because they have all of these, you know, they have all these gods that are really sexy, you
know, you know, got and that and so by loving by loving their gods, they are immediately taken
with this idea. But we don't have picture of our God. So what so why why does this happen to us?
And I guess the the normal answer for everybody who's heterosexual and male would say, well,
we don't have that problem, you know, you know, I see women and I'm like, yeah, exactly. Yeah. But
so Paul says that it must be because we have the law and because the law put the idea into my head,
that's where I, you know, started, you know, thinking that long lines kind of thing. Anyway,
so there's a bunch of that's a that's, there's a little bit, that's a little bit of extra
interpretation of that. But anyway, that's kind of you can kind of make that case, I've been doing
it a lot longer in that lecture. But anyway, so yeah, I definitely think it's interesting with Paul.
So now not everybody, not everybody who, you know, gets into a position where they have,
let's say, total power and they can't and there's no check on their authority, which is where Joseph
Smith was at the end of his life. In a way, maybe he's even looking for boundaries, because he,
as he, as he's mayor of his city, head of the courts, he's general of the militia, you know,
he's president of the high priesthood, and he has himself secretly crowned king of the kingdom of
God on earth. And so at that point, you know, what, what are the, what are the limits for you,
right? Now he's trying to become president of the United States of America. He actually thinks
he's going to get in. Oh, wow. Because he has this whole, he has this whole
John Quincy Adams theory that they all had at the time. In other words, so they thought that it's
going to get thrown to the House of Representatives and there's going to be some horse trading and
so on. And suddenly Joseph Smith is going to be the president and, and that anyway. So. Oh man,
there seems to be some, some pretty bad things that happened to, I think, who was this right
hand man who was this like assassin, so to speak. What is his name? Porter Rockwell. Porter Rockwell.
Yeah. Do you think there was like Joseph Smith was like telling Porter to do some dirty things?
Like, yeah. Yeah. So I think that by the end, he's surrounded by yes men like Porter Rockwell
and Brigham Young, who are part of his people involved in criminal activities, like polygamy
and like stealing and like assassination attempts and things like that. And unfortunately,
well, I'm sorry to say, I mean, that's what I think that is happening, you know, at the end.
And so unfortunately, when he's killed, the people that are, are, are all mixed up in that. In other
words, the people who are the ones that are practicing polygamy in secret, they are committed
to having this continue. Because if it doesn't, if they put a leader in charge,
who is part of the faction that is against these kind of activities, who wants to bring it back
to where things were before it all went off the rails, they know that they're going to be exposed
for all of these things that they're doing, all this polygamy and all the other kinds of things.
And so, and so that's when the system happens. And so the people who are opposed to it, that's
us and the people who follow Brigham Young out to Utah to be able to live without, you know,
by their own laws and everything like that and have a, a theocracy led by Brigham Young. That's
anyway, that's that tradition. And it doesn't, I mean, there's a lot of bad that happens in that
tradition as well. I mean, there's just a lot of history there and things that end up going wrong
while they're there. This has been really fun. I definitely appreciate you coming on. I think
we could do a lot more. I want to talk to you at some point about, you know, the creation of the
Mormon, the Book of Mormon, you know, Joseph Smith, you know, getting into that, how that was
published, maybe dealing with that and its details, a deeper dive into any subjects that you think
might be interesting, because I did a whole 26, 27 video series with Blythe Blank and Eagle and
my good friends, David Fitzgerald as well. And we hung out and we talked. And I can't tell you how
I would have like this tug of war, mostly not good in terms of like modern perspectives.
But, you know, I'll give you an analogy. And then of course, if you have anything else to say,
please, I watched the History Channel series Vikings. And anyone who watches that show,
I don't care who you are, you start to fall in love with the characters. Yeah. And they're,
they're literally going out and raiding villages and slaughtering monks, helpless,
no weapons, complete pacifist monks, killing them, taking their stuff. And you're rooting this guy
on and you're like, yeah, yeah, yeah. But by the time it gets close to him dying, you're like, no,
no, but he killed thousands of who knows innocent people. I mean, exactly. So it's perspective.
And I tried to be, you know, at first I came in completely anti like, no, I don't care what,
this is ridiculous. Then I started to kind of enjoy it. I'm not saying I think he's a good guy
or like he's some great guy or anything. I'm saying, let's be honest, he had to be inspirational.
He had to be charismatic. Oh yeah. He had to be extremely interesting. And those are the kind
of people who change the world. I mean, whether for good or for bad, either way.
And he had a bunch of good qualities, right? And so he was, for example, despite not being
very educated, he was very interested in ideas. And he was also, he was looking for new ideas.
And as they came to him, he was open to them and adding stuff all the time, right? As opposed to a
lot of times, a person who achieves that kind of power and who, I mean, Brigham Young is an example,
who just hates people who know more than him and book learning and doctors or any other lawyer,
any other kind of things. And so he just shuts it all down and has a very anti-intellectual
kind of position. Joseph Smith, as long as people aren't proving him, catching him up,
then he gets very defensive, very fast. But as long as everybody's kind of open, he sets up a
Hebrew school and he tries to learn Hebrew. And there's all kinds of, any number of things like
that where he's constantly open. Wow. Okay. Well, ladies and gentlemen, make sure you don't forget.
Go get the book. Go get the book, Scattering of the Saints, Schism Within Mormonism. It was
recommended by our previous Mormon series, highly recommended. In fact, this picture of this book
appeared in the thumbnail of one of the videos. And we talk about it. It comes up as a visual.
This goes into the whole history, if you will, wanting to go back from the prophet all the way
down. Also, you got to check out the YouTube video, lots and lots of videos I subscribed earlier.
If I subscribed, you should follow the prophet of myth vision. I mean, let's just,
you know, seriously, though, there's a lot of wonderful material here. Definitely go check
it out. I mean, endless content, so you'll get lost figuring out more information. How often do
you, do you go into the Mormon stuff on this particular channel? There's maybe about 10
lectures on Mormon stuff, but it's just in Christianity, general. I mean, on the topic
you were just talking about, there's one called Vikings versus Christians. Why, how did, you know,
if you watched Vikings, how is it that these pacifist Christians win? You know what I mean?
In other words, so why, you know, you watch that Vikings show. And for some reason, Hollywood,
modern Hollywood, the paganism, all the pagan magic actually works. And I, you know, but anyway,
and then the Christian magic does it, right? Which is actually what actually happens is,
anyway, so how is that pacifist God actually win? Why aren't, why aren't Swedes still,
you know, crazy Vikings today? Why are they, you know, post-Christian? You know, so anyway,
so there's a topic like that. Wow, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. John Hamer,
I appreciate you coming on. Let's do this again, my friend. Absolutely. Thank you so much.
And ladies and gentlemen, if you don't have words to chant and you want some, how about these?
We are MedVision.
Thank you.
