You're right, that just drives Paul nuts.
And to the point where in chapter five,
he gets rather sarcastic, where he says,
you don't get this in a lot of English translations,
but it says in the Greek as he says that,
he wishes that those who would have you get circumcised
would cut themselves off.
He's being sarcastic.
He's hoping the knife slips and it just doesn't cut
the foreskin, it takes the whole thing off.
Peter has a vision where he's praying,
he's up on this house and he sees this sheet
being lowered from heaven that has all of these
unclean animals.
That doesn't mean, that doesn't mean they're dirty.
It means that they're not kosher animals.
And this sheet comes down with all these animals on it,
you know, pigs and things.
And a voice from heaven says, eat.
He says, what?
No way, I'm gonna eat these, these are not clean,
these are not clean, I'm gonna keep you kosher.
God said, look, I'm telling you, eat it.
Oh my God.
You get other books claiming to be written by Peter
that he almost certainly did not write,
where he just goes after Paul and attacks him.
In one of these books, he just lambasts this missionary
to the Gentiles who preaches a lawless gospel.
And Peter, the author of this thing claiming to be Peter,
calls this other missionary unnamed,
the man who is my enemy.
Wow, yeah, yeah, so yeah.
So you see both strains.
And Paul says as a result of it,
God has made some of them sick
and he's killed some of them.
["Demons of the Dead"]
Dr. Bart D. Ahrman, welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Peter and Paul.
This is Peter, the disciple or apostle
and the apostle Paul.
We're best friends, correct?
Well, it doesn't seem like it.
It depends whom you ask and whom you read.
If you read the book of Acts,
then, and you talk to people who think
that Acts is completely historical in every way,
they may not have been best friends,
but they're good buddies.
And if you read Paul, it doesn't look that way.
So you have this free course
diving into did Peter hate Paul?
And I hope people will sign up for that right now.
Link is in the description.
It's important that people dive into this
because this schism, I like to call it,
as you point out,
and you're gonna dive into the history of this
through scholarship is a very important thing,
especially if the Numa of God,
for those who take this stuff literally to the bank,
and these early leaders are supposed to represent
the facts of what is true about Christianity
and the mission of the gospel and such.
Seems like you have two different gospels.
Am I mistaken?
This is a complicated question
and we can spend a few hours talking about it.
In the history of scholarship in the early 19th century,
especially under the writings of a German scholar
named FC Bauer,
that nobody listening to this is gonna read.
But let me just tell you
that his view was that they represented
two different gospel messages
and that the entire history of Christianity
was the relationship of the infighting
between these two groups,
the Pauline group and the Petrine group.
And the logic that he promoted was that Paul thought
that a person is made right with God
only by believing in Jesus
and that Peter thought
that you also had to keep the Jewish law
and that these were the two,
these were at each other's throats.
My view is that that is not right.
I don't think that that's right.
I think they both agreed
that the only way to have salvation
was by believing in Christ.
But I think that they had a very serious disagreement
on something else.
I mean, like when Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15
that he passes on what he's also heard
that everybody said from the beginning
that Christ died for your sins according to the scriptures
and that he was buried.
Christ was raised from the dead according to the scriptures
and that he was seen by Cephas in the 12, et cetera.
I think Peter probably agreed with all of that.
What they disagreed with was something
that might seem like less significant to us,
but I don't think that they were actually disagreeing
about the significance of the death
and resurrection of Jesus.
Okay, I wanna get into that a little.
If that's okay with you,
I know that you're going extensive in your course
for people who sign up, it is free.
Again, everyone sign up.
This is one of my favorite topics.
I mean, I'm a weirdo.
I liked a lot of favorite topics,
but this is one of my favorite
because this so much literature produced
even in Christianity based on this quarrel
between Peter and Paul in Galatians
and how that creates so much tension
and then so much unity in versions of literature
that come out in the Christian community,
which is right, which one's wrong?
And so getting into these two versions of gospels,
meaning let's put gospels in the category defining it as,
this is a Gentile Torah-free.
You don't have to observe the law for Gentiles gospel.
Over against, you need to become a Jew
using that kind of interpretation.
Here's my question.
Paul goes to meet Peter.
He says so in the Galatian letter.
He's defending himself.
That's the whole point, it seems to me.
And correct me in anything whenever you jump in here.
He goes in there and he says,
look, these guys agreed with me.
Like they gave me approval.
I like this.
Go to the mission to the Gentiles.
Take it to the nations.
This fulfills scripture.
Paula Fredrickson, when I interviewed her,
has the same kind of idea.
Paul's thinking the ethne in the end times,
they gotta come in.
So Paul in his apocalyptic mind
needs to wrap the story up by coercively fulfilling
what is required for the end to take place potentially.
He's here with Peter.
Peter and all of these guys, they approve.
But then they end up having a disapproval
over how Peter treats these Gentiles, it seems.
And Paul is saying,
ho, ho, ho, there seems to be a riff here
in the treatment of these non-Jews
versus how you're treating Jews.
Kind of hypocritical.
And I told him to his face.
And then I see this weird thing in Galatians
where it seems someone's sending spies on Paul.
This is subjective.
But do you think Paul is not telling the full story?
Meaning he's trying to just persuade the Galatians
whoever this letter is particularly addressing.
Do you think he's trying to persuade him
and he's leaving out information?
Or do you think Peter and them approved at first?
And then maybe they didn't know everything
that Paul was actually doing with his message.
What is your personal opinion as a scholar
on what is going on here with this tension?
Our only source of information about it is Paul.
He's certainly leaving stuff out
because he describes it in just a few paragraphs.
And these were issues that took place over months and years.
And so he's definitely not including all the information.
What he says is pretty clear that he does not indicate
that they preached a different gospel.
He agrees that Peter agreed with him
that the death and resurrections, what brings salvation.
And he never says anything about Peter disagreeing
that Gentiles did not have to keep the law.
He says that Peter agreed with him
that Gentiles did not have to keep the law.
And I think Peter probably did agree with him on that.
The issue at stake isn't that.
And the issue isn't Peter putting down the Gentiles,
I don't think.
The issue that Paul reports is
that he doesn't mention spies coming from Jerusalem.
He says that there are some people from James who came.
In other words, some people who were close to James,
the leader of the church in Jerusalem,
came to Antioch where Peter and Paul were.
And they convinced Peter of something
that Paul thought was absolutely wrong,
which is that Gentiles don't have to keep the law.
That's right.
Jews, though, they're Jews.
And if they're going to keep the law,
that means that they can't have meals with Gentiles.
You can't have meals with Gentiles
because Gentiles don't keep kosher.
And you're a Jew and you have to keep kosher.
So what Peter's doing is not bad-mouthing the Gentiles.
What he's doing is saying, you Jews,
look, yeah, we should separate off.
You're right.
We need to keep kosher.
So we shouldn't be eating our meals
with these other followers of Jesus.
And Paul went ballistic because for him,
that was a betrayal of the entire point.
Peter agreed that Gentiles didn't have to keep the law,
but Paul said, look, if they don't have to keep the law,
even if Jews do keep the law,
we're supposed to be one in Christ.
We're not supposed to be two separate people.
We're supposed to be one people, the followers of Jesus.
And by separating yourself off with other Jews,
you're being a hypocrite
because you just said that Christ is equally salvation
for Jew and Gentile.
Well, if they're equally saved,
they should equally spend time together.
So the controversy,
it may not seem like a big deal as big of a deal to us.
It seems like it'd be a bigger deal if Paul said,
Peter all of a sudden decided
that everybody had to keep the law.
But that's not what he says
and it's not what the argument is.
The argument for Paul is a huge argument
because if there's not unity in the body of Christ,
then his entire gospel is in jeopardy in his opinion.
I'm curious to know where circumcision
in this whole Galatian or deal plays a role
because he gets very angry at people
trying to tell you you must be circumcised,
specifically to his Gentile audience.
And he's saying, if you do that,
then crucifixion of Christ is just null and void.
You are literally working against the whole point.
You don't need to keep the law to have salvation.
You need to believe in Christ.
And almost like you're spitting in the face of Christ
by doing this or it's really useless waste of time.
Does the circumcision,
because I like the kosher idea that you're talking about
and not being able to eat.
And I think Paula Fredrickson also in her book, Paul,
what is it, the Pagan's Pagan or ex-Pagan Pagan,
something like that she has an interesting coin phrase,
thinks that as well.
But the circumcision,
I've heard many scholars in the past think,
this is a circumcision issue.
And that Peter and those guys also think something
along the lines of circumcision, but...
No, I don't think so.
In fact, when you read it, when you just read the letter,
Paul is absolutely obsessed about the circumcision issue.
It is, man.
And the whole thing, so it's a big,
see the Galatians is inspired in the first place
by the problem of the circumcision thing.
And so the situation is,
if you read what Paul has to say about it,
he converted these people who were Gentiles,
who don't keep the Jewish law,
he converted them to believe in Jesus.
And then after he left,
other Christian missionaries came in and said,
if you're gonna be a real follower of Jesus,
Jesus is the Jewish Messiah.
He fulfilled the Jewish law.
It came from the Jewish God, you gotta be Jewish.
It's a Jewish thing, believing in the Jewish Messiah.
And so these people were saying, you have to be circumcised.
They themselves, I think,
were probably Gentiles who had converted.
They were Gentile people who had become followers of Jesus,
who'd gotten circumcised,
were saying, you've gotta keep the law.
Because when God gave the law to Abraham,
and gave the law of circumcision,
he said, God said, it's an eternal covenant.
Eternal means God's not gonna change his mind.
And so God says, if you're gonna be a people of God,
you gotta get circumcised.
So these other missionaries come into Galatia and say,
look, you guys, you know, it's great, you believe in Jesus,
great, but you gotta get circumcised.
And then you're right, that just drives Paul nuts.
And to the point where in chapter five,
he gets rather sarcastic,
where he says, you don't get this
in a lot of English translations,
but it says in the Greek,
as he says that he wishes that those
who would have you get circumcised
would cut themselves off.
He's being sarcastic.
He's hoping the knife slips.
It doesn't cut the foreskin, it takes the whole thing off.
And it's like, and so he's being sarcastic here,
but he's against this.
That's not what he's after Peter about.
That's the problem in Galatia.
And what he's talking about Peter,
Peter doesn't mention the circumcision thing.
Man, if Peter thought these people had to be circumcised,
Paul would have been all over that in this letter,
about Peter really completely reneging.
But what Paul says is that he used to fellowship
with the Jews and the Gentiles together at meals.
And then when these brothers from James came,
he and the Jews separated themselves off for their meals.
It's not that Peter was saying you had to be circumcised,
is that if you're not circumcised,
you can't, if you're not keeping kosher,
we can't eat with you.
Okay, so back to eating, but also to the drama,
keeping the back of our heads to Peter, hate Paul.
They obviously clash and bump heads
and there's drama in Galatians,
which also for me helps me see this as an authentic letter
and that there was really a guy named Paul.
To me, it's strange we have to address that
because to some people think no Paul ever existed online.
Really?
Of course, this is not a common theme in academia.
Not a common theme, yeah.
I'd say it's not a common theme.
There's a good reason it's not a common theme.
Oh my God, okay, I don't think the Bible existed either.
I was just gonna say, I don't think the Bible existed.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Pick something, you don't think it existed, why not?
Okay, Paul did it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's a lot of reasons.
As far as acts goes, and then first and second Peter,
seems that Paul and Peter might even be best friends,
best buds.
For me, of course, it looks propagandistic.
It looks like they're intentionally trying to pave over
a hiccup in the early community.
But what are your particular thoughts?
Cause I look at acts and I think what you're saying
about eating and the food issue, it comes up in acts
in the relevant Peter and Paul sections.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Even before the Peter and Paul sections, in acts.
So, historically, I think it's probably certain
that Paul is the one who came up with this idea
that Gentiles did not have to keep the law to follow Jesus,
which meant they didn't have to be circumcised,
they didn't have to eco-share,
they didn't have to, they're the festivals
or the Sabbath, et cetera.
They didn't have to be Jewish.
Acts, Paul came up with that idea.
And I think that he had to convince Peter
and the other apostles that his view was right
and he did convince them about that,
but they had disagreements about the implications of it,
such as whether you can eat with Jews
and Gentiles can eat together or not.
Years later, the book of Acts is written in part
to show this was not a division at all.
And the way Acts introduces the question
is really interesting.
And it's something many people have not noted.
It's right after Paul converts in chapter nine of Acts,
that in chapter 10 of Acts, Peter has a vision
where he's praying, he's up on this house
and he sees this sheet being lowered from heaven
that has all of these unclean animals.
That doesn't mean, that doesn't mean they're dirty.
It means that they're not kosher animals.
And this sheet comes down with all these animals on it,
they're pigs and things.
And a voice from heaven says, eat.
Peter says, what?
No way I'm gonna eat these, these are not clean.
I'm gonna keep you kosher.
God said, look, I'm telling you, eat it.
Oh my God.
And so Peter goes and reports in chapter 11,
reports the whole thing and verbatim,
almost repeats the entire thing.
And he concludes, God has shown us now
that salvation doesn't come only by keeping the Jewish law.
Peter saying that before Paul is in Acts.
Peter sees it on the basis of Revelation.
Acts is written to show that Peter was on this page
even before Paul got on the page.
And so they are, when you read Acts, man,
they are completely together, Peter and Paul.
And as you point out, when you read 1 Peter,
well, I'm gonna talk about this in my lecture,
I'm not gonna go into it too much,
but both 1 Peter and 2 Peter,
which I don't think were actually written by Peter.
In fact, I'm sure they weren't written by Peter.
And almost everybody agrees about 2 Peter.
1 Peter is more debated.
I don't think Peter could have written either one.
But they're written by two different authors.
They're not the same author, clearly not the same author.
And they both embrace Paul in different ways,
in rather striking ways.
And so again, these are later authors
trying to show there really wasn't a breach.
And so what my course is gonna be
is trying to show that you get that strain
within Christianity.
Oh yeah, there was never a breach.
And you get this other strain starting with Paul.
This is, yes, there was a breach.
And in the later tradition about the breach,
outside the New Testament,
it gets rather ugly in places,
where you get other books claiming to be written by Peter
that he almost certainly did not write,
where he just goes after Paul and attacks him.
In one of these books, he just lambasts this missionary
to the Gentiles who preaches a lawless gospel.
And Peter, the author of this thing,
claiming to be Peter calls this other missionary unnamed,
the man who is my enemy.
Wow, yeah, yeah, so yeah.
So you see both strains is the point.
This is why like your book on Armageddon,
for those who haven't read it, need to.
And if you can't read it on paperback, get it on Audible.
You know, I interviewed you on this before
and I mentioned that that church in chapter two
or three of Revelation where it hints at them
eating meat sacrificed to idols,
which causes them to fornicate with Rome, of course.
It seems at least this motif of eating,
whether you wanna say it's Pauline or not,
it is clearly a riff in the community.
And the early Christians are really struggling
with what do we eat?
Cause the markets have all these animals
that are clearly sacrificed to Addis and Adonis
and the various deities of the Greek and Roman world.
Yeah, no eating.
I think eating was more of a ritual activity
in the ancient world than it tends to be for us.
In fact, I know it was.
And it carried serious religious implications.
And so within Christianity,
there were all these eating disputes.
I mean, they were very serious.
Even in the New Testament,
Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11
that the people there aren't observing
the Lord's supper properly.
And it seems kind of a weird passage,
but they're coming together for a meal every week
and they're not doing it right.
And Paul says as a result of it,
God has made some of them sick
and he's killed some of them
for not observing the Lord's supper.
They're not doing it right.
And so that you get that,
you get the food,
can we eat food off of the idols?
Huge deal.
And if we're Gentiles and Jews,
do we eat together or not?
It seems like, who cares?
But today you'd say, really, that's your issue.
But it was a really big issue for Paul.
He was ready to just start knocking heads together over it.
Well, I hope everybody has enjoyed this conversation
because I know that the problem, Dr. Ehrman is,
I'll say too much and then you'll say too much.
And then, you know, we give away too much.
It's a-
Oh no, yeah, we haven't given away.
We barely scratched the surface of this little interview.
It's gonna be some really interesting stuff in this course
that people would never,
in my experience,
people wouldn't have thought of some of this stuff
or heard of it.
And so we're gonna get into it.
And the problem is that, as you've noted, Derek,
it's a complicated situation that is easily misunderstood
if you just kind of read over this stuff quickly.
And I'm gonna explain what the situation really was,
but also talk about how it gets played out
in different kinds of literature
and ways people wouldn't expect.
Thank you so much.
Did Peter hate Paul?
Sign up today for the course.
It's free.
I hope to see you there and never forget,
we are,
next week.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
We'll see you.
