Did Moses exist? Did he write the Pentateuch? If these questions are a no, what does that say
about the nationalistic history of Israel? To the people that are called Jews? Or what about
Christians? What about Muslims who all hold to the same figurehead as part of their origin story?
Well, we're actually trying to tell you about a course coming up called Finding Moses.
You could sign up at mythditionpodcast.com forward slash Moses.
Go sign up now. It's in the description. I also have it as a pinned comment beneath this video.
In this course, he's going to dive deep into various schools of thought within academia.
And what does the consensus say about Moses and about the origins of this literature?
Dr. Ehrman, welcome back. Simple question. Did Moses exist?
Right. Well, it depends whom you ask. I guess you're asking me. And I, you know, I don't know.
I don't know if there are some figure back there named Moses. What I'll be arguing in my course is
that there are historical problems with virtually all of the stories found in Exodus through Deuteronomy.
But there are interesting aspects of the stories that make one wonder,
one of which is the name of Moses himself. The name Moses is not a Hebrew name.
It's an Egyptian name. And it occurs in other names we know from Egypt. And so
it's an interesting point because if an Israelite, if a Hebrew speaking person made up these stories
about the great leader of the children of Israel, why wouldn't they give him a Hebrew name? And so
that's made some people think, well, you know, there may be some kind of figure back there.
That's what a lot of people think. Another option is the one that I kind of leaned for,
which is that if you're a smart Israelite author, and you know, these are smart people,
they're elite, they're intelligent people, and you're making up a story about that's connecting
Israel with Egypt, it adds a bit of kind of plausibility if the guy who's brought up by Pharaoh's
daughter is given a Egyptian name. And so that would be what scholars would call verisimilitude,
where you make fiction sounds very much like history. And so I'm not quite sure if there's
anything back there in terms of the person or not. But it's certainly possible.
By any chance, has your work been influenced by scholars like Joel Baden, Conrad Schmid,
Ronald Handel, or any of these academics, maybe Mark Lutcher, Thomas Dozman, Thomas
Romer, David Wright, Bob Cargill, forgive me if I'm butchering some of these names.
Does any of your scholarship in the field of learning about Moses, the Exodus, the conquest,
or the wilderness journey of 40 years, have any influence from them?
Yes. They are all very fine scholars. I know a number of them. I've known some of them for years.
And these are among the best, in my opinion, among the best historical scholars of the Hebrew
Bible that are out there right now. These are people who have devoted their lives to these
kinds of investigations. And they're serious historical scholars. Some of them do have faith
commitments. And it's not that they're just like crazy atheists out there trying to study the Hebrew
Bible. I don't know about all of them. In fact, the ones that I do know actually have faith
commitments, but they're rigorously historical and have been, I think, helpful for unpacking a
lot of things. A lot of these people are doing scholarship beyond what I myself learned when
I was doing my graduate studies in the late 70s and early 80s. When I was studying Hebrew Bible,
things have changed a lot since then. And these are some of the leading people doing it.
And do you think the Moses story, especially Exodus, maybe wilderness wandering, I wonder
if that's completely fictitious in my thinking, but do you think that a cultural memory approach
is the best approach in terms of the Moses narrative?
It's a complicated question. In part, because cultural memory doesn't always mean the same
thing to every scholar. My view is that there are different ways to approach stories such as you
find in Exodus and Numbers, especially where you get the narratives. But the legal materials too,
the laws that Moses gives. I think that there are a variety of ways that you can approach stories
like this. You can approach them from a literary point of view in order to understand how they work
as story, how they function literarily, because the meaning we get out of these stories usually
is based on the narrative character of them. In part, because we, as human beings, tend to think
narratively. We tend to think about narratives. And so I think a literary approach is very important
because they've come down to us as literature. I think straight up history, where you try to
figure out what happened here, is really important too. I think cultural history, where you understand,
I mean, again, different people mean different things by this. But I guess most people think
of this as kind of a newer form of history. But the history of a people and understanding how
people have developed their understanding of their own past and constructing it as a way of
making sense of a people's, people making sense of their own past is also another important way to
do it. I don't think these are mutually exclusive ways of approaching any of these texts. I think
the best approach is to use the tools provided by a range of methodologies.
Thank you for that. In this course coming up, you're a big textual critic. And I love that
about you with New Testament studies. And it doesn't take much, I'm sure, for you when you read these
other academics who are pouring through Deuteronomy, Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers. Do we see some
obvious evidences? There are different authors in different periods writing this material.
Therefore, Moses couldn't have written this material.
Yeah, I would say that's a fair consensus among historical scholars that, in fact, the
Pentateuch is not one author writing at one time, let alone Moses. There were doubts about
Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch way, hundreds and hundreds of years ago. I mean,
in the Middle Ages, there were rabbis who were pointing out passages that couldn't make sense
if Moses wrote it. And so that's what ends up happening, especially in the 19th century,
is a scholar started digging in deep. And I would say today, the majority of scholars
in America especially continue to think that there were various sources that were put together
into what is now our Pentateuch. The traditional formulation of that is the JEDP theory,
the documentary hypothesis, where you have four sources written by four authors at four
different times that have been spliced together. And I'd say that today that that theory has become
made a bit more, a lot more complicated by scholars who have dug further into it. But
the basic idea behind it is one that virtually everybody subscribes to, which is that this is
not the product of a single author. It's a number of sources that have been spliced together in one
way or another. And one piece of evidence of that is precisely the kinds of contradictions that you
find in this, you'll find in particular stories, you'll have a story, just the story of the plagues.
When you read the story of the plagues, you find these contradictions that don't make any sense.
If somebody sat down and wrote this thing, he was either like not completely awake at the time,
or he's taken sources and put them together because they just contradict each other.
And so there's plenty of evidence for multiple layers and multiple authors
that I think probably everyone that you mentioned earlier would agree with.
Do you find any apparent contradictions that you can give an example of
in the Moses narrative throughout these four books?
Yeah, lots of them. I'll be talking about them. I'll give you one now.
So you get these 10 plagues against Egypt. When I was a kid, this is my favorite part
of the Bible actually. I was a young kid and my mom didn't do anything wrong with me because
I liked all these plagues with blood and the gnats and the frogs and things.
So you get this one plague where the livestock, there's an epidemic,
all the livestock of the Egyptians, every one of the livestock is killed.
And then a plague later, hail comes and hail wipes out all of the fields of the Egyptians
and the livestock in the field. Wait a second. The livestock just got killed.
What livestock are these? It's pretty interesting to hear people try to explain this.
Well, what happened was, when the livestock all died, the Egyptians went in and they
stole all the Israelite livestock. So those were the ones in the field.
Those were the ones who got killed next. So you kind of go from there.
There's a lot of funny things I'm sure we'll find out in your course and I really look forward to
that. As far as the Sargon narrative, we've heard he's put in a basket. There's always this
almost you could call it a miraculous birth narrative, so to speak, where he overcomes this
some type of feat as an infant. And in the river, we see the same thing with Moses.
Can you tell us a little bit about this? And does this help us see Moses more as a mythological
figure? Or would you say, how would you want to approach Moses if we could find common tropes
from other figures? Yeah, well, you certainly do. And it's like,
it's the same problem you get earlier in the Pentateuch with the book of Genesis where you
have this flood narrative that wiped off the earth and one man and his family are saved by
building a big boat and putting all the animals in it. And then all of a sudden you discover that,
oh, there's an epic of Gilgamesh that's hundreds and hundreds of years old or that has the same
story. So what does that do? Well, it's the same thing with the Sargon thing. So you get
a similar account of somebody who's going to be a great leader of the people who is miraculously
saved as an infant by being put in a reed basket and being discovered. And you get this discovery
narrative and it's, and you think, wow, okay, that sure sounds familiar. And so I think what
happens in all of these cases, and there are a lot of these cases that you can point out,
not just in. So with Sargon, of course, you're dealing with another
ancient Near East story, just as you are Gilgamesh is an ancient Near East story that relates to
the flood. Sargon's infancy narrative is related to Moses, but you get them cross-culturally too,
right? You get flood narratives in Greece and you get the founders of Rome, Romulus and Remus
being miraculously saved as babies. And then, so you get these stories that are trying to
do similar things. And so one of the big questions that historians of tradition have is,
are these directly influencing each other? Like, does the author of Genesis know
the Epic of Gilgamesh? Or does the author of Exodus know about these stories, about other kings
and things? Or is it that they know a specific story and they're borrowing it? Or are these ways
that ancient people tended to tell stories in order to make points that people were familiar with?
For the most part, I tend toward the latter, because my view is that the vast majority of
ancient texts, let alone oral traditions, the vast, vast majority are lost. And it would be almost a
miracle if it just turns out that the smoking gun has survived. In other words, you know, that the
one story that this person borrowed from happens to be the one that survived when there probably
were a hundred others like this. It's possible. It is absolutely possible, but I don't think we know.
And so I think that the Moses birth story is based on ancient Ariesian parallels. The one we know
about is Sargon, but there were probably others. Is there good reason, in light of what you just
said, to not date Moses after Sargon's story? Because a lot of people would look at this and
think, I mean, Sargon, it seems Moses is carrying these narratives similar to it. But if we don't
say they're genetic connected and they're somehow vaguely culturally connected, then we can't really
date Moses later than Sargon. Technically, one apologist might make an argument to say,
look, Sargon borrowed from Moses' story. Yeah, well, that's true. You could say that.
And it would be kind of unlikely. The story about one of the most historically important kings in
the ancient Near East is more likely going to circulate broadly than a story about some obscure
Israelite. I mean, outside of Israel, Moses is not heard of. Sargon shows up in stories in other
cultures. So it's unlikely that it went that way. But my view is that you can't date things on the
basis of literary relationship unless you can actually show the precise literary connections.
In the case of the Sargon story, there are connections that look pretty close.
And so you could make the argument and people have. But it's the same thing with, for example,
the Code of Hammurabi. When you get to the legal code, the law of Moses, there's sure a lot of
laws look like the law of Hammurabi. And in that case, you're pretty sure it didn't go the other
direction. I mean, the law of Hammurabi is 18th century. But I don't think that you have to
again say that this part of the Pentateuch, for example, the P source that has a lot of
the legal material, necessarily knew the Code of Hammurabi or the author of the Covenant Code in
Exodus knew the Code of Hammurabi may have. But I don't think that you've got... When you're
dealing with these kinds of ancient sources, I don't think you should be too quick to leap on
and say this is the smoking gun because I just don't think we know that much.
Well put. Well put. In fact, I do a lot of research on people who are trying to see if
there's Greek connections that far back. And I found an interesting one I want to throw at you
to see your thoughts. It's during the wilderness experience. And I find it ironic that Odysseus
is on a wilderness experience as well with his men. And they slaughter the calf that is to the
sun god. And Odysseus goes off to pray, of course, on a mountain. His men slaughter this calf that
is like for the sun god. And this god ends up killing all the men for eating the calf that
was actually for the gods. And we find something kind of like a trope with Moses going up on the
mountain comes down. They make a golden calf. And the people who are active in that end up dying
other than Aaron, I believe. But he throws down the Ten Commandments. Of course, the earth swallows
them up. Do you think there's just a common trope floating around in the ancient Near East
for Homer's Iliad or the Odyssey to come up with this kind of narrative? And we find something
similar to the biblical one? Are you not convinced on that particular comparison?
I think it's complicated. When I came to Chapel Hill to teach, my Hebrew Bible
colleague was a very fine scholar named John Van Ceders. And he found a lot of parallels between
Greek traditions and Hebrew traditions, Israelite traditions in the Pentateuch. And it helped, it
made him think that probably the Pentateuch was written much later than people had been saying.
And so he thought most of it was written after the exile because of these Greek parallels.
I think you have to be very careful when you look at these parallels. Because again, I don't
think they necessarily mean that there's direct borrowing. In the case of the Odyssey,
there's a reference to it on the first page of the Odyssey, as it turns out. It's not that they
just eat this one calf. They eat the cattle of Haleos, the sun god. And they're warned, don't do that.
Don't eat the cattle. And they're starving to death. And they end up on this island and they're
starving so they eat the cattle. And yeah, they all get destroyed. But they're actually eating
a number of cows and they're destroyed almost immediately. And what's going on in the Exodus
is, and they're on a sailing journey, obviously. What's going on in Exodus is you have people
on a land journey and they don't eat a cow. They make a cow and they worship it. And the violation
there isn't that they're not allowed to eat this person's favorite cattle. It's that you're not
supposed to make an image to God. And they don't die right away. They die 40 years. And so I don't
think that the parallels are such to suggest that necessarily there's a borrowing going on.
But I agree with you. You've got to look at all of these kinds of things and you say, wow,
that has some really interesting similarities. And what you want to do, I think, is you want to
pile them up. You don't want an isolated one here and an isolated one. What you want to do is figure
out if there's some way to pile these things up. I don't believe in this thing with a lot of scholars
have gotten all over the Odyssey about how this is a foretype. This might be used by biblical
authors. And I tend not to agree with them. But if I did want to do that kind of thing, I would
point out Odysseus and his people are trying to get to their home. And where are the children
or visitor trying to get? They're trying to get to the land that's been promised. So there are
things you could do. But you have to look very carefully and see if the parallels are close
or if they're very broad. Well put, Dr. Ehrman. I'm looking forward to this course. This is going
to be a really, really good course on Moses. And I want to ask in this final question, do you think
that the Moses narrative was really written down around the eighth century or so
BC? When would you say, pinned to paper, that the, I'm going to call it a foundation myth
for Israel, the people of Israel. And I don't know whether to just say that as the northern kingdom,
because obviously Judah kind of includes themselves into the tribal list after time,
making them the special son, after talking to Andrew Tobolowski on the myth of the 12 tribes
of Israel and stuff like that. But my question is, is like, when do you think Moses, this story of
Moses, was pinned to paper, the myth was invented? Well, the myth would have been invented before
then was put to paper. And I think it was an oral circulation for centuries before
our accounts were written down. There are big debates, especially among these people you named
earlier, these earlier scholars that you're mentioning, big debates about when the oldest
sources of the Pentateuch were produced. The traditional dating that used to be standard
and really became standard at the end of the 19th century and was still standard,
basically in the 70s, when I was starting to study this stuff, was that the oldest source is the
J source, the Yavish source that was written around the year 1000. And that the Elois source,
the E source was written about 900 years in the 9th, about the 9th century. So more like around
950 and 850. And that most of the most of the legal section in the Pentateuch, so parts of Exodus
and then Leviticus and parts of Numbers, that section is attributed to the P source. But the
P source isn't just laws, it's earlier stuff to including Genesis 1 and 2. So J and E do provide
the framework for much of the Exodus story about Moses. And in that dating, they would have been
written around 950 to 850, but wouldn't have been put together into what we think of as the Pentateuch
for several hundred years after that, probably after the Exile. So the Exile was in the 6th and
then into the 5th century, at the end of the 6th century. So I don't know the answer to that,
but I wouldn't be surprised if you have written versions of this kind of thing around the 900
BCE. Moses himself, by most datings today, if he did exist, the story seems to assume that it's
taking place in the 13th century BCE. And so the first account would be about 400 years later,
to put the simplest putting on it. In my view, maybe about 400 years later, but a lot of scholars
now are saying actually it was much later than that, that these things weren't written down
until the 6th century. So that would be 700 years after the events that we first get the written
account. And technically, there goes your historically reliable criteria because memory
is not to be trusted so well. You've written a book on that, so I hope people at least will
take it with a grain of salt. Well, I think that's the key. I think you take it with a grain of salt.
I don't think you immediately discount it. You don't say it can't be right because it's so many
years later, but you say historians always approach their sources critically and somewhat
skeptically. Because if you didn't approach sources skeptically, you would just read every newspaper
and say, oh yeah, that's what happened. But you realize, wait, when you listen to Fox News and
you listen to MSNBC and they're reporting the same thing, you can't just say, yeah, they're both
right. You treat each one skeptically to try and figure out what really did happen. And that's what
you do with these sources. What kinds of archaeological evidence do you have? What kind of external
literary evidence do you have? What kind of plausibility do you have? And on the basis of that,
you try to figure out what probably happened. And you can't just get rid of it all,
but you do suspect it. And then you try and figure out is it right or not.
Thank you so much, Dr. Ehrman. Everybody go sign up, mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash
Moses. Get it now while there's early bird special. And I can't wait to hear what you have to say in
this course. I'm sure we're going to get into all sorts of fun stuff. Anything you want to tease
us with on our way out? Well, I just want to say that this course is dealing with such an important
issue because we're dealing with the foundations of the entire nation of Israel and the Jewish
religion. The Exodus is where the Jewish people come to think of themselves as the chosen people.
It's the Exodus that does that. They're following the law. Following the law is what makes a Jew
Jewish, or at least the customs. And you get that in these books. And Christians, of course,
Christianity emerges out of this as well. So in terms of a fundamental basis for both Judaism
and Christianity, this is it. And so I think it's very important to look at this material
historically to see what we can say happened and what appears to be legendary, but also to see
what's being trying to be taught in these books. What is it that's important? And what are these
laws all about? Are these Jews a bunch of legalists? Why are they out of these laws? And how do you
explain all of that? That's the kind of thing we're going to be doing in my course. Thank you so much.
