Alright ladies and gentlemen, it's been brought to my attention that I need to do another
video to let people know what I have going on.
First of all, Dr. Bart Ehrman is coming on MythVision Podcast May the 5th, I'm gonna
make it live.
It's gonna be live, however I'm not certain I'm gonna get to your questions to the end
and fingers crossed they'll stick around, you know, Dr. Ehrman, you know how things are,
okay?
Super excited about that.
I know we have some really good stuff planned for him to tackle a lot of the apologist ideas
out there.
I'm gonna spare you guys the details, really just excited about this.
You guys made that possible with the GoFundMe.
I have two GoFundMe's, if you're interested and it seems like more people are interested
in Dr. Carrier, me going and meeting him in person, doing what I did with Dr. Robert
McNair Price with Dr. Carrier.
For a couple of days I'm gonna record your questions, if you wanna participate, become
a Patreon member, donate to the GoFundMe, make this happen, I will get your questions
and try to ask Dr. Carrier and create videos.
We're trying to make history here, especially with Dr. Carrier, since we've done so much
with Dr. Price, I'm gonna continue doing Dr. Price of course, he lives right here with
me.
It's like an hour away, it's really something I cannot ever pass up, who would?
I've had naysayers of the channel try to say, oh this is Price Vision, I don't care
what you call it.
If you're gonna pass up the opportunity to interview with these scholars, I think it's
ridiculous to do that, especially when I know I know so little compared to him.
He's brilliant, he's wonderful, so anyway, we have two GoFundMe's first for Dr. Carrier
and Dr. John J. Collins.
If you don't know who that is, read Old Testament criticism and studying the book of Daniel
and just look up anything serious pertaining to biblical studies, his name will come up.
This is a serious scholar and I would have to fly and see him.
So the same thing for Dr. Carrier, except for Dr. John J. Collins.
If you wanna see these things happen, you wanna participate and have your questions
of course and help with this, please do so, it's down in the description.
I'm excited, I've got a lot coming up, we're gonna be tackling the Exodus more, I'm reading
the five views of Exodus, it was just launched from late date, early date, the Hyxos expulsion
to it's just a memory, a cultural memory, looking at all these views, I'm really excited
about what's coming up and I'm trying to prep for these shows.
So everyone who's made this possible and has helped participate, thank you so much, there's
so much more that I wanna do and we're going to do here on MythVision Podcast.
The Mormon series is still going, we're still gonna launch the live on that.
I mean there's a ton of ideas to go into, so that being said, really the purpose of
this video is to let you know there are GoFundMe's and if you're interested and you're able
and you wanna help participate, they're down in the description.
I was told to do this video from a couple people who found out that I have these GoFundMe's
and said, whoa, I didn't know this, why didn't you make this noticeable?
Well there was a video I already launched, but I'm launching this one again.
So with that being said, down in the description, check out my GoFundMe's, you guys can be part
of that, making those possible, I wanna fly to Dr. Richard Carrier in California, stay
a couple nights in a hotel room, film with him at his feet like I do Dr. Price, ask your
questions, get it documented, come back, edit it, put it on the Patreon and then launch
it from there to the public for you guys who make this possible.
So I wanna do that for John J. Collins as well.
If you wanna participate, please, I really appreciate it.
Thank you all for those of you who made Dr. Bart Ehrman possible because he is obviously
a serious New Testament critical scholar when it comes to these things and I cannot
wait to interview him and probe deep into a lot of stuff.
Hopefully we can get as much possible while I have them on the show and you guys made
that happen.
So I'm super grateful for you guys, never forget, we are MythVision.
