Dr. Richard Carrier, again, pleasure to have you here at the Castle of Myth Vision in the studio.
JD, one of my patrons, has a question and the question goes as such. Paul mentioned visiting
a church where they call themselves Christians, but they knew nothing of a Jesus Christ. How many
instances of Jesusless Christians do we know of? How widespread was that? How would that affect
their readiness to accept a gospel? I don't know what passage is referring to, so I would need a
passage reference, so I don't know what it has a reference to, actually. You want to try to figure it
out. Yeah, I forgot that that's attached. All right, so let's see.
Let's see what we can find.
I just googled Paul's church without Jesus, just to see. Yeah, I'm pretty sure this isn't in Paul,
in any case. It might be in Acts. Oh, okay, that might make sense. And when they're like,
we have John's baptism, but we don't, oh, maybe, I don't know. I have to find my search screen.
I don't even think Paul uses the term Christian. No, that's why I'm saying it doesn't exist in
Paul. But to couple that with maybe them not following Christ, I know that there's the accusation
of like, I am of Paul, I am of Paul, I am of Christ. The word Christian only exists in 1 Peter
and in the book of Acts, which are late in the game. Yeah, so it can't be that. Maybe they're
referring to something else, different Jesuses. So like in Galatians, Paul does talk about Christians
who are following a different Jesus, and he's saying you should exile them and stay away from them
and call them anathema or whatever. But he doesn't explain what he means. Like, what other Jesus?
Why call them anathema? Like, what's the deal? Paul is vague about that. But that's because
he's writing to people who already know what he's talking about. So we're missing the context there.
But yeah, there isn't any case. Paul never mentions the word Christian that doesn't exist.
And I don't think he ever mentions visiting a church without a Jesus. I don't think that's the
case either. So yeah, I don't know about that. I mean, the closest that came to my mind, and I
couldn't find anything, was I am of Paul. I am of Apollo. I am of Christ. Yeah. And it's like,
hold on, dude. Like, what do you make of that weird? Yeah, well, that's, he's talking about,
he's trying to oppose factionalism. So there's clearly groups. I think this is in 1 Corinthians.
I'm not sure. But where he's clearly dealing with, there are these arguments where people are saying,
well, I agree with Peter. And it's just kind of like you talk about the factionalism on the internet
now. Yeah. No, it's exactly like that. It's like, no, no, no, let's not be factionalists. Let's all
just all get along basically, as Paul's trying to take. And what he is saying is like, all these
guys have slightly different teachings, and then they have arguments with each other. And so people
start taking sides and those arguments, and this creates factionalism and disputes and problems
in the church. So Paul's trying to like smooth that out by saying, no, no, no, let's just put
Christ first and not pick individuals. So that's Paul's take on it. But no, there's another passage
where Paul talks about, no, we're in the book of Acts, where I think it's Paul runs into someone
who's teaching something about Christianity without baptism, I think is what it is.
Yeah. Or they only had John's baptism, I think. Or something like that. Yeah. Oh, gosh. Yeah,
you're right. Some weird stuff. There's baptism of fire. There's baptism of dead.
There is something in the book of Acts where like they run into someone who's preaching a different
kind of Jesus, and then there's like somehow they're like missing some key piece of information.
It's important to note that the author of Acts has put that in there on purpose. Like Acts,
the author of Acts doesn't do anything by random chance. Like everything is propagandistic. It
serves some function. And so I think what he's doing there is he's saying, yeah, if you run into
like other people who are preaching different versions of Christianity, straighten them out,
please. Like that that's basically the message. And he's telling a heroic story about how that
happens, right? So I think that's what's going on. It doesn't necessarily refer to any actual
specific instance of this. But it clearly was going on as a general phenomenon, because we
know in Galatians, Paul talks about like there's these other Jesus cults that he has a beef with,
and it is telling people to ignore. And it's clearly not the Jesus cult that Peter and James
and John are associated with, because Paul has the opposite attitude to them is that he wants to cozy
up to them and get their endorsement. So there's yet more Jesus cults than those that we don't know
anything about, because Paul doesn't tell us anything about them. You know, one thing just
going back to that, I am of Paul, I am of Apollos, I am of Christ. I think this is a self admission
that I think fundamentalists miss. And I'll spell it out so you can like elaborate a little on this
and why I think this is significant. Paul, if you if you want to say there's an earlier Christ
teaching before Paul, let's say celestial model, right? Or if you take the the idea I take that
there was some guy and even Paul doesn't agree with him at the end of the day, like he's already
self confessing, you know, Apollo's got some different teachings, you know, even Christ had
some different teachings, I have different teachings, let's just try to unite on this as one body.
That's for a fundamentalist, if they found out that Paul, if they believe Paul's like really an
apostle, which he over and over has to contend, that's quite obvious issue. But you know, who
knows, he has to argue for it. Yeah, like he doesn't agree with Apollos and everything. He
doesn't agree with Christ on everything. If there was an original teaching of and Paul isn't the
first guy, he's like a Johnny come lately. So if Peter is really saying this is what Christ taught
using the celestial model, either way, Paul does not even agree with the original celestial
Jesus teaching. Yeah, I know. No, absolutely. And it's funny because one of my girlfriends is
ex Jehovah's Witness, and she always like laughably points out that they had the true religion.
And, and she was right, actually, because Jehovah's Witnesses are actually
more right about things than most Christian sects. Right. So for instance, they're unitary,
they're not Trinitarians, because the Trinity was invented later, and that's, that's
historically established. It doesn't exist in Paul, no Trinity, right? So the Jehovah's Witnesses
are right about that, right? And so there's other things that they do, they're actually like closer
to Paul's Christianity. The only thing that they're wrong about is that Paul's Christianity is
already heretical. Paul of Ferguson said that. She said, Hey, everybody, you know, Paul acts like
the end is going to happen soon, and everything's going to wrap up. He's late. And I'm like, Damn,
I mean, if you think about it, he's late in the game. So what was before? Yeah, what was before
was a Jewish sect. And it was very, you had to convert to Judaism to get in on this. So it was
more like, you know, there's certain like fringe orthodox sects of Jews today. It was more like
that. It was like some sort of like, you still had to be Jewish to be in that sect. But they
still preach that all the other Jews are like wrong, and they're going to be damned or whatever,
and we're the ones who have the true salvation and so on. That's what the original Christianity was.
It was a sect of Judaism for Jews. And even so far as they've evangelized Gentiles,
they were doing it the same way all Jews were, which is convert to Judaism, or else you don't
get resurrected. That's just how it is, right? So yeah, the original sect was a Jewish sect.
And so if you're not circumcising and following all the Torah laws, dietary and everything,
you are not a true original Christian. So that's why Protestants have to genuinely believe that
Jesus really did appear to Paul and really did change his mind and say like, Oh, by the way,
you can let Gentiles in without converting. I forgot to mention that when I was alive, but here
you go. They have to actually believe that that's real, right? So thank you so much to that wonderful
question. I hope you enjoyed the answer. Thank you for supporting us on Myth Division's Patreon
as well. And JD, enjoy your day. Everybody go in the description, help support us, join the program.
We'll get questions with academics answered as time goes by. Thank you.
