Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Joel Baden, I've got a good friend Michael Bakka, he's a patron member of MythVision
and he says, for Dr. Baden, I read a book by Thomas Romer titled The Invention of God.
In the book he implies that European scholars don't accept the documentary hypothesis anymore,
on page 8 of the book.
It seems that there are two aspects of the hypothesis, the notion that there are four
distinct documents, and when and where and how they were integrated into the Pentatew.
Could it be this second aspect that Dr. Romer and apparently other European scholars might
have questions about?
Thank you for your answer, I realize that this is a very complex topic.
Yeah, it is a complex topic obviously, but I think I can do this pretty easily, and I
don't remember if we talked about this last time, I talk a lot about documentary hypothesis
and about the JEPD sources and about how they were put together, because I think that that
is the simplest and most coherent explanation for why the text looks the way it does.
It's not the only explanation for why the text looks the way it does.
There's a school of scholarship predominantly in continental Europe, though with folks here
and there all over the place, that has moved away from the documentary theory and has moved
towards a different theory.
Now again, and I'm happy to explain it as best I can, it's not a question of who's
right and who's wrong, but actually I think there are parts of both that we have over
time interwoven into each other's ideas because they're compelling in various ways, but none
of this is fact.
Everything we're doing here is called a hypothesis, documentary hypothesis, it's theory.
How do we best explain what we're seeing?
For me the best explanation is this, for others the best explanation might be that and then
we put those things out there in the world and let people decide what they think makes
the best sense.
Until we discover a copy of the e-document in a cave somewhere, until that happens we're
only going to be talking about probabilities and not about truth or facts, so fine, which
is what the humanities is all about anyway.
The idea is not that the Pentateuch is a combination of four originally independent documents that
were interwoven like this, which is what I think, but that what we had instead were sort
of smaller stories or collections of stories that sort of grew over time.
Instead of four things separately that were put together, more like a few things that kind
of expanded and accumulated into the larger mass and then kept layers and layers and layers
on top of that.
The example that sort of that brand of scholarship started with that I still think is a really
good one is, what we're going to do is we're going to take the stories and reduce them
to what do we think the core stories really are here.
So there's the Pentateuch and obviously there's the patriarchal stories within the Pentateuch.
And within the patriarchal stories there's three patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
So like those are each separate things.
And then there's, so let me focus on Jacob for a second.
There's a bunch of stuff that goes on with Jacob in his story.
There's, you know, Jake, he's got the whole thing with Esau, right?
The whole rival Ruth Esau.
There's the whole thing where he goes like on a trip to his family out in Aram and gets married
and like all this stuff out there, which has nothing, Esau's not involved in that at all,
right?
Like there seem to be totally separate things, traditions that take place in totally separate
places.
There's the whole tradition of Jacob founding a cult-excited Bethel, right?
Like that's Jacob's ladder whole thing.
These are, none of them seem to really have much to do with each other, right?
They're all part of Jacob's story, but they are located in different places, right?
You can imagine that a tradition of Jacob founding a cult-excite or a sanctuary at the
town of Bethel, it could be its own little story that emerged from Bethel, right?
And the whole story of Jacob and Esau could be, you know, like a different story about
why, in this case, why are we so similar to these people who we call Edomites over there
in the South, and what's our relationship to them?
And like, OK, so, and I agree to the extent that these seem to be different traditions
about Jacob, and I do think they probably emerged in different places for different purposes.
For those who don't agree with the documentary hypothesis, what they'll say is, OK, so like,
I assume that these traditions were actually like texts, right?
Like, don't talk to me about Jay, talk to me about the Jacob and Esau story.
Like, that's the text I want to think about, and they look at the Bible and they sort of
take the, they're like, OK, this is the Jacob and Esau story.
Here's the verses that constitute it.
Here's the Jacob and Bethel story.
Here's the Jacob and Levan story, right?
Up in Aram, where he's, you know, the whole thing with the sheep and the wives and stuff.
Like, I can isolate those as stories, and then I'll say, OK, so this must have existed independently.
And then somebody combined them.
How did they combine them?
Well, here's all the places where their stories are linked.
So when Jacob shows up at Bethel, God says, right?
I, you know, like, you know, I'll protect you on your journey that you're taking.
So, OK, reference to a journey that seems to connect to the Bethel stuff with the Jacob fleeing.
Why is Jacob going up to get married?
Oh, it's because he was running away from Esau.
That's a connection, right?
That's not an original part.
That's like something that's meant to link these originally independent pieces together.
How did Jacob get linked with Abraham?
I will, you know, they, somebody introduced this theme of like the patriarchal promise, right?
The blessing, right?
Like that goes overarching all of the different patriarchs.
And now they're genetically related.
And like it grows and builds like that.
So he had independent little stories that accumulated into like a, coalesced into like the broader Jacob tradition
that then was combined with the broader Abraham tradition that had its own little history.
And then those patriarchs were combined with the bigger exodus tradition.
Now you've got a whole story, right?
Like, so this is, again, there is something compelling about this.
And in fact, I think it makes a lot of sense on the level of, to my mind,
on the level of oral tradition, right?
Like this is how stories grow.
To my mind, it's not how like texts on papyrus grow, like or on parchment, right?
It's a little hard for me to imagine, you know, a story about Jacob at Bethel
that existed as an independent text, right?
It's like somebody was going around being like, you know, get your copies of the Jacob.
Not how it works.
But, you know, like a Jacob at Bethel story that has no connection to anything
else is like five lines long.
I'm not sure where that exists in the world, in the real world.
But the the notion that these traditions were independent
and this is how we got our Jacob story, sure, that makes sense to me.
But in any case, I don't really want it.
I'm not going to take the time to, like, argue against that perspective.
I just want to be able to introduce it as the other major possible,
the other major possibility in scholarship.
So to my mind, right, all of the sources that make up the Pentateuch
had basically the full story already sort of predetermined for them by oral tradition, right?
But this is just the story that everybody in Israel could tell
with all of its variations of their own early history.
And J had its version and E had its version and P had its version.
And, you know, some and then they each told them themselves
and then they were all brought together.
The other alternative, as I'm trying to suggest, is there was really only one version, right?
And it's just that over time, it kept it kept guiding reshaped and growing
so that what I would call like E's version of the Jacob story isn't really
it's not a separate source.
It's just like a slightly different like somebody expanded the material a little bit.
So, yeah, we're really it's between sources that went like this and layers that went like this.
And that's those are the two big approaches.
And, you know, again, I find the source approach more compelling.
I think it explains the evidence better, you know, on pretty much every level.
And, you know, you can like see my rebuttal to the other approach.
It's in my composition, the Pentateuch book.
I've got a whole bunch of pages about why I don't think that works.
But, you know, out there in the world, so when you read pick up Thomas Romer's book
and you find like we don't think that this is what they think instead for the most part in very broad terms.
Thank you.
