Today I asked Dr. Bart Ehrman if the Muslims accurately represent Jesus, the historical Jesus.
Do they know the historical Jesus correctly or is everything that they have about Jesus filtered
through the Christian milieu, the Christian idea? So I asked him today because some of the Muslims
and ex-Muslims out there have been interviewing Dr. Ehrman recently and trying to say, well,
do we have this Jesus right? Muslims think they do compared to Christians and Christians think
they do compared to Muslims. So I figure let me ask an expert on Jesus and see what he has to say.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Bart Ehrman.
All of his credentials are all over the internet. So if you don't know who he is, well, roll out
the red carpet because here he is. Dr. Ehrman, on December 5th all day, I'm going to be hanging out
with you listening to this webinar on the nativity of Jesus. So we're going to probe deep and this
would have cost someone a couple hundred bucks. So they have the opportunity to get an high caliber
scholar like you for 49.95. They can go sign up now and even if they miss the live, they can always
watch it later. So I highly recommend go down in the description. Now let's get into the juicy stuff.
Dr. Ehrman, if I may, Muslims believe a certain idea of Jesus. Christians believe a certain idea
of Jesus. They both believe in a miraculous virgin birth. They believe in this idea of Jesus
is born from a woman and somehow God intervenes and miraculously makes Mary pregnant. If I'm not
mistaken, this is both of them. If I could say, because you're the historical Jesus guy,
where, because we know where Christians are wrong. You and me have talked about this and
we're going to hear more of that come December 5th. But where do Muslims in their view of Jesus
get things wrong? I've had a number of, I've done a number of interviews recently with Muslim
Muslim podcasts and it's been great fun because Muslims do revere Jesus in many ways.
They have views of Jesus that in the Koran that are not, some are found, some are comparable to
what you get in the New Testament and others are taken up from early Christian legends.
And I think most Muslims don't realize that these, that the stories that you find in the Koran
can usually be found outside the Koran earlier in Christian sources. And including, I think the
one that most Christians would find problematic is that Muslims do not believe, the Koran says,
that Jesus didn't really get crucified. He didn't really die. It was somebody else who got crucified
in his place. And, and so that's, yeah, well, that would be something that I think, I think
historically, I think Jesus certainly got crucified. I think this is the historical certainty.
There are other studies in the stories in the Koran that will actually be one of which will
be reflected in my webinars. It turns out about this one, not about the virgin birth, but about
Jesus as a young boy. The story in the Koran about Jesus as a boy making a bunch of clay birds
that he brings back to life, not back to life, he brings to life. And this story is taken from
the infancy gospel of Thomas, which is an account of Jesus escapades as a young boy from the ages
5 to 12. And so that's part of what I'll be discussing in my webinar is not just the stories
of Matthew and Luke about Jesus' birth, but also stories outside the New Testament about his birth
and his upbringing and this one that got picked up in the Koran. So let me, let me give them some
benefit of the doubt, because we're always critical here at MythVision and I want to be nice. And I
think one thing I have to value on the Islamic approach to Jesus is they see him as a man.
Like there is something that is like, okay, whatever they want to think about miracles,
at least they see him as a man and not God, right? Because now you're getting outside of this whole
idea of Jesus being defined. It's, it's kind of a more of a realistic view, if that makes sense.
In some respects, would you agree?
Well, yeah, I mean, Jesus is not God in Islam. And so, yeah, certainly more realistic in that,
I mean, Jesus was certainly a man. And, and I think that the early Christians would agree
that Jesus was a man. And so this would be a point of, and he would agree that he was,
the Christians would agree that Jesus was a prophet, which is what the Koran says.
And so I think there are places of agreement. But I would also say that saying that Jesus
of Nazareth was a man is like a useful commonality between Muslims and Christians is kind of a
low bar. It's like, the only ones who disagree are the mythosists. Like, you know, that you're
standard, that you can agree against the mythosists, you're doing pretty well.
So, okay, I was trying, I tried, I literally did. I guess we're gonna have to watch this webinar.
I'm telling you, because I feel like we're getting into some things that I really want to say for
the lecture. So this is really, all I was wanting to know is how right and how wrong are they on
trying to get the historical Jesus? I wonder if they've had, go ahead, go ahead.
They don't have any access to the historical Jesus. The Koran has no access other than
Christian storytellers. And so whatever the Koran has picked up is from earlier Christian traditions
or something that they've come up on, it's come up on their own. That's true though of the later
Gospels of Christianity as well. You know, if you have Gospels from the fourth or fifth century,
they are either based on earlier Christian traditions or their stories that people have
made up. And that's what I would say about the Koran as well. So when the Koran says something
about Jesus that happens to be historically accurate, like he was a man, it doesn't provide
any kind of independent verification of that. They're just basing on early Christian stories.
And so, but it's interesting from a history of religions point of view to see what early
Muslims thought about Jesus. And just as it's interesting to see what early Christians said
about Jesus, it doesn't mean that they were right or wrong. It just means it's interesting to see
what they thought. So final question in the vein of who Jesus was. Reza Aslan, he's a well-known
Muslim, but also he's written a book about the zealot, I think it's called Zealot,
where he's writing about Jesus. And I love learning different ideas and flexing my thinking about,
could he have been this rebel leader? Could he have been this and that? But do you think that
Reza's painting Jesus in the image he would like Jesus to look like, which might look more along
the lines of Muhammad? Because Muhammad was kind of a warlord military prophet. And if Jesus was
carrying a sword, he kind of matches the Islamic caricature of Muhammad in the early conquest and
such. Well, that's an interesting point. I don't think I've ever looked at it that way. Reza's book
was a bestseller. It's the first book ever that I know about Jesus to be a number one bestseller
in the New York Times, bestseller list. And it's a very, it's a written very well. And it's a very,
it's a page turner. I don't think it's at all accurate in terms of its overall portrayal of
Jesus. And I think that the portrayal of him as a zealot-like figure, he doesn't think he was like
officially a capitalist zealot, but he was somebody who believed in the military overthrow of the
Roman world. That's not a new idea. And a lot of Christian scholars have said that. And so I don't
think it's necessarily influenced by his view of Islam, but it would be interesting to pursue.
I don't, I think Reza was generally trying to do a historical study. This view that Jesus was a
revolutionary was the very first view put out by Jesus by somebody who approached the gospel from
a critical point of view in the 1770s. Hermon Samuel Ramirez in a posthumous public book on Jesus
argued this. And so it was the first critical book of the historical, the first book that
Albert Schweitzer talks about in his history, history of research, the quest for the historical
Jesus. It was Ramirez, his view that he's a revolutionary. Aslan resuscitates that view,
but I don't think, you know, I'm not sure he knew that this was Ramirez. I don't know if he
thought knew this is Ramirez as you were not. So I'm not convinced that it necessarily is because
it makes Jesus look more like Muhammad. Because the reason for Jesus being a zealot like figure
for Aslan is because the promised land was given to Jews and the Jews should have land.
That means they got to take it from the Romans. So it isn't really like, you know, it's not quite
the same thing. Thank you so much, Dr. Hermon. Everybody go right now. Join the webinar. You're
going to see me there. I'm going to be helping out probably in the chat and talking to Chris.
We're going to be trying to make sure that we can have riot control. You know, I hear that there's
lots of wars that happened in the comment section as you're chatting. Oh yeah, good point. Yeah,
I don't read them. Well, I'm glad you don't because if you did, we wouldn't be able to get what you're
going to be presenting. Yeah, I don't have time, but it's easy while I'm doing it, but still even so,
yeah, I heard it's a little bit rowdy last time. So we'll see what happens. Can't please everybody.
You can't please most people. Exactly. That'll be at mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash
Christmas. And that's Dr. Bart's webinar. Go sign up now. Thank you so much, Dr. Hermon.
Thank you. Appreciate it.
