Okay, we are live here at MythVision Podcast.
Ladies and gentlemen, get ready for an electrifying debate
that will maybe shake the foundations of your beliefs.
Our panel of experts will delve deep into the question
of whether the Bible condones slavery
with passionate arguments and thought-provoking insights.
This debate will have you questioning
everything you thought you knew.
This is a must-watch event for anyone interested
in religion, history and social justice.
Does the Bible condone slavery or not?
I imagine definitions will get brought up
during this discussion.
And with that being said, welcome.
I am super excited.
Let's get our short little intro going
and I'm hoping that more people will tune in.
Welcome to MythVision everybody.
We have some special guests joining us
for a debate on whether or not the Bible condones slavery.
I'm your host and I'm going to be platforming,
hopefully not getting in anybody's way
during this debate on the issue.
And I wanna introduce both sides.
So we have the side that's saying
that the Bible does not condone slavery.
I imagine that'll be spelled out.
And that is by Dr. Boyce and Steven Boyce
and Jonathan Beasley below.
Can you introduce yourselves for the audience
in case they don't know who you gentlemen are?
Yeah, I'll start.
John Beasley, I'm co-founder of Explore Christianity.
My studies are in the field of theology and Bible.
I was been a pastor a little over a decade
and I since have moved out of the pastor
to really focus on this Explore Christianity ministry
where we try to create a platform
for people who are struggling with their faith
and even skeptical about faith
to be able to have a good conversation.
So I'm excited about this conversation
to be able to be had as well, Steven.
Yep, I'm Steven Boyce
and I'm the other co-founder of Explore Christianity.
We have a group of apologists that major
in different avenues, different studies.
Some guys are predominantly Old Testament.
Most of mine is actually in the New Testament,
Canonicity, much of my doctoral work
was focused actually on the Gnostic Gospels.
But yeah, we have founded this ministry
in order to speak at churches,
also engage people on the side, have discussions
and allow people to wrestle with doubt
and allow people to wrestle with questions
because we believe that's actually a healthy thing.
So that is a big part of our ministry.
And I know that Derek, you put our website
in the link as well.
People wanna learn more about us,
see some of the other debates we've done.
Our podcast, I run a podcast called Facts
and you can download that on any of the major lines there.
And if there's anything I need to add later, gentlemen,
feel free to shoot the links over to me
cause you know, we were all discombobulated today.
I'll be happy to add that in the description
so people can find that.
Now to the team that is saying,
yes, the Bible does condone slavery
and that will get spelled out,
is Dr. Kip and Dr. Josh,
can you introduce yourself to our audience?
Hi.
I'm, yeah, I'll go, that's fine.
My name is Kip Davis.
Most people probably know me from my YouTube channel,
which is very creatively titled Kip Davis.
And I create videos about the Bible
and counter apologetics.
I am a biblical scholar and a specialist
in early Judaism in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
I earned my PhD at the University of Manchester.
I had postdoctoral appointments in Norway and Canada
where I also taught university courses.
I'm also probably most well known from my work
in the Dead Sea Scrolls forgeries,
which has been featured in popular media outlets.
And I have published widely academically and popularly.
Thank you.
And I'm happy to be here.
Yes, I'm Dr. Josh.
I helped my wife, Megan Lewis,
who runs the YouTube channel, Digital Hammurabi.
We both went to Johns Hopkins.
I got my PhD there in Assyriology
with a minor in Hebrew Bible.
Before that, I got a master's of theology
in Old Testament studies.
Yeah, so I also do counter apologetics.
And most of what I do is just trying to go
to the Old Testament in the ancient Near East
and say, what was actually there?
What can we actually say about it?
And so I've got several books out in that vein,
probably most notably or for this discussion
is did the Old Testament endure slavery?
And then I've got two volumes out in the series,
the atheist handbook to the Old Testament.
So also happy to be here.
Thank you so much.
I really appreciate you guys.
I wanna make sure that you guys are good to go
and we're gonna be doing just for our audience's sake,
we're gonna be doing a 15 minute opening.
Each team will get a chance, 15 minutes to open
to make their case.
And we're gonna let those who have the affirmative go first.
So Dr. Josh and Dr. Kippel go first
and saying, yes, it does affirm or condone, sorry,
the Bible condones slavery,
then we'll allow Dr. Boyce and AKA,
I said this before the live stream,
AKA Dr. Beasley, of course we're joking.
I gave it to you, I gave it to you.
No problem, write the check later.
So you gentlemen will be having 15 minutes each
and then our, we're gonna call it an open dialogue
for this one hour.
After that, five minute closing each side,
then we'll do Q and A, so super chat your questions
and we will get your questions answered at the end.
I will be disappearing like Casper the friendly ghost
during their cross discussion.
That way I'm not in the way as I am right now
on the screen and it'll fit better.
You could see their pretty faces.
So that being said, Dr. Josh and Dr. Kipp,
you guys go first and if you wanna share your screen,
I'm gonna get my timer.
You might wanna get your timer out as well.
To be prepared.
Is it on?
All right, I think I see it and yes it is.
And all I ask is that everybody who's on the panel
mute your mic in case, kids, we all have families
and just to make sure that nobody's interrupting
potentially for the presentation.
And I'm ready when you are Kipps,
let me know when and we'll start.
Or is it Josh, are you going first?
I'll be reading, you'll be doing the clicking.
Okay, ready, set, go.
The presence of laws relating to slavery in the Bible
are often quite jarring to believer and unbeliever alike.
How could a text, either divinely inspired by God
or standing at the heart of an all-pervasive religion
contain laws that endorse the appropriate practice
of slavery?
What was slavery like as described in the Hebrew Bible?
Were the Old Testament laws in fact structured
to support and promote the practice of debt
and shadow slavery?
How did these laws compare to those
from other ancient Near Eastern nations?
If there was genuine slavery in the laws of the Old Testament,
did the New Testament do away with this practice?
Let's define some important terms.
While the word slavery can have nuanced meanings
in the context in which the word appears,
it is sorry, it is the context in which the word appears
that determines its meaning.
In the context under discussion,
we will define slavery as a condition
in which an individual or rights to their labor
is owned by another, either temporarily or permanently.
The owner controls and benefits from the actions
and activities of the owned individual.
The topic of this debate is, does the Bible condone slavery?
And in that vein, we should also discuss the word condone.
If we're using the term to mean to approve
or sanction something, then the word describes well
what the Bible and especially the Old Testament
did concerning slavery.
However, there is another perhaps more common nuance,
which is to accept or allow something to continue
that is considered to be immoral.
In this sense, we would argue that the biblical texts
did not condone slavery.
And this would imply that the practice was,
as this would imply that the practice was considered
to be immoral in the various legal sections
of the Hebrew Bible.
It is not.
Exodus 21, two to six,
contains laws concerning the male Israelite dead slave,
the Eved Ivory.
He is able to be kept for six years
and released in the seventh.
Sipulations are in place concerning his wife and children,
which depend upon whether he came into slavery married,
literally the Ba'ali Shah, owner of a woman,
or was given a woman by his owner.
If so given, the woman and children
remain chattel slaves upon the man's release.
The man himself could become a chattel slave
if he wished to remain with his woman and children,
and he would then serve his master for life.
Verses seven through 11 concern the female slave,
and Amma, who was sold by her father
into either concubinage or marriage.
She is not to be released as the male dead slaves were,
although this is to ensure a form of protection for her,
as her value has been greatly diminished,
having been deflowered by her buyer or his son.
If she becomes displeasing to the buyer,
or he takes another Amma,
she is not to be denied certain provisions.
If these are not provided,
she is to be allowed to be redeemed
and cannot be sold to foreigners as a slave.
In Exodus 21, 20 to 21,
we see a law regulating the beating of one slave.
If the master beat the slave so severely
that the slave died immediately, verse 20,
then there would be severe punishment, likely death.
However, if the slave did not die immediately,
but survive for a day or two,
then according to this logic,
the intent of the master was likely not murderous,
and there was no punishment.
In verses 26 and 27, we read,
an owner who hits a male or female slave, an evid or an Amma,
in the eye and destroys it,
must let the slave go free to compensate for the eye,
and an owner who knocks out the tooth of a male or female slave,
must let the slave go free to compensate for the tooth.
In the preceding verses,
the text is elaborating on the principle of talion,
generally designated lex talionis
or the law of retaliation.
If a slave were on equal footing with the master before the law,
we would expect to read something akin to,
an owner who hits his male or female slave in the eye
and destroys it will have his own eye destroyed.
However, the principle of retaliation
that the slave would have the right to the eye of the master
is not in play here.
The slave is protected by the law, at least in theory,
from abuse and excessive beatings.
If they are killed as a direct result of a beating,
it is considered murder,
and the slave is likely to be killed.
I'm sorry, and the master is likely to be killed.
If the master destroys or puts out an eye or tooth,
the slave is forgiven their debt and set free.
Deuteronomy 15 speaks of Hebrew slaves, Ha-Ivri and Ha-Ivriah,
who serve for six years and are released in the seventh.
The slave is also able to voluntarily serve for life,
and a ritual is performed on that occasion.
Different from Exodus 21,
the laws here in Deuteronomy pertain
not only to the Hebrew man, Ha-Ivri,
but also to the Hebrew woman, Ha-Ivriah.
In this passage, the woman is also to be released
or is allowed to remain a slave for life.
More significantly, however, is the command for the master
to provide a substantial amount of goods
to the newly freed slave.
The overall tone of the passage is one of encouraging the master
not to hold back from his slave,
because the Ha-Ivri is his brother, Ha-Ivriah.
As God has supernaturally blessed and provided for his people,
he will continue to do so if they keep his covenant.
In like manner, the master should also give generously
to the Hebrew slave and be supernaturally blessed thereby.
In Leviticus 25, the beginning of the chapter,
verses one through seven,
contains God's command to let the land of Israel
have a year-long rest from farming every seventh year.
The next section commands the people
to also hold a year of rest every fiftieth year.
They were to have seven Sabbath years, totaling 49 years,
followed by a Jubilee in the fiftieth year.
During this year of the Jubilee,
people were to be returned to their land
and debts were to be canceled.
This supplied to the Israelites, the Benes Rael.
Following verses 18 to 22,
which described God's supernatural provision
if they would obey his commands,
we come to the end of the chapter
if they would obey his commands.
We come to the critical section of the chapter
for our purposes.
Law is concerning Israelites that become poor 25 to 55.
There are three scenarios that are discussed in these verses
with respect to an Israelite.
In the first, because Israelites owned property
in the land of Israel,
if they fell into poverty,
selling a portion of their land was a viable option.
The law required, however,
that the land would eventually return to its original owner,
either by a near relative redeeming it for them
or during the year of Jubilee.
In the second scenario,
it appears that the Israelite has already sold his property
and cannot make ends meet.
Should this occur, the poor Israelite
was to be cared for by their fellow Israelites
who were to loan them what they needed at no interest.
They were to fear and obey God
by supporting their poor brother
with the result that God would supernaturally provide for them
because of their obedience.
In the third scenario,
the Israelite actually reaches a stage
where he must sell himself into debt slavery.
However, they are not to be treated as slaves
or as an evid.
In contrast to Exodus 21 and Deuteronomy 15,
where it was perfectly legitimate
to keep an Israelite as a slave,
this is no longer allowed in Leviticus 25.
If Israelites can no longer purchase fellow Israelites as slaves,
a natural question arises in this context.
Where should they get slaves?
And as for your male slaves and female slaves,
your evid and your amah,
that you may have from the foreign nations that are around you,
from them you may purchase male and female slaves.
And even from the tenant foreigners,
the Toshavim that are living with you.
From them you may purchase,
even from their families who are with you,
whom they have borne in your land,
and they will be your inherited property.
And you may bequeath them to your sons after you
to receive his inherited property,
you can make them serve permanently.
But as for your brothers,
the children of Israel, the B'nai Israel,
you must not rule over one another with violence,
Leviticus 25, 44 to 46.
We learn from these verses that,
one, chattel slaves can be purchased from the foreigners
living in the nations around Israel
and from foreign tenant farmers living in Israel.
Two, these slaves become their property.
Three, that property can be passed on as inheritance
to their children.
And four, they can be made to serve as slaves for life.
In short, the Israelites were given special treatment
as God slaves,
because they already had a master, God himself,
they could not be treated as slaves by another master.
Instead, they were to be treated as hired workers,
whether under the control of an Israelite or foreign master.
God's supernatural provision would ensure
that this would be economically viable.
In contrast to this,
foreign slaves were able to be purchased,
kept as property, passed on as inheritance,
and made to serve for life.
We should note that in this presentation,
we have been making a deliberate point
of emphasizing the terminology throughout these texts
as a means of demonstrating
the crucial significance of these words,
the nuances of which are so often lost in translation.
This is because words matter.
The Benay Israel, the Israelites,
the Yivri and Yivriyya, the Hebrews,
are a distinct group of free people,
and they are always distinguished from foreigners.
The Toshavim and from slaves,
both male, evid, and female, Ammah.
Likewise, within Iron Age Israelite culture,
there are important distinctions to be made
in the status and identity of female humans.
When a girl is born to an Israelite or Hebrew,
she is a daughter, a bat.
She remains a daughter under the rule of her father
until she is given to another man,
and she becomes a woman or a wife, an Isha,
belonging to an Isha,
who has quite literally taken her Lakach.
She may otherwise be sold,
in which case she becomes a slave, an Ammah.
At no point in any of these transactions
does she exercise her own agency,
and while her standing in the community
may differ from one distinction to the other,
in virtually all of these instances,
she remains the property of a man she did not choose
and satisfies many aspects of our definition of a slave.
Words matter.
While we cannot spend a great deal of time
in the New Testament,
it is important to briefly touch on some of the key passages
that come up in this discussion.
In Matthew 19, three to nine,
Jesus notes that Moses allowed the Israelites
to divorce their wives because their hearts were hard.
This is seen as a principle
to be more broadly applied to other aspects of the law.
Divorce was not God's ideal,
but he allowed it because of man's sinfulness,
and this can be applied to slavery as well.
But can this be tied to slavery?
Do we see Jesus and the New Testament writers
speaking out against slavery?
It must be noted that, quite to the contrary,
in the collections of literature that survive
from Jesus' Jewish contemporaries and the Dead Sea Scrolls,
we see not only no condemnation
of the institution of slavery,
but rather its ongoing maintenance
through additional laws and stipulations.
Jews living in this idealized community at Qumran
are not permitted to sell their slaves,
both eva and ama, two Gentiles,
as with all their property and holdings.
One is pressed to wonder at this,
if God's ideal was always for all men and women to be free,
then why is this not remotely obvious
to the readers of the Hebrew Scriptures?
If the Old Testament and Dead Sea Scrolls
endorsed the practice of slavery,
did the New Testament condemn it?
To show such a condemnation,
several common passages are cited by apologists.
Setting aside general statements about loving one another,
Paul's letter to Philemon often appears
early in the conversation.
First Timothy 1, 9 to 10 is also frequently cited,
where slave traders are listed
along with other sinful behaviors.
Finally, Galatians 328 is regularly quoted,
where in Christ, there is neither slave nor free.
Galatians 328 is a positional truth,
and was in no way intended to do away
with the social institution of slavery,
any more than the practical distinctions
between Jew and Gentile or male and female in the same verse.
First Timothy 1, 10 condemns the illegal acquisition
or kidnapping of persons,
as did other nations at the time.
If First Timothy 1, 10 was meant to condemn
the social institution of slavery,
then it had already been condemned
by secular sources of the time.
Finally, the book of Philemon offers no overarching
declaration on the institution of slavery.
Lozer writes concerning this view, quote,
for good reasons, this view has found no acceptance,
and today is no longer held by anyone.
The letter to Philemon is neither the disguise
of a general idea, nor the promulgation
of a generally valid rule about the question of slavery,
end quote.
At best it would seem it provides evidence
of Paul encouraging Philemon to forgive
and free his runaway slave in order that Onesimus
might return to Paul to help him in the ministry.
In no way is it a broad directive
against owning other human beings as slaves.
The topic of slavery is one that makes us uncomfortable,
and yet it comes up time and again
in discussions about morality and the God of the Bible.
The reason for this is that what the Bible says
about slavery is at the very least extremely uncomfortable.
We would do well, whether as believer or atheist,
to understand what the Bible actually says
about the practice of slavery,
rather than building our conclusions and positions
on faulty arguments or apologetics
in an effort to ignore what is plainly obviously
right there in the text.
Slavery was indeed endorsed, not even merely condoned,
in the Old Testament, and the New Testament
did not condemn its practice.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for that.
I appreciate the presentation.
And thank you for the other team helping me with the time.
I had a mishap happen with my phone.
So I really appreciate that.
Now we're gonna be switching sides.
We're gonna allow 15 minutes.
Dr. Boyce or these, AKA, AKA.
Yes, yes.
So I see your presentation is ready to share and,
or it seems, are you doing a presentation for the opening?
I am, yes.
Let me mess this up too much.
Here we go.
Let me know when it's good to go.
Well.
You just gotta, there we go.
Yep, you just have to share the PowerPoint
or keynote or whatever, like you did before.
There you go.
Okay, I'll start your timer when you say go.
Awesome.
Okay, well, first let me just say thank you,
Dr. Josh, for that presentation.
I have read your book, actually both the books
that you've published, the Atheist Handbook
and the book on slavery directly.
And it's been really good.
I appreciate the amount of work that you put into it
and certainly had learned some things from your books.
So thanks for that presentation.
All right, Derek, ready?
I'm ready to go.
Ready?
Let's go.
If you take the passages that regulate the practice of slavery
in the Old Testament in isolation
and the admonition towards slaves and masters
in the New Testament, it would seem reasonable
to condone that God does in fact,
or to conclude rather that God does in fact,
condone slavery in a covenant code
that Dr. Josh was mentioning, Exodus 21.
The first case law is related to slaves
and being, and begins by saying,
when you buy a Hebrew slave,
now it could be argued that from that phrase,
Israel was never commanded per se to buy slaves,
but it does say, hey, when you buy a slave,
you could maybe make the case that the conditions laid out
in the covenant code provide improved conditions for slavery
compared to other ancient Near East law codes.
However, you're still left with the fact
that slavery is not abolished,
but rather regulated and implemented in the law.
Go to another legal point,
go to another legal passage that was mentioned prior,
Leviticus 25, verse 44, Israel is instructed
that if they buy or purchase slaves,
they are to purchase from the other nations.
Leviticus 25, 46 does,
you can bequeath them to your children
and inheritance and inherited property
and can make them slaves for life.
And make sure that you guys are seeing these verses here.
There's that verse that I just quoted.
So we see from two legal passages,
when you buy a hear slave,
when you go to purchase from the nations,
they can be an inherited property,
seems to be pretty clear,
the Bible is endorsing slavery.
And matter of fact,
looking all through the Old Testament,
slavery is everywhere,
all the patriarchs own slaves,
their wives own female slaves,
so it's pretty clear.
When you open the New Testament,
there were some verses that Dr. Josh shared,
but here's some additional ones as well,
Ephesians 6-5, bond servants.
It says, obey your earthly masters.
Colossians 3-22 says, bond servants,
obey in everything those two are your earthly masters.
1 Peter 2-18, servants be subject to your masters.
So again, just kind of a cursory look
at the particular directives, case laws that are given,
case laws in the Old Testament,
directives given the New Testament.
It seems to be pretty clear
that the Bible does in fact condone slavery.
However, I wanna push this conclusion a little bit,
because like any subject in the Bible,
we need to be sure to interpret these specific passages
in light of the grand story
or the meta-narrative of the Bible.
Since the Bible is telling an overarching story,
not just a hodgepodge of different stories,
we need to be intentional about not isolating any text
or topic without making sense of it
in the context of the storyline or the big picture.
If you don't do this type of analysis,
then we end up missing the force for the trees
and drawing faulty conclusions.
In order to frame my argument,
I wanna build off of something
that Dr. Bowen communicated brilliantly in his book,
Did the Old Testament Condone Slavery?
In chapter one, Dr. Bowen lays out
that in order to assess the subject of slavery
in the Hebrew Bible accurately,
we need to make sure to have all the data points
in front of us.
He carefully notes that all the data points
that we have in the Hebrew Bible concerning slavery
fall into four Biblical genres.
You have the legal passages,
you have narrative passages, prophetic passages,
and the didactic passages.
After neatly laying out these categories,
he warns about isolating any of those passages
and drawing hard conclusions that fall short
of all the data.
And he gives this quote in his book.
We also have references to practices concerning slavery
in the various narratives in the Old Testament,
but these require a more nuanced approach,
as they may not reflect the ideals of the law,
but simply their application or lack thereof.
For example, in EMI five,
we see that the Jews were selling other Jews
into slavery in a way that was contrary to the law.
Thus, this can tell us about how slavery was practiced,
at least in this context,
but it doesn't necessarily tell us
what the ideal was according to the law.
Now my highlighting here is my,
I'm emphasizing that that's not Dr. Bowen in his book.
Dr. Bowen not only identified where we find the data points,
he makes sure that we weigh these data points appropriately.
Now, this is exactly the concern that we have
when it comes to the approach to this topic,
that we would weigh all the data points appropriately,
and it actually forms the basis of our argument.
So Dr. Bowen's argument in a concise fashion
weighs the narrative passages against illegal passages
to come to a proper conclusion about what the ideal is.
Now, I think this is a great step in the right direction,
but I don't think it actually goes far enough.
Our arguments weigh all the passages concerning slavery,
including the legal passages against the ideals presented
by the grand narrative of Bible.
I'll be sure to try to click these ahead.
Sometimes I forget to change the slides.
So a couple of questions that can kind of get us
at the heart of our argumentation.
Does the storyline of the Bible present slavery
as overall positive or negative?
Now, our conclusion is that it's presented
as actually something that's negative.
Does the Bible present slavery
as the ideal condition for humanity?
I think the answer, again, is clearly no.
So when we focus on the letter
of the legal text regarding slavery
and then draw conclusions that God condones slavery,
I think we make two fundamental errors.
Number one, we fall short of the ultimate intention
of the law, or you could say the spirit of the law.
In Matthew 22, verse 36, Jesus summarizes the law.
Somebody asked him, teacher,
what is the greatest commandment in the law?
And he says, you'll love God with all your heart,
soul, and mind, and that you should love your neighbor
as yourself.
And then he makes this statement.
He says, on these two commandments
depends all the law and the prophets.
So whatever we find by way of directive
or laws or even the case laws,
they all should be subsumed under these two great directives.
Now, I'm just gonna be honest,
and I'm sure we've all struggled with this.
Some of these laws in the Old Testament,
arguably all the slavery laws seem to fall short
of this ideal.
Like for instance, in one breath,
if I told you to love your neighbor as yourself,
and then out of that same breath say,
hey, when you buy a Hebrew slave,
and so on and so forth,
you might be like, wait, that doesn't make sense.
They don't seem to be compatible ideas.
In the psychological literature,
you might call this cognitive dissonance.
It doesn't seem to be very compatible.
What we need to note is that the letter of the law
sometimes, or excuse me, sometimes
is merely restraining evil and keeping people
from moving forward or further away from what is the ideal.
So it's restraining evil and making sure
that they're not going further from the ideal,
but rather hindering them from that direction
and trying to pull them back the right way.
So therefore, the letter doesn't always reflect
the full intention of God's plan for humanity.
Now, this is a case study.
And no Dr. Bowen mentioned this,
we might discuss it further.
But when Jesus raises the law concerning divorce,
this is a great example.
Now, just to kind of push Dr. Bowen,
Jesus doesn't actually correct the law here and say,
oh, that law should have never been given,
divorce is just that bad.
Obviously, he does correct their notion of the law,
but the law is holy, he's not correcting the law here.
But what he's trying to get at is the intent
of what that law was given for.
And if you notice, let me read the text on the divorce.
After Jesus was asked the question, he says,
have you not read that he who created them
from the beginning made them male and female
and said, therefore a man shall leave his father
and his mother and hold to his wife
and the two shall become one flesh.
So they are no longer two, but one flesh.
What therefore God has joined together,
let no man separate.
They said to him, why then did Moses command
one to give a certification divorce and to send her away?
And he said to them, because of your hardness of heart,
Moses allowed you to divorce your wives.
But from the beginning, it was not so.
Now, notice the Pharisees were stranding
on the letter of the law,
while missing God's great intention
for the special relationship.
Jesus said, this law doesn't communicate the ideal,
but was given because of the hardness of heart.
It would be a mistake then to say
that this divorce law means that God condones divorce.
Regulation doesn't equal endorsement.
And that's the same basic argument
that we're bringing to the table here.
The regulation of slavery doesn't equal endorsement.
Now, it's interesting enough that Jesus points
to the creation narrative to reorient the listener
to what the ideal is,
which leads me to this fundamental second error here we have.
If we conclude that the legal code
is actually endorsing slavery as the ideal for humanity,
this is the way forward.
We're falling short of God's purposes
for humanity revealed in creation and redemption.
Just a note on creation.
You look at the creation narrative,
communicates the Amago day that all human beings
are created equal in the image of God.
The creation mandate communicates go and subdue the earth.
Notice not each other.
Clearly slavery was not in view.
The phenomenon of slavery came about
through the brokenness and fallenness of man.
When we move progressively from creation to redemption,
we gain additional insight into God's mind for humanity.
Creation reveals God's original intent
for the human race, whereas redemption reveals
God's ultimate trajectory for the human race.
Redemption is a major thread, no doubt,
through the Hebrew Bible.
In Genesis three, you have the promise
of this coming redeemer,
but redemption language really began to take shape in Exodus
when God redeemed his people from the tyranny of Egypt.
Before giving the terms of the covenant in the decalogue,
the Lord said in Exodus 21,
I am the Lord your God who brought you up
out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Now this motif brought you up out of Egypt,
out of the house of slavery.
It's said in different ways,
but this motif appears nearly a hundred times
in the Hebrew Bible and is a major way
of communicating their identity as the people of God
and is the basis for a continued developed ethic
moving towards the ideal, loving God with all your heart,
loving your neighbors yourself.
Like Dr. Bowen, you point this out in your book
that there is a evolution or a development of the law
from the three sections of the law given throughout
Exodus, Leviticus and Deuteronomy.
Like for instance, in Exodus 20,
you have this motif followed by case laws in Exodus 21,
and you have the instruction that slaves
should be released every six years,
but there's no provision for that slave upon being released.
They just go free.
You go to Deuteronomy 15,
and they're not just instructed to release the slaves,
but to send them out with abundance.
And you make the note,
this is maybe a contradiction or an advancement
of some sort, but notice Deuteronomy 14,
it says, as the Lord your God has blessed you,
you shall give to him, that is the slave,
you shall remember that you were a slave
in the land of Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you.
So there's that same motif.
Hey, I'm trying to encourage your development
of the ultimate ethic and it's sequential and it's slow.
I mean, you think about God's redemptive plan.
Genesis three, he gives the promise of redeemer,
but it's not thousands of years later
until the Messiah comes.
So God doesn't come to these people and say,
hey, become the ideal human and I'll be your God.
No, he actually out of his grace saves these people
and there's a mess.
And of course, in the ancient Near East and in the Torah,
slavery was the norm for sure.
But what I wanna point out is that the regulation of slavery
is not the end, they're pushing toward
and you see an improvement of even the regulations of slavery
in the scriptures, the Torah.
Now this ties us to Leviticus 25
because I wanna point out the year of Jubilee
because the year of Jubilee is designed
to be a picture of the ideal.
It's like a identity reset.
And I use the word identity on purpose
because surely the language is designed to tie them back
to Eden, back to the Sabbath,
back to the way it's supposed to be.
And there's the releasing of slaves.
This is the ideal.
You go into the New Testament
and you find this same language being picked up by Jesus.
When Jesus goes into the temple,
he picks up the Isaiah scroll, he reads Luke four.
And it says, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me
because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor.
He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captive
and recover of the sight to the blind
and to set at liberty those that are oppressed
to proclaim the year of our Lord's favor.
Now this clearly is a reference to the year of Jubilee
and Jesus goes on to say that he is the fulfillment of it.
Now I just wanna, I only got a few seconds here
to tie this up, but as you go through the New Testament,
Jesus obviously fulfilled the year of Jubilee
and on the cross, he actually was sold
for the price of a slave.
He took our debt on the cross
and he freed us from slavery.
So the new motif for the New Testament believer
is this freedom in Christ, Galatians five,
stand fast in the liberty wherewith Christ has set you free.
Galatians three, 25, there is neither Jew nor Greek.
There is neither slave nor free.
There is no male or female for you are all one in Christ.
Just to note that you said
that this doesn't actually remove the social structures.
I agree with that notion.
This is a spiritual statement.
However, the implications are there
to actually change the social structure in time,
which that's exactly what the church did in time,
which I'm sure will be a fun discussion.
I have one more chart I'm gonna share,
but I can share that in our discussion.
Maybe we could bring up the flame as well.
I would say go ahead.
I have no problem with you finishing.
Yeah, it's absolutely fine.
Are you guys okay with that?
Yep.
Thanks guys, appreciate it.
Feelin' the love, feelin' the love.
So just a couple other references,
like for instance in Peter,
he says in 1 Peter 2.16,
he's talking, in the context,
he's talking about a bunch of different ways to submit,
slaves submitting to masters,
us also submitting to government authority and such.
And he tells the slaves to live,
basically live out the gospel and be peaceable.
But yet he gives this statement.
He says, live as people who are free, 1 Peter 2.16.
So there's this tying back to an identity that says,
hey, we're free.
And also what begins to be working out in the church
is that, hey, we shouldn't be pressing our brothers.
And I think that's what Galatians 3.28
is really trying to get at as well.
So in the New Testament, there's a whole letter,
and you mentioned this,
and I would love to talk more about this,
a whole letter written from an apostle
to a slave owner, Fleeman,
about his runaway slave, Anissimus.
Though this letter does not come out
and say slavery should be abolished,
I agree with that notion.
It does show how the logic of the gospel is compatible,
or excuse me, not compatible with the institution of slavery.
Paul explicitly told Fleeman to receive Anissimus
no longer as a slave, but as a dear brother.
That's a pretty clear directive
that I think that I would like to bring
up in our discussion later.
So in short, let me see if I can tie this up.
This grid might help people, those that are watching.
So when these law codes were given,
these particular, whether they're directives
or laws in the Old Testament,
the original culture would look at those
as an improvement upon what they were facing,
particularly Israel out of Egypt.
Now, I know the ancient Near East cultures,
there are some borrowing of laws,
which I'm sure will flesh out,
but there certainly are some improvements as well.
And so they would say,
hey, this is improvement upon how we treat human beings.
So they looked at it as redemptive.
However, our culture, when they look back on these passages
and kind of rightly so,
they would say, wow, this is kind of regressing.
Why would I want to believe this?
This seems outdated.
The God of the Bible seems terrible
because look what he's condoning.
But what they're actually missing
is that these regulations are not God's full intention.
They are to restrain certain things,
certain cases, certain activities.
Yeah, the full end of the law, as is expressed,
and this is not just Jesus saying,
this is Judaism would accept this as a whole as well.
All the law hangs on loving God
and loving your neighbors yourself.
That is the ultimate ethic.
And that's what the Bible is pressing towards.
So these isolated passages, these case laws,
are designed to move them forward,
but they're not quite there yet.
And it's not until the new covenant
that we actually find more of this coming to fruition,
but God is slowly maturing
and moving these people towards the ultimate ideal ethic.
So just a case study,
and this is the last thing I'll show.
Original culture slavery is culturally accepted as normal
and is encouraged.
In the Bible, slavery is regulated similarly
to ancient years culture,
yet with improved conditions
and an underlying redemptive story.
There's some passages that we can share later.
Our culture looks at slavery and views it immoral
and is for the most part eliminated,
at least in our Western culture.
But the ideal ethic presented in the Bible,
a gospel shaped community
in which slavery along with all forms of social oppression
is eliminated.
And I showed Galatians 3,
there's many verses that I could share.
So in a closing,
I would say that the Bible does not condone slavery.
It actually regulate slavery with planned obsolescence
that the gospel would ultimately work out.
All right.
Thank you so much, appreciate that.
All right, gentlemen, I am going to start an hour timer
and then you guys are going to fight to the death
over the next 60 minutes.
And then I'll be popping in for a closing
and let me get my hour here set up on my stopwatch timer.
And yeah, so I'll come in,
we'll do our closings five minutes each.
If you guys want to allow Josh and them a minute extra,
whatever if they need it, you know, you can,
since we're being brotherly love here.
And then we'll do Q and A.
So feel free to super chat your questions now.
I'm going to be doing them in order from top to bottom.
So the sooner you put your questions in,
I'll be addressing those as we get to the end of this.
And with that being said, let me get off the screen.
Once I get off the screen, time starts.
And then however you want to begin,
I think it's good to have Dr. Josh and Kip start responding
and then you can go back and forth.
All right.
Okay.
Good. I feel like I should apologize at the outset
that we're not just going to be battling me
and Josh, you're going to be battling
my incredibly runny nose and I'm still fighting a cold here
that I have all week.
So, I guess I would start here with a question.
So I mean, I think as the question of the debate is laid out,
does the Bible condone slavery?
Right at the outset, I wonder where the,
what did you call them?
On the last or second last slide of your presentation,
I would suggest that you've got ancient Near Eastern culture
on the one side, you've got Bible.
And then you've got, what was it at the end there?
Do you want me to try to pull it back up?
Yeah, maybe just pull that back up for a sec.
Yeah, so you can see it.
Oh, you know what?
Unless Derek fell asleep, it's possible.
Oh no, maybe we can't, can you just read it
like at the bottom of the slide?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
So you had the original culture
and that represented ancient Near Eastern culture
or Greco-Roman culture as well.
Then you had the Bible and particularly talking
about these isolated commands or directives.
So kind of that ethic frozen in time idea.
Then you have our culture looking back
on that ethic frozen in time saying,
wow, that's really behind,
but missing out on the storyline,
actually developing to actually show
forth the ultimate or ideal ethic,
which is not like a New Testament,
just to clarify, it's not like a New Testament idea
that's just kind of forced back on to the text,
but more of, I mean, these are loving God
with all your heart, loving your neighbor yourself.
These are obviously embedded in the Torah as well.
So that just clarified that.
But Jesus also does define who your neighbor is, doesn't he?
Oh yeah, definitely an advancement
and a further working out of...
Does it include slaves?
Oh, you mean does he apply to slaves?
No.
No.
But obviously...
But if the slavery laws, are they actually laws?
The Bible asks, and if all the law hangs
on these two commands, then it would apply
to anything that you would find in the law.
So to answer the question, Dr. Kip,
Jesus didn't explicitly say slaves in his paragraph there,
but it would apply to slaves, yes, to answer,
just so that there's clarity there.
He didn't explicitly say your neighbor's a slave.
So I'm not convinced of that.
And the reason I'm not convinced of that
is because of the amount of effort
that Josh and I put into ensuring that we have this distinction
in the social understanding of how people interact
and where their role and their function is
within the cosmos.
We have a tendency to read back into
this ancient Near Eastern culture,
ideals about love, freedom, and humanity
that are not necessarily entrenched
within the cultures which produced the Bible.
And I would include the New Testament.
And Jesus.
Oh, sure, I would totally agree with that.
There's construction about that too.
So I guess, I mean, I have a problem at the outset
with expanding that definition
beyond what Jesus says explicitly.
And I also have a question about who decides
what the meta-narrative is.
Well, in my mind, it's pretty self-evident.
Would you come up with a different meta-narrative?
Or would you say, of course, post-modern,
would say there are no meta-narratives, you know?
We could go that direction, that'd be kind of fun.
But would you say that the Bible actually is telling a story
if I could turn the question?
No.
So I would say
that you can read it that way.
And that is certainly how the individual texts
have been organized.
And we see the organization change and shift
with regards to how we want that story to be told.
But it's not self-evident.
And then I guess on top of that,
maybe something else that I wonder about is,
does the context of your meta-narrative trump
the original context?
And why?
And then how?
That's a great question.
Yeah, great question.
The meta-narrative was set not by one single passage
or just hinging on Jesus.
I mean, beginning at where John presented,
going back to Genesis,
from the very beginning of creation to fall,
the instantaneous promise of redemption,
these individuals are sacrificing and atoning
and laws to redeem, redemption laws, atonement laws,
going into looking for a Messiah, into the prophets.
The constant narrative is always that God would redeem
that which was broken, bring them back to Eden,
that terminology.
Isaiah just relished the idea of Edenic.
He even uses terminology that would take their minds
with certain trees and certain statements
that would bring them back to the fall and then creation.
So the entirety, I would say of the Torah itself
points to this meta-narrative individually.
Like if you were just to take the first five,
there is the ultimate goal
to bring everything back to that restored Eden
by also dealing with people,
by giving redemption in the sense of saving people
out of slavery to begin with, which would have been Israel.
And then you go into the sections about the prophets.
The prophets are longing and prophesying
of this one to come that would take away their oppression,
take away their struggle, take away their agony,
take away their adversaries and redeem us.
So even in the section of the prophets
from the minor prophets, the 12,
or going into the heartbeat of Isaiah,
redemption is at the forefront of even the prophets
or restored back to a state of correctness
and rightness and justice.
And then you...
For whom?
Well, particularly when you get into the prophets,
they start expanding that God was actually going back
to Isaiah, particularly going back
to the Abrahamic covenant,
which God dealt with a man out of the land of us.
I mean, in the Earl, the Caldee is going into that promise
with him that through his seed,
all the nations of the earth would be blessed,
which insulted the Jews that the prophets
would turn this promise of blessing
beyond the borders of Israel.
Because now he's saying,
I'm going to create a covenant that expands beyond you.
I'm going to call people that are not called by my name.
This would have been an insult.
By the time Jesus gets on the scene,
they were outraged that Jesus should start bringing
parables in about Samaritans and befriending them
and allowing them to be the good guy
and his parable instead of the bad guy,
Jesus opens this door that my kingdom is bigger than you.
And that you're actually, and Jesus even said,
many of you are going to come into the entrance
of the kingdom from your location of Israel.
And you're going to see that there are people
from the East and the West, the North and the South
that are reclining at a table
with the patriarchs and the prophets.
And you're going to be kicked out.
I mean, that's not popular teaching.
That's why the Jews turned on him.
So actually the purpose that the prophets
and Jesus points us back to is that the Jews made
their promises all about them when actually Isaiah says,
you are meant to be a light to the nations
and you've hidden yourself from them.
You've mistreated them.
You've thought wrongly about them.
So I think that a lot of the prophets
are spending their time correcting this system
of thinking that Israel's it and no more.
When actually it was teaching from the very beginning
of Genesis 15, the Abrahamic Covenant,
through one man, God would bless all the nations.
But at no point does that include slaves.
Oh, certainly.
Within the text, if we're talking about the text here
of the Bible, there is no provision
for the total emancipation of slaves.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that's so.
And if that's what this debate is about,
if this debate is about the text and not just,
if this debate is about the text of the Bible
and not your shermanutic applied to the text
in an effort to see it as a grand narrative,
then we should be talking about what's in the text.
Sure.
But I would say the majority of scholarship
would identify that there is a narrative
and a meta narrative.
I don't actually know too many scholars,
even those who would be just,
if you want to say the liberal scholars,
I don't really like that term, but you know what I mean.
What I mean is not evangelical.
So a broader level of scholarship
that would say that there is actually a storyline.
I don't think that that's argued as much.
Now you're saying, how does the meta narrative
affect slavery in those particular texts?
I think when you read those particular texts
and that's all that you had,
I think that you guys have a great point.
It's like, well, he said,
this is how when you go to buy a Hebrew slave,
this is what you do, this is the laws,
this is how you regulate it.
I think you have a good point.
But that's, and I think the difference is,
we see a continuity of the Bible,
whereas you would see it as a little bit more
of a discontinuity as approach.
So in other words,
we need to stay in this particular passages
as opposed to trying to see this as an overarching story.
And I think that's where we're fundamentally disagreeing.
Would that be correct?
So let me, if I could just for a second, sorry, Kim.
So I don't think,
so there are a couple of things that took some notes here,
but just to speak specifically to that point,
I don't think that's necessarily the case
that we're saying that we have to remain
in isolated passages or something
and we can't look to an overarching construction.
I think the question is, or the pushback is,
if you're going to apply something like a Matthew 19
sort of interpretation and apply it then to slavery,
you've got to justify that, right?
And I think in order to justify that,
you would have to show, I think,
that the New Testament authors are moving that direction,
right, or have, so in other words,
if we're looking at divorce as the example,
if Jesus is coming up with this new teaching
and I'm not a New Testament scholar, you know,
so New Testament early church, not me.
I'm also not a New Testament scholar.
Yeah, but if you're arguing that
and you're looking at what he says about divorce
and you're then trying to make that connection to slavery,
I think you have to show that with respect to slavery.
And when you have passages like Luke 17
or you have the early church,
not really certainly what until like the fourth century
not picking up on this,
I think it creates a problem saying that this is something
that was intended in the New Testament,
if that makes sense.
Well, if I could insert on there, Dr. Josh,
when we're talking about the idea of divorce,
it's not about that as much,
is the concept that Jesus was making there is,
these guys were so stuck on the letter of the law
that they missed the original purpose.
And that's the example.
And the way to prove that for slavery and marriage
was the statement Jesus made.
He took us back to actually Torah in Genesis
and said, from the beginning, this was not God's design.
Divorce was not a part of God's design.
This was something permitted by Moses
as a way to regulate sin within relationships
that cause unreconsizable differences.
What we're saying is, is it's like, well, that's not equal.
But what we're saying is, is that slavery in the same way
to deal with human to human,
you go back to the original narrative.
What was God's intention for humanity in the Amago day?
The image bearing.
He told them to subdue the earth and the animals, not humans.
So in the original design of God,
it was never intended in creation in Torah
to put humans under subject to other humans.
That was not a part of the original design.
No more than was God to separate a marriage
a part of the original design.
We're not looking at Matthew 19 and 22 and saying like,
oh, well, Jesus's interpretation
is how we're reading that in the Old Testament.
We're saying that his thought process is a good one.
Well, you guys are focused on the law,
but is there a bigger picture here
than just the letter of the law?
Was there actually an original intent of God
behind these laws?
And he takes them further than Exodus
and Deuteronomy specifically there,
and he goes back to the original design.
And we're saying that in the original design,
God never intended for humans to subdue humans.
They were to subdue animals and the earth.
Would you agree with that, Dr. Josh?
Yeah, I mean, certainly about-
So we're making use of the hermeneutic.
Right, right.
Yeah, yes.
I think the struggle is that this doesn't seem to play out,
and again, not my area of expertise,
but it doesn't seem to play out in the rest of the New Testament.
It doesn't seem like the early church picked up on it.
Well, the early church certainly struggled
with the idea of slavery,
and Augustine really picked this up in hippo.
But going back, before we get to the church history part,
can we back up to maybe Philemon?
Because I know that you mentioned,
we at least both mentioned that in presentations.
So Paul's understanding.
I don't remember which aspect, Dr. Josh, in your notes,
you mentioned Philemon there from the perspective that,
basically, that there was no abolishment commanded.
Did I understand that right?
Yeah, I'll read the quote.
And again, yeah, when it comes to things like,
things in the New Testament like this,
I'm gonna be looking to sort of consensus positions on this.
Sure.
It's not my area of expertise.
How do I open up a document?
It's hard.
It is.
I can't do two things at once.
I think it's the word open.
I don't remember.
I don't know.
I lose so many files when I'm in the middle of a debate.
It happens.
It really does.
So this was in the opening I had,
Loza, in his commentary on Philemon.
He wrote, for good reasons,
this view, the view that it's an overarching declaration
on the institution of slavery.
For good reasons, this view has found no acceptance
and today is no longer held by anyone.
The letter to Philemon is neither the disguise
of a general idea nor the promulgation
of a generally valid rule about the question of slavery.
Gotcha.
So I'm always a little skeptical.
I try not to do it as well.
It's easy to do sometimes.
Like, well, the consensus of scholarship says,
easy to throw that out there.
I think I could find other people
that actually do lean more towards,
but I don't know if anybody that says that Philemon
presents some type of abolition,
let's abolish slavery.
I don't know of anybody that would go that direction.
My point, and I'm curious of your thoughts here, Josh,
I just want to get to Exodus 21,
though I want to get to the actual law codes here,
but the-
Yeah, that'd be great.
When it comes to-
We're trying to answer your question the long way,
so yeah, yeah, yeah.
The logic, when it comes to the gospel,
he's obviously bearing down on this relationship
with the gospel mind.
And I know you talked about the potential of him
profiting from this guy coming with him
and serving with him in the ministry.
I think that's a potential motive as well,
but I feel like in the text, if you, at face value,
he is really trying to work out the gospel
and how Philemon thinks about his property,
the slave, and being able to say,
hey, treat him as a brother, not as a slave,
I feel like that is a big change.
Wouldn't you say that's a change from the Old Testament?
Yeah.
Maybe not to abolish slavery,
but at least a change of mood and working out
Can I?
with the gospel.
You go ahead, Josh, and I might be completely wrong
about this, because I probably know even less
about the New Testament than Josh does.
Which is sad.
But as I, it's very sad.
As I don't know much.
As I understand it, I would say, no,
what I would say is happening in Philemon
is an expansion of the definition
of what precisely is the B'nai Israel.
As I understand it, the church was an extension,
early Christianity was an extension of this ideal
that there was a special covenant people of God.
Now, in the Old Testament, that was restricted by blood
to whoever or however they determined
belonged to the community.
In the New Testament, the application of that is,
it's no longer blood, it's under the covenant of Christ.
So what I see going on here is Paul saying,
Onesimus, no, Philemon is the guy,
and Onesimus is the slave, right?
Yes.
Yeah, right, right.
So he's saying Philemon, Onesimus is part of this community.
And as part of this community, he is now Anach.
Oh, he is, he is a brother.
Sorry, we lost his son, isn't it?
Sorry, he isn't a Delphos.
He is a brother in exactly the same fashion
that the Torah instructed that you were to provide
special treatment to your brothers
that was totally distinct from how you treated
those who were not part of the community.
Am I wrong here?
Well, the only reason I give pushback particularly on that,
I don't necessarily disagree with everything you just said,
actually, but the thing is with Philemon and Onesimus,
they're in the city of Colossae,
and they would have had no idea
in some of that integrated stuff that was in Israel.
These are Gentiles.
They wouldn't have had an appreciation
or in their Gentile mind think we need to align ourselves
with Jewish custom.
I think what Paul was doing there
was actually pulling them away from,
you need to look at, because he said so in Galatians,
whether you're a master or a slave or a male or a female,
you are equal in Christ.
Like you are not better than anybody.
And so that's what- In the community.
Right, well, no, because Paul actually talks
about how to treat outsiders
that are outside of the community too,
and he actually tells them to give an extra amount of grace
and an extra amount of patience
and an extra amount of forgiveness
that you would give with even in the Unchristian communities.
Paul's trying to-
Is the same elimination of the social structure
to extend beyond the community though?
Well, their goal was to reach every social structure
into like Paul was trying to bring things for women.
He was trying to bring things for slaves.
He's trying to bring things in for Jew and Gentile like.
He's trying to get churches to stop looking at ethnicity
and stop looking at ethnic backgrounds, languages,
all of that, because he's trying to bring them
to the fact that you are all the same.
You're image bearers of God.
And in that, Christ came to redeem image bearers.
That's not based on a language.
That's not based on a skin tone.
That's not based on a social status.
He's bringing them all to the same equality,
which at that point was a new concept
for a lot of these people, not just in the Jewish realm,
but even in the Greco-Roman realm, especially in Colossae,
where they're going to be heavily influenced
by how the Romans did things.
So I think he's trying to,
he's trying to bring Jews and Gentiles
from different ethnic background, social statuses
and belief systems, being monotheism and polytheism
and bringing them together to understand
that who they are is not based on any of those things.
And I actually see him trying to bring unity
around any diversity.
He's really trying to champion this in many of his letters,
especially when he's dealing with this situation
with Philema.
I just don't think,
I just don't think that's self-evident from the text.
I mean, it's an ideal that's part of the hermeneutic.
He does say receive him no longer as a slave.
Yeah, he told him to drop the slaves.
Why?
Why?
Well, because he wants,
Yeah, exactly.
Because he's in the community now.
What's not just about the community,
it's what the community is doing for society too,
because the slavery issue,
but the slavery issue is a societal issue,
not a Christian community issue.
And what Paul just did is give Philemon an opportunity
to apply their beliefs on a man
who cost him apparently a lot of money.
Enough, or Paul said, I'll pay his debt for you.
He's trying to get Philemon without him forcing him
to do it, because he said,
I can command you to do this,
but I'm not going to do this.
I want you to do it because you want to do it.
He was trying to get Philemon to see your perspective
as a slave owner needs to change,
not just simply on the community aspect,
but because what the gospel is doing for Philemon,
not onesimus, although in Paul's mind,
he's celebrating both.
He's opening this door for Philemon to act
like a gospel community person,
because this is something he needed to grow in
and understand differently.
That's what Paul is actually trying to do for Philemon
is encourage him to see the freedom in Christ.
Can I ask a question for Dr. Josh,
or did you respond to that?
Yeah, I just, so I kind of wanted to take a step back
and maybe go back,
because I think there's a big sort of elephant in the room
here that I think is a problem.
But I wanted to say this, let's assume for a second
that this is the case.
It seems like the best case scenario
that we're looking at here
is that there, God is working so subtly
to make this improvement
that it leaves Paul saying nothing outright about it
and sort of hinting at it.
And as you said, letting Philemon sort of work it out
on his own or make that decision on his own.
Can I clarify that point right there?
I don't think it's subtle.
I'm sorry, go ahead, finish, I'll let you finish.
No, I was just gonna say that
it seems like this is a directive that doesn't come, right?
So I agree with that assessment.
I'm so excited, I need to stop talking.
No, no, no, you're good.
And so, but what I do wanna do is,
because I'm trying to take it back to the Hebrew Bible.
Well, we'll go back there.
Just to clarify, we think there is an explicit statement,
no longer a slave is explicit.
Don't view, he's not a slave to you anymore.
That's their directive we would argue for.
It's not, it's not biased.
Why be more vocal?
Receive him no longer as a slave,
but as a dear brother, they're still not,
may not be like totally breaking that relationship,
at least in a spiritual sense.
I wanna be fair.
Yeah, yeah, sure, sure, sure.
But I do, if I just put it this way, we can move back.
Is just, I feel like there's enough here
of like in Christ, there's no more of these distinctions.
And then he's saying, hey,
don't treat him as a slave, treat him as a brother.
Like I'm just, if you pick a couple of these statements
together, I feel like it's a little bit more forceful
than like how you're describing it
at least a few minutes ago.
I feel like it's a little bit more of a punch.
But it doesn't ever get around.
Old Testament, New Testament does not ever give a command
that abolishes slavery.
And we'll admit that the church as a whole
did a bad job with this in history
and that they actually failed to act quicker than they did.
You know, I know you wanna get to the Old Testament,
but we do see this start happening.
Augustine really had his eyes open to this in hippo.
This is something that became a big deal
to him after a while.
And so we admit, like we're not saying like,
we're trying to defend, well,
church history got it right all the time.
Well, no, no, they didn't.
And people wrongly use these passages to defend slavery.
So we're not here to defend the church in every night.
Yeah, so let's talk about that.
And before we actually get to the Hebrew Bible,
there's this, on your two slides that you put up,
are they from William Webb's book?
Yes, yeah, thanks for making that note.
So there's this sort of critical part,
and there's another guy, Ghanuza, I think,
that wrote something in 2016, maybe.
And mine's actually a little bit different than William Webb.
I made some additions or changes,
but it's a basic same flow.
But there's this underlying idea that I saw in the slides
and that I heard or that I read, you know, Ghanuza say,
and that is that there's like this improvement
in the Hebrew Bible moving more progressively
out of the ancient Near Eastern law collections.
And I take a lot of issue with that.
And it sort of came out when you guys were talking
in your opening in particular, this idea of like,
or maybe it wasn't in the opening, I don't remember,
but this idea of like don't oppress and to love
and the sort of aspects of social justice.
This is something that's exceptionally common
in ancient Near Eastern,
not just in the law collections,
but in royal inscriptions.
I mean, the rulers, this is what they did, right?
As they were all about, you can read the laws of Ornama
or the laws of Hammurabi, as everybody does,
read the prologues.
And I mean, you'll see that his primary function
is to be this social justice warrior, right?
He's making sure that the rich don't oppress the weak.
I mean, the poor and that the strong don't oppress the weak
and they declare this freedom of debt slavery.
And so I think that I think I would wanna maybe delve
into a little bit, not just your individual understandings
of the individual passages in the Hebrew Bible,
but maybe as we go through that like where it is
that you think there are these like great advancements.
Okay, so let's take a left turn then
before we get back to Exodus, let's stop in Jeremiah.
So at least we're back in the Old Testament now.
We've made a left turn at least.
I see two passages, particularly Dr. Josh,
where I would make that advancement
where God actually seems to become actually stricter
on his people for not having practiced the law better.
Particularly in Jeremiah 34, verses 10 and following,
you have these individuals that practiced jubilee.
They released these slaves, male and female slaves
were released on jubilee.
Then he indicates that they took them right back
into slavery, but the term he uses different.
So it indicates to me that they went
from termed slave to chattel slaves
because he says they did it against their will,
whereas if they were in a qualified jubilee situation,
they chose to be in that.
And then God has a massive blow up at his people for this.
I mean, he lays it down for him.
He said, you've embarrassed me
in front of the kingdoms of the earth
because they literally took slaves
that were chosen slaves, bond servants,
went through the process, freed on jubilee.
And because they took advantage of their stillporness,
they forced them back into what seems to be chattel slavery.
And God is livid.
He's so livid that he tells them,
because you've done this, you've made me profane.
You've profaned my name amongst the nation.
So I'm in, we're gonna turn,
I'm gonna bring pestilence, famine and sword against you.
Now, because they've taken the heart,
this is where John and I are saying the heartbeat,
that the meta narrative is there again.
What is it?
God created man not to subdue each other,
but to actually coexist and subdue the earth.
And here was an opportunity for them to celebrate,
because God actually kind of celebrates their moment
of following the covenant by saying,
you followed jubilee, you've released these people,
this is great.
And then you turn right around
and abused what I was trying to do.
It's like he was telling them,
you missed the heart of the law of slavery.
My goal is to free people, not to put them into slavery.
And you put them into not just slavery,
but chattel slavery.
And he says, as a result, I'm coming after you,
my people, Jews, I'm gonna bring pestilence, famine
and sword, which is Babylon, and I'm taking you down.
That doesn't sound like a God to me
that's endorsing slavery.
I'm pretty angry about this.
Oh, and then the second one's Nehemiah,
so this is 200 years after Jeremiah,
they stopped practicing jubilee and he comes after them
and they read the law and they like, okay, all right,
we gotta like start doing this.
God actually becomes stricter on their
not celebrating jubilee moments
or looking at freedom for people.
But go ahead.
Go ahead, Keb, if you want to.
You seem like you want to.
I mean, one of my fears here
and one of the things that I really want to emphasize
that we tried to emphasize in our opening
is that you're using people here
as if it applies to everyone.
It does not.
Yeah.
There is no provision, Jeremiah does not care
about the Edomite slaves in Jerusalem.
He does not.
This is a provision.
The whole concept of jubilee is about ensuring
that the Yahuza, that is the inherited property
that Yahweh gave to the nation of Israel.
It's about ensuring that everybody still gets their part.
And at no point does anybody outside
of the B'nai Yisrael have any part in the Yahuza.
What Jeremiah is talking about here.
There's no law related to foreigners?
Not in this sense, no.
Well, go ahead and finish.
Go ahead, go ahead.
So Jeremiah is explicit here about enslaving Hebrews,
enslaving people who are part of the covenant.
This is, you can't do this with the B'nai Yisrael.
Okay, I would actually push back a little bit on that.
I would actually say that there are actually cases
including in Leviticus where jubilee does apply
to an outsider, not only from the purpose of a slave
but a slave owner.
And Leviticus chapter 25,
and I know Josh has his passage stop up,
I think at verse 46,
but if you read right after that section in verse 47,
the sojourner or a stranger close to you becomes rich.
And one of your brothers, Jewish,
who dwells by him becomes poor,
sells himself to the stranger,
sojourner close to you
or a member of the stranger's family.
After he is sold, he may be redeemed again.
Here's a proselyte.
This is a gentile who has submitted themselves
under the Jewish law codes
and has made themselves a part of the Jewish faith.
This is a gentile.
They own land, they've become rich on the Jewish lands,
and they bought, that's exactly what the text says.
A sojourner or a stranger becomes rich
and owns a Jewish land.
At no point do these people become part of the Benai Israel.
They are not regarded part of the community.
And they've acknowledged you believe
because if you read in the passage there,
it even says when the uncle or the nephew
cannot redeem that person
and the man, the slave actually becomes rich himself,
which means slaves could actually become wealthy enough
to buy their freedom,
he has to account for the time of you believe.
So that means this sojourner
is applying the laws of Jubilee to his slave owning.
Yeah, it's so, okay.
Yeah, go ahead, Kip, sorry.
I'm just, who, which people?
The sojourner and the stranger.
You're in slavery.
They're enslaving a-
Who are enslaved.
The sojourner who is enslaved, where is his provision?
No, the sojourner owns the slave in this passage.
And the one I'm referring-
About which slave is, does he,
does this apply to, you know,
part of the, the government community,
the Benai Israel, the Hebrew slaves,
or does this extend to include the Gerim and the Toshavim?
Hold on.
So are you-
The slave, I'm talking about,
I'm talking about the enslaved portion,
just the enslaved portion.
Who is in view here that gets redeemed?
The Jewish slave that's bought by the sojourner.
Yes, at no point does the Toshav
or the Ger get redeemed, not ever.
That's right.
Well, I would, I would argue differently here,
because this is,
but this is where this is a person
who has placed themselves as a Gentile under the law,
which now applies them to Jubilee.
This is why he's practicing Jubilee.
No, it doesn't.
I mean, if he has to follow the law,
Jubilee doesn't apply to him.
Yeah.
So let's, let's-
Let's, let's, yeah, let's back this up
just so that the audience knows what we're talking about.
So this is sort of why I went through Leviticus 25,
just in general, in the opening,
but that the text is dealing with
what it is, or what takes place
when an Israelite becomes poor
and starts to fall into poverty.
And so when it gets down to,
they get to the point that they have to sell themselves
in 39 to 43, then they're not to be treated as slaves
or to be treated as hired workers by fellow Israelites.
Then the text deals in 44 to 46
with where are you supposed to get your slaves then?
If you can't treat Israelites as slaves,
where do you get them?
Get them from the Toshavim.
These are tenant farmers that are living in the midst.
You can get them from the Goyim, the nations around you.
These people are not subject, explicitly not subject
to the year of Jubilee.
They are explicitly not subjected to it.
That they, that's why the text is saying
they can be kept for life and passed on as inheritance.
Israelites cannot fall into that category.
But then the text says,
what happens if one of those Toshavim,
one of those tenant farmers,
this is somebody that's living in the land,
does not own land, is renting land
from one of the Israelites.
And in doing so, it's almost like the text is picturing,
all right, you've got this tenant farmer,
and the tenant farmer is renting a plot of land,
however many acres or whatever, from an Israelite,
because they can't own land, right?
Does it say that?
Yeah, I mean, that's what Toshavim are.
It says they're renting land and ever.
Yeah, that's what Toshavim are.
They can't own the land.
But they, okay, go ahead.
This is why Ezekiel is like going to great lengths later on
to say, yeah, but see, this is the way that it was,
but in the grand scheme of things,
these foreigners are gonna be able to come in more, right?
That's the point.
But the point of the Toshav here
is that this is a tenant farmer that's living in the land,
that's renting the land out,
that's either taking,
goes into debt,
can't make the payment to the Israelite, whatever,
and falls into debt servitude.
Wait, wait, hold on, who?
The Jew or the sojourner?
In 44 to 46, it's talking about a Toshav,
a tenant farmer who becomes subjected to an Israelite,
probably through debt, right?
But in 47 and through what, 52,
it takes up the other possibility.
What happens if that tenant farmer
that's living in the land,
what if he actually does well, right?
What if he has good crop years
and he gets to really, really,
he does well financially,
to the point that he can take Israelite debt slaves, right?
He makes loans to them and they can't pay it back
and he takes them.
What does the law say about that person, right?
That's the situation that's being described here.
Now, all of this is probably utopian, right?
This is probably something
that wasn't ever put into practice.
It probably isn't a thing.
A lot of your hypotheticals, what are scenarios?
Right, but specifically here in the Leviticus 25,
and we're probably talking very utopian.
But at any rate, assuming just the nature of the text,
if it were put into practice,
this is, it's trying to say, well, we know,
what happens if an Israelite takes another Israelite?
Okay, and now we know what happens
if an Israelite takes a foreigner.
What about if one of the Israelites
gets taken by a foreigner as a slave?
What do you do then?
What does the law say?
Reading this as like a proselyte
is a later understanding of the term, gare, right?
That's a later understanding.
And I don't know of anybody that would argue
that's written on Leviticus,
that would argue that this is what...
Go ahead, John.
I was just gonna,
I was trying to recall what Sarna wrote on this passage.
I know you're pretty familiar with him on this.
Does he take that interpretation?
Yeah, I mean, he doesn't take anything
substantially different.
I don't remember what he said off the top of my head, but...
I wish I had the name for you, but I do know.
I probably quote, oh wait.
I don't think I quoted it in here, did I?
It's just...
Damn it, I'm sorry.
It's probably in my...
Just doing an obligatory book talk.
I really, I appreciate it, Sarna.
And I wanted to actually bring him up,
because you quoted him, but his,
I guess, articulation of this is a different passage
is the Exodus 21 passage.
So I'm not trying to change the subject.
No, it's okay.
I like to get there,
but I don't wanna jump the ship
if you guys got more to say this part.
I think I did the long set of quotes
just in the Old Testament of door slavery.
So I don't think it's actually in that chapter
at the East Hamok site.
Sarna's downstairs, I wouldn't be able to.
Ah, no, that's okay.
Sorry.
No, no worries.
I can't recall either.
I just, I could look it up, I guess,
but I don't know.
Take me while I find it.
But I mean, this...
Oh, sorry, John, go ahead.
No, no, I was just gonna say that,
I feel like Sarna, who's obviously a Jewish rabbi scholar,
articulated this in different a bit,
but maybe in substance,
I think he's probably pretty close to what you're saying.
So I don't know if it's worth straining on.
So go ahead.
It's not worth that.
I can't remember the quote.
It's just not worth it.
I don't, the part about proselytizing being later,
we see this actually not long after this,
particularly with Rahab from Jericho.
And then later on, we have a whole book of Ruth
where these laws, not specifically this exact one,
these law sets were actually applied
to even her kinsman redemption through Boaz
and she was a Moabitis.
So I don't think it's as far off,
the proselytizing process wasn't as far off.
Again, these are a lot of hypotheticals about...
I'm saying specifically the use of the term gear.
I'm speaking about the Gentiles being proselytized
because you said that that was a far off thing.
I'm saying specifically the use of the term gear
in 47 to 52.
I got what you're saying.
So, but you would agree that Gentiles were starting,
once the Jews actually got there, like actually in the land,
started seeing a proselytized process.
You see it with Rahab from Jericho
being the first one that we have recorded
within actually Joshua itself.
And then obviously a whole book with Ruth
during the days of the judges, which weren't far after that.
And there's...
Sorry, go ahead, Kim.
No, I was just gonna say, I mean,
from our perspective, certainly this is a very idealized
view of the text.
Much of this depends on where you're going
to set the dates for these things.
And most critical scholars would put this stuff pretty late.
I don't remember them separating the judges
that far off in Joshua's time,
that far off from the narrative of the Exodus.
Well...
Can we go to...
We're gonna access probably this at the point.
That's a second secondary.
Yeah, it's secondary.
Sure.
This is like, I wish I could have like,
hey guys, can we spend a couple hours in just Exodus?
And a couple hours to just do around these things.
All right, we finally made it in Torah.
We're out Leviticus.
Now we can hit Exodus.
Well, I just wanted to ask Dr. Josh,
what you thought about this synopsis,
if I could just elaborate for a moment.
So in Exodus 20, you have this motif
that God is calling.
I've called you out of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
This is obviously a motif that's gonna appear,
I think in every genre that he revival.
So it's a key identifier.
Then he gives, which I think is important to note too,
like when it comes to the law,
one thing about ancient Near East law codes,
as opposed to the Torah,
I think that's different.
One of the different key components
is actually the underlying story that's being told.
And of course that's natural,
different cultures, different stories.
But I mean the fact that God is actually,
he called them out to make a covenant,
rather than call them to the covenant
for them to be hit people.
Like, he's already pulled them out.
Now, these qualities, these codes were what would make up.
Like this is what I want you to be.
This is what I want you to embody.
But this is by God's initiation.
I mean, if you go back all the way to Abrahamic Covenant,
all the way to this point, delivered out of Egypt,
this is God's initiation.
I think you would probably agree with that.
Maybe you want to differently, but probably agree.
But then he gives the Decalogue.
Would you divide the Decalogue into the understanding
that the first four commands
probably are a good summary of loving God
with all your heart.
And then the last four of the six commandments,
or 10 words, however you want to express it,
would represent loving your neighbor as yourself.
Did you say that that falls?
No, a lot of rabbitical teaching would separate it.
I know some people separate it differently,
but I've seen that being the most consistent.
I'm going somewhere with this.
I'm just...
Okay, yeah, I'd have to think about it.
I don't know that I've thought about it
in those terms before, but go ahead.
Okay.
So in my estimation, so he sets out the Decalogue,
and the Decalogue is, if you want to kind of throw
some permanutives of thinking on this particular topic,
the Decalogue is trans-cultural
in that it wasn't for a particular just culture,
and it didn't continue.
It obviously continued into the New Testament.
All of the 10 commandments are actually reiterated
in the New Covenant people.
But the case laws were actually cultural and time-bound.
So the Decalogue is trans-cultural, timeless,
and then you have the case laws that follow
that are cultural and time-bound.
And so my point, my point in getting at this
is that Sarna actually picks on this point
that the case laws actually see an evolution
or a development along the way.
In other words, there's not just,
here's the case laws, the same laws
that are never gonna change because they're from God.
Rather, these case laws were actually given by judges
that were authorized to speak on the behalf of God,
yet they never viewed them at the same level as the Decalogue.
The Decalogue was, this is the very words of God,
which if you bring it apart, the law is loving God,
loving your neighbor, these laws are timeless,
trans-cultural, like I said.
And when you have Exodus 21 through 24,
what you have is a, really not actually a full case law,
like the Code of Hammurabi, I know we don't have all of them,
but what is it, 282 laws?
And there's, for this case law, I think there's 52,
depending on who's counting, it's a little different,
but about 52 case laws.
And out of all laws,
comparing to ancient Near East law codes,
the Hebrew Bible is the most disorganized.
It's very, when it comes to categorization, I mean,
and I know there's some law codes that don't have,
you don't have as much, you know,
you don't have a full listing of it.
But my point is, is that, like,
I know the Code of Hammurabi is probably the most referenced,
and I know that's your expertise as well,
but that's categorized very clearly,
like here's all the laws on justice,
here's the laws on buildings, here's the laws on slaves,
here's, you know what I mean?
But then you have, in Exodus 21 through 24,
you kind of have it bouncing around from,
here's cultish, you know, worship laws,
and then it goes to slavery laws,
and it's like, hey, let's jump back to worship, that's cool,
and let's throw this law in here.
It's kind of, from our sensibilities,
a little bit disorganized.
So the case that I would like to make
is that this is functioning more,
more than like a strict law code,
like this is a full-developed law code for Israel.
It's more designed to be like a compendium
that would showcase, here's how Israel took the Decalogue,
the law of God, which you were to summarize
the Decalogue in two, loving God, loving your neighbor.
This is them working that out in particular cases
in a particular scenario, obviously, case law.
But that's not to be viewed as,
this is the final word of God.
This is the judge making a call in Israel
in that particular community,
and this makes actually a case,
and this is what Tharna's conclusion is,
is that there's a development
because they're actually moving towards,
he doesn't use this language,
so I don't want to put words in his mouth,
but they're moving toward the ideal
of what ends with the love of God
and love your neighbor, your heart.
And so we didn't actually get to it,
but Dr. Kipp was saying, you gotta be in the passage,
you gotta be in the passage,
but that's exactly the point when we expand on,
this is what all the law of God is designed to do.
Here are people that come from a culture
that slavery, as you said, was not immoral,
it was normal, every culture did it,
and they began to lay out,
hey, this is what it looks like to love our neighbor,
this is how we should do slavery.
And we could, I don't know if we'll have time,
but I do think that they do improve upon
some of the slavery laws.
When I look at the Code of Hammurabi,
as opposed to the Torah,
I do think there's improvements,
we could dive into that.
I'm sure you'd be interested in hearing that.
Yeah, I would.
So let me just say this very quickly.
So the nature-
Start bringing it along.
No, no, no.
So the nature of that eight minutes left scared me.
So the nature of ancient Near Eastern law collections,
including those in the Hebrew Bible,
is actually pretty complex.
So if you're taking the,
if you're beginning with the idea that
this Mount Sinai event actually took place, right?
And Yahweh handed down the laws.
There really isn't a way that I can see
that you can get around these being legislative,
because these are the laws that are stated in the text
that is coming from Yahweh.
Now, the reason that this gets sort of modeled
is because like from critical or a serialogical
or whatever scholarship,
like we know is the wrong word.
We're reasonably sure that things like the laws of Ornami,
the laws of Lepidishchar, the laws of Eshnun,
the laws of Hammurabi, all the,
these, those four in particular,
they're not normative legislation.
They weren't something that the judges sat back
and referred to or something.
These are end up being, well, what they are is debated,
hotly debated.
But so when you look at what comes,
and they're terribly disorganized themselves,
I think Hammurabi has longer stretches sometimes,
but even in and of itself,
we would look at its organization,
if you read through it and you'd be like, what the hell?
It's certainly like the laws of...
Some laws really is slavery that are in different sections.
Yeah, yeah, you see them pop around and, but,
so, but what I would say is that,
that's really the problem is that
if you're taking a more critical approach of the text
and saying, okay, these are probably scribal exercises,
certainly look at somebody like Wright's book,
the title of which is now no longer dawning on me,
but where he makes the comparison between
the laws of Hammurabi and what you see in the Covenant Code,
now you can really entertain and start to deal with,
okay, scribal exercises,
these, this is passed down in scribal education
and that's where these are coming from and that,
but making sort of, I don't know,
melding the two together I think becomes problematic,
because if you're saying,
if you guys are saying or if someone says
that this Mount Sinai event actually took place
and that these laws were handed down from Yahweh,
as the text says,
that they sort of have to be legislative.
So I might have not understood what I was saying.
So the Decalogue is from Yahweh directly
and I do take a play in the text,
I'm obviously a believer follower,
so I take this as from the Lord,
but when it comes to the law codes,
I think that the law codes are an extension of God
giving authority to judges to make calls
for these particular cases.
And we can go through the kind of structure,
how that works out from judges to Moses
and I know that, so in Exodus 21 through 24,
you got laws related to the land
and they're not even in the land
and so that brings up who wrote this section.
You know, that's another topic,
but the reason why Exodus was compiled,
at least from the scholarship that I've been reading,
is that these two chapters were put up against the Decalogue
to be a compendium to show,
this is how Israel applied the law
at this particular time, at this particular occasion,
but when you get, like, made them,
right before they go into the land,
like in Deuteronomy, you have a,
they're actually laws that contradict each other
in some ways, it seems.
You know, how to set up the altar
or where God's presence is gonna be
and you're like, what's going on here?
But I don't think it has to necessarily be contradiction.
It could be, here's a different circumstance,
here's a further outworking of how they think this makes sense.
I mean, like even as a Christian,
I was telling Steve this the other day,
like I'm still working out in my own life
what it means to love God with my all heart
and love my neighbors myself.
So 10 years ago and how we're in today,
that looks different.
And I think we should expect to see in the Hebrew Bible,
God actually showcasing for us,
hey, here's the people of God progressing towards the ideal,
ultimately to the New Covenant.
And of course, New Covenant was prophesied in Jeremiah,
so these aren't like just made up things.
These are obviously in the scriptures.
That's why we see a continuity rather than a discontinuity.
But anyways, that's what I meant by the league.
I do think it's legislation that is from Yahweh
in that God has authorized judges
to make these calls for the people of God.
I don't think it perfectly reflects the ideal,
but I do think that God allowed this to take place.
So I don't think I would say.
No, I understand.
Okay.
Yeah, sorry, I understood you the first time.
I think that the text lays out that they're from Yahweh,
right?
I think that's the point.
It actually changes though.
It changes.
It changes Exodus 20 is actually the Lord speaking
to now they're speaking of God in like the third person.
It's a change of speech.
It's clear that Exodus 20 and Exodus 21
was not written at the same time.
And there's obviously a...
Yeah, I think what's happening, sorry,
but I think what's happening is we're trying to hold one
hermeneutical or interpretive model in the same hand
as we're holding like a critical set of critical scholarship.
And it doesn't really work.
It can't work that way.
Well, would you say Sarna is a critical scholarship?
Michael Heiser, I know he's evangelical,
but he holds to this view.
Yeah, there's, sorry, it's so complicated
to discuss this topic.
I have an entire chapter that I'm dedicating to it
in the second edition of the slavery book
because it's that complicated.
So I guess maybe...
I've read all of your books and the books
that you referenced on this topic.
So there are also people that you have referenced
that have this opinion too.
I wish I would have written that down
on this particular passage, that would have been helpful.
But I'm just trying to say that this isn't...
The way I'm presenting it is not like,
oh, this is just like some right-wing conservative
evangelical, even non-believers, people that would say,
hey, I don't believe the Bible,
I don't believe in Yahweh yet.
Time, gentlemen, time.
All right, I got to lay the law down on the time here.
If not, we'll go to five more minutes.
And then we're going to get to the outros here.
And you guys, of course, the people who are saying,
yes, the Bible does condone slavery,
you're going to go last.
We're going to let Dr. Boyce and Jonathan go first.
They're going to be five minute closings.
Q and A will happen after that, everybody.
So if you want to get your question in,
super chat your question now.
And once we run out, we will obviously end the show.
So with that being said, go ahead,
let me know when you're ready,
and I'll hit start for the outro.
Closing.
Who's going first?
You guys.
Okay.
Let me know when you're ready.
All right, go ahead.
So the basis of our argument for today
is that when you're looking at the meta narrative
that's been laid out, whether you're talking about
the original design of God
through his intention of a new creation
that is not solely based on a Israelite kingdom
or anything of that sort.
It's actually every tribe, tongue and nation
going back to the Abrahamic covenant
before Israel was established as a nation.
God's desire was to bless all nations
through that one nation.
That God had redemption in mind.
God had a plan for all nations in mind,
not just his people.
That God designed humanity not to be subject to one another.
That was a result of the fall where subjection took place.
But we see God creating these miniature narratives
within the meta narrative of hope and freedom
and desire to be a part of something
of his eternal kingdom and his new creation,
if you will, the new Eden.
And that scene in the prophets,
that scene in the earlier writings
of the historical sections,
that they're desiring something better,
something more than just being a part of a broken world
that nobody has an answer to.
God actually desired to bring all that together.
And his goal in doing that was giving evidence of that
in places like an idea of jubilee
or to bring together people
that can experience what it means to be loved by God.
We see God share his love toward
and his mercy towards nations that were not Jews,
whether it's the Ninevites or looking at some of the people
and showing pity to Moabite people.
We see evidence of this building
and that God is actually designed for his people
to come to the understanding that we are to love our neighbor
as ourself and to work that out.
And the work of that is ugly at times.
Israel failed in it.
They didn't practice it properly
or they were prejudiced in their propositions of it.
And as they became more aware of God's intention
of freedom and freedom from bondage,
these people like in Jeremiah,
right before the destruction of the temple,
they failed to meet this qualification.
God comes down hard, brings severity.
Whereas in the law, there was not punishable things
outside of I won't bless you.
Now that looks a little bit more strong in its language
where it's, I'm not only not gonna bless you,
I'm gonna bring sword, famine and pestilence.
I'm gonna take you down for how you're treating
the subject of freedom.
And then you find about 200 years later,
in the same principle,
they stopped celebrating the concept of freedom
that God has been trying to instill all these years.
And he reminds them of what happened to their forefathers
in Jeremiah's day and before.
And that if you do not take place in this,
you're going to experience the same consequences.
And they quickly repented and gathered themselves
and started practicing the right things to do.
And then Jesus comes on the scene
and reads the greatest emancipation passage from Isaiah 61
and says, liberty is here, I'm here.
This day it's fulfilled in your ears.
And he's bringing this idea of hope,
not just for himself, but for the nations.
And that's demonstrated in his ministry
to go into all the nations and preach the gospel
to give them this proclamation of freedom.
And then in the end of this,
Paul picking up after the resurrection
starts implementing this and showing them that,
hey, in Christ, there is neither Jew nor Greek.
There is neither a master or a slave or a male or female.
In Christ, you're one, God is doing a new creation.
He's starting that process now.
And we need to start applying that.
And he challenges people like Philemon
that we talked about.
He starts challenging people in the church
to think differently of culture,
differently of people of different ethnicity and language
so that when we get to the final consummation of everything
where in the book of Revelation,
you have every tribe, tongue and nation of male and female
of all societal statuses around the throne of the lamb,
worshiping Jesus together in unity.
There is not one institution, one language, one tribe.
It's all in Christ equal at his throne.
He's their king.
And in doing that, we see an emancipation of sin,
an emancipation of depression,
an emancipation of struggle and chaos and war
and all the things that sin has brought into the world.
And they're instituted in this new creation
where there is no more subjects.
There is no more this guy's higher than this guy
this man to this woman, et cetera.
It is back to the way it was in the original design.
So that indicates to us through the beginning
of these prophecies that long for that day,
whether it's the prophets or in the time of the judges
looking for a redeemer, looking for redemption,
that in that process, there was always a hope
that God would restore Eden,
where slavery was not a part of his plan
and will not be a part of his new creation in the end.
So God clearly does not endorse it from our perspective.
He merely regulated it for a specific time, place and people.
Perfect timing on that one.
Wow, like right on.
I should learn from giving on timing.
Well, I did have a timer.
It does, I guess, help a little bit.
If you ever need someone to be on time.
All right, we're gonna let Dr. Josh, Dr. Kip do yours.
And are you sharing that on the screen?
Do you guys want me to share that?
Josh has power points.
So, and I'm going to, before I start my closing,
I'm going to ask for a little bit of grace
because I can get through this in five minutes,
but it might take me six.
Is that all right?
You guys cool with that?
Hey, you guys gave me grace, so.
Here, I'll put six on the clock
and then if you do get it six, I'll butt in, cool?
Loving our neighbors giving you an extra minute.
All right, let me know when you're ready.
All right, okay, okay, here we go.
Slavery is endorsed within the Bible
and there is at no point any clear direction from the text
that the institution as we have defined it
is repealed nor even discouraged.
Dr. Josh and I have provided clear and decisive evidence
that the biblical texts and against the cultural backdrop
of the wider ancient Near East
that the ownership of people was permitted and even mandated.
Members of the community of Israel, the Benai Israel,
were provided guidelines for owning their own kinsmen
in a state of debt slavery temporarily
as made clear in Exodus and Deuteronomy.
Members of the community received provisions
for owning their Israelite women permanently
is also in Exodus, but temporarily in Deuteronomy.
This is slavery.
Members of the community were entitled to purchase people
who were not part of the community
and to keep them for life, to keep their children
and to pass them all down to their sons
as part of their inheritance.
There was no provision not at any time
and nowhere in the biblical text anywhere for their release.
This is slavery.
Moreover, there were no such protections mandated
for the treatment as they were contrasted
with Israelite slaves.
A point of note in this passage in Leviticus
is that the instructions provided to protect
only the Benai Israel from ruthless treatment,
that is, beforeach, is clearly contrasted
with that of foreign slaves.
And it uses precisely the same language
as what is used to describe the terror of slavery
endured by the Hebrews in Egypt, beforeach.
Dr. Josh and I have deliberately drawn close attention
to the precise language and terminology
in the Bible for this discussion.
And the reason for this is because so much of this
gets lost in translation and Christian apologists
end up deliberately or naively misunderstanding
what appear to be general statements
for what they believe to be specifics.
When Exodus 21 says that a man's stealer
is to be put to death when caught
or in Deuteronomy 23 where it says that runaway slaves
are to be given refuge, a common thought,
is that these rules indicate that freedom was the ideal
for all people everywhere.
And that these rules trumped any instructions
on the acquisition and treatment of slaves.
In the instance of the first,
a man can easily be misconstrued as applicable
to every human male, but it is rather demonstrably clear
that these were free men of the community of Israel,
the B'nai Israel, as made explicit in the revised form
of this rule in Deuteronomy 24-7 and in the Septigent.
As for Deuteronomy 23, what appears to be
a global prescription is rather applied
only to non-Israelite slaves who have escaped to Israel
as a prohibition against making extradition treaties
with foreigners.
Rather than stating how social relationships
between men, women and slaves are structured in the Bible,
apologists are keen to marshal vague generalities
about freedom and equality in the New Testament
to abrogate what appears in the old
or they confuse obvious definitions with ambiguities
and appeals to modern language and culture.
Indeed, it is often said that as a last resort,
even if there were technically slaves in ancient Israel
as captured in war, surely their lot was better
than those of the antebellum self
where real objectionable slavery occurred
with ruthlessness, Bethorech.
It might be said of a young unmarried Canaanite girl
after seeing her family slaughtered
by the ancient Israelite army
and then forced against her will
into sexual submission to her enemy,
that surely this is a better result for her
than to be left alone in the ruins of her town to die.
Surely this is a kindness, a protection,
a guarantee for her wellbeing.
It is unfortunate by the limits of the text
that we can't actually know one way or the other
how much better or worse the treatment of slaves was
in ancient Israel than in the antebellum self.
But I will remind our audience
that this is beside the point of this debate.
The Bible unambiguously endorses forms of slavery
and these are never repealed nor discouraged.
But one way or the other, we can certainly look
to the example set prior to the US Civil War
that the apologetics to excuse slavery have not changed much.
In the 19th century, Confederate Bishop Stephen Elliott
said this, consider whether by their interference
with this institution, they may not be checking
and impeding a work which is manifestly providential.
For nearly a hundred years, churches have been striving
to civilize and Christianize Western Africa
and with what results?
A few natives have been made Christians
and some nations have been partially civilized.
But what a small number in comparison with the thousands.
Nay, I may say millions who have learned the way to heaven
and who have been made to know their savior
through the means of African slavery.
At this very moment, there are from three to four millions
of Africans educating for earth and for heaven
in the so vilified southern states,
learning the very best lessons for a semi-barbarous people,
lessons of self-control, of obedience,
of perseverance, of adaptation, of means to ends,
learning above all where their weakness lies
and how they may acquire strength for the battle of life.
These considerations satisfy me with their condition
and ensure me that it is the best relation they can
for the present be made to occupy.
Thank you.
All right, all right.
Did he beat it?
He beat it, five minutes and 40 seconds.
He had 20 seconds on the clock.
What?
Dr. Kip.
You did it, you did it.
I did it in five.
I did it in five yesterday.
I can't, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
somebody's gonna, what's going on, listen.
Let's do our Q and A now and we've got quite a few.
So before we even begin,
I wanna let everybody know,
if you don't wanna be here till midnight,
just be mindful that we have a lot to get through here
and we can always do a future in-depth discussion,
debate on topics or something if we want to,
keep that in mind.
Some of them are statements,
some of them aren't addressed to certain individuals,
so they might seem general and you guys have to kind of,
as adults, pick and choose what you wanna address,
be mindful of course and let's go ahead and begin.
So first one is, Apollo's Christian apologetic says,
I don't get why apologists think
defending Old Testament helps.
It's far easier to say Jesus left a superior covenant
and Paul said Torah is figurative, Galatians 424.
So if you'd like to make a comment,
since it isn't so much a question,
it's kind of a question.
Yeah, that's a great question.
The problem was saying that Jesus left a superior covenant
is showing a little bit of maybe ignorance of the fact
that the new covenant actually emerges out of the old covenant.
So there's such an interconnectedness
between the old covenant and new covenant
that you can't separate the two.
However, there are certain things
that Jesus clearly fulfilled.
He made mention of fulfilling all the law and the prophets
and like I said before,
there are certain things that were like the case laws
to tie it back to the topic that were,
regulating slavery and other things as well in Israel
that would not be, they were culturally time bound,
they would not be carried into the new covenant
and with that same level of force.
So I think it is actually very important
for the apologists to say,
hey, if we believe that this is the word of God,
then we need to look at it right.
And one of the things I,
and I hope that it was helpful as well too,
because when I read Dr. Bowen's book
and he gave all of the, I guess, defenses against your book,
I guess that was what you had.
I don't know what you called it, but something like that.
We did not come at that angle
because actually a lot of what people said
against your book, Dr. Bowen, I was like, that's terrible.
Yeah, yeah, there's some really dumb arguments
though you might think that some of what we brought
was terrible as well.
I was like, hey, that is-
No, actually, I think that your argument
is the best of ones that can be had.
Yeah, and we're sorry we didn't get to get into some of the,
maybe we can have you on our channel later
and talk about Exodus 21.
I really would like to talk more particular sometime,
but it's just the nature of, it's so much content, but-
We'll blame Dr. Kib Davis since he just got here.
We'll blame Dr. Kib Davis for taking a sound like-
I've been listening the whole time.
I was listening the whole time.
I was going to say it was the second best, so.
Hey, stop, you can't.
Well, let's press on, let's keep going,
because if we don't, that's one,
you have a hundred more at least.
Oh my goodness.
I'm just saying, there's a lot-
We got to sleep tonight, man.
I know, that's why I don't want to,
I'm going to blame Aka over here.
Constellation Pegasus in the house, Exodus 21, 20 through 21.
Why don't Israelites practice this today
if it's God's law?
Can you actually, I haven't memorized Exodus 21?
I can read it, I guess.
I'm literally holding Exodus 21 open.
I'm memorizing the code of Hammurabi, but not Exodus 21.
If any man beats his male or female servant with the rod,
it's the rod passage, beating the rod passage there, John.
Why don't Israelites practice this today
if it is God's law?
Oh, I see.
Well, this comes down to interpretation, for sure.
And in rabbinical tradition,
the rod was actually reserved as a,
and it was reserved as the last step before the death penalty.
And though, as you see in the Hebrew Bible,
there was abuses of all these laws.
And certainly, masters would beat their slaves more
than just that.
But the rod was reserved as that last stitch effort.
And really, from their cultural perspective,
and I appreciate Dr. Bohm putting this out,
that it wasn't a immoral type of thing.
And then when you get into the poetical literature,
didactic literature, the rabbis began to read the rod
as actually being something more symbolic.
And they actually began to interpret it more in that fashion.
And I probably obviously would say, hey, that's a good move.
Just because of the nature of some of the abuse
that came from the literal beating people up.
So that's probably the move.
And I do think that, I'll stop there.
Short answer.
Sorry, Derek, getting there.
I'm going to start giving you a look.
You're going to have to give a timer.
Yeah, we should have a limit on time in terms of the response.
I should pull this.
I'll start to go like this.
How about that?
All right, but but we didn't answer the second part of that
is we didn't believe these laws were instituted forever
and forever more.
We believe they were for a specific time, place, location,
and people groups meant to be forever.
They're yes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Stupid horror energy.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
I feel weird even reading the name.
That's not Dr. Josh.
That's just a video of him.
I don't know if that's a compliment or not.
I wouldn't even know how to take that.
Like how do you even take that?
I don't know.
We're very good friends, so I'm hoping it's a compliment.
Please take.
Don't beat me up for for even saying her name.
So all right, let me continue here, scrolling down.
OK, Constellation Pegasus, since the Bible evidently
says Israelites could own foreign slaves,
then does not the Bible accept slavery?
Well, that goes that.
Well, I don't know.
Who's that, too?
I guess a lot of these are not.
I would say yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, again, towards us, but we agree
that the Bible is not full of immediate abolitionist moments.
We would say that God was regulating a certain culture
at a certain time to a certain people
under certain circumstances in a certain land,
that these were not forever laws.
So yes, we don't see where God says abolish, abolish,
abolish, abolish, especially the form of term slavery.
Because we've got to remember a couple of things here.
They didn't have prison systems.
They didn't have police force.
They didn't have banks and loan companies.
And in that process, for them to a lot of people,
it's like, why did they willingly sell themselves
in that to begin with?
Because they had to live the same way we have to go
to the banking at a loan sometimes.
I mean, I'm not trying to compare modern culture to theirs,
but like it's the same to give you an idea.
That's how they live.
That's how they provided for themselves.
That's how they gained land and bought it off and paid for it
and then started working their own land
and making money off of it in that side of things.
So that's why God permitted it still to go on,
because if you just abolish the whole system right there,
you leave people to starve.
You leave people off homes.
You leave only the wealthy to rule over the others
and take it into a worse scenario
than to regulate something where you're guaranteeing
these people are actually being treated fairly,
that they're actually gonna be able to get their money,
that they're actually gonna have a release date, Jubilee.
So God regulating that for the specific time
would demonstrate that God was working through processes
in periods of time under certain circumstances
and issues that there are-
Let's let Josh respond to that one and then we'll continue.
Yeah, I mean, I will say that I disagree.
Certainly they had loans.
I mean, that's often why they defaulted on them.
But I think that the problem with that view
that God couldn't just abolish it
is that he essentially did in Leviticus 25,
just for Israel, right?
And so I think this is the problem
that from an apologetic standpoint
that you face, the hurdle that you have to overcome
is that Yahweh says, no more.
You can't treat in Israel, that isn't evident.
You can't do it.
Here are the other ways
that you can handle these things.
This is what I say is one of the great weaknesses
in the argument is that had he stopped,
I think you'd have a really good argument
for working this thing out
because the holiness code ostensibly comes last.
But the fact that it went on and said,
but here's where you do get your slaves.
So it seems like the supernatural provision aspect
was totally within God's ability
and it's what he said he was going to do.
It's just that it didn't apply broadly.
It was just to the Israelites.
So I would, thank you.
I actually would agree.
This is not a talking time.
Sorry, go ahead, Derek.
Yeah, it'll go on and on.
It'll go on and on.
So Paul F, anyone who says the Bible doesn't condone slavery
is lying for God because they know it does and it's wrong.
So it's a statement.
I'm gonna move on.
I'm gonna move on because some of this is overlap.
You're gonna get statements.
Paul, thank you for that super chat.
But if it's like a question
or I think like we're not repeating ourselves
on the same specifics,
I think it's worthy of diving into.
Derek, actually can you give me 20 seconds
just to push back on that
because I get frustrated with people
who say things like lying for God.
When, I mean, Josh and I certainly do not think
that Jonathan and Stephen are lying here.
I appreciate that.
I'm sure they appreciate that.
Yeah, thank you.
I think that that is a good,
and I'm speaking as a moderator, I shouldn't,
but I'm just gonna say,
I think it's a good standard that we stop acting
like everyone's lying.
Some people just maybe reading things differently.
Yeah, so yeah, it can get old.
But thank you so much for that.
I appreciate you clarifying, Kip.
Paul F, this claiming the Bible doesn't condone,
oh, okay, same thing.
So this claiming the Bible doesn't condone slavery
do so only to minimize the morally reprehensible position
of God.
Which is another statement.
So can I make fun on that?
Yeah.
It's coming over.
I'm just kidding.
Start your timer, yeah.
Right, you better.
So if you listen to us carefully,
we actually did not give much pushback
to the particular regulations
that Bowen and Kip laid out.
We just more framed it with saying,
let's look at this with the big meta narrative in mind
and saying, when you have the Amago Day,
when you have the Great Commandments,
you have the Gospel,
it seems to get to the point where,
hey, this institution that's regulated
is a planned optolescence
and it's going to work itself out
and then you're covering it.
And obviously the big marinara of the Gospel
is God setting people free through the Gospel.
So I would say that's probably disingenuous
to come to that conclusion, what you're saying.
So anyways, maybe listen to the debate again.
It might help.
Congratulations.
That was actually not too bad on time there.
Thank you so much.
I'm gonna pick on you a little here as we go.
Dustin LRB, thank you for the super chat since Smog.
Hope I'm...
Are we talking about the dragon in the hoglet?
Yeah, in the hoglet, yeah.
Smog was part of the grand scheme.
It was A-OK for him to do so
since the story wouldn't have been the same
if he didn't do so.
That's the argument I'm hearing.
I don't know if this is a knock on me
because I'm the biggest token nerd in the world
or something, but I don't like...
Like I've got a whole display of token just here
of books and figures and...
Ooh, stand up for it.
It's like a bigger backdrop.
You're such a novice.
That needs to be your backdrop, man.
I know, well, I did it when I actually did an interview
with a guy who wrote a book on token.
I literally turned my entire desk
and just kind of sat back and let everybody
kind of see my collection into the limelight.
But I'm really not sure what the point is here.
Maybe you guys can...
Smog was a part of the grand scheme.
Is it OK for him to do so?
Like what?
Like what?
I'm trying to see how this is comparable.
Somebody help me.
Can you guys help me, Josh?
Do you get it?
Josh, does it make sense to you?
Because I'm trying to...
I mean, I think the assumption is that
if the narrative as a whole...
And I think that the comparison here would be
that one piece of literature and another piece of literature
is maybe the assumption that underlies this.
But so if Smog is a literary device to,
or part of the story that brings about
the ultimate end of the story to develop the narrative,
then what he does is...
What was the word that they used?
It's A-OK for him to do so.
So is this assuming...
Help me if I'm formulating this
the way you guys are picking this up,
is that having Smog,
whatever the role Smog plays in the story,
so it's bad, OK?
That slavery is this A-OK
and needed to happen as part of this story.
If you will.
Yeah, I mean, the God uses bad things
to bring the ultimate good in a lot of situations,
including his own people being in slavery
mistreated for 400 years.
I mean, this is something John and I were like,
somewhat joking about the other day.
I was like, the United States was quicker
to emancipate slaves than God, his own people.
I mean, they were there for 400 years.
We worked quicker than in the US.
I mean, like, and they weren't just under any kind of slavery.
They were under task mass slavery.
I mean, so I'm sure there were people
that were looking at the way they were being treated
by the Egyptians saying, God, where are you?
Like, you're our God.
We're your chosen people.
You've left us in bondage.
You promised us the deliverer.
If you think about it, 400 years,
that's longer than the period that we can go back to
with our first president of the United States.
I mean, like, they were in bondage that long.
Like, there's no doubt that that was a bad situation.
Nobody was like, oh, yeah, this is great.
We're having a great time over here.
But God used it even in the evil.
God has always used, unfortunately, broken and bad
and evil things to bring about great good
in the end of redemption.
It doesn't excuse the process.
It doesn't make the process easier.
Nobody is rejoicing in it.
And it doesn't mean that God approved of everything
that happened in it, but he uses it
to bring about that redemptive narrative
that John and I were talking about.
Like, the redemptive narrative isn't painted pretty
on every picture.
Like, it actually looks ugly at times in the process.
So I don't know if I'm answering the guy's question,
but it was beautiful.
Yeah, I'm glad you responded.
Sentinel apologetics.
Appreciate Rob for being in here.
Question, Josh used Wedgewood's Am I Not a Man
and a Brother, anti-slavery drawing
that Darwin used with Acts 1726
to defend his monogenesis of humans.
If the Bible condones slavery, why did Darwin use it?
Is this the picture that was in the PowerPoint?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, yeah, I picked it because it was a picture of a slave.
But so if the Bible condones slavery,
why did Darwin use it?
Why did Darwin use the Bible?
Is that the question?
I mean, I think this is, I think this,
if that is the question,
it seems like it's the same sort of question
that somebody asks when they say,
well, if the passages in the Hebrew Bible
are actually endorsing slavery,
why would the slave Bible, why would the masters
in the Antibone South cut out those sections?
I think neither of those follow, right?
So for example, with the slave Bible,
the assumption that the reason that they would have kept them
in or the reason that they cut them out had to do anything
at all, but the mythic is 25, 44 to 46,
and they get sort of silly.
The whole narrative is you guys were talking about earlier,
like what is the main thing that comes up
over and over and over?
It's the Exodus, right?
I mean, like it's what it's built upon.
So yeah, I mean, that's why they took it out.
You don't want an Exodus in there.
Cause that's, so yeah, I'm not,
maybe I didn't understand this question,
but that's, and Kip apparently did not like my answer.
He's like, I was gonna say, he had an Exodus just now.
You mentioned Exodus, and you took it later.
He'll be back, and this question anyway doesn't,
it's not toward him, but Stupid Horror Energy,
thank you again for the super chat.
What does Jonathan think of this evil?
Evil is that which should not be permitted.
God, or sorry, good is that which should be permitted.
God permits and regulated slavery,
therefore slavery is good.
Yeah, so that, I see the syllogism there.
Thank you for expressing that clearly.
So I think this actually is a bit too simplistic,
and let me explain.
So I want my children to live for what is good.
I think probably all of us here,
they have children who want that.
However, I'm careful about what I pick
to help train my children towards development.
I don't landblast them with everything
and say, age, you're in this, my son,
here's a list of all the good,
and here's the list of all the bad,
and I'm gonna pound you every day with it.
Probably wouldn't be the way to actually help him
in his own development.
And I do think you have God presenting the ideals.
I know there's disagreement among us about this,
but the ideals of loving God
and loving your neighbor's self, those are good.
I wouldn't see the evil in it.
When they went about to make application
off of the decalogue, and they began to say,
hey, let's treat slaves this way,
which they would have seen as an improvement
upon especially where they came from, Egypt.
They're like, hey, this is what it looks like to do
all that God has commanded.
But actually, it doesn't quite get them there.
And God doesn't say, well, you're not quite
the ultimate people that I want,
so I'm just gonna forsake you and find someone else.
We find someone who's gracious and forgiving.
And I'm thinking like, ooh, there's some good qualities,
forgiveness, goodness, like if God was just saying,
if you're bad, you're out, and if you're good, you're in.
Man, God would be really,
maybe impossible to approach at all.
So this is what I'm trying to point out
is that this is actually pretty complex.
And this might be a little bit of a simplistic question.
It is a great question though,
and I feel the heat of it, so thank you for asking.
Thank you, thank you so much.
Paul F says, God can ban shrimp in one go, but not slavery.
Yeah, I'm not sure, I don't know who would answer this,
but I'm not sure if it's a really good
one-to-one comparison here, shrimp versus slavery,
but I'm not really sure if, Steven,
I don't know if you want to take a stab at it.
Well, this is part of the ceremonials
as well as their restrictions for a specific time.
And once again, as we see in the New Testament,
these laws were meant for specific people
for a specific time under certain circumstances
that was not to be imposed forever.
They were ceremonial, they were done away with.
Peter had to learn this lesson the hard way
in the New Testament, he struggled with it.
Paul seemed to have a lot easier of a time with this.
I realized food is food, meat is meat, drink is drink,
day is a day, whatever day you want to celebrate,
it's all the same, it's all the Lord's day.
You want to drink wine, drink wine.
You don't want to drink wine, don't drink wine,
it's all the same.
Paul struggled with this as a Jew very briefly.
Peter had a much more difficult time with this than Paul did.
These things were not the point.
And that was what Paul tried to draw out in Romans,
particularly in Galatians.
These were not the point.
And everybody got wrapped up in these little things
like shrimp or then explicitly shrimp,
it just describes a shrimp, it's a bottom feeder,
that implied catfish and lobster
or anything else you want to put in there, pig.
These were unclean animals.
These were a part of a restriction list,
but it was more than that.
Even in the early church embellished this idea,
like, wow, the Jews really missed the whole point of that,
including like the epistle of Barnabas
goes through great detail saying,
boy, the Jews screwed this up.
I mean, they actually missed the point
of what it represented more than they did the literacy of it.
So they're like, oh, you misrepresented that.
That really meant you shouldn't do this kind of immoral sin.
So they went to the church actually went,
I think too far with their interpretation
of doing away these things.
But the whole idea here is once again,
these were not forever established laws
that were meant for everybody.
And Paul put an obliteration to that idea.
These were specific people for a specific time,
specifically for the Jews,
they were awaiting a bloodline to come through them
that was anticipated from the very beginning of Adam and Eve,
a bloodline that would come from them
and keeping that bloodline pure.
Once that bloodline person came, Messiah,
they felt there was no necessity
for a lot of these ceremonial laws anymore.
Sacrificially, no need for it, Christ came.
All these judicial laws that prevented them
from certain food groups, irrelevant.
So that would be my answer to that.
I'm not even sure what they were insinuating.
Can I try to just like 20 seconds steal man this?
I think the point that they were making
is a bit of a hyperbolic thing.
And I think maybe a more solid example
would be something like the idea of rape, right?
What we would view as rape today
is certainly not what they viewed as rape in the Hebrew Bible.
So when you look at something like Deuteronomy 22,
you can say, well, look here,
they say that rape is bad, right?
It's illegal.
The problem is that what they defined as rape
was different from what we define it as.
We define it much more broadly.
So something like Deuteronomy 21
is rape as we define it today.
And so I think that this idea of consent
on the part of the woman in particular
is not something that the Hebrew Bible
in any way engages with.
And so these are the types of things
that I think that the person is saying,
look, Yahweh can make a strong statement
about don't do X,
but he decided not to do it over on this other thing.
I think I represented it correctly.
Thank you, you were incorrect.
No, I'm just kidding.
As always.
Sabra, thank you so much for the Super Chat.
Derek, what are you doing hosting a podcast
during the Seahawks game?
Hashtag Washington State blasphemy.
My family is all, they do all of this
and I'm out here working.
I mean, you gotta give me some.
Are you ready to do this, right Derek?
This Washington State stuff.
I am, I'm trying to learn, I'm trying to learn.
I really appreciate it.
And please don't take any disrespect.
I told the guys in private,
but also just to nudge us along
because that way you don't feel like,
I hate this guy, he's kept me on the show for so damn long.
All right, Sentinel Apologetics is back.
Beasley, it's doctor.
Okay, Dr. Beasley.
You're the first Christian to finally use William J. Webb's
excellent chart of that evolution of regulated laws
toward the glorious gospel.
So it's just a praise to you for doing that.
Look, I get a shout out guys.
But to be clear, we don't agree with everything in Webb either.
Just, we don't agree with all his conclusions,
just to be clear.
Go ahead.
Yeah, I do think, yeah, let's keep going.
Thank you.
Yeah, Constellation Pegasus.
I can't accept the moving forward defense.
That's nothing but an opinion.
God could have ended slavery there
since the Jews didn't have slaves during the Exodus.
Well, that's true.
That's why a lot of these laws are hypothetical,
what if scenarios when you get to the land kind of ordeal?
As John demonstrated, like, hey, when this about the land,
it's like what land?
They're intense moving around for 40 plus years
before they actually get to the land.
These are hypothetical situations
when they get accustomed into the land
and ingrained in culture and encountered
with all these other nations.
They weren't fully established at that point.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, look, I can tell you right now, just based on this,
like there's a whole nother discussion that needs
to be had on all of this.
So we don't have to get everything out, you know?
But it's important that you guys get a comment
on these Carlos Rodriguez.
It's silly that an all-powerful God
has to gradually regulate slavery and divorce practices
out of his people until they're able to reach his ideal
but is emphatic from the start about exclusive worship.
Well, I've rarely seen people that like the idea
of God stopping them and making them do something
they don't want to do immediately.
Like, I haven't met many, go ahead, John.
I was going to say, in some ways it's kind of like,
hey, man, step in line.
We are all kind of in the like, why did God do that?
You know, often, I mean, even as a believing person,
I'm like, why, I don't like the idea personally
that slavery was regulated for that long period of time.
I don't personally like that.
And one thing that we all can rejoice in this room,
this chat room, I guess you should say,
is that none of us agree with slavery.
That's not also the thing that we're all like,
slavery is bad.
I almost said that at the beginning, but I was like,
that is incredibly refreshing just by the way.
I don't always get that.
That's sad.
Yes, it's really sad.
Thanks for making that statement, seriously.
Appreciate that.
You're a long lost pal.
You can deny condoning slavery positive endorsement,
but it certainly justifies slavery, neutral balance,
neutral allowance.
Couldn't a living God reject slavery?
The answer is yes.
He could have rejected slavery.
And for his purposes, he regulated it.
So that's what I could say to that.
I think we're saying the same thing five, six times now.
Well, it's good to, I mean,
these are super chat, not eight of these bros.
He paid for that question.
Yeah, and sometimes they're just voicing
a deep-seated issue that I think you guys also agree with.
This is why I think it's a struggle or a wrestle
in your guys' mind as well,
like I'm trying to wrestle with this issue.
This is why it's a debate today.
Logan Fisher, Genesis 9, 24 through 25,
Canaan is cursed to be slave to Shem.
Is it ever okay to use slavery as punishment?
I think there's a misunderstanding of curse of Shem.
Yeah.
So I just think that that is actually not in the same thing.
I try to recommend who does a good work on unpacking
the wrong estimation of even just like kind of
black people being under a curse, being less than human.
Am I on the right track of what they're thinking?
I think, yeah, most don't hold to that
as being the same thing.
So I don't know if anybody wants to add anything or...
Do you guys want to, did Josh or Kip
want to add any context to that or no?
No, good.
Okay.
Olive Blake, thank you again for the super chat.
Do you believe like Paul that modern day slaves
should obey their masters in fear and trembling
and do not let it concern them?
First Corinthians 7, 21.
So let me give an analogy.
Modern day, where it is legal to endorse
or to enforce slavery, do you believe
that they should be obeying this command of Paul
in slave running countries?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So if I was talking to someone who was a slave
in another country who was, let's just say they're Christian
just to keep in the context here,
I would tell them that they're in that circumstances
and they should do everything they could to live out
the gospel in that particular circumstance.
Yet, I would be working really hard
and anybody that I could get involved
to abolish that practice of slavery.
So there would be both, hey, let's make sure
that we live in light of the gospel.
Yeah, so that's kind of Paul's what he would say.
Where I would go maybe a bit further,
Paul didn't give any admonitions of abolishing slavery
and I kind of wish he did.
I'm gonna say that he's wrong that he didn't.
I just kind of wish that's like,
oh, I mean, wouldn't we all like to hear more of that?
I mean, I think that we wouldn't argue as much over about it.
But I would do that too approach,
hey, keep living for the glory of God,
seek to live out the gospel.
Yet, we need to stop this.
You know, we need to see for it.
And I think Paul would have loved to live in our day
where slavery has abolished in many, many, many places.
Even in his day, every culture,
especially in the Greco-Roman Empire was infiltrating.
It was him against the whole system.
We're not fighting that system here right now.
We could fight for people who are still in that system.
So I think Paul would have loved to be in our position
because he would have been what John,
I think what John just said would have been his approach.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate that super chat.
Suboslav says, by giving laws for slavery,
it is definitely not.
Not what?
I don't get it.
I don't either.
It's definitely not slavery?
By giving laws for slavery, it's definitely not.
And I don't know about the not part
because the hard part is that you guys are saying
it's not condoning slavery, right?
So this sounds almost, the first part makes me think
that they're actually siding with Dr. Josh and Kip.
But then it kind of, I don't know the context of it.
Oh, is the trying to say that because it's giving laws
to regulate it?
That it's not condoning it, maybe?
Maybe that's what it is.
I think maybe that could be it.
Okay, so it might be on your guys' side then.
Okay, thank you so much for the super chat.
Courageous says, to Boyce and Beasley,
do you think this is the most reasonable
for Yahweh to regulate it and not condemn it
and allow by his followers till the 1800s?
Well, I don't think, I think it's,
I think it's a tragedy that the church took a long time
to come around to abolishing slavery.
However, I do think you actually have plenty of examples
prior to the 1800s.
Oh, yeah.
Like for instance, Augustine,
the Augustine's church actually bought slaves
to set them free.
And the church had quite a bit of a network
in that particular time period.
So they would actually try to get them back to their families.
They did a raid, actually, on a boat,
a ship that was going out.
And they actually kind of broke the law
and saved 120-some slaves from the ship.
So there are definitely examples,
actually, all the way back to the early church.
And arguably, I mean, we talked about Flemann
actually being an example of that.
I know that was debated.
But we do see in the early church,
a more of a working out of this person
is creating the image of God.
They shouldn't be treated as property,
so on and so forth.
So I would maybe adjust that a little bit.
But I also kind of agree with the sentiment of like,
oh, yeah, I wish this would have came out sooner.
But that's a point where, like, Israel was in slavery for 400.
Was it 450 years in slavery?
I thought it was like 430, but yeah.
Come on, guys, be precise.
No, it's okay.
Anyway, yeah.
400 plus.
Why that long?
But yeah, there's a purpose to it from our standpoint.
And also to add to that, the slavery laws
and all of those things, by the time Jesus had come
and proclaimed the liberty that he did,
those laws should have been obsolete.
The fact that churches later in the United States
started reinforcing something
that they should have known other churches
and church history like Augustine.
And there's multiple stories where this happens.
Augustine was the most popular
because they actually, like John said,
went out personally trying to get people free
and buying slaves of freedom.
They were abusing scripture for their own purposes.
Like, I mean, they clearly did not understand
what Jesus was intending to do.
They clearly didn't understand what John and I
are trying to say, because had they done that,
they wouldn't have personally abused
and then cut sections out of their Bibles
to excuse what they were doing.
So obviously it was malicious.
Their intent was clearly malicious.
And just so you know, Kip and Josh,
feel free at any moment to just jump in.
I know you guys are thinking,
okay, there's gonna be something
that's gonna come up, I'm sure.
But feel free if you feel like you wanna say,
even if you just wanna say, I disagree.
You're more than welcome to,
but I know you don't wanna stir the pot
and everything keeps going.
So, Apollo's Christian apologetics, huh?
Did you have something to say?
No, I was going to,
I was gonna push back a little bit
and maybe tangentially,
but I think one of the big problems
in a discussion like this is the fact
that the biblical text is as elastic as it is.
I mean, we all have our own ideas
about what the right way is to interpret the text.
And I would suggest that some people
have a better handle on that than others,
but it's never been easy
and it's never been straight forward.
And I think that's a serious problem,
which lends me to think that,
or lends me to conclude that making a defense
from the text is as difficult as it is.
Thank you.
Apollo's Christian apologetics,
I think because Christians had no political powers
why they humbly submitted
unto corrupt government Caesar.
They were more concerned with individual salvation
versus government.
Also, sorry, I misjudged second team as fundees.
Yeah, I wanted to say that to this,
Laura Robinson and I went on Shannon Q's channel
a couple of years ago and sort of talked about slavery.
I brought the Hebrew Bible A&E side
and of course as a New Testament scholar,
she brought the New Testament stuff.
And this was sort of the thing that she was really getting at
is that the Hebrew Bible is much more presenting it
even though it wasn't reality, right?
Historically speaking,
it was presenting a much more top down approach.
I hear the laws that say you're gonna do it.
The New Testament is ostensibly doing this from a,
okay, look, you're not in power, right?
This is not the situation where you have control
to make these laws, right?
So here's the way you survive in this
and here's the way you operate
within the circumstances in which you find yourself.
So I think that's actually a really important thing
to pay attention to in this.
Interesting, yeah, gives you perspective.
Thank you so much.
Zurg, I appreciate the super chat.
Question for Mr. Beasley.
What does the meta narrative of Jesus' love
and redemption have to do with slavery?
Paul Christians often talk about being a slave to Christ.
Doesn't that make slavery sound good, normal?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So there's paradoxes in sure.
So like, for instance, like in order to live,
you have to die in order to go up, you need to go down.
And so there are aspects of,
hey, become a slave of God and be free.
It's just like, it's a paradox.
But that's actually the Christian message
is that through becoming a possession of God,
so his own people, you actually become free
because you are actually now reinstated
to how God has created mankind.
So now you're reconciled to the creator,
now you're set up for human flourishing.
But there is certainly that motif.
And remember that the culture to which this was written in,
slavery wasn't a moral issue.
So this type of analogy would have not kind of struck them
as something as strange in their mind.
So hopefully that's enough for right now.
And with that, just 10 second ad,
the perspective of Paul there was that you are a slave to sin.
It's better to be under the bond servitude of Christ
who said, take my yoke, it's easy, it's light.
And I'm meek and lowly of heart
than have a task-massing slave of sin.
So the analogy was actually,
you're always gonna be a slave to something.
Jesus is the freer of slaves
and then you serve him in return out of gratitude
because he freed you from the bondage
of the evil task-masker of sin.
So there's a lot more to the theology there too in Romans.
Thank you, thank you so much.
I'll just expect that Josh and Kip will butt in
if they wanna say anything.
Sentinel apologetics, Kip,
Paul's application of such intimate language to Onissimus
demonstrates a profoundly theological point.
The gospel shatters social boundaries
and brings slaves and masters into one family in Jesus.
And I will, I think at this point,
I'll just reiterate what I noted before
that this is all still exclusively within
the family of Jesus.
So the only way within Paul's instruction
to have a chance at freedom, whatever,
however that looks to him,
because it certainly doesn't look the same as it does
to us today, that is still within the exclusive confines
of the Christian community to the exclusion
of whoever is outside of it.
But it was also something that was extended to all though.
Like, hey, you can come in.
So why, I'm not quite following.
Well, yeah, conditional in a belief standpoint,
or a belief standpoint.
Yeah, I don't, so like,
I don't see, maybe it's just me,
but I don't see the liberty there.
Well, if you don't believe,
and you're like, I don't believe that,
then you wouldn't want to be a part of the community, right?
We can all right.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
Gurmania, this has been a civil and informative debate.
Thanks panelists and Derek.
Oh, and that Dr. Josh fellow sounds really smart.
Listen, you can't, you can't pay any attention to this guy.
Gurmania, he can't even ground the ultimacy
of the necessary preconditions to establish his possible
and possibilities in the ground of all being, so.
Josh has that one memorized.
Thank you, Gur.
Appreciate that.
Seriously, thank you so much for that super chat.
I really appreciate it.
And everybody go subscribe to Gurmania's YouTube channel.
He's kind of trying to grow this community.
We gotta keep it growing, so thank you.
Olive Blake, again, why did God say
not to rule over fellow Israelites ruthlessly,
but doesn't say the same about foreigners?
In fact, he says it in contrast to foreigners.
Actually, in dealing with sojourners,
he told them you were once slaves in Egypt
and you were dealt going back to their task mastery
type of treatment.
They were dealt with harshly.
He said not to treat them that way.
So actually, he does tell them not to task mass
the same way they were task mass.
He tells them not to treat them that way, actually.
Okay, thank you so much.
Paul F says, does Jubilee apply to anyone except Israelites?
No.
I think it's the reverse, right?
The argument earlier was simply,
it's really the Bene Elohim,
Israel.
There we go.
Derek is a walking, textual, textual, text critical issue.
Imbasil is what the term is.
Yeah, we had different perceptions a little bit,
but I do think primarily that is true.
It is primarily the case, yes.
But I would actually say it's not in every
and we disagreed earlier on that.
So there's a point repeating it.
Thank you, Paul.
Appreciate that support and the continuous super chats.
I'm scrolling down, gentlemen.
Carlos Rodriguez, a supposedly God-written
or inspired Bible that evolves, develops,
and improves moral behavior over time is indistinguishable
from human-inspired book written
for political and cultural purposes.
Yeah, that's a great thought.
Here's where I push back.
The ideals were actually given in a,
maybe not an explicit way, of course,
but in the creation narrative.
And then in the law of God stated early on,
I mean, like right out of the gate,
God making a covenant with his people gave them the ideals.
And when they went to apply the ideals,
they didn't do it perfectly and God was gracious.
So it's actually quite different in my estimation.
I'm sure Josh would have to push back on that, but.
No, it's okay.
I'm inviting you.
Yeah, I just, yeah, I mean, I agree with this point
is that, you know, trying to establish a distinction
like how, what is the test that you would have
to distinguish between, you know,
one or the other that could be incredibly difficult.
Do you believe the ideals that are laid out in the Torah?
I mean, we'd probably have to define what ideals means.
Well, I guess like you use the word ideals for the law.
I'm saying that the letter of the law is not the ideal.
I'm saying the spirit is.
Yeah, I think I used it.
I mean, I don't have the quote in front of me
how I used it, but I think it was in the question of sources
and how do we establish what the laws were
from a source standpoint.
And so if you can't, like as you were pointing out,
you can't look at Jeremiah 34 and say,
in the same way that you can't look at somebody
beating their slave to death in the antebellum south
and say, see, it was okay to beat your slave to death.
But that was the law.
You would say, no, that's not what the law was
in the antebellum south.
This is, this did not reflect the ideal,
however, I was using that in the text.
But no, I mean, to me, that's such a complicated question
because it depends on which interpretive model you're taking.
So we probably don't have time for that.
Sorry.
Thank you.
No, I appreciate that.
I want to get more into that with you sometime.
We got, I'd love to.
Absolutely.
Lou, thank you for the super chat question for Josh.
Is being under contract a form of being someone's property?
If not, please explain.
No, and I think, I mean, I think I define what I mean
by things like slavery and these property aspects.
But a contract, I just, what I guess what I'm saying is
I think the distinction between these two things
is one of being able to walk away.
So for example, if the implication here is somebody like,
I don't know, trying to think of a sports player.
That's so sad.
I don't watch a lot of sports.
I don't know.
Any sport.
Let's say that they're signed to a sports player.
Let's say that they're signed to a contract.
LeBron James.
There you go.
So LeBron James is signed to a contract.
Is he the property of?
The Lakers.
The Lakers, thank you.
You should just be doing this for me.
No, right?
Because the way that I think we need to think about this
is a Venn diagram, right?
This is part of the problem
that I see with these types of questions
is that when you have two terms
that have a range of meaning,
there's going to be a place
where the two terms come together
and there's this semantic range
that applies to both of them.
It's a fallacy to then say,
well, wife, for example, in the Hebrew Bible,
they would not have considered a wife to be a slave.
They were slave wives,
but they would not have considered a normal wife
to be a slave.
But there is semantic overlap.
Semantics, not really the right word.
There is a constellation of characteristics
that overlap between wife and slave, right?
Or children and slave, or child and slave.
But that doesn't mean that just because there's overlap
between those two that a child is now a slave
or a wife is now a slave.
So there is overlap between them,
but it has to be substantive enough
that constellation of characteristics
has to group tightly enough together
and to be enough of them
to say that one should be categorized as the other.
Hope that made sense.
Luke, thank you for the super chat.
Hank says, love thy neighbor unless God says
you can take his stuff,
massacre his family and take his daughters as spoils as war.
I said love.
I'm just going to point out
that's a misunderstanding of who your neighbor is.
You're not, so to put it more direct, to answer Hank here.
Loving thy neighbor, you're saying it's not universal.
So if he's got the Old Testament texts in mind
in so far as massacring his family
and taking his daughters as spoils of war,
these people were never regarded neighbors of Israel.
Well, I mean, neighboring nations, but the individual,
these were never Rahim.
These were not your friends and neighbors.
These were the Goi.
These were the outsiders.
Thank you so much, Hank.
Do you see an expansion of loving your neighbor
actually applied to the outsider in the New Testament?
I know you're not a New Testament scholar.
Yeah.
The Great Samaritan, they were a half-breed.
The whole story about what does it mean to love your neighbor
and who is your neighbor?
Jesus uses Samaritan to make that point.
I'm just curious how you flesh it out.
No, I would agree with that.
I think there is an extension
in so far as who can be included within that in-group.
And I think it gets ever-expansive.
But this also is not...
I wouldn't see it as a product of a biblical ethic
as much as I would see it as a product of a social change
that occurs over time,
long after the Bible has fallen silent on this matter.
Thank you.
Thank you, Paul F.
When Jesus says love your neighbor,
he's referring to Leviticus 19-18,
neighbors or fellow Israelites.
Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against anyone among your people,
but love your neighbor.
So we should ask Paul what Jesus thinks.
It actually is in line with what you're trying to say about the neighbor.
But of course, the context that you're describing with the Samaritan
seems like there's an exp...
At least it's starting to do something more than what it was, for sure.
Well, the love your neighbor principle, though,
this exact wording is right from Leviticus 19,
but it actually occurs in several forms in different contexts.
So this...
You need to expand your study of the term,
not just the exact phraseology, but yeah.
Go ahead, Steve.
No, we can move on.
We can move on. That's fine.
I was just going to say to be, like, really fair.
The idea of just general social justice in the land
is something that is incredibly important
to all, at least the ones that come into this context,
ancient Near Eastern cultures that, again, fall into this discussion.
And this often includes care for the foreigner that comes in.
But again, you can see this in other...
Right, and I think that's a point where the Israel's code is not unique
in showing care for the foreigner, because that was just a common practice.
That was the customary law, I mean, in most ancient civilizations.
And that's what I was going to say.
Like, there actually is care for the foreigner
and to treat him a certain way that you would want to be treated.
But yeah, Josh, yeah.
Bo, is there anything stated in the law codes
that actually supposed to say, love your neighbor as yourself?
I didn't see it.
I'm just curious if you knew that.
Not that I know of, but I'd have to go back looking for that specific thing.
And it's not uniform, right?
I mean, sorry, I was just going to say,
like the Hittite laws seem to have a slightly different take,
at least in degree on some of these things.
But yeah, sorry.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
Fred Harvey, thank you for the super chat.
The question in the debate is, not does God, but does the Bible?
Question to Jonathan is, does the Bible condone slavery?
Yes or no?
Yeah, so I would, I would be equating those things as the same thing,
because God is the author of the ultimate author, I should say, of scripture.
From our perspective, I know there's different views,
but that's the view that we would hold to.
So I would make a distinction between those two things.
Though there are things in the Bible that we have to make sure that it's stated,
it's recorded for us in God's word, but it's not necessarily sanctioned by God himself.
So, but that would be a different topic.
So if you said, does God condone slavery? Does the Bible condone slavery?
I would say ultimately no.
So I would hold to the same argumentation.
Just watch the whole debate over again and you'll see why.
Thank you for the question, Fred.
Yeah, that's an interesting way of phrasing it. Thank you.
Boyd White says, condone means to accept or allow.
Is there any explicit verse in the Bible that admonishes slavery in general,
or it's only found by finding a metanarrative which could be subjective per reader?
Let's let Kip and Josh answer first, and then if you feel like responding,
just to get your guys' take on that.
In this, what you were saying earlier, Kip?
Yeah, I mean, I think I made this point at some point in our back and forth.
That if we're just going to read the text itself,
then I think it's very difficult to come to a straightforward conclusion
that there's anything but accommodation or an endorsement or an allowance of the institution.
And I think there's maybe an important point.
There's an important distinction here to be made between the institution of slavery
and the treatment of slaves.
And the Bible is really quite silent on the institution beyond its existence
and the laws and the stipulations that are put in place to ensure its smooth operation.
Can I ask a clarifying question real quick?
To me?
Well, to you or Dr. Bowen here as well.
But under your persuasion, does the Bible actually command Israel to own slaves?
Or does it permit and then regulate?
Is there any command that says you need to own slaves?
Well, in the sense that it was binding, no.
But the reason for that is because it's an economic question.
I mean, the text recognizes that not everybody is in a position to own slaves.
Fair enough.
Yeah, that's a good answer.
Thank you so much, guys. I really appreciate that.
Daphne says, I want to know whether all of you agree that the Old Testament is fluid book,
having fluid text, canon, and not fixed God words like many Jews today believe, also not in Aaron.
That scared me for a minute. I thought somebody just donated you $79,000.
I was like, wow.
I wish I'd be like, all right, into the stream later.
Derek probably knows exactly how much that is, though.
I actually don't.
I actually don't.
There's people all over the world who watch what we do here.
Anyway, sorry, guys.
That's really cool.
Okay, back to the question.
All of you agree that.
I don't know. I don't think we would all agree on the question.
So we would have a nuanced approach to how we articulate inerrancy.
But I would distinguish ourselves from some of the fundamentalists,
how they would talk about inerrancy.
We hold to more of a providential view of inspiration, though I think there are exceptions.
Not a God dictated every single word, and it got written down perfectly.
Any type of study of manuscripts, too, would just kind of move you from a dogmatic approach to that.
But we would affirm inerrancy, but with a very nuanced way.
Steve, this is your terrain, so you might want to speak to that.
I mean, you pretty much answered it the same way I would.
So we'll let our friends over here give their best.
It will surprise no one to know that I do not affirm inerrancy.
What?
What?
They told me you did.
That's what they said.
Oh, thank you, Daffa.
Appreciate the question.
Discovering ancient history with Pat Lohinger, Pat in the house.
When is the debate on slavery in the early Christian church going to happen?
Great job, Josh and Kip.
I will say that this is Pat's.
Pat's been doing a lot of work on this recently, slavery in the early church.
So you guys might want to have a discussion with him about it.
Yeah, you probably should.
We probably should have an Exodus 21 discussion with you before we ever get to the early church, but okay.
Well, Pat, can you set both up?
Why not?
The person who's asked the question, a good book on this.
I don't know if you've read this, you guys, Kipper Bowen, but on Dixon's book, have you read Slaves and Bullies?
Oh, wait, not slaves.
That's got slaves in there.
Saints and bullies.
We've been talking about slavery all night, guys.
Saints and bullies by John Dixon.
It's a really insightful book, but what I love about the book is that he actually points out, here's where the church actually did a poor job this season.
Here's a portion of the dark ages that the church ignored.
It's a great book.
I would read it.
I've read a fair amount of like Jennifer Glancy, but again, it's like it's not in my area, so.
Thank you, Pat.
Appreciate that.
Bradford Baldwin says, can't God say thou shall not own a human as property?
Then son affirm with stories of him freeing slaves while speaking about the evil of it.
What's better for the all knowing God to do the above or 2000 years debating it?
So from my perspective, I wish that there would have been thou shall not own a human as property from my perspective.
But this is where, as me as a follower of Jesus, I think, you know, I don't get this, but there's a lot of things that I don't get.
And I, but I do see, I'm not like just blindly following it either.
I'm also saying, Hey, is this actually leading me towards the good and that you follow argumentation.
We do think that God does not tear down slavery through activism, but actually through the gospel began to transform people's hearts.
So we do think there is ultimately an ableration of slavery.
And though I know this is argued in church history, at the front of the abolition of slavery, there certainly were a lot of Christians involved in that.
And at the forefront of it doesn't mean that they had all the right ideas are the only ones that had those ideas.
But they were certainly at the forefront of it.
I love Kips.
I love his looks.
This is my favorite.
Well, yeah, I mean, even Lincoln himself would have tied that to a spiritual reason for what he did.
I mean, yeah.
And then even some of the slaves like Frederick Douglass use the word Jubilee a lot as a realm of hope.
So I mean, that's a whole nother to say it was better.
They're just real quick.
I left off a part of the question.
It would assume that I would actually be able to step out and see all the circumstances and how time when all the decisions made.
And I just can't from my perspective.
I'm like, yeah, it sounds like maybe it would be better to do it that way.
But I don't have all the perspective.
So I can't really say speak from a place of authority on that.
Kip, do you want to butt in on that before we take this question?
Oh, I mean, I guess I the problem with withdrawing or I guess pointing to the abolitionists and their the roots of the abolitionist movement in the Christian ethos is that the same holds.
For the people on the other side.
As Jonathan was talking all I could hear in my head was there's fine people on all sides, many sides.
But would you get this between modernism?
And I, you know, the, the, the, the citation that I concluded with in my in my concluding remarks is, you know, from one Christian perspective, you know, one of the great benefits of the African slave trade.
Insofar as it had it in the minds of those who believe such things expanded the kingdom.
Yeah, although there's no doubt there's plenty of examples of that.
Plenty.
But there's also plenty that went the other direction.
And I could also say in early modernity, actually a part of the racial slavery was actually an application of some of the evolutionary thought at that time, which we've moved way past that now.
And I think that that was actually a force for keeping slavery around too. So, I mean, we can, we could go back and forth and that's true. But I do think it's unmistakably a historical fact that Christians were at the forefront of the abolition in America.
Thank you. Thank you.
E rocks is Dr. Kip.
And Dr. Josh, do you believe the ways the Jews were commanded to practice slavery were moral?
I'm not really sure how this word moral is being used here. So by what standard?
If the question is, was it moral by their standards? Yes. Of course.
If you're, if you're asking by modern sensibilities, the, the practice of slavery in the Hebrew Bible, would that be considered moral? Again, I mean, I think it would depend on, on what you mean.
Because if you're deriving some objective morality from, and ethics is not my thing, sorry, but certainly not philosophy in general. But if you're trying to say that there's some objective standard and that the Hebrew Bible or the Bible as a whole,
in what it says is the grounding for that. And so you have like biblical values. Then in, in that sense, I mean, what the biblical, if you're, if, if you're a sort of divine command theory, you know, what the Bible says is moral or what the Bible says is good, then yes, I mean,
you mean that's, that's what the conclusion you would have to draw me personally. I don't even debate that question, right? Anybody that comes to me and says, well, you know, let's, let's debate whether slavery is, is moral.
So sorry, that's where I start. Because it's not my field. I start that it's immoral. So yes, I would say that by modern standards. Yes, I would say that it was immoral, but I don't know if that's their question.
Thank you so much. I imagine it is pocket locker 86 J in the house, go subscribe to J these two time PhD biologist of scientists and whatnot. Anyway, he says the argument that the culture couldn't handle being told not to hold slaves seems ludicrous since he commanded them not to murder, lie or covet.
The thing I would make a note on this though, culturally speaking, ancient nearest culture, all had laws against murder, lying, coveting.
Yeah, exactly.
And so, and I'm sure, Bowen, I'm sure you would probably echo that point, even though we might come down to a wrong, a different conclusion on some things on that. But so I would say that murder, lying and coveting in all those cultures that was against the law.
Holding slaves was the norm. So to change that would affect their relationship to other nations. And if other nations are coming, and they don't have any, they don't have any property, they don't have any things. What do you do in that circumstance?
There been something different? Sure. Sure. But Israel had slaves. They purchased slaves.
Yeah, I think it's a faulty comparison.
I mean, in his defense, I think that the comparison works under the assumption that you have, if you're assuming that Yahweh is the one true God that is omnipotent.
And, you know, Marduk or Shamash or Ash or whatever is not, then I think it is a valid question. Because you're right. And certainly the other, you know, nearest and law collections that they're very much on par with what you see in the Hebrew Bible.
But I think that's probably implicit in his question.
Thank you.
So go ahead. Yeah, I can move on. I'm sure you got more questions.
There's so many. You guys have so much to talk about. I guarantee you this is just going to make you want more.
Bobby Goble, thank you so much for that, Bobby. I really appreciate the support. I didn't even see a super chat. I almost like a question or a comment or anything.
And I want to congratulate you for the first person who's just throwing money at us and not even...
It's been a long night.
The way I'm saying let's hurry this thing up. I'll give you money to stop.
No, Bobby, thank you so much for the support. I really appreciate it. Oh, Bobby broke his own rule. Bobby in the house. Thank you so much, Bobby.
Dr. Boyce, Matthew 5, 17 through 18 is saying that Jesus didn't come to abolish the law. Wouldn't that include owning foreign slaves?
Right, because his goal was to fulfill the law, not to abolish it. But within fulfilling the law, things were about to change.
When you deal with it, so what is the problem? What is the heart problem behind slavery?
Why does slavery exist to begin with?
From our perspective, slavery exists because man is inherently evil. And within the evil of man, there's this idea of subduing and subjecting others, whether it's for an inferior feeling, whatever the thing is.
We would say the root problem of slavery is a sin problem. Jesus didn't come to alleviate the symptom of the problem.
He came to give the solution of the problem, because if God changes the heart of a man, slavery goes away.
And that's what you're seeing in Philemon. A man like Philemon came to understand who Jesus was, what he did, and became a followers of his.
Paul's championing that man on to now apply that same thing by looking at Onesimus the way that he does.
So again, it's God first got the heart of Philemon, which then alleviated the whole no longer a slave, but a brother.
So for our perspective, yeah, Jesus didn't say he was coming to abolish it. He said he was coming to fulfill it.
So in this fulfillment of the law, it is releasing the sin problem, the heart of all sin, or the heart of all the problems is a sin problem, including slavery.
So what good is it to make laws against slavery? We're seeing it now. We have freedom against slavery today.
And as Josh, Dr. Bowen said that he still talks to people that are like mad about it, you can have freedom from slavery in a country.
And I think we should, by the way, I'm just saying like, that doesn't solve the problem of people's hearts.
You can live in a free country where there's no slavery and people still want it.
There's still a heart issue there.
So Jesus was starting with the heart and working into the culture, not just changing a culture.
Thank you so much.
Margaret DeVeldin in the house with the 20 on things like Canadian. Thank you so much.
And Margaret, I looked and you may be the official first person who did not come up with any question.
But let's see. Let's see. Let's see what happens as we scroll down. Who knows? Thank you so much, Margaret. Appreciate the support and being a member, a Patreon member.
You cover all the check boxes and stuff. So thank you.
Courageous. Can Dr. Boise stop being anti-Semitic, please?
How? I don't understand how I'm being anti-Semitic.
Honestly, I don't recall.
If he, if you heard him, I'll just assure you that he's, he's not.
But I say I actually have a lot of close and I mean close friends that are like, they would actually be astonished at that kind of comment.
I wonder if, and I'm going to just guess on Courageous' part, I wonder if it is the whole cessation, like this was only for certain people at a certain time kind of thing. Jews today actually think this is a permanent everlasting thing, whereas your perspective may be budding with that kind of thing.
So that may be where this tension is coming from.
And that's the case. That, that is, that's incorrect too, because actually the Jewish rabbi friends that I am very close to actually would, would, would actually agree with our perspective and say that the Jews messed up that badly in this.
And they actually look bad at their history and how they didn't follow law, the law properly and that they did mistreat and that they didn't follow Jubilee laws.
They actually condemn a lot of their practices for not seeing the heartbeat of the law. And I don't want to speak for them, but being that close to them, I know their perspective.
And that wouldn't, again, that's just, that's a, that's a pot shot that has no stability to it.
Well, I will say too that when it comes to, we don't equate like a disagreement of interpretation with any type of hatred of somebody saying this is what this should be. This is how you should interpret this.
If Josh pushes back against my interpretation, like you're an anti me person, aren't you? Just because you're always pushing back against me type of thing. So I think sometimes it could come across that way when it, when it gets heated.
And so, well, not for the Jews a lot. This is their texts. I mean, these are their texts. These are their laws. This was dedicated to their country and their covenant. So I don't see this.
Thanks for responding. Floyd F P question for the panel doesn't Galatians 328 apply to a person's salvation and not their social status.
No, actually, it applies to the context of the church. Like, so they're already saved people. So if you want to say salvation as far as a salvation as a ongoing, this is the reality of what God's doing and saving me.
Then yes, but it involves the community, which is the social status within the church, but not necessarily within all the social structures. And I think that was one of the arguments as well.
I think maybe built up in the question is.
I'm sorry.
If you have three distinctions being made in the verse, June or Gentile, slay on their free male nor female, certainly with the first and the third, those social distinctions or the practical distinctions are not done away with.
Right. It's the reason that the text is in Christ.
And so I think using that verse to then say that we're now we're leveling socially, practically, whatever these distinctions between male and female.
Jew and Gentile, slave and free.
Right. Okay, I get what you're saying. Yeah, I appreciate the clarification.
So socially, how that play out, though, like just say Jew and Gentile. This is actually something that Peter rebukes Paul. I mean, Paul rebukes Peter. I'm getting tired.
Paul rebukes Peter and Galatians, too, when he was, he was saying the gospel no longer has this divide between you and Gentile, but during meal times, Jews would separate from Gentiles.
And Peter said, or Paul said to Peter, you're not in step with the gospel on that particular application.
So that spiritual distinction did social ramifications to it.
And then you also had a patriarchal culture that began to and I, you may disagree with this, but I do think there is a development of the treatment of women from Old New Testament.
I think there's a development. I'm not saying it's up to our sensibilities, but I think there is a development.
Well, the context of Galatians three is going back to the Abrahamic covenants, the very next verse talks about your your the sentence of Abraham by faith.
So it's, it's now you're an heir, you're an heir. So therefore God is your father, it's family placement. So it tears down the construct of societal differences for the purpose of you are now all heirs of Almighty God of Abraham.
So it's removing barriers in the kingdom of God.
And ultimately that doesn't always play out immediately in society on this side. It's more of the Abraham's promise was an eternal promise.
So therefore in the new heaven, new earth, a new kingdom that restored Eden, this is the way it's going to be.
So there's a lot playing out there into chapter four as well.
So to clarify, masters and slaves would leave the assembly still at masters and slaves.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that's my, I think that's the point that he was trying to make with it.
Okay.
So nobody walked away from that saying, oh shit, we shouldn't have slaves anymore.
Like, I don't think they walked away like that.
Thank you so much.
Floyd, I appreciate the super chat and gentlemen, we're trying to work through these rest, please no more super chat so that these everybody can go eat and get some rest.
And get some rest tonight. I'm trying to scroll up here after I dropped that comment.
It's brought me back to the bottom.
So bear with me for one second. I'm almost there.
Oh, here we are.
Tang gang in the house.
Go check out Oz's YouTube channel and subscribe.
The answer is yes.
Also our Dr. Josh and Dr. Kill ready to do some Trinity Radio shenanigans tomorrow night.
Love you, Derek.
Yeah, I mean, you guys should definitely tune in for that.
You know, Oz has been working very hard.
To earn his doctoral degree and it will conferred upon him tomorrow night.
Very excited about it.
Oh, I'm missing out on something here.
Is there an inside joke?
It's gotta be.
Yeah.
Yes.
Wow.
I know Josh too well not to see it on the face.
Yeah.
And I mean, like he's got a really good dissertation.
It's embargoed, right?
It's embargoed.
You don't have access to it.
It's embargoed, but it's a real dissertation that he really wrote.
So do you know this person?
Who is it?
Yeah.
It's Oz.
It's the ATS Network group.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, buddy.
Thank you so much, Oz.
MNag.
Thank you for the super chat.
Did you have a comment?
Making sure I didn't leave you hanging.
You would be the second person who...
Quick, Derek.
Don't encourage him.
I know, right?
I already said no more super chats.
So please respect that if you're watching.
Okay.
Scrolling to the next.
Here we are.
Oz, thank you both.
To both, Boyce Beasley, based on your response about being a slave to sin verse free under
God, is there an option in which one can avoid being a slave at all or slavery at given?
Are you talking about in the Old Testament?
I would say...
No, I think it was referring to earlier when Boyce was discussing saying, you're a slave
to sin or you're a slave to Christ.
And it's almost like the way Zerg's question is sounds like you don't have an option.
It's like you have to be a slave no matter what in this ordeal.
It's a theological question, of course.
Yes.
From a theological perspective, we would say, yeah, you're going to be a slave to either
one of these things.
But obviously, if you're rejecting this notion altogether, there's different worldviews on
that.
From a theological standpoint, yeah, you're going to serve someone.
Yeah.
Even if you're turning to say, I'm going to serve myself, you're becoming the slave of
something or some type of idea or some type of desire, but it also depends on how you
frame it too.
Yeah.
And this wasn't an off-the-wall example for Paul to use as a way of comparison because
everybody in the cultures of that time saw themselves, especially if you're under a king,
they saw themselves as slaves to a certain degree.
I mean, this is one of the warnings in 1 Samuel chapter 8 that God gave the people of Israel.
They're like, well, we want a king like everybody else.
He's like, all right, well, let me tell you what that looks like.
And the very last line that he tells them is, and you will be his slave.
So the idea in that culture to use being a slave to something to a greater or lesser
degree was not uncommon.
So for Paul, especially under a Roman Empire, for Jews predominantly who experienced taxation
and oppression from the Romans, for him to use a greater, less than taskmaster versus
a kind servant kind of perspective was not an uncommon example for him to say, this is
what slavery is for you and your sin.
This is what it's like to be a bond servant of Christ.
To me, he's using a common concept they could all relate with at that time to make a theological
statement.
Thank you so much, Zurg.
Appreciate that.
Dylan Clap in the house.
Is there any way to arrive at a grand narrative of the Bible that isn't packed with theological
assumptions that will seem subjective or an arbitrary to a skeptic?
Sure.
Yeah, that's why you have to go through each section.
That's why we started with Genesis 3, the concept of loving your neighbor, moving into
the prophets, how they evaluated these things and had to learn to practice them.
This was a consistency.
We're not doing a general just survey, just like hoping that this is what it'll turn out
to be in the end.
And we didn't get to go through all of these things.
I know we vaguely referenced Isaiah and Jeremiah, et cetera, but we could sit here and go through
metanarrhaves of every individual, whether you're talking about the Tanakh or the Torah
or various sections around it in the Psalms, where you find this redemptive narrative or
even this Edenic restored narrative over and over and over and over and over and over and
over again, where there's consistency throughout.
That grand narrative is built on small narratives within these texts that continually have the
same theme of redemption, redemption, redemption.
So that would be my answer to that question.
Can I just say, as a skeptic, who was once quite deeply committed to discovering the
grand narrative in Scripture, that once you've pulled back the curtain, taken a look inside
and then stepped in there and basically lived out your studies and your questions in exploring
the roots of this, the very idea of a metanarrhive of Scripture becomes more and more absurd?
You know, you sell like an evangelist, like if you guys really knew what it feels like
to follow Jesus and pull back the curtain, no, that is, I could, you're, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me.
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
