Shannon Kew from the YouTube channel, Shannon Kew joins me today here at MythVision Podcast
with your host, Derek Lambert.
I hope you guys enjoy.
She knows a lot about the brain, mental health from a psychology standpoint, and of course
me working in the mental health field, helping drug addicts who struggle with addiction.
We have a wonderful conversation about atheism and ghosts and poltergeists.
Thanks to Stephen Nelson for the slides once again.
Make sure you guys subscribe to the channel, hit the bell so you're notified every time
we drop a video, get early access to hundreds of videos, join our patreon here at MythVision
to help us grow and you guys can gain access to that.
Man, let's get to Shannon Kew.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
You see who's on the show.
You know who it is.
Shannon Kew, welcome to the show.
I'm excited to be here.
Thank you for inviting me.
I'm really excited.
I'm looking forward to this conversation.
I am definitely, I've been excited for quite some time to talk to you and get to learn
from you.
And you have this really great personality and how the hell did you handle Darth Dawkins?
That's a miracle.
If anyone, start believing in God again, because...
Oh, do you want to hear the story of Darth Dawkins, my conversation with him?
Do you know that I wasn't actually supposed to talk to him that day?
I found out just about two to three hours beforehand that the person who was supposed
to talk to him had dropped out.
And I...
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I had no idea.
I wasn't...
I didn't prepare or anything.
I just...
I'd heard of him before because he had spoken to Alex Malpas, who I'm a big fan of, and
I had watched that conversation.
And my friends, Jamie and Thomas, who's Holy Kool-Aid on YouTube, were hosting Talkie
then once.
And I was watching, like, to be supportive, to watch them, and I love my ACA shows.
I'm part of the ACA.
And he had called in.
So that was the entirety of my familiarity with Darth Dawkins.
So when James, from modern-day debate, called me and said, the person who was supposed to
talk to him dropped out, can you come?
I was like, well, if he's free at 10, then sure, like, that's the first time I'm free.
That's when my son goes to bed.
Yeah, sure.
Fine.
I'd be...
But you have to let him know it's not a debate.
I'm not prepared.
But I'd love to have a conversation with him.
And what's the conversation about?
And I said, about the existence of God.
And I said, well, I mean, sure, I've got some questions I could ask him.
So I went in, not, like, I guess not really knowing what was going into it.
No, he did not.
Not at all.
So I thought that he would potentially be, like, amenable to a conversation.
But it clearly was not.
Like, it became apparent to me immediately that he was a manipulative dialectic partner
who wasn't interested in being, like, an interlocutor in this situation, but was instead looking
to either, like, bully or coerce me into staying on a script so that he could get a predetermined
set of answers.
So I switched tactics kind of mid-stride from just having a general conversation to exposing
what his tactics were so that other people who would engage in conversations with him
or people like him would have a general idea of how to derail from someone from a script
and would know that you don't need to be bullied into the direction.
Like, I didn't want to exist within his paradigm.
And you could tell him, I could tell immediately because he was, instead of actually responding
to my questions, was getting frustrated with me and starting to either insult me or make
assertions about my positions in order to attempt to frustrate me.
So my tactic then was instead of becoming frustrated because that was the emotion he
was wanting to elicit from me so that he could point to the frustration as some sort of evidence
that he was having good points was to be amused by him.
But I just decided that I was going to have fun until it was over.
So that's what I did.
And apparently that resonated with people, I guess, because I hear about it quite often.
People talk about it.
I mean, look, I've watched quite a few of your videos, but I mean, you did had, I've
seen quite a bit of his by accident on these atheists.
And man, the patience that is required to deal with, like in real life, I just, the way
I equate it in real life for me is, you know, I can handle people disagreeing with me, but
I have, I'm like kind of a, I don't know.
I mean, I guess you'd say kind of an alpha male, if you will.
And if a guy like that was talking to my wife like that, for example, or if I witnessed
that in person, I might get defensive.
And I don't mean that like in a bad sense, but when people are manipulative like that,
it feels almost physical, like the way that they're forcing this conversation, it almost
feels like, whoa, like, and he's done this countless times.
So it caught, I started getting lost in the little like, click the next video, see this
now. And he's just like that, T jump, all these different guys.
And I'm like, dude, I'm sorry.
I don't know if I could be as nice as these guys are.
I don't know.
I don't know.
And some of them just cuss them out and they keep talking.
I'm like, he's a waste of time, honestly, when you see this.
So anyway, I didn't want to make that about the show.
I just, I just wanted to open up and say, you really handle yourself better than any man
out there.
So well, there you go.
Yes.
That's a great thing.
You, what is your background exactly?
Like, what is it that you went to college for and stuff like that?
And you do for a living?
If you don't mind me asking, I don't really talk about what I do for a living because
I handle personal information.
But what I do, what my educational background is in psychology, I have an honors degree
in psychology, and my focus during my thesis work was perceptual cognition and communication
theory.
So that's, that's what I delved into.
So I studied brain stuff and talking stuff.
It's important.
It's important, especially when in your argument, for example, on the soul that you had with
Darth Dawkins, I mentioned that because it's important in the line of what you also recently
did, the neuroscience and soul, your thoughts on J.P.
Morlin, like all this stuff, some what connects, if that makes sense.
So yeah, there's always something there.
Now I'm going to ask you straightforward, right to the punch question.
Ready?
Sure.
Consciousness.
All right.
The mind, the soul, consciousness, those three things.
Are they synonymous?
Could, could we just say, look, it's the brain.
All of this is the brain.
Do you think physicalism, if you will, and the brain is the answer on that or?
Yeah, I do.
Personally, I think physicalism is the answer.
There are things that, that what we perceive as consciousness is an emergent property of
the physical components of the brain.
And I think that there's a significant amount of evidence to indicate that.
That doesn't mean that there isn't also like what we call the hard problem, which is why
there is something that it is like to be any kind of matter.
So why, why a conglomeration of matter being the brain, like the brain is essentially conglomeration
of matter.
Why there's something that it is like to be a brain, but isn't something that there is
like to be like this earphone case, for example.
They're both conglomerations of matter.
So what properties does the brain have that makes there a component of, of that conglomeration
that there is something that it is, it has awareness, awareness of itself.
So that is the hard problem.
I don't think anybody has an answer to that.
Certainly, like if you would get a Nobel Prize instantaneously, if you had the answer
to that.
Right.
What I do think is that just because there is that hard problem, why there is something
that it is like to be a specific conglomeration of matter, doesn't mean that you, that gives
room to assert that it must be something else than, and something like a soul, especially
when we're talking about interactions with you, a soul would have to somehow interact
with that matter.
And once you get to the point where you have to explain the mechanisms by which those interactions
would take place, everything starts to fall apart for me.
So it just couldn't be something external acting upon the brain.
It has to be something coming from within the brain, whatever that may mean.
And of course, the work with that a lot of theist and those who believe in these things,
there are some within the pantheist worldview, there's various type ofist worldviews that
play off of this riff.
I bet you anything, Jesus, the guy I recently interviewed has this weird, you know, there's
there's always something.
And you know what I find fascinating before we move to the, to the subject of poultry geist
and doing that to other things.
You know, there's so much room for what it means like they can interpret it with so
many different various ideas that like there's no falsifiability.
You can just go in and just say whatever, oh, well, the soul is this and we're all one
soul actually, just expressing ourselves in different ways.
And, you know, all of that, you can't necessarily disprove that just like the soul's immaterial
as you were talking about with J.P.
Moreland.
He's like saying it's immaterial.
It's how do you know that?
But he also says, he also says it's a substance, so that it's a confusing way to look at it
because how can it be a substance and simultaneously immaterial and react with and interact with
material, which is kind of my issue.
I think most of the perceptions of the soul, at least that I've been exposed to fall apart
immediately when exposed to any sort of significant amount of scrutiny.
So like anything where you see a non corporeal aspect that is acting upon your corporeal
form, like your physical form, anytime you propose that you need to have a mechanism
and you also need to ignore a lot about how the physical form operates, like on an even
microscopic level, how neurons operate and how chemicals operate and how ion transfers
operate at the neuronal level, isn't something that could be actively acted upon.
Like what really did it in for me when I was studying neuroscience was the potassium ion
transfers at the precipice of the cell membrane creating the action potentials required in
order for any individual neuron to fire.
The action potential is what creates essentially the electricity that causes that neuron to
activate so that it can release the neurotransmitter that can cause like a thought to happen in
your head at all or an action or a movement.
In order for that action potential to take place, there needs to be a specific configuration
on either side of the cell membrane of sodium and potassium ions and the mitochondria within
the cell body of that neuron needs to produce a chemical called ATP which opens the transfer
channel between the interior and exterior component of that membrane in order for the
sodium and potassium ions to transmit back and forth to create the action potential.
So if a soul is acting upon the brain, how is it configuring the sodium and potassium
ions on either side of that cell membrane and then convincing mitochondria to produce
enough ADP to open that channel?
I don't think that's possible.
So to put it in dumb, dumb terms, how does something immaterial?
Sorry, I talk really fast.
I was going to say what language is that you just spoke because I didn't hear that as English.
I'm just kidding.
Sorry.
No, no, no, you're fine.
That was that was wonderfully put to put it in dumb, dumb terms is how does something
immaterial that isn't material, isn't physical, isn't something of an element that works within
physical reality, cause physical reality to do these things.
And really, you're asking for a ventriloquist spirit, so to speak, to play on the neurons
in your brain almost like you ever seen that that movie.
What is it?
It's a science fiction movie.
Matthew McConaughey, how do you say his last name?
McConaughey?
Yeah, he plays as an astronaut who goes off into space, but like ends up in a black hole
and he's like playing with strings and he he's actually going back and it's some strange
stuff. Anyway, my point is like, how do you how do you like you can come up with so many
theories and nothing is like verifiable or makes any sense?
And just because we don't have the answer now doesn't mean we won't at some point be
able to explain this.
So yeah, yeah, nothing that I said explains what why there is something that it's like
to be that neuron or that that configuration of neurons or conglomeration of neurons after
that action potential takes place and the neurotransmitters are sent down the axon and
through the dendrites and over the synapse and to the receptor cells of another neuron
like that there's no explanation that we can think of as to why there is something that
it is like to be that.
But the fact of the matter is that those are the requirements for us to have experience
without those.
There is no experience demonstratably so and there is no way like let's see if I can
explain it like you said in dumb dumb terms.
So like on either side of a cell membrane, like if my hand is a cell membrane, like
there's sodium ion on this side and a couple of potassium ions on this side of the cell
membrane.
So and then there's a mitochondria on this side.
This is the inside.
This is the outside.
So the mitochondria has to produce a chemical called ADP to open this channel in order for
one of the potassium ions to come through.
And then that creates like a charge, an electrical charge.
So in order for a soul to have some way of interacting, it would not only have to get
the mitochondria to produce the ADP to open this channel, it would have to have something
to do with the amount of sodium and potassium ions that already pre exist on either side.
Because even if the channel is open, the potassium ion can't transfer through to create the
action potential unless it's there to begin with.
So the soul would have to be literally peppering our brain with sodium and potassium ions and
manifesting them out of nowhere.
And that doesn't seem conceivably possible to me.
And if it were possible, it would be magic and we would be able to observe it on a
cellular level that a potassium ion would pop into existence out of nowhere in order
for that action potential to be generated.
And that's what did it for me.
I was like, well, that's not possible.
So so that's what that's what technically caused you to realize naturalism makes a better
case, or at least to some extent, than believing in Christianity.
Yeah, I was a nail in the coffin for me.
That was the one that I was done.
Like I was on the precipice before.
Once I studied, like what happens during lobotomy, I was like, well, if that happens,
like, does your soul stay intact when you have components of your brain removed?
Same with Phineas Gage, who's a guy who was had a dampening rod that was he was like
a railway worker and an explosion went off and it blew it through his cheekbone and
then through his part of his prefrontal cortex and it blew out part of his prefrontal
cortex and his entire disposition changed.
So I thought to myself, well, if you are your soul and that massive amount of damage
to your brain can fundamentally change who you are and who you perceive as yourself to
the point that his entire personality shifted, how he perceived himself and how other people
perceived him, then is there any sort of continuity in the soul?
Because the soul would be subject to cortical changes.
Like if you have a cortical change, then the soul would have to change along with it, which
would mean that it would have to go at best both ways.
If the soul influences the brain, changes in the physical components of your brain would
have to buy or like would have to go the other way as well and somehow change your soul.
And if that happens and you have this like massive amount of damage, like something like
what Phineas Gage had happened to him, or if you have some sort of aphasia or you get
Alzheimer's, do those changes transmit to the soul?
That doesn't seem like it makes sense to me because if your soul is like the perfect
version of you, you shouldn't be able to make physical changes and augment whatever the
perfect version of you is.
I mean, that that definitely makes a lot of sense.
And you actually brought a lot of this up in that debate on modern day debate with the
Darth. Yeah, he didn't listen to engage any of it, though.
No, he didn't care that he wanted to keep his narrative.
Right. I guess let's push into something here, because that's really what I wanted to ask
you, because you said you you deconverted, if you will, like finally put, like you said,
the nail in the coffin with this specific topic.
So my buddy, Stephen Nelson, who's brilliant, he's like knows like four or five different,
maybe more languages, who's just a really smart guy.
And of course, he's like us, OK, he's an atheist.
And so I have this up here and I'm going to read and we'll go through this chart here.
And it's pretty self-explanatory, but it'll be like a cool thought experiment for you
to kind of tell me where you lie and like how you feel about it and all that.
Cool. In order to recontextualize and slide one here, the discussion about belief in God,
we can reframe the discussion in terms of the belief in ghost or a belief in ghost.
Let's say there are two types of ghosts.
One is analogous to a theistic God and the other is analogous to a deistic God.
A poltergeist is like a theistic God of the Bible, a detectable manifest entity
that causes supernatural events.
So evidence of the existence of a poltergeist is expected.
If one indeed exists, we could we should be able to easily one of us should be able to go.
OK, there's evidence.
Like the Catholic priest on capturing Christianity who can like do the exorcisms.
It's like and he says that they're speaking ancient Latin and all this like it's like
nobody can test this.
Nobody can go like film it and prove it and like do let us do some tests.
Anyway, that's something you should be able to prove.
But let's say that a cryptophasm, if you will, is the opposite of a poltergeist.
It's like a regular ghost, but doesn't manifest physically.
It's just like the deistic God.
It's an undetectable hidden entity that plays no discernible role in the physical world.
So evidence of the existence of a cryptophasm, if you will, is not necessarily expected.
Since by definition, it's undetectable.
OK, now, do you like do you like how we're starting to kind of like play like ghost here
and then going to God because Christians will be like happy to jump on this discussion.
But soon as you mentioned the Bible or Jesus or God is like, whoa, hold on, what?
I'm not OK with that, you know, it makes sense.
OK, so that's that's slide one.
Let me get you slide two here.
Sorry. Oh, you're good.
Now we're going to slide two.
Let's conceptualize theism and nontheism on a sliding scale of confidence
in the probability that God exists.
So theism or deism and tell a relatively high level of confidence,
while nontheism is merely the inverse.
Let's say that nontheism is the same as atheism for all intents and purposes.
It's simple.
Simply boils down to a belief that theism is less probable.
Do you agree with with?
I mean, I know that the cryptophasm and the poltergeist and stuff is like
something we're just talking about that.
But in terms of the whole weird definitional thing that goes on
between theist and atheists and stuff, would you agree that nontheism or if you will,
atheism is just like a soft approach.
I mean, where do you stand on that whole thing on atheism?
I actively don't believe that a God is possible based on any
philosophical definitions I've been exposed to.
And I think that if somebody could come up with a philosophical definition
that made sense, I would be forced to believe it because it would be by definition true.
But any attempt to define something like a God
is a failure to me to the point that I don't even know what somebody
would mean when they say God.
And most people, when they say God, have this tacit assumption that
we're all we all have this knowledge of what that must mean.
And that knowledge is just comprised of a series of
a presuppositional assumptions that don't really provide a rational definition.
So I would be on the hard atheism side of things where
I think that it's not even necessarily conceivably possible.
But I like I like I like the the chart.
It's interesting. It's very cool.
I like the belief in the non-existence of God is probably where I would fall there.
Non-belief in the existence of God.
Where do you fall on that?
It's such a ridiculous debate and amongst the atheist community,
like people bring out their pitchforks for the definition of atheism.
It's crazy. It is.
I mean, look, I have no good reason to believe after knowing enough
naturally how we can explain things naturally.
I have no reason to believe in a God.
And so to suggest there is a God, I hear people like to shift the goal poles.
They still use the word.
That's what see what upsets me is they love jab and you and me for the word
atheist or atheism.
Yet they will like be strange, like inspiring philosophy, for example,
Mike Jones and be like, look, I can deal with Spinoza's God.
That's not the biblical God, buddy.
So so stop playing Spinoza in the mind and all that.
Let's let's let's go ahead and focus on Yahweh, the volcano God.
Let's let's talk about, you know what I'm saying?
Like, let's not let's not be funny and intellectually, you know, tricky.
You know, like, dude, your God, supposedly, you know, is doing mass
miraculous or really natural claims.
But they're natural because they manifest in the natural world,
but they're supernatural, meaning they're beyond what we would expect.
So I mean, they're observable.
They're poltergeist.
So it's like, you know, we can.
So you feel like theists do like Yahweh smuggling.
Like they're Yahweh smuggling.
Yes. Yeah.
So what do you think?
Well, oh, I'm exposed to that quite a bit, I think, is that people want you.
They want to start with the deistic definition.
They want to try to get you to agree that that's something that's plausible.
That a God that doesn't give a shit isn't around.
Maybe doesn't even care.
Maybe isn't even God could be pantheistic.
Maybe isn't is is something that's even conceivably possible.
And then they feel as though you just saying, OK, well, maybe
that's conceivably possible is somehow a gotcha.
And therefore, and then that's when they swoop in and go, Jesus,
Mike, drop, gotcha, as though there aren't like several thousand steps
between the concession that, OK, maybe that's conceivably plausible,
even though I still don't believe in it myself to and and also that God,
that that deity that maybe does, maybe doesn't care, maybe does,
maybe doesn't exist, maybe is everything, maybe exists
outside of the universe, maybe exists in or maybe exists outside of time.
Wanted his son to die so that he didn't have to punish you.
Like, like there's some steps missing, guys.
You're missing some steps here.
I feel like you jumped the shark on that one a little bit.
I mean, look, like I always say, like, just prove it.
I mean, what I mean is this is not something, you know, I hear people
like I recently interviewed that guy that follows the Jesus claimant
from from Australia and mean him totally disagreed on so much.
Right. But I was very kind.
I was like, please, I want to have this to learn
from you about this guy from from Australia.
He went into this really strange that there's he's trying to explain
everything's natural, but it's still supernatural and the collective unconscious
like this weird trying to make them go together.
And I was thinking to myself, I'm like, whatever you can do
to try and get people to think there's not just a natural explanation
is what they're trying to do.
It's like, and I don't know if it's because they're afraid.
And I get it. I get the fear because I was there.
I was there when I was still thinking, what if I'm letting go?
What if there is like a father figure is divine?
He's, you know, there's this like it's not because there's any logical evidence
to it's all inside.
It's from the stories that we were told.
It's all like my mama telling me, you know, something being raised,
going against mama's word is like, no, that hurts.
Don't do that.
Even if mom what if what mom taught me was wrong,
you still feel like I'm disobeying mom or I'm disrespecting my mom.
I love my mom. Why would I do? You know, and that's how religion
really instilled in me was letting go.
That was very difficult.
And even to this day, I would.
I'm an atheist who doesn't believe in an afterlife.
I wish there was one.
I would. Let me let me explain what I mean.
Oh, I don't mind that I'll be resting in peace forever,
like and not have to deal with anything, you know, complete, quiet,
not even quiet, don't even have to deal with the thing.
Just there's no memory of any time.
There's no memory of any suffering.
There's no man, I'm missing out on anything.
You're not missing out on anything.
There's nothing to be found on.
But I would love to be able to be with my mom, my kids, my wife,
my family and figure out a way to progressively make things better.
Shit, if we could do it here,
we could find ways to make life better here to not have to live till
or 90 and die or have to die from her
horrific type of illnesses and diseases and things.
I'd love to see science advance to help us live longer to try and.
You know what I'm saying? Like that's my because I'll give you one thing.
I had a dream Shannon and my brother.
He was struggling on meth, cocaine and heroin, right?
And I used to shoot up heroin six years ago.
You wouldn't look at me and think, oh, you're heroin addict.
I was pretty bad off, but I had this dream and I kept trying to get him clean.
You know how you can't just make addicts get it.
It's like they have to, you know, they have to start getting it.
Why this dream?
He was like really shriveled up and he's like in this box.
So you know, dreams are weird and I said, bro, can you hear me?
And he said, yeah, like this real raspy
I'm like last breath type voice.
Now I love my brother.
I can get really emotional, Shannon.
I love my brother. I'll fight. I'll kill.
I'll die for him.
Like that's how much I care about my little bro.
We had a tough life growing up and I was protected him.
He's my younger bro.
And I said, I'll see you in the next life only because I couldn't see it losing him.
You know what I'm saying?
And this is in a dream as an atheist.
I said this.
Now, obviously we can have dreams when we were three and still living like we're there.
I don't know why I have a pretty good memory.
But I said, I hope to see you in the next life.
Now, any theses, this they're going to run with this
to the big C there at the reason why you I'm going to be honest.
I didn't want to see my brother die.
Who the hell does?
Right. That's what?
What if I said to him this?
I'll see you when you turn into a frog after you reincarnate in five minutes.
I mean, like, you know, like it could have been any explanation.
Hey, you're coming back in a bird as a bird in five minutes, laying on my hand.
Like I'm just being funny.
Like it was an emotional thing, though, in the dream.
And I woke up crying. I called my bro. I was like, don't die, bro.
I'm trying to get you clean. Don't die.
I don't want to see you gone. I mean, I love you.
Like, you know what I'm saying? Yeah.
That's emotion.
That's what religion like literally drives on.
And they play all these ideas using that feeling.
Yeah. And then that a subjective experience becomes truth.
It's like, oh, don't go against that feeling because that feeling is the truth,
which is what most of it ultimately boils down to.
Although it's very difficult in especially in the world of apologetics
to get anybody to really admit that because they're so staunchly
driven towards making it seem as though
this belief is based based on evidence the same way that somebody
who has come to disbelief has decided that there isn't sufficient evidence.
They're so concerned with countering it that they actually kind of,
I think, lose a bit of the emotional component
of their theism when they're arguing for it,
because they'll they won't they'll no longer admit that basically this is
something that's an emotion for me.
This is this is something I believe because I want to because it makes me feel good.
That they let that go in order to
instead defend it as a logical conclusion of a series of arguments,
which I don't think it is personally.
And don't take what I'm saying weird.
I know that someone watching this will,
if their theists are going to take that and run with that.
The reason why you had that dream, you know, all that strange stuff.
I'm just saying as a human being, if we were still primate monkeys,
previous ape type, OK, I bet you when their family member was eaten by another animal,
they aren't happy to see them die.
I know that for a fact.
You can look at other animals right now and see this.
So it's natural to say that we just apply those terms like,
I'll see you after you're dead, you know, like we project these ideas.
And it was just purely something I said in the dream.
I'll see you in the next life, bro.
It could be an indication that you have a desire to retain him
that simultaneously existing with a fear of losing him.
And that's a way of emotionally reconciling it by manifesting
an emotional state in your dream where you get to have both of those
simultaneously and alleviate the anxiety when you are doing it.
In a dream state and many other people do it well conscious,
you're aware of it when enough one conscious that you can rationalize
yourself out of it knowing that it doesn't make sense.
But in a dream state, you're not operating your prefrontal cortex
as readily as you are when you're in a conscious state.
So likely that was a reconciliation process that was done
while you're dealing with emotions in a rem state.
Wow, that's well put.
I agree with that.
I actually agree with that totally.
That makes a lot of sense.
And I just figure I'd comment that and let you know, like, like,
I'm just going to be real when I feel like, you know, that's something there.
But I totally think that I just didn't want to see him gone.
I didn't want to lose him.
And that's it. Who the hell does?
So that doesn't mean my subjective.
I'll see you in the next life.
I'm going to see. Right.
That doesn't mean that's actually true.
That's not even mean you see of it as something that's rational.
It just means that it's something that's emotionally comforting.
You know, this fits right in Apologias stuff.
I like him. I know.
Who is that guy to you? Hmm.
Apologia, we need to have you come back, brother.
You're here. You had a great time.
He he's an awesome guy.
He really is. And he's really, really sharp, especially with biblical stuff.
Oh, my God, yes. It's never ending.
Well, this this right here being me.
I bet it.
I bet you he he's always.
Well, listen, I've got something I want to throw away.
He has to listen to brain shit all the time, though.
It's tit for tat.
Oh, I can't imagine.
I mean, yeah, I can't imagine
this whole idea that I just brought up in my dream, for example,
we could play that into the New Testament.
Let's suppose we take apology as approach.
And what I love about Paul, I say, apology for the audience.
What I really enjoy about what he does is the he's trying to explain
without running to the mythic position, for example, that everything is just all
it's all mythical, it's pure fiction.
He's trying to explain a natural explanation
for why the development of the cult took place.
And there was probably some guy who had a very close
relationship with another guy who really loved him and couldn't imagine
with the trauma of him being killed.
Letting go, he couldn't let go.
And then on top of that, just look at your sacred scriptures.
They talk about stuff like this, too.
Hey, you know what?
Yeah, I think I experienced him after he died.
And here we are.
Once again, Derek might as well start his own cult, man.
I might as well just start my own cult and, you know, throw your money my way.
Right. I mean, right.
I mean, that seems like that could explain the development of Christianity.
Yeah. Well, Paul's position is essentially that Paul, like Solid
Tarsus on the road to Damascus, had a vision that occurred
because he was in his plausibly, plausibly occurred because he had been
out literally murdering Christians while he was listening to them talk
about their scripture and their beliefs and had a sort of like guilt
affiliated psychotic break that resulted in a vision and after that vision.
And he was the only literate one around went to go find Peter,
Peter, the disciple who Jesus loved and talked to Peter, who
doesn't I don't even think in the Bible say that he saw risen Jesus?
All that Paul really writes about Peter is that he adds nothing to his message.
It doesn't seem very positive.
Yeah, but that if Peter did see him, it would make some sense
that he would have some sort of bereavement.
Related hallucination of Jesus or was potentially affirming or excited
about Paul's seeing Jesus because that was affirmation of Jesus's message,
which is something that Peter would be excited about because he believed
it while he was alive.
And those two were all that's really necessary for the biblical legends.
And then after that, you know, it's crazy.
I love that Paul's not saying others didn't have visions, Apologia.
I'm going to say Apologia because we're talking about Paul.
OK, yeah, no, that's fine.
He's going to be confused.
But I love what you're saying here because this modern day Jesus in Australia
has these people who are in his cult or they follow his teachings.
I can guarantee you they might be the fourth fifth wave of people
that have come through because he sheds people.
He shuns people that don't quite stick around long enough doing as you do
when you're a cult leader. Yeah, exactly.
And these other people probably have in these feelings, these experiences,
these visions, if you will.
And so layer upon layer, people upon people, we can't really go back
and say, without a shadow of a doubt, we know.
But yeah, it makes perfect sense to say, started with one or two people.
And then each person who also want to believe in something,
they kind of you can psych yourself into believing things.
I know that. Yeah. I mean, there's ways of doing.
He's more so talking about the resurrection, Paul, when it comes to that,
because there was already people who were following the teachers of Jesus.
That's why the creed existed at that point in time, right?
So he had his set of disciples that were following him around.
He had groups of people who were buying into his message
or at least bought into the message that people were attributing to him,
depends on which way you look at it, I suppose.
So you coupled that with now, Paul, who is literate and was previously.
What's wrong? Oh, my gosh, I just lost my sense of language.
He was persecuting.
He was previously persecuting Christians specifically
and was incredibly literate and was a Jew.
It is now actively going around to synagogues
and giving them letters and attempting to get this message out
as though it is true.
And like it's it's going to start permeating.
It's going to then you move up to Constantine,
who is essentially like this is the religion now.
Like, right, two years later.
And by the boom, by the bing, here we are.
Yeah. All right.
Then slide three. Here we go.
Oh, OK, sorry. I derailed us.
Oh, no, no, no, no, I did actually.
That was me. You you played a part, though.
You played a part. No, no, that makes sense.
I'm rambling. I was teasing me, too.
You could tell slide three with respect to belief in poltergeist
or cryptophasms, which are just pure ghosts that don't manifest.
One can conceptualize this in the same terms as belief in God's.
So if Edelism, which is the belief in ghost, if you will,
entails a relatively high level of confidence in the probability
of ghost existence existing, non-Edelism is merely the inverse.
The belief there is a low probability of the existence of ghost of any kind
or high, if you'd like.
Perhaps this kind of recontextualization could help nontheists
explain why they don't believe in God based on the lack of evidence.
The burden of proof is on the believer of ghost
to demonstrate that there's sufficient evidence to warrant such a belief.
And I totally think you and me both would agree 100 percent on that.
Like, what are we to like, what are we supposed to prove?
Right. It depends on if I burden of proof,
tennis is my least favorite game, yeah, honestly.
And it happens so frequently surrounding these types of conversations.
But I think what theists are saying is if you're actively saying
that no God exists, you have to prove your claim, like you have a burden of proof
because you are actively claiming there is no such thing as God.
And that's tricky.
Well, it is because first, you would have to give me the definition of a God,
which I don't think anybody really has a good one.
I suppose I'm kind of an igtheist, which is a term that's not recognized widely.
But it's my position is that there is no such thing as a coherent definition of God.
Like when somebody says, God, I don't even know what that could mean logically.
So for me to disprove something that by definition can't exist logically seems ridiculous to me.
So I would point to the fact that until you can provide me a definition
of the thing that you like ostensibly wish me to disprove,
that's a viable definition, then I don't know, we're at a stalemate here.
But if you can give me a definition of what you believe a God is,
I can tell you why I actively don't believe in that, that definition.
I can point out all of the reasons that that is flawed for me,
because so many people have varying definitions of God as well.
Because just saying, I don't believe in God is it's almost like a statement
that doesn't have any content unless you first insert the definition of God.
And the definition of God's are so wide and varied even within Christianity.
Like there's classical, there's a classical theist God.
There's like that open theist God, like even within Christianity,
the definitions of God are wide, varied, and have different stipulations
affiliated with them based on theological approach that you wish to ascribe to.
And most of them work backwards.
You pick a theological approach and then you build a God around affirming
that theological approach.
But once you get to that point, once you get to the apex of that pyramid,
where you get to the definition of that God, that's where I have issues.
And until somebody can come up with a tenable definition of God for me to disprove,
like if somebody came up with a tenable definition of God or a viable one,
one that couldn't be disproven, it would be by definition true
and there would be nothing to disprove.
But the problem is there isn't one, it doesn't exist.
So there is nothing to even attempt to disprove.
And if you want to present me with the definition that you hold to,
I can show you why I don't believe in that.
Interesting. Sounds like you're closed-minded.
No, I'm just kidding.
Yeah, that's it.
That's the problem.
That's exactly what they're going to say.
But I don't think this through enough.
Right? Yeah.
The problem then becomes that none of them even know how to define the God
that they believe in and they get.
Because they realize, oh, shit, they just say something omni,
something omni, something omni.
What do you say with someone who wants to just say God is love?
And that's it.
They just want to say God is love.
I would say love doesn't have any personal attributes
that would desire a relationship with you.
And if God is love and it's the Christian God,
then you would have to explain a significant amount of evil
and also reevaluate or redefine what love means to me and everybody else as a result.
There's so many problems with that.
Exactly.
Okay. Well, I've got an interesting one.
We've touched on the most wild conversation already, guys.
I know that we're already in 40 minutes,
and this has just been, we're all over the place, right?
This is almost like the atheist experience,
except you're taking a nap on me.
It depends when you invite me on.
No, I love it.
I love it.
This is great.
I seriously enjoy this, and I know for a fact
that everyone watching this should.
I hope so.
Sorry, guys.
No, I just think you're brilliant.
I really do.
I think you're very, very sharp on this.
People are born.
Let me put it this way.
Okay.
I got it. I'm ready.
Right.
You're specialty psychology, right?
As far as I'm aware, the human brain is basically hardwired
to be susceptible to all kinds of cognitive biases,
errors in perception, and uncritical thinking.
So here or there seems to be a religion-shaped space
in our brains that needs to be filled with something,
which is why even non-religious people
still believe in astrology and various other superstitions.
Since the vast majority of people today
and throughout human history have always held
to some kind of religious beliefs,
doesn't that mean that non-religious people
are basically outliers?
And when so-called new atheists like Richard Dawkins
adopt the approach that religious beliefs are
a form of delusion,
does this really help open people's minds
to the idea that they might be wrong?
Oh, I did a whole last video on why religion
isn't a mental illness that you shouldn't call
religious people delusional by definition.
Whole video.
It's actually pinned to the top of my channel.
It pisses people off, and I don't actually care.
I think everybody should watch it
because religion is not a mental illness.
And when people take that approach,
it's infuriating to me because, A,
it turns mental illness into a pejorative,
which is dangerous, full-stop period.
And also, it shows that you have a vast ignorance
when it comes to the understanding
of how mental health operates
and how diagnostic criteria work
in mental health fields.
But anyway, so to the Richard Dawkins
part of the question, sorry, that's one of my pet peeves,
so I wanted to address that first.
But are atheists outliers?
Yes, potentially.
Has our society shifted in such a way
because you have to keep in mind that we're also,
we have social brains, right?
Our brains are wired for social function
because we operate in communities.
Now, because we operate in communities,
like the zeitgeist of that community,
how we operate, how we assimilate information,
how we acquire information,
and how we learn is something that is a pillar
within the community and teaches us how to learn.
So the more we don't have a requirement
for these sorts of existential appeals
in order to maintain a sense of happiness and satisfaction,
and the more we're able to acquire
different types of practical knowledge
that lead us even further down the road
to not consistently having those sorts of fears
that lead us towards existential appeals,
the more likely more of us are gonna probably start to peel off.
Now, that being said,
we're also pattern recognition machines.
There's something that most people are prone to,
almost everybody is prone to this,
to some degree or the other, and it's called apophenia.
Apophenia is this type of mental state
where you're ascribing meaning to things
that just are really meaningless by definitions.
Because we're pattern recognition machines, right?
That's one of the things that we do,
that's why we're such capable communicators,
is because we're incredibly good at pattern recognition
and recognizing patterns in one another,
recognizing patterns in the environment around us.
That's why we operate so well cognitively.
Apophenia is essentially like a glitch in that system.
Apophenia is ascribing meaning where meaning isn't there.
It's seeking patterns where a pattern isn't necessarily in place.
It's ascribing a complex emotional state
to a set of events and requiring that
to make some sort of sense psychologically,
and thus creating a system around that emotional feeling
and a requirement to understand
the eliciting of that emotional feeling,
and then utilizing that to give it the meaning.
So we do that a lot of the time.
If you're looking at a piece of art,
you're experiencing a form of apophenia.
If you're listening to music in some senses,
you're experiencing some form of apophenia.
You're having an emotional reaction that is ascribing you,
that you are ascribing some sort of deeper emotional meaning,
even though the stimulus itself in isolation is innocuous
and has no intention of trying to elicit that from you,
that's a state that you are generating.
And that goes perfect into the hand of a God or being
or spirit or a ghost or a hyperactive agency plays a role,
I suspect, into this.
They call it a hyperactive, assuming agency in things
that really don't have or may not even be there
because we already assume agency in everything else.
I mean, there's many of us with different brains.
We all have brains.
Wow, why are we intelligent?
How come we can know these things?
We can use our minds to know this stuff.
There must be a bigger brain out there.
There's a mind above the minds.
And like, how do you know this?
Well, we love anthropomorphizing things.
We love making things like us.
We really, really do.
I'm sorry.
That's so good.
Yahweh seems like a really bad version, though.
Like he gets seriously jealous, pissed off.
Always an accurate version contextually.
Yeah, and especially in the time.
So if you go back in those days, I mean,
Christian God is retcon in my mind.
Because Yahweh, I think, was an accurate reflection.
He's very much us aggregating what we're like as a species
into this anthropomorphic agent that represents all of us
and maybe potentially has an explanation
or that we can appeal to.
And then later on down the line, we get this Jesus figure
that primarily preaches like this sort of love.
So now we have to retcon him so that all of that shit was love.
That becomes seriously problematic.
I have a hard time, though.
Jesus preached more about hell than anyone.
And I mean, like he just preached a lot about hell.
Did he really?
Yeah.
Hell, he spoke about hell more than he did about heaven.
Interesting.
Yeah, I think, let me, this is worth googling, actually.
I think it is, because when he's speaking about hell,
like when it comes to the translations from the Quine Greek.
Hades, yeah.
And also, isn't there one instance, at least,
where he's talking about an actual town
where they were like burning?
You're talking about Gehenna.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And there's possibly a burn pit outside of Jerusalem.
I don't know how true that is, actually,
when hell is going to be cast into the Lake of Fire, Gehenna.
Dr. Price talks about this.
I have all these theological and New Testament critical scholars
that come on the show all the time.
But let me see, how many times does Jesus mention hell
in the New Testament?
According to www.gvsu.edu,
there are over 162 references in the New Testament alone,
which warns of hell.
And over 70 of these references were uttered
by the Lord Jesus Christ.
Dang, Google calls Jesus the Lord.
Wow.
The Lord Jesus Christ.
Yeah, interesting.
Yeah, so it's a lot of references.
And I think if we look up heaven,
there's not quite as many in the New Testament.
That's fascinating to me.
I've been spending a lot of time listening to,
just because I'm a weird nerd,
and I love listening to people talk
about different theological perspectives,
because I think it's fascinating.
I've been listening to annihilationists talk quite a bit lately.
And maybe that's where I'm kind of getting my perspective from,
because they seem to indicate that when you look at translations,
that Jesus wasn't really talking about a hell.
He was talking about, A, it's either separation from God.
That's the one that everybody always appeals to.
That is the separation of God from God.
Or in many instances, it's attributed to hell,
but it's actually physical places like Gehenna.
So yeah, it's worth looking into more.
But yeah, I've been listening to some annihilationists,
just because I think they're interesting.
I think that's interesting too.
Like they'll go, the annihilationists will run to places like,
what is it, Sodom and Gomorrah.
They use that reference where Sodom and Gomorrah
was burned with an eternal fire.
Now the question they always logically asked, they'll go,
now Sodom and Gomorrah burning today?
Well, no.
But it says in the Bible that it was burned with an eternal fire.
So is it burning for eternity?
That says eternal fire?
Well, no, because God is eternal.
And like this idea that his eternal fire burned it,
which means he consumed it up.
It is no more move on.
And that's the idea of annihilationism.
But I'm more me right now, because I'm like so critical
on like dissecting these books and realizing
that they weren't all teaching the same thing.
Kind of like Paul wasn't definitely not thinking
what Peter and James were thinking in Galatians.
No, no, I don't think they caught on it well at all.
Yeah, it makes me wonder what they did,
what they did have in common, what they didn't,
because if Paul's a Hellenistic Jew that's way out there
and you know, he's in Rome running around
and the others are in Jerusalem, I don't know.
I feel like those guys are your conservatives,
the Jerusalem sects probably conservative,
especially if they're saying keep cutting your,
wee-wee and Paul said, eh, eat what you want, you know.
And be celibate.
Yeah, so I don't really know, you know.
Yeah, he's like, I'm Christianity now, by the way.
Guess what?
I'm literate, so that's gonna stick.
He literally talks trash and Corinthians saying the super
apostle.
It's like you can tell this guy was like literally
having a bitch fit in Corinthians.
He literally doesn't.
In first Corinthians nine, he's like, look,
me and Barnabas don't get paid for our labor,
yet all the other disciples can marry and get this,
this, that, like he's like really complaining.
And then he quotes a Bible verse from the Old Testament,
he says, does God really care about oxen?
No, it's talking about us.
You don't muzzle your oxen while it threshes the,
because it's like the oxen, while it works for you
in the field, it eats, you know, as it works.
But people would muzzle it, so it wouldn't eat.
It's like starving it, dangling food right in front
of his face.
So he's like, does God really care about oxen?
Well, according to the Hebrew Bible, yes, the laws teach
that he's concerned with the animals of Israel
and the animals period.
In the New Testament, Paul's like, hell no,
you're talking about me, dude.
You know, it's literally Benny Hinn in the New Testament
right there, like, give me my money, give me my money.
That was, that was a fun little tangent there.
So I'm, I'm more on, I'm more of a hard atheist,
like what you said earlier.
Okay, I think that I'm not going to, like, just back off.
It's, well, I'm very, like, I, there's a good chance
there could be, I'm not going to sit wishy-washy atheist.
I could be convinced.
I'm not going to be Matt Dalhante when I say,
there is nothing I could think about.
Now, I do agree with Matt on this.
Matt did say, he's, and I think he's 100% right on this.
If there is a God, he knows what it'll take to convince me.
And I 100% agree with that.
But can we not play a one game here?
And this is what I'm going to do tomorrow
when I talk to him on the, on the call.
It's going to be hard to pin Matt.
He's very hard to just get him to-
Oh, he's a slippery little fucker, that guy.
So I'm asking you, Shannon, if there was something,
and you get, you look, this can change,
you might be wrong and say down the road,
you know what, I actually changed my mind.
Because this is not, you're not the Pope.
This is not infallible.
Okay. Like you literally have anything you can pick.
Is there something that you can think of,
just possibly that could convince you that there was a God?
And what would it be that might be potential
for something that says, you know what,
something beyond us just did this?
Can you think of something in hypothetical terms to say this is,
it would require something like this,
probably for me to maybe consider that and say,
Hey, there's probably something going on.
To believe in our God, like any God?
Something beyond us. The term God is strange.
Yeah. Let's say something-
Like my starting point would be a definition of God
that makes sense that isn't right with logical inconsistencies
would be a starting point to even know what that means
would be my starting point.
But like if you're talking about any sort of supernatural-
Yeah, something beyond us. Yeah.
Ultimately, what would convince me probably would be
some sort of personal experience that I couldn't explain otherwise
that overwhelmed me enough emotionally
that I couldn't find an ulterior explanation for
that somehow managed to convince me.
That's the true answer is that that's what would do it.
Do I think that that's something that's plausible?
No, I don't really think that that's something that's plausible.
I think that if it was going to happen,
it would have happened already.
That's probably what it would take.
Realistically, honestly, from a psychological perspective,
if I had some sort of visionary experience
that I couldn't otherwise explain
that I was able to attempt to ver it,
like other people were around maybe and saw it too
and we were all verifying it to get like,
maybe that would do it.
But the really answer also is like, I don't know.
Like I don't know what would-
Like that's all hypothetical.
I know.
Psychologically, that's probably the most-
Like that's the most probable answer.
It would be some sort of emotional experience.
I couldn't otherwise explain that overwhelmed me enough
that I guess my faculty started failing me or like-
That's a good point.
Probably do it.
So I'm going to play the hypothetical with you for a second here.
Okay.
And I just want to- I want to say,
tell me if you think this would be a good reason
to think something's going on, okay?
Okay.
Let me use a better example.
My grandfather's been dead for three years.
Grandpa Lambert.
I'm sorry.
He was buried- I mean, it's life.
He's older, you know, his health was declining.
We're all going to go, right?
And I appreciate your-
Yeah, no, I appreciate it.
I'm just saying like, imagine, let's just say,
out of nowhere, I go up to visit Grandma
and she's up in New York, Cooperstown, New York.
And he literally walks into the side door, right?
Walks in.
Okay.
And he's like, it's me, Paul.
It's your grandfather.
I'm here.
I'm alive.
And I want to show you where I was buried
so you guys know that I'm not lying.
And I want to tell you something about the world after this.
All right.
And I was able to go and prove.
Like, look, these are his fingerprints.
You know, obviously the problem is decomposition.
All these questions come to mind.
But nonetheless, I'm just saying like,
something that manifested itself,
because I have had extreme experiences, Shannon.
Like, I mean, not only with the drug addiction,
but like just being meditative,
biblically and worshiped with God and all that.
I felt all that stuff.
Super common.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's normal.
Like now I know it's natural faculties
that are causing these things.
Or the drugs that I ingested in some sense,
whether nasal or intravenously or swallow, whatever it was,
I've done plenty to know.
And I'm saying to myself, you know,
I know those are natural.
I know that.
And I can explain why experience those things.
That's not something beyond, right?
Most people who have those experiences
would never say that.
They never admit that,
because they don't know how that could be natural.
Whereas I've learned from people like you and others,
of course, countless others in reading books
and scholars and PhDs, etc.
What's going on is in my mind.
The experience is projected from my mind, all that.
It would require me something on that level, though,
like a dead family member or myself dying,
and then literally coming back somehow or something like intense
for me to really get it,
because I couldn't just see something.
You couldn't just, oh my God, I experienced it.
Like the mind, I know the mind is jacked up.
Now, unless like you said, your faculties are failed.
Your faculties would have to fail me.
That you don't even know that your mind can do that anymore?
It's like, oh, I'm screwed now.
You'd have to be operating on raw emotion
and not be able to process it too logically yet.
What do you think of that?
Do you think that's another possible, like,
and I mean, you know what we're doing right here?
We're bullshitting, because none of this...
We're positing something that couldn't conceivably happen.
I mean, hypothetically, in our minds,
we can imagine it happening.
The problem is, it doesn't happen.
So who's really got the burden of proof here?
You know what I mean?
I think Theists like to pose that question too,
because they want to make us seem close-minded.
Exactly.
They want to make it seem like,
oh, you're not even open to the idea that God might exist.
You just don't want to believe.
It's like, no, I just don't think it's possible.
I just like, I legitimately believe that it's not possible.
So it's not that I'm close-minded.
It's that I don't...
I actually don't think that it's possible.
And do you find that they also think,
I'm going to send this off?
I don't know why people invite me
fucking anywhere to be honest with you, but...
Do you ever get frustrated when they propose
that you can choose what you're convinced of?
That one drives me crazy,
because I really do not believe
that you can choose what convinces you of something.
I don't either.
How can you, especially when you have a bias?
I'm convinced now.
Okay.
I just decided.
There's a process.
Yeah, there's a process.
Something happens to you.
I didn't go from theist to atheist overnight.
I could tell you that.
I know that for a fact.
A lot of it's gradients, I think, for most people, for sure.
Yeah, I don't really care for that.
And that whole you choose, just choose now.
Like, no, that's also why I have to admit,
and you probably agree with me.
Why I am very empathetic to people who believe who do...
Like, I'm not a basher of go out and smash people in the head
who don't believe, but if you are someone
who potentially harms other people in a cult,
like you claim to be Jesus,
and you've done some pretty screwy things
with people's relationships,
and you're taking advantage in your teachings,
whether you believe them or not,
and I think they're harmful,
I'm going to call things like that out.
I just don't...
You know, but it's like a typical person,
a grandma who's raised in the Catholic Church
and has always believed in Jesus and Mother Mary
and all that kind of stuff.
Like, I understand why they believe like that,
but I do think that there's cognitive dissonance
and there's ignorance that's involved
as to why they still believe those things.
And the more we get into the path of what you're talking about
and all the other atheists out there
and the scholars in the field,
like, it seems like we don't want to let go of that.
We want to change the beliefs to fit the science,
to fit the evidence, to keep our beliefs though.
We got a key.
Yeah.
How many billions of years old?
That's fine.
Okay, that's cool.
Evelish is true?
That's cool.
Jesus.
Yeah.
What the...
Do you not understand what that means if we evolved?
I don't know if you...
Yeah, where does the original sin go then?
I was talking about this,
it was when I was talking...
hosting Taki even ages ago,
somebody called in and I like,
of course I believe in evolution.
I'm like, okay, who got the first souls?
Like, which two people did God select
and say, all right, you guys...
You two, you guys get the first two souls
and now evidently are created in my image.
But even though all the iterations prior were not,
and also I guess you guys can't cross breed
with anybody else because they don't have souls,
just the two of you guys do.
And then where does the original sin doctrine come from?
And without original sin,
what the hell is Jesus talking about?
Because Jesus thought out of the need for totes a thing.
So it all starts unraveling relatively quickly,
on your scrutiny, right?
Yes, you said in your neuroscience video
about what it means to be in the image of God.
You're like, what does that even mean?
Yeah.
Honestly though, what does that mean?
Does that simply mean we have attributes that are like,
I know how to have love and kindness,
not how to be angry, and I know how to be...
Like, is that what you mean?
Physical?
Like, does God look like a human?
Because God is non-corporeal,
so he wouldn't look like anything.
And also, why are we calling him he?
Does he have a dick?
Like, is God gendered?
Does he have smaller, large gametes?
How would you know?
He's not reproducing.
Like, and if that's the way that you define gender,
then, and that's how you're ascribing gender,
then that seems like a weird thing to do.
So what does it mean?
You don't know what God looks like.
What component of his image are we in?
Would we all be male then, in that case?
Because that doesn't make any sense,
because we have sexual dimorphism.
So is it how we act?
That can't be it, because we're by definition imperfect.
So it's not that.
It's not what our bodies look like.
It's not what we act like.
It's not what we think like,
because otherwise, all of us would,
by definition, believe in him as well,
because if we're made like him,
we should believe that he exists,
because the only thing that you have
awareness of wholly is yourself.
So what does it mean?
Can't mean we look like him.
Can't mean we act like him.
The fuck does it mean?
Good question.
And then you brought up a good point there,
when you said we're not perfect.
It's interesting, because some people say,
yeah, we were before we fell.
Actually, we wouldn't have fell if we were perfect,
because we were in that state in which we made a bet.
Yeah, so what the heck?
I mean, and you know what's so funny about this?
We're talking like this,
because we're actually speaking to Christians.
But when you get someone like Dr. Robert Price on,
and others, which I talked to him so much,
that I kind of just know what he thinks,
you find out Prometheus and Zeus,
and there's another scholar, Russell Gamirkin.
I love listening to them,
because what they tell you, they're like,
look, you know this tree, and the serpent,
and the fruit, and all that?
Not only is this Mesopotamian, of course,
it's borrowing from the Mesopotamian mythologies.
It's also borrowing from the Greek mythologies,
with Prometheus and Zeus.
And like there's this idea that Zeus creates man
to serve him and to bring him sacrifice,
meaning bring him meat, bring him food.
And because Yahweh is the same way,
the good smell of the roasted animal, you know,
that's being said.
And doesn't like old Judaism language,
and that's why God has so many different names?
Because doesn't Elohim essentially just mean children of El,
El being the broader God?
So when Yahweh's referring to himself as Elohim,
I've heard this before.
I'm not sure how much I can weigh into it,
but you talk to scholars more than I do.
Well, I suppose my friend Dr. Josh Bowens is a scholar.
Oh, he's the man.
Have you talked to Dr. Josh before?
Dude, I got a small phone number.
Do I have to call him right now and literally say, dude?
I talk to him and make it like daily.
Wow.
They're like my besties.
Yeah, I love Dr. Josh.
He's super smart, and he's super calm.
He's so respectful and nice, you know what I mean?
I can't see a bad bone in his body.
I'd hate to see him angry.
He doesn't have one.
I don't know if I've never have.
I've seen him on the precipice, but I've seen Megan angry.
Making his wife make it.
I've seen Megan angry.
She's the one.
Oh, my gosh, he's capable.
Oh, yeah, I would not cross her.
Not if you can help it.
I would not.
I think in the vein of what you were talking about,
though, I think you're talking about El and El Elion
Yahweh has a dad.
And then he also had a wife, Asherah.
So like he had a wife that he divorced, which was Asherah,
and they had kids.
But yeah, they're Elohim.
They had there was the El Elion,
Father Most High, if you will, the God High God,
and you have the son, which is Yahweh.
And Yahweh receives an inheritance called Israel.
So like if he's the father, why did he receive an inheritance?
It's like, who gave that to you?
You know what I'm saying?
So it's pretty interesting.
But that Prometheus story in the Greek version,
the Prometheus, the slithering Prometheus guy,
he ends up getting the meat from creation from man.
And what usually happens is Zeus would tell him
to fill up the jar with the good meat,
and you can have the guts.
You keep the bad stuff, I'll get the good stuff.
One day he tricked Zeus and he put a layer of guts on the top
and good meat for himself.
The whole jar was full of good meat with a layer of guts.
And then a layer of good meat on the top with full of guts.
And he handed it to Zeus.
Zeus eats and realizes he's been tricked.
And he's like, what?
So he curses Prometheus and mankind in the Greek story.
Where did this come from?
This is the question I like at MythVision,
is like once you know your Genesis story,
is it what you think it is?
And you keep hearing all these arguments about
what we just ran into, image of God, what does that mean?
All that comes from a Christian or Judeo-Christian
baggage.
But once you know it comes from other stories.
And it's also like two stories jammed together too.
I remember the first time I read the Bible,
like start to finish, what struck me,
and I had to read it three times,
was that God put people on earth.
And then on the next page, he made Adam.
And I was like, I went back and I was like,
but he just put people there.
And then I was like, okay, now we're back to the,
and now he made Adam.
But, and I flipped back and I was like,
but he put people there.
And then three pages later.
I literally had this like,
how am I the first person to notice this moment?
But I think a lot of us have,
when we're reading the Bible to ourselves
for the first time after being, you know,
being dictated from the pulpit,
what we should believe about the Bible.
The first time you actually start to pick it up,
you have this moment like,
how come no one noticed this and told me?
I have to tell everyone.
And then you realize, oh, everybody knew
and nobody's telling anybody on purpose.
All right, fair enough.
Well, some people, I think, you know,
I think that maybe some scholars
who go to seminary know about this,
but I must admit,
I think some of these pastors don't know
and they purposely stay,
they're teaching just like they teach us,
don't read those books,
stay away from those people, don't study.
It's the same cult like stuff,
like even in the seminaries and colleges,
like when I was going to college
and it was a Baptist college,
if I told them, hey, I'm reading Bertrand Russell,
really considering some of his arguments,
what?
Right.
See what I'm saying?
Like, you better stop that.
Look, come on over here.
Let's talk.
But yeah.
The reason that he'll give you the story of Abraham
and in Sunday school,
but they don't give you the story of Jephthah.
Like, because Abraham is the story of God's grace
and Jephthah is basically the same story only.
He kills his daughter, same basic principle.
They don't read you that one in Sunday school,
but they read you the story of Abraham in Sunday school.
I feel like they're purposefully keeping you away
from the nasty bits.
There's actually a, if I'm not mistaken,
in the story of Abraham,
there's a story where he actually does kill Isaac.
Really?
Yes.
I got to get it from Dr. Price
because he's the guy who reads all this French stuff.
In fact, did you know that in Job-
Like, not in Job.
Like, it's not.
It may not be.
I don't know if it is or isn't.
Like, is it in the Torah anywhere?
Because I know it's on the Old Testament.
I don't know if it's in the Hebrew Bible.
I mean, look, though, I wouldn't be shocked if it was
because you got weird stuff like Yahweh
and Scythe's David account in Israel.
Then in first Chronicles or Samuel,
I can't remember.
And then the other one's to Satan did.
So it's like, who did it?
So the Bible does weird stuff.
Job, this is something Dr. Price actually got in trouble
at his college by teaching one of the students
who were a Christian, I guess.
And he told them that, did you know that Yahweh
was fighting Leviathan, the dragon that sprees fire,
by the way?
He kills Leviathan and creates the universe from his carcass
or creates the world from his carcass.
Now, this is common amongst storm gods and other mythologies
where a storm god would fight a dragon or beast or whatever
and then take the dead body, the carcass,
and create the world or create the universe or whatever
from the carcass.
Now, that doesn't sound like Genesis necessarily,
unless you wanted to read into it a little
and there was darkness upon the face, the deep.
And then, I don't know, I mean,
but you might be reading into some stuff,
but he points out that God created things from the dragon.
From the, it's weird, isn't it?
That's so superstitious though,
but I'll have to get you the sources on this.
That's interesting.
Yeah, no, this price guy sounds cool.
You were making me want to talk to this price guy, really.
Look, people say the price is right, you know?
No, yeah, I love learning from him
because he comes up with these awesome, interesting ideas
and there's more.
Like, there's different ways to look at the New Testament.
Polygia has won and I like what he's doing
because he makes me think outside the box.
I'm not familiar with thinking that way.
I'm used to hearing people say,
oh, that's myth, that means that didn't happen
or this is historical, that happened.
But Dr. Price was like-
He grounds it in reality, yep.
Yeah, he grounds it in reality and tries to make sense.
Like, if you were playing in the Christian sandbox
and you gave them, you know,
give them all the benefit of the doubt,
how do we still get out of this and explain it naturally?
And he infuriates them.
Gary Habermas and Mike Lacona did a stream on him today.
Today?
Yeah.
I was going to ask Michael Lacona to come on
and have a talk with Polygia.
Don't tell him you don't pull.
No, that's how it's going to try and do.
I almost tricked you at the beginning of this
and I was going to go, welcome to the show, Shannon.
Darth Dawkins is here to join us.
Oh, I would have been fine.
I'm pretty easy.
I'm just kidding.
I'm going with the flow.
So it wouldn't bother me at all.
I would have been like, oh, why would you do that to him?
That's the mean thing to do to him.
Yeah, he got beat up pretty bad.
Because you weren't taking his BS.
You laughed when he wanted you angry.
That was a really good.
His entire argument is begging the question anyway
when it gets to the base of it.
So it doesn't really like it.
The rest of it is just a song and dance.
What last question?
I'm going to let you go after this
because we definitely, I really enjoyed this
and I'd love to be able to have you come back.
Let's do more, get more questions, maybe go live,
you know, get the audience and stuff.
Happy to.
What do you think about morality?
Okay.
No, I don't want to get lost.
That won't take any long.
That won't take any time at all.
And I didn't expect it to.
I mean, I know that you have,
I love your TikTok, by the way.
I watch your TikTok.
Well, you posted on your Facebook all the time
and I decided I was going to go check you out over there.
And I know that you probably get a lot of crap over there
because there's a lot of people with a lot of opinions.
I do.
Yeah, but you talk about morality,
stand up for equal rights.
You do really wonderful things.
As far as morality goes though,
it's not a question of, is this right or wrong?
That's not what I'm asking.
My question is, it is in the vein of that,
but objective or subjective.
And so T-Jump, for example, believes that there may be,
he thinks there's objective morality.
And he says it, he said it to me something like this.
He believes that like we have the Darwin for evolution,
there's probably going to be a brilliant person
who's going to come on
and be able to explain morality in evolutionary terms,
so to speak, to be able to pinpoint, if you will,
exactly what morality is.
And he thinks there is an objective morality.
I'm of the opinion that it's subjective.
That's just my opinion.
Where do you stand on this?
Have you really dealt with this and wrestled with this idea?
Oh my God, I actually love talking about morality.
T-Jump's position there is really interesting,
because it's all about anything becomes objective
once you define a goal, right?
So if you say our goal is flourishing or human flourishing
or our goal is avoiding harm or whatever,
then there's an objectively best way to achieve that goal.
The thing is with morality that again,
it's kind of like the soul and God.
There's this tacit understanding when people talk about it
that we all know we're talking about the same thing,
even though we aren't really necessarily talking
about the same thing.
So we all seem to have this perspective
that it has something generally to do
with how we interact with each other
and what the best way to do that is
and well-being probably, even though that's really loose,
and just operate under the assumption
that we all sort of have the same sort of degrees
that we measure it by.
So I don't think that morality itself has again
a really good solid definition.
However, any one individual person defines it,
like if you can get a strong enough definition for it,
it in and of itself wouldn't be objective
because you would just be sort of defining it into existence.
For me then, you would just be saying,
well, this is a thing that we should want
and we should do these things in order to achieve it,
but once even one person no longer wants it,
then the consensus that makes it objective
when it's human-generated falls apart for me.
There is no morality in the ether for us to attain
or to aspire to.
Any morality that we have is based on our human conceptualizations
of what we think it should be.
And because they're human conceptualizations,
they're, to me, by definition subjective
and especially because, like I just said,
even if the mass majority of us come to a consensus of,
all right, we think that's the best definition
if there's even one dissenter,
it's no longer objective anymore from my perspective.
So I feel as though it's subjective,
I feel as though it's loosely defined,
and I feel as though whatever,
and I very strongly feel as though the idea
that being a prescriptive mandate,
even that, like from an outside God,
even that doesn't make it objective
because then you're subject to the youth or pro-dilemma.
Where is it good because God mandates it
or does God mandate it because it's good
because if it's good because God mandates it,
then it's up to his subjective preferences.
And if he mandates it because it's good,
then good exists outside of him.
So yeah, so I guess I'd fall subjective.
I guess it's the long-winded answer.
That's work.
Yeah, I'm kind of at the subjective.
Of course, I think even if we define it,
I feel like it would bend with our evolutionary process.
What is the best for us in this situation?
But then again, here we go into another question,
and this is in the vein of morality, and I'm going.
I can't do this to you, okay?
You will go forever.
Like, I love talking to you.
This is really, really fun.
Cosmic skeptic, Matt De La Hunte.
You know where I'm going with this?
Oh, you're going to say something about veganism, probably.
Yes.
So where do you stand on this?
I'd love to talk to both the guys about it.
Veganism?
I mean, I'm not a vegan, but I can understand it.
I've had Alex on my channel to have a discussion about it.
Right.
I mean, look, he has his points.
I listened to him, and I'm like, you know,
and I loved the way they like made humans step down off their pedestal.
Like, we were the center of the universe.
Oh, for sure.
You know, all that, when you lower our standards and realize
where we are amongst the rest of life here on this planet,
and possibly into the universe itself,
you really have to kind of like take yourself down and say,
we have mass farm productions doing this to animals
and stuff.
Like at what point are we going to draw other lines and try to shift to new things?
The thing is, is this hits the heart of religion too, in my opinion,
because you have mandates and like prescriptions, if you will,
on like what animals to eat and like how you're supposed to do.
It's like, what would that do to God if in a thousand years from now,
we're all vegan because we're all trying to survive on a planet.
It's our wellbeing to eat peanuts or whatever other type of diet we have at that point.
And we've no longer killed animals to eat.
Can you imagine what that would do to religion?
And it's like, your book not only endorsed slavery, man,
but you were eating animals.
What the hell, you know?
Yeah.
It's a hard topic to broach.
Because I like steak.
I like chicken.
I'm not going to lie.
Like, I do.
I like the way that they taste.
I've always been raised that way.
I grew up on that.
That doesn't mean I don't understand what what they're trying to say.
I'm like, empathize for animals.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, and try to understand like,
are we supposed to be eating these animals?
Like, it works for our diet.
Don't get me wrong.
But it's like, is this really something we should be doing?
It goes into the morality thing.
Right.
So like, I understand their position and I respect their position.
And I have many, many friends who are vegans.
I am not a vegan.
I am an omnivore.
Some of the things that I have concerns about is like,
tryptophan, for example, is something that we break apart
in our stomach that we primarily get from meat.
We can get it to a certain degree from other protein sources.
But it generates a lot of the serotonin that are like,
like a lot of serotonin that our body incorporates into our neurochemistry
actually comes from our gut and likely from a lot of meat sources.
And it comes more readily from cooked meat sources.
And cooked meat sources actually are probably a really strong antagonist.
I might even be using the wrong word or agonist.
No, antagonist for like, kind of like the really strong
offshoot of human development in our frontal cortex.
So part of me is hesitant to say that like, as a species,
it's the best thing for us to no longer eat meat when
integrating cooked meat with such an integral part of our development.
And we can already point to how we're more readily able to produce many types,
many of the neurotransmitters that we do, utilizing meat sources.
So if there were more like en masse longitudinal studies about the overall effect on human cognition,
if we en masse converted to eating solely vegan diets,
then I would be less hesitant.
But I also see, like, I think there's nuance.
So many people approach it as though there is no nuance on both sides,
as though there is no nuance.
And I think that there absolutely is.
Like factory farming is something that's awful.
And I think you should go like locally sourced as best you could.
I'm lucky I live in farmland.
So I can do that easily.
I just literally drive down the street and I can go to a farm where I'm lucky I live in the middle of nowhere.
Yeah, so I guess I see that there's nuance,
but I also see significant communication issues on both sides of these groups.
Like if you bring up veganism, you can tend to be descended upon if you hold any sort of
dissenting position as though they're morally superior and you are absolutely derelict as a
human being or anybody who pretends to ostensibly be presenting themselves as somebody intellectual
if you can't see their perspective.
And there's people on the other side that perceive that primarily,
like people on the non-vegan side that perceive that primarily and have a visceral reaction to it.
And as a result, anytime anybody attempts to have a conversation with them about veganism
or the morals surrounding it or like the intellectual side of it is then suddenly in a
defensive position because they're so used to being attacked by that other group that I initially
referenced that they overextend that umbrella and they see all of them as dogmatic in that sense,
when in fact that's not the case.
But I mean, that's the case in a lot of different discourses though.
That's not unique to veganism versus non-veganism in the atheist community.
Everybody could do with some better dialectic strategies, but I don't know.
I guess that explains my initial position.
Like I understand both sides have some hesitations, do still eat meat.
As everybody does, I dislike being told by people that they're morally superior
to me, which is a thing that I see many of the vegans doing.
And if the vegans are doing it because they want to convince people, that's a poor strategy.
If you're doing it because they actually want to feel superior to people, then I mean,
maybe that's working for them.
I don't know.
That's the way I feel.
And maybe people on the other side should listen to vegans more and recognize that
not everybody who is a vegan is attempting to assert moral superiority over you.
And that they may have some good points that might lead to some better dietary strategies
for you or some better food choices that might be worth incorporating.
I think there's new ones.
I don't know if that's what you wanted, but that's what I got.
That's my honest opinion.
Oh, I think you froze.
It's just me now.
I'll dance around.
That's one of those tough ones, too.
It's not just black or white.
It's not that simple for everybody.
And I don't think one side should demand of the other anything.
I don't know.
That's also one of the things that vegans are not going to be okay with.
What are you telling me that?
You're telling me your diet's more important than life.
And that's how they try to phrase it.
Right.
Well, I think that there's so much more new ones than that.
I really do because I think that the way that a circle of life works,
a lot of animals eat other animals.
That's just the way that things work.
And as a result of us eating other animals, like I mentioned earlier on,
a lot of how we generate neurotransmitters in the body has to do with digestion of meat products
and digestion of cooked meat products specifically help kind of propel us
into cortical development in all likelihood and continues to maintain cortical development.
And I'm sure that you can get them from supplementary products.
But other forms of complex proteins, I suppose.
But do we really have enough longitudinal research of large groups of people who are vegans
over a significant enough amount of time that we could establish that it's not going to cause
any sort of significant cortical degradation?
That's something that I have concerns about.
But maybe not, like I don't know for certain.
But one of the things that kind of infuriates me about the conversation
is that there are people on the vegan side who seem to position themselves as morally superior
and really kind of enjoy fulfilling that role of moral and intellectual superiority.
That's not on measure all of them or even a large majority of them.
But those are the ones who infuriate people on the other side often enough that they close
off to anybody who's even looking to have just kind of like a reasonable dialectic about it
that may lead to them maybe making better dietary choices,
maybe like moving towards using less meat products and less dairy products.
And maybe they could get some good advice from one another.
Maybe they could have a better conversation.
But as with anything, there's nuance and people react viscerally and emotionally.
So people on the other side of the argument are more responding to how they feel about
how vegans are like the really loud morally superior vegans are interacting with them.
And I guess my argument against that from the vegan perspective would be is if you're
wanting to compel people wandering around just brow beating them with how superior you are to
them and how stupid they are for not being as smart and morally superior as you is not the best
way to convince people to adopt your position. I think you're right.
But on the other side too, maybe don't assume every vegan or vegetarian
that you come across is going to be like that just because you've had bad experiences prior.
Don't carry the baggage that's entailed with those experiences into every interaction you have
with somebody that you perceive as being like that. That's the definition of bias and you
shouldn't do that. Like you should judge people case by case on their individual merits,
not by what you think somebody like them is like in an interaction and be a bit more open-minded.
So everybody could be a bit better in the dialogue I think is probably my ultimate point.
Everybody walk away with that. That's exactly what you mean.
Elevate the discourse.
For real though, how can they help you? You have a patron?
Oh, I do. I don't really promote it that often but I do have one and I have a buy me a coffee thing
and the PayPal thing and a channel membership thing. I have a YouTube channel. It's called
Shannon Q. So important you guys. Definitely you need to go over there. If you're interested
in going and commenting and harassing, you can definitely do that. Shannon Q is the YouTube
and go for it. Join the club. I'm telling you, yeah, seriously, and you do a lot of lives when
you go so they can go super chat you and get your attention and get questions asked, answered, if
you will. Everybody go subscribe. Obviously, stop what you're doing right now. Go do that.
Make sure you don't do anything else till you subscribe and like and make sure you hit the bell
the whole night. So you're notified when she drops another video. Get on the Patreon. She's
not plugging it but I am because I'm telling you it's important. You never know in five years from
now where this might be something you can spend your time on instead of having to be away from your
child and go to work all day and you might have this as an opportunity to do this full time and
be able to help people like in different ways. You know what I mean? I'm not saying I don't know
what your profession is. I think she really, I think she's a new clear physicist. No, I'm just
kidding. I'm a Canadian spy. I'm infiltrating. Don't tell anyone. Everywhere. Right, right.
Don't tell anybody. But yeah, eventually you never know what this might become for you. It's
really important people learn this information. So make sure you guys go down in the description.
All the links to her stuff are downstairs and thank you for finally coming on. It's been,
what, six years? No, I'm just kidding. Yeah, seven actually. No, I think I asked you a while back
but you didn't know who I was and I don't blame you. Like people, you know, I'm sure all the time
you get people who write you like, hey, yeah. So it takes people to know people. Ladies and
gentlemen, they got to like vouch for you. Like Matt De La Hunte finally wrote me back. He's like,
Dr. Joshua Bowen vouch for you. You're good. I was like, all right, Josh. I was like,
you're my man, Josh. Josh Bowen had my back. So yeah. Paul vows for you for the record.
See, man, she went to him. She checked on me. Is he a serial killer? What is his deal? You know.
No, actually you would message me and you, Paul was on your channel and I was like,
that guy messaged me and now I feel like an asshole. It's okay. I already knew. Well,
I'm very careful when it comes to females just because you never know. You know what I mean?
A woman might think like, who's this guy coming at you? So I respect. Well, compared to the
messages that I get, believe me, like I don't know what you would have had to send for me to
perceive it as threatening. Oh my gosh. Yeah. Well, I just am careful. That's all. I understand.
I understand. Girls are crazy too. Don't let them fool you, right? I am. I'm just saying.
But oh, she's on TikTok too and that should be down in the description. I'll find the link.
I'll make sure to check it out and let us know if you have any ideas that you're interested
in hearing from Shannon because she's sharp. Shannon, you are really sharp. I'm not kidding you.
You're very, very smart and keep up the good work. I hope you keep doing this. So thank you so much
for joining me. Thank you for having me. Yep. And never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
