Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert. Today we're having a friendly
debate discussion on whether or not the Quran contains scientific facts. Sometimes they're
known as scientific miracles found within the Quran. And today I'm going to introduce you to our
guest. We have Masoud Ahmed. Welcome my friend. Thank you. And we have Hanny Salem. Welcome my
friend. Hello everyone. For those who don't know, Hanny has a YouTube channel, special little plug
here, critical faculty. He does a lot on science. He's an ex-Christian, ex-Muslim, and he's going
to be taking the position that the Quran, I'm most likely, I don't want to put words in your mouth
here, Hanny, but does not contain scientific facts. Am I wrong? You're very right, Derek. That's
going to be my position. Awesome. And then his opponent in this debate is Masoud. Masoud has
written three books on Amazon. The one I specifically pulled up was Ancient Astronomy,
Allah's Narrative. Just click my name there and it'll take you to the other books. Let me hit
back because it's not highlighting your name. I hit that last time and it didn't take me to the
other books. Here we go. Creation of Earth and Origins of Life, Allah's Narrative. And then Sharia
for Australians, Allah's Narrative, Boycotting the Hungry Jacks. So these are the three books.
I need to add it in the description. But if you're looking for him, Allah's Narrative, Masoud. You
can't miss it. It pops up on Amazon. So there is a little shout out to our guests. I appreciate
both of you gentlemen joining me today on MythVision. Thank you. Thank you for inviting. Thank you,
Derek. Absolutely. Let me let everybody know in the chat. Hit the like button. I dropped a poll.
So whether or not you think the Quran contains scientific facts or not, or you don't know,
you can vote right now in the chat. Let us know. We'll check it out at the end. And also,
if you have any questions, super chat them. We will get to them at Q&A. The way we're going to
do this debate, we decided on a 15 minute opening allowing Masoud to bring his arguments to show
the scientific facts in the Quran that he believes are there. Hany will have a 15 minute opening as
well. We're not going to do rebuttals. We're going to go straight into open dialogue. I will only
intercede if necessary because we're not getting anywhere or we're over talking each other. And
I hope that doesn't happen. I believe both gentlemen should be able to do that. And then we'll do Q&A
as long as super chats are in the building. We'll take those questions from the audience,
and then we'll go to five minute closing each. And yeah, are you ready to start gentlemen?
Yeah, I should do. Awesome. Awesome. All right, we're going to open up here with the slide. And
then if you would, well, Hany's already muted, so he's good to go. All right, Masoud, let me get
the timer out. I'm going to have 15 minutes so that we're fair on the clock. Bear with me.
And ready when you are. Say when. Okay, so this is a presentation of the concept of
what Quran advocates to be its own narrative and how God created the earth and its skies.
So I'll just give you our view of what the concept is, and we'll go from there. So next slide, please.
So here is a timeline of six periods. So what the Quran advocates is the first two periods
went into assembling the earth itself, which we call proto earth or embryonic earth or nascent
earth. So the first two periods was the ball of the earth was assembled. And that's shown in the
Quran verse where you see the blue highlight number one, it says nascent earth in the two periods out
of six frames. So that's the evidence pick from the Quran, which says in the first two periods,
the proto earth or the nascent earth was formed or assembled.
Point number two, it says the next four periods out of the six periods after the earth was assembled
were actually invested into plate tectonics casting fixtures and like mountains on earth.
And with that, all of the resources of the earth in the mantle and in the crest were measured.
So that's that's the kind of timescale that the Quran proposes.
First two periods were invested in putting up or setting up this ball of earth, the proto earth.
And the next four periods, the earth was modeled with plate tectonics and all the resources and
everything else got measured.
And when it comes to its skies, the Quran says on day three, which is once after the proto earth
got assembled, God commanded it to design the skies. So the reference three over there it says
in the Quran on period three, God looked at it and it was smoke.
The proto earth or the embryonic earth was surrounded or engulfed with smoke around it,
a blanket of smoke. And God said to it and to the earth to come together as a functional design.
Okay. And that's where the process of sky construction began on period three.
All right. The Quran does come to say or add a little bit of detail.
And it says the skies, which are seven, got constructed in two different frames.
So that's what you find on the reference four highlighted.
He fashioned them into seven skies in two periods out of six frames.
Okay. So this is, this gives you a general guidance into understanding the timelines
and the frames of creation. Can we go to the next slide, please?
So on day three, particularly on period three, I'll stop using day and I'll just more so use
a period to render a better understanding. So on period three, what God says is in the Quran,
the sky, which was smoke like at that time that shrouded planet earth, the embryonic,
the nascent planet earth and the earth itself, God says was one entity, one single entity,
because this smoke came out of all of the material coming together and the temperatures and the
pressures were high and there was fire and everything and it was chaotic ambience. And
that that's what this course, that's what made the smoke engulf the planet earth.
And God says this was one entity. This was one unit. And God says we separated all of the resulting
skies, which God says are 70 number from this unit. All right. And since then, God says he
caused plate tectonics to have fixtures in the mountains on earth. And he designed it into
valleys and, you know, so that, you know, inhabitants on earth can be guided through those valleys.
And then in point three, God says, after all of that design that went on in modeling the earth in
four periods, which I, which is the second phase of earth building. Finally, God says, I designed
the final sky layer as a fortified roof. Okay. So we know that's why that's how I know that the two
days that were invested in sky building were actually apart. So it, the first set of skies
came out on period three and the second set of skies came out on period six. So now I think
it makes sense for viewers to understand the diagram that I'm presenting here.
Another important point, another detail that the Quran adds to this whole thing is
on, that's the reference for, if you go to reference for there, God says, no, no, no,
just go back to the previous slide. Reference four is right there. Verse two, 29, God says he
created well developed ecosystems and earth for you. Then he attended to the design of the sky
and perfected them as seven functional layers. So even those, even the first set of skies which
were created on period three were eventually perfected on period six. So the second set of
skies that were created on period six also were perfected in period six. So the initial set of
skies that were created, the point in the Quran highlights is they were perfected on, on period
six. So, go to the next slide please. All right, a little bit into details of what actually happened
on period three. That's, that's, has its own impetus in the Quran. It's a defining feature in the
Quran, how it relates this information. So what actually happened was on day three,
once the earth, proto-earth, was ready, it was, it had assembled all the mass, it could, and the
temperatures and the pressures were right. God commanded it and to the smoky sky.
God says this were, this was one entity and I separate, this was a separation event where God
brought out some skies out of the earth, wherein he issued a command to the earth and to this smoky
and to this smoky sky to evolve. He said to it and to the evolving earth amalgamate willingly or
by compulsion and both entities converged in obedience. All right, so this is the, this is a
fascinating feature, fascinating aspect of how the Quran comes to show this information that God
commanded both the bodies, the embryonic earth and the smoky sky that, the blanket that was
shrouding the earth, these two entities responded to God that they would be a functional design,
they would be forming into a functional design and what that means is the smoky sky
arranged or got structured into being the homosphere and the earth
responded with its heart kicking in, the iron core, the dynamo kicked in, casting out magnetic fields.
So the birth of magnetosphere just took place here and it shrouded the blanket
and the blanket of smog structured itself into being the homosphere, okay, so that's, that's a bit,
so next slide please. All right, now we'll, we'll look into the first sky which is the birth of
homosphere. So homosphere has a descriptor in the Quran, it's, the Quran uses the word,
the descriptor called Jov which is normally translated as air or atmosphere, okay.
The reason why I call it homosphere is for all of these different aspects of the Quran brings
forward which I've shown here in the slide as one, two, three, four, five. So what the Quran says is
the homosphere is a sky layer, it's a functional sky layer that allows the birds to fly and the
clouds to hang in there and it's, it's, what it means really is the aeronautics, it facilitates
aeronautics, all right, because the ambience, the gel, the atmosphere is homogeneous, all right.
And then
there's, there's additional information is given here, God says,
he extracted from the homosphere brightness as day and darkened its night. So we know that the,
the earth, the glow on the earth that facilitates our vision is because of the fact that the
homosphere extracts blue light out of the sunlight, okay. And it shows blue, it's, it's lit bright,
it's, it's lit bright and it's shown blue and hence enables the vision. And at night, obviously
when the light is gone, it's darkened, all right. So that's another information that shows you that
the Quran is actually talking about homosphere, okay.
And another key fact is just before, before I proceed any further, God says, is when the
separation event happened on period three, God straight away, it rained globally and life got
organized. As we see in reference one, he says, and we separated them and we have made
every living thing our water will then not believe, okay. So
advancing further. So that's, that's the description of homosphere to summarize
the first sky. So we'll go to the next slide. And the next sky layer, which is functional
sky layer is the hetero sphere. What hetero sphere is in a sense is rarified particles
of which are ionized, okay. And they don't permit aeronautics in the sense that birds will not be
able to fly there because the particles are so further apart. They are not like a homogeneous
medium where there's winds flowing and stuff like that facilitating
aeronautics. So that's the point where we call it in science karma and line. And after that,
after that altitude, what usually happens is aeronautics becomes
a rocket tree. So essentially you need a rocket power to travel from that point on.
So the sky layer above homosphere is called as hetero sphere where it's also called as geocorona
in other terms where the particles are, it contains cold plasma. They are rarified.
They are not like gas that you find within homosphere. So that's hetero sphere layer. At the
heart of the hetero sphere layer is the plasma sphere. Plasma sphere contains cold plasma.
So that forms the heart of the hetero sphere itself. So I classify them as homospheric sky
and the hetero sphere sky. That's how the Quran comes to categorize both of these layers. And
the important point to note here is when the Quran talks about the second sky, hetero sphere,
it gives it a little context. It says by this filtering ocean. So on period three, when
the earth was baking hot and boiling and as the rain condensed on day three, because of the
formation of homosphere, immediately it rained globally. And when it rained, because of the
heat and radiation pressure on the surface earth, a plasma field just developed.
And earth was beginning to engulf with a layer, a blanket of plasma, you know what I mean? So
that's the beginning of the earth being engulfed with the blanket of plasma. And that's how the
Quran comes to detail the context and helps you understand what that sky layer actually is.
So we'll go to the next slide.
There's 30 seconds left, Masud.
To completion of 15 minutes?
15 minutes, yeah.
Wow, wow, wow. So do you want me to stop at 15 minutes?
Hany, what do you want to do? Do you want to push it to 20 or do we?
Do you know what? I think there's a lot of material here that we can cover and then we
can come back because otherwise it will end up being too much, you know, like a gish-gallup
type of approach. And I think there's enough information to sink our teeth in.
Let me give him 60 more seconds then and go ahead, Masud.
So okay, I mean, I would have wished to complete this seven skies at least. So anyway,
I'm being slow, I think, I suppose. I should be a little bit faster.
So the third sky, magnetosphere, as I just explained in the separation event,
that the separation event resulted in the Earth responding with its heart,
iron core, casting out magnetic field, and this magnetic field shrouding and protecting the
homosphere and the other layers of the sky, of other skies that emanate from the Earth.
So that's the third sky. We'll go to, we'll go to the next slide of the birth of ozone.
So the birth of ozone is a sky layer that came about in the second set of skies, which were
organized on day, on period six. So what happened until then was God was organizing and modeling
the Earth's surface and setting it up, creating life, creating ecosystems, and a lot of these
microorganisms participated in giving out oxygen. And after there was sufficient oxygen,
it got formed or forms the sky on period three and gives it a context. The context God explains.
Masud, we hit time. I gave you more than a minute just to be fair.
Not a problem. We did 15 minutes. I think we should probably have changed up the time on how
we wanted to do this or been better prepared for the time that we had. Hanny, you got 15 minutes.
Let me bring this down. I have a very strong feeling that 16 slides will not be covered in
15 minutes. It's from experience, what I've been an impossible task. So do you want,
do you need to present anything? Or are you just? Oh, no, no, just so it's,
it's, I've got a very clear case in my head. I'm not going to bother the audience with graphs and
I'm just going to. Awesome. Awesome. So Masud, me and you, we're going to mute just to make sure
that we don't interrupt or anything. You have those children running around. You know how it is.
Super chats, we'll get to the end during Q&A. Ask your questions, vote in the poll.
Now we're going to allow Hanny to go ahead and start starting my time now.
Cool. First of all, I want to start a conversation with scientific miracles in the Quran.
For something to be miraculous, it's the suspension of the physical laws. So I've never
understood the term a scientific miracle, because a miracle by definition is a suspension of,
of the physical laws and therefore can never be scientific. Science will only probe and
understand and explain physical phenomena. And therefore, for something to happen in the physical
realms, it can never be miraculous because it's, it obeys the physical laws. So I never understood
the term, but whether their indication, early indication, indications of scientific facts yet
to come and understood by humanity and therefore put by God before humans would get to know them.
Then I'll accept the premise. And if there are some signals of early science, of early
science, scientific facts within the Quran, then the, from the word go, the fact that the, the, the
God spent a couple of days creating earth before the universe itself is, is in contrast to what
we know about physics. The earth is 4.5 billion years old. The universe is 3.77, 3.78 billion
years old. The universe is far more a lot older than the earth itself. So for God to create the
earth itself, according to Quran, and then start working on other elements of, of this existence,
it's completely in contrast to what we know in science. So from the word go, the whole
predication of the whole story is going to fall apart because of earth is created before
and everything else. Then we have a young universe and very ancient earth makes absolutely
no sense whatsoever. Now I'll move to, so the earth, we know for sure it cannot be created
before the universe itself. And then I'll move to the concept of skies. There is no such thing as
skies. There are five layers of the atmosphere of the space, what we call space. There is no such
thing as skies. Sky is a very old concept barred from old cultures. This is another thing I want to
refer to. You'll find that most of the knowledge provided in the Quran, it has been knowledge,
been circumventing in the ancient world, a world that is made of a dome with skies and windows where
grain can fall from, obviously a flat earth to follow. And it's a certain concept that is barred
from the ancient knowledge of the world and the universe. And therefore, it's not applied
whatsoever in this kind of model that we know about earth. There is no seven skies, five layers.
The mention of birds cannot fly outside of our atmosphere and rightly so because there's no air.
Biggest question of why do angels have bloody wings? If they live somewhere outside of the
atmosphere and there is no air for wings to hover, then why do angels have wings?
Things like that, so that definitely we know that this information is in contrast with science.
The play tectonics, obviously the details of which Masoud has sort of mentioned, but there's
absolutely zero mention of them in the Quran. He's reading too much into the text. The text is not
saying any of these things whatsoever. The smoke, there wasn't a smoke. This is conflated with what
we call in physics and cosmology the dark epoch or the dark ages of the universe where plasma,
not smoke, and they're two different things, smoke occur from burning and it's a composition that we
know in the chemical realm and it's not to be confused with plasma, which is opaque, the opaque
world where light cannot travel and therefore we cannot see. And that's very much emphasized by
the CMB model. None of that is scientific. In fact, they're completely in contrast with the
scientific evidence that the earth was created before the universe. There are such things as
skies and there are seven of them. That is not true and they should not be conflated with the
different layers and it depends on how far they are from the planet earth and what's the atmosphere
and why we call it the stratosphere, why we call it the different five realms. I'm just going to
give you an idea. Hold on a second here. So you've got the troposphere, that's the lowest part of
the layer of the atmosphere, up to 16 kilometers. You've got the stratosphere up to 50 kilometers.
You've got the mesosphere up to 85 kilometers. You've got the thermosphere up to 600 kilometers
and then you've got the exosphere, which is the furthest and it's basically the vacuum of space.
None of that is, we're talking about five, not seven and they're absolutely not in compliance
with what the Quran is trying to say. The Quran is pretty much spouting information that's been
floating in the ancient world, the seven skies. The magical number of seven and seven has a magical
property because it's the addition of three and four, a triangle and square and in Greek mythology
triangles and squares have magical powers and everything could be understood in geometry,
you know, Plato's sort of and other philosophers, ancient philosophers talked about that. Therefore,
the addition of three and four brings the magical number. You'll see the seven, the 12,
number three, these are numbers that are mentioned in the Bible, the Gospel,
the Quran and these were known to be magical numbers for quite some time.
What else? So smoke is now plasma, there are no seven skies. Earth was not created before the
universe and the plate tectonics, again, that is a very interesting conversation we're having here
because even the evolution of Earth, we're talking about Pangaea, we're talking about a supercontinent
to start with. As a matter of fact, Earth, when it first started with, was a burning bull that
never allowed life to evolve because it was so hot and it was covered mostly by water,
the earth crust started to appear eventually and we ended up with a supercontinent,
where all the continents were fused altogether and the plate tectonics is not a thing really,
it's the phenomena that explains how the earth crust moves about creating the continental drifts
and all the different landscape of planet earth and it continues to do so, probably a few hundred
million years, there will be another change, there'll be another map that we're probably
trying to circulate in schools because things will be different then.
So none of that is explained in the Quran and trying to read out of the creation story,
which is very similar to other ancient creation stories and trying to conflate it with science
is an outstretch. Science is very, very precise when a scientific theory comes out,
it explains a physical phenomena and it's trying to be precise to the tea, it explains everything,
it makes prediction and you can apply technology to it as well, it doesn't just sit there, it actually
gives you mostly things to use and use in your life. However, the holy scripture claims of science,
they're often vague, by the way, none of the five Tafsir, big Tafsir like Al-Khurtobi or
Mikathir or the big ones have interpreted these Quranic verses in any shape or form that way.
Obviously, these are modern interpretation, trying to
apply some scientific new concepts to like the Big Bang model, for example, trying to reverse
engineer it to suit certain narratives in the Holy Bible or the Quran for that matter,
but it falls in its head because it's not accurate, it doesn't represent the scientific
evidence whatsoever and it only takes one mistake because my expectations, if something has been
uttered by the creator of the universe, there shouldn't be a single little mistake. As a matter
of fact, I did not need to go for that long. The very first mistake destroys the whole thing, but
for the audience to understand the knowledge between, to understand how cosmology works
and what it is, the actual cosmological evidence and how the earth evolved, how the universe of
evolved, it was very important for me to narrate that, but for God to make the mistake that the
earth was the very first creation and obviously it had to be because Masoud is shaking his head
and he's going to have a chance to speak, but forgive me, but the very first thing that was
uttered in the first, you call them a box or period was the creation of earth. What can I do here?
That's what was first said, unless they are not following a certain sequence and they are like
one of those movies where the movie started at the end and ends at the beginning.
Maybe it's a parody that way, it would be a lovely movie, I'd love to watch, but if God is trying to
be consequential in terms of the order of events, therefore I have no other way but inferring that
the earth was created first and it makes complete sense because if humanity was the object of God's
affection, the whole thing is made with humanity in mind and therefore earth had to be created first.
Remember, we lived aeons thinking that earth was the center of the universe because we thought
we were very, very special. It's only when we understand the evolution of the universe and
cosmology we understood to be very insignificant. In my next conversation, and I'm going to stop
at that point because there isn't much of a point to keep going, I've debunked what I needed to do
using modern science, there are claims that this is matching the scientific evidence that I would
like to see citation from a credible cosmologist, the likes of Sean Carroll or Lawrence Krauss or
Soskind to say that the Quran has actually provided us with scientific information. As a
matter of fact, in Masood being of Indian origin, we know that cosmologists, including Carl Sagan,
said of all the holy scripture, the one that comes closest to the actual
evolution of the universe is the Hindu holy scripture. That's the closest cosmologists
agree with that. Neil deGrasse Tyson agree to that as well. The Quran is nowhere near
where the scientific evidence that leads to the creation or the emergence of the universe
and therefore I completely disagree with the premises. Thank you.
Hey, hey, hey, thank you, Hanny. Appreciate that. Two minutes left on the clock.
Awesome. I'm going to set up, make this a 60 minute back and forth dialogue, gentlemen. I hope you
guys can allow each other to speak and there's not over the top. I mean, you guys are going to
disagree. I expect that. I'm just saying, I hope the dialogue can continue. We'll give a 60 minute
opening, super chat your questions. We'll get them during Q and A right after the opening
and then we'll do a five minute closing. All right. I'm going to leave the room. Nobody fight.
Okay. Go ahead, gentlemen. So what I'll do is, Derek, I would like to just complete the presentation
before I tackle anything of what Hanny has said so far. So if it's all right.
You want to play it? Yeah. So this is open discussion. I wish you would have done that
during our opening because at this point, I want you to guys actually go back and forth.
Do you see what I'm saying? Don't you think, Masoud, that the people are burning now to
wait and hear your response to what I said? Well, absolutely. I'm going to, absolutely.
We should seize the moment and we can come back. I'm unshaken. I'm unshaken. I have answers to all
of your suggestions. So some of them are just assumptions that have got no place in the Qur'an.
Look, the premise that you're coming up with, Qur'an says Earth was the first thing to be
created. That's not what the Qur'an is saying. And I didn't say that either. So you are having some
sort of presumed ideas and you're trying to force them on the Qur'an. Well, that's not true.
I will get back to every point that I've written down here. Can you please bring up the Qur'anic
verse and can we read it together? Because you're saying I'm assuming. The one that has the stages
of the creation. Yeah, that's what it's shown on the presentation right there. Yeah, well, let's
show it again. Let's go back to the slides again. Which number?
So let's go back to one. Right at the beginning. Yeah, right here. I mean, let me just answer some
of your some of your points that you raised. I never said Earth was the first thing God made
and God did not say that in the Qur'an. Okay. And before that, these are not miracles. God never
said that this is miracle. And I never said that. Okay, you're assuming things which I never said,
which God never says. Okay, God in fact says in the Qur'an, don't you see, don't you reflect
that this is how it got made? All right. I mean, the two people assume that if it's God who's
making this, it should just happen in a fraction of a second. No, my dear friend, that doesn't
that's not how things happen. Even miracle baby Jesus got created over a period of nine months
in the tummy of his mom. You know, God just didn't create him boom like that. That's not my argument
though. That's not my argument. It's not a miracle. God never said it's a miracle.
God never said it's a miracle. I never said it's a miracle. God says this is how I created things.
All right. That's what God says. This is how it created things. All right. The next point that
you raised was why do why do angels have wings? No, sorry. No, no, no. That's not my question.
You still have an answer. What my question is unclaiming that I'm going to take this down by
the way, because I don't see it relevant when you guys are going back and forth. Yeah. No,
actually, it was Derek because it shows in the Qur'anic verse that the earth was created first.
That's my point. But hold on a second. You've got different periods. Don't these periods reflect
the stages that the universe of the creation of the creation of earth and its skies, my dear
friend? These periods refer to the creation of earth itself and its skies. Nothing else.
It doesn't talk about the creation of sun or the galaxy or anything else. It just talks about the
creation of earth and its skies. So you're saying the universe was created prior? Is there any mention
of the creation of the universe? Absolutely, because the earth got created within the universe.
That's a different thing to talk about at a later point in time. But what I'm focusing right now is
the Qur'an says it created the earth and its skies in the following fashion. All right. So on the first
two periods, it just put together the material and made it into a big lump, a proto-earth.
That's what the Qur'an says. First two periods were invested in putting up this proto-earth and
the next four periods were invested in modeling the earth by plate tectonics resulting in fixtures
and mountains on earth. That's the Qur'anic narrative. So if you don't have any assumptions
or presumptions into this, then you will see what the Qur'an is trying to communicate.
So in Qur'an 2130, the earth and the skies were one and they were split apart.
That's right. So those skies are homosphere, hetero-sphere, magnetosphere, ozone,
ionosphere, radiation belts. But that's not how earth was created. We know
that all matters, we're talking about planets. Do you know how planets form in the universe?
We'll talk about it. I'm here to do that.
Since you're very interested in science, do you know how planets come about in the universe?
Look, even when you see a volcano erupt these days, what do you see? The first thing is smoke.
All right. No, you got to pay attention here a little bit. Even in a volcano when it comes out.
Why are we going to smoke though? Because you refuted smoke and said it was unscientific.
Can we just finish one point at a time? Because I'll argue one thing, you've gone to smoke.
I'm asking you, how do planets form in the universe?
The material comes together, right? Colliding into each other.
It becomes a big giant ball, right? That's the beginning of a planet, right?
The material comes together, forms a big giant ball, right? And then when there are sufficient
temperatures and pressures, the core kicks in, casting out magnetic field.
Where do heavy elements come from? Where is the zinc and copper and iron come from? Because
these elements cannot be created. They are heavy materials. When the earth is put together,
there's material out there, right? There's rocks, there's clay, there's water, everything out in
space hanging around, and it's brought together and made into a gigantic ball.
So that is not how planets are formed. Planets are formed through the supernovae. These are the
explosions of gigantic stars. Our sun is not one of them and is not going to create any planets in.
Honey, please, I'm not outruling that there were stars before the creation of planet earth.
I'm not negating that, all right? All of those supernovae things, the explosions and the
creation of iron on all the other heavier nuclei, all of that was there, hanging in the space.
And God brought these material together to put up planet earth. And that's when God is starting
to explain how he created earth. So let us not assume things did not exist prior to this event.
Let's not assume that. I'm not assuming anything. I'll ask you about the knowledge of how things do
are created. And that's what I'm saying. I'm starting with the premise that there is material out
there, right? And God brings this material together. That's what I'm starting, right?
I'm not negating that supernovae did not occur prior to the formation of the earth.
But that's not what the Quran is saying. The Quran is saying it's not saying that whatsoever.
The Quran says- You don't have to go to that point. I mean, the Quran is trying to make a point.
We are better off to understand that and then refute it, all right?
I don't understand what you're saying. I mean, when the Quran says-
I'm just going to read the Quranic verse to you, 2130.
Do the disbelievers not realize that the heavens and the earth were once one mass,
then we split them apart and we created from what? Okay.
Now look, that is incorrect. We know that that's never happened.
No, no, no, no, no, no. The skies that are the translation that you're reading translated as heavens
often gives this idea of the whole universe, right?
That's what is happening in your mind right now, right?
But that's not what it is. What God talks about in that verse is the earth and its own skies,
like homosphere. It's not the universe. He's talking about homosphere, heterosphere, ozone,
radiation belts, ionosphere, magnetosphere, and gravity of the earth.
That's how much he's talking about. And these are the seven skies, by the way, okay?
God is giving limited information. He's only talking about the earth and its respective skies.
He's not talking about the heavens as some translators have done the job, insinuating
the whole of the universe to have come about. That translation is incorrect.
I mean, even today, people refer to the earthly sky as a heaven.
Sometimes that's how language gets, becomes used, all right?
What I'm doing here is specifically pointing out what each of these sky layers are.
And I've got to be a little patient to understand.
There is a problem of understanding as well how atmospheres are working.
You don't create atmosphere. The atmosphere of anything is created by the mass around it.
So you don't need to do anything. As soon as a planet arrives, whether it's made of gas like
Jupiter, Jupiter's 90% gas, or rocky like the earth, as soon as that object comes together
by the power of gravity, it creates simultaneously its own atmosphere.
Based on its temperature, the earth atmosphere was completely different.
4 billion years ago. It has changed.
It doesn't negate what the Quran says. The Quran says, in the first two periods,
the proto-worth was assembled. And at that time, it had a blanket of smoke around it.
And God ordered this blanket of smoke and the earth itself to come together as a functional
design. And that's when the earth kicked in with its heart, operating the dynamo,
throwing out magnetic field, and it shrouded the earth, encasing this homosphere.
And the smoke turned out to be a clear sky, homosphere as we see it today, right?
I mean, it's clear. I mean, what do you want to negate here? I'm asking.
Nothing. It just does not.
Yeah. That's exactly what it is.
The Quran, look, the Quran, it gives you a cold shower.
The Quran is a text that gives you a cold shower. If you look into it, you'll get it.
For somebody who spoke to multiple scientists and cosmologists, none of them have seen,
I mean, these are the experts in their areas, have seen what has been uttered in the Quran
as anywhere near the explanation of how the universe or earth evolved.
Because they have been seeing and reading like you did over the heavens. So obviously,
they will start conjuring up these ideas of the universe and the earth splitting apart and stuff
like that. So that's not accurate way of thinking what the Quran is actually giving you information
into. I mean, the Quran tells specifically it's talking about earth and its own skies,
its respective skies. It never talks about the universe in this context.
So we don't have to suppose it to be something else.
And that's where the problem arise. And that's where the scientists go like, okay,
we don't understand this. And by the way, I'll just touch a point here. If what you said about
Carl Sagan said the Indian scriptures have more accurate scientific information,
100%. That's a possibility because God has communicated to nations before he communicated to
Abraham. Before Abraham, there were several nations which the Bible does not mention about
because these things are not in the Bible in Genesis. Genesis is cut short. All right.
God has spoken to numerous other people before Abraham, different nations and given them scriptures.
All right. If the Hindu scriptures contain these things,
that's the evidence that God communicated to them. All right. So coming back to the point.
Are you saying that the polytheist religion of Hinduism might have been part of the Quran?
They become polytheist later on. Like it happened to Israel. You know, Moses,
Moses got the children out of Pharaoh. And what they did, the first thing they did,
met a golden calf because they were used to it. And even later, they went to Moabites into their
towns and started worshiping Baal and stuff like that. I mean, it happens. You can't control people,
you see. There's only so much you can teach them. No, I know. But the one way, you can't do nothing.
The history of religion speaks to differ. It's the other way around. The whole world
started polytheistic because it was a lot. Absolutely. And then the monotheism is one of
the evolution of faith. So it's the other way around. Okay, I may finish. My studies of Hinduism
shows very clearly, and this is what we're talking about, 5,000 years old scripture,
that we have evidence of ancient scripture showing that Hinduism started as a polytheistic religion
from the word go. You're true. Hinduism started as a polytheistic religion. That's true. All right.
But wait a second. Let me complete. Let me complete, Henny. Sure. The Waders, the scriptures,
the holy scriptures of the Hindus predate the culture, right? And the Waders condemn
polytheism. Even Bhagavad Gita, if you read Bhagavad Gita, it says, those who worship idols
are in darkness, it says. All right. The Waders are proponents of monotheism. All right. See, later
on, even if you go to India today, man, I'm telling you, Christians worship the idol of Mary,
the mother of God. Muslims visit some tombs of previous scholars. They call them Wali,
you know, the friend of God. So they visit the tombs and make prayers there.
Religion gets reduced after a while. Okay. Happens to Christianity, happened to Jews
back even before Christ. Jews were, some of the Jews were worshiping idols,
all right, and giving them sacrifices, all right. So the prophets come and condemn them, right?
I mean, look, these things happen. Religions get reduced over a period of time. Today in Islam,
it's horrible. I mean, people don't even recognize Quran and give it due credits.
Muslims, I'm not talking about non-Muslims. Muslims don't give the Quran the due credits,
all right? Whose problem is that? Because if God- People's problem. People's problem.
No, I'm just kidding. It's not God's problem. See, God says, let me finish. Let me finish.
Sure. God says, God said to Moses in the Quran, Moses, tell the children of Israel,
if they become ungrateful to God and the whole world becomes ungrateful to God,
it does not cause any loss to God. Okay. So God is not, God is not running out of stakes.
Not a story, but people, people. No, I'm going to say, okay, I'm going to counter that. I'm not
going to, I'm going to say it's not people because if God is insisting in transferring
his knowledge and his information through words and languages throughout the ages,
and then these words get distorted, get understood out of context,
time elapses and words have different meanings of different period of time.
So people understand things differently. And it's, and according to Islam,
they reckon two books have already been changed, the Torah and the Gospel,
and they have been corrupted. And you would start wondering, why does God insist? And Einstein has
said once, one of the definition of stability is doing the thing with the same method and the
same techniques over and over again and expecting different results. Why would then he continue
to try to communicate with people using a flawed method that always, always end up being distorted?
Couldn't he have communicated the same way? He's given it to his own Lucifer, the devil.
The devil can speak to you in your own language, in your own thoughts, with your own accent,
with your modern jargon at any time. And you would understand him straight away, according to,
obviously, religion. However, God gives himself the more inferior position of communicating
in the language, sit in stone in the time that understood by people,
certain people at a certain time, and gives his devil the more superior way of communicating,
real time, modern and hippie, whenever is needed. Shall I answer? Please. None of that is true.
Look, fundamentals, there's no craving image of God, still, still is in the books. All right,
Old Testament, all right. But what do the Christians do? They call Jesus the Son of God. Why?
They listened to Paul, my friend, they listened to Paul, who never met Jesus Christ, all right.
Now look, are they supposed to listen to Paul because Paul had this dream?
No, the scriptures don't command them to do, right? But they did, because Paul ended up
converting a whole bunch of Gentiles and gave them the beliefs and he became the center of
attention for their faith. They took Paul on board and they regarded his works as the Scripture
from God. But none of that was true, right? If Christians, if Christians today, stuck to
the Gospels, the synaptic Gospels, all right, they would not come up with this idea of Jesus
being the Son of God, but rather they would be sticking to the premise that Jesus is the
prophet of God, the servant of God, one among the messengers sent by God, the Christ. That's
where they would stop. But because they have taken on additional things which were not authorized by
God, they land in all sorts of problems, all right? I mean, the Quran does not say the scriptures,
the Quran does not say, just make it a point, the Quran never says the Gospel and the Torah
are garbage or change. The Quran does not make this point, okay? Just bear this in mind. The
Quran says there is guidance and light in the Torah, there is guidance and light in the Gospel,
all right? Jeremiah, the Old Testament prophet, he said to the Israelites, the scholars and the
scribes, he said, all to you, the scribes, who have written words with your own pen and later
attributed to God. Jeremiah said that. The Quran doesn't say, all right? The Quran says it confirms,
the Quran confirms there is guidance and light in the Old Testament and in the New Testament,
even to this day, mate. Sure. So I've got a question. I mean, this never addressed my
allegations that why would God still use an inferior method? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm coming to that.
Why kind of Muslim are you? Are you a Quran only Muslim or you're a Sunni? What sort of Muslim are
you? I'm a Muslim, like Abraham submitted to God. Okay. Do you believe in hadith? Bukhari and Muslim?
Did God made a condition that you have to believe in hadith?
That's not one question. I'm asking, as a Muslim, what are you supposed to do? You're supposed to
listen to God or a man. I'm asking you, do you believe in what they said? As a Muslim, I'm supposed
to listen to God and God's word says, this is the guidance. It says, there is no discrepancy in it,
God says. Okay, that would be a circular. You cannot bring an evidence from within the claim.
What I'm saying is, as a Muslim, I'm obligated to stick to the Quran. Okay. Not allegations
that strongly run. Do you pray five times a day? Yeah, of course. Where does it say
you have to pray five times a day in the Quran? See, the Quran says the prayers are three times.
All right. Correct. Let me explain what that is. Sure. Let me explain. Prayers have been happening
prior to Muhammad. Okay. Long before, right? David prays, Solomon prays to God, and all of these
prophets fall their faces down to the ground, worshiping the Lord, right? So the prayers start
early morning. That's a prayer time. When you get up from the bed, you pray to God. And the second
time of the prayer is the noon time. All right. This Quran calls it wassut, ustas, asalat ul usta,
the Quran says. All right. The second time of the prayer is the noon time. Right. And the third
prayer time is when the day ends. All right. When the day ends, we pray and you pray. Muslims pray
three different prayers at the end of the day. So that makes up five prayers. Did you get the point?
So the Quran says four times? See, look, prayer is ordained for three times of the day. And to the
prophets, there is no understanding. My point on making, you're saying you should only listen
to the word of God, right? Yes. I'm showing you practices you do as a Muslim. They're not derived
from the Quran. And the right from the narrations and the word. No, no, no, no. So I lost the question
again. I lost the question again. You said you pray five times a day. Where does in the Quran,
it says you should pray five times a day? See, the Quran mentions prayers of the dawn, right,
of the dusk. You said that before. Look, look, look, of the dusk. It mentions the prayer of dusk
and it mentions the prayer of night. All right. So at the end of the day, it's already mentioning two
prayers, right? Do you get that? Do you get that? Do you get what I'm saying? So at the end of the day,
which is a time for prayer, it's already mentioned. You pray five times a day. This is really word
gymnastics at this point. No, it's not gymnastics. It is. You're praying five times a day and I'm
asking you a very direct question. Where does it say in the Quran that you should pray five times a
day? Look, the Quran does not say, it need not say some of the things that you routinely do.
That's not how Quran comes to give you guidance. All right, by the way, the Quran stipulates
fundamentals. It gives fundamental guidance. All right. Okay. So the Quran says, look, look,
look, look, the Quran says the Quran, see prayers in Islam, let me tell you this prayers in Islam
have been happening without a break. There is no Sunday, for example, in prayers where you
quit praying, right? Even on the Eid day, the festival day, you still pray, right? So prayers
have not been abandoned even for a single time. They just roll down. What's that to do with the
price of milk? No, no, look, I'm asking, I understand people prayed and I'm asking a very specific
question. I'm saying you've claimed that only the word of God should be listened to. And I'm
showing you that you have practices that have been taken from narrations and writings outside of the
Quran. Your five prayers is that Muslim and Bukhari after the ascension of Muhammad to the
seven heaven, talking to Moses and God, which were 50, the word 58. Let me ask you this thing.
When was Bukhari written? 200 years. Okay. What were Muslims doing until that point?
Not praying? I don't know. You're kidding me at this point in time. You're kidding me.
Where does it say that you should pray five times in the Quran?
Look, what I'm telling you is, look, since Muhammad lived among a bunch of people and gave them this
religion, prayers have been rolling out every day without a break, just like you eat breakfast.
Every day you breakfast, the next day you get up, you eat breakfast. Prayers have been like that in
Islam. They've been rolling out every day. So what else do you need? I mean, why do you,
after this, why do you need God to tell you, pray five times a day? Why? I mean, it doesn't make
sense. How did they come to the moment? A discipline is established. A discipline is established.
But how did they get to know that? You don't need further instructions when a discipline
stands established. Who established the discipline from where? What's the inspiration
of the discipline? Where did it come from? Look, honey, I mean, look, if you study the Gospel,
right? If you study the Gospel, Jesus went to the mountain and he prayed all night and the
disciples fell asleep. He woke them up, but they couldn't stand it. They fell asleep again.
But Jesus stood praying the night, right? See, the night prayer. Sorry, I'm gonna have to call
a non sequitur in a lot of, you know, and I'm sure Derek, are you seeing what I'm seeing?
Because I'm asking very simple and direct questions and I'm giving, being given a story
that has nothing to do with my question. I don't know. I would like to do gentlemen
in light of this because prayer, I get that, I get this is like a jab here. We want to go back
to science. Bring it back on to science. Let's do science. So I'm gonna make, I'm gonna make a
claim. I'm gonna ask Massoud to scientific evidence. Do you think the moon has been split
by Muhammad? No, the Quran is explicit. The Quran is explicit in saying when Muhammad
requested God to show miracles, the Quran came explicitly telling him, if you want, dig a hole
into the earth, or if you want, mount up the space and show them a miracle yourself, God is not going
to do that. It's explicit. So one miracle will be given to Muhammad. Okay. So you reject the Muslim
and Bukhari hadith about the moon splitting of the problem. Man, I'm telling you, these books
that you talk about came 200 years later. What has it got to do with the religion that stood
established 200 years earlier? Okay. I don't see a point. The prayer thing. But anyway, let's go back
to science. Mountains, do mountains anchor earth? So I want sway and swing in the atmosphere.
See, the crust is so thin. If you, if you see, if you take, if you dissect the earth, planet earth,
the core is almost like 3000 and more kilometers. All right. And the mantle is another
nearly 3000 kilometers. All right. And on top of that, the core sits on it from anywhere between
10 to 75 kilometers, where it's, it's the tallest, the mountains, right? It's very thin.
It's very thin on the top, right? And God says he anchored these plates that were floating
on the asthenosphere. Back in that day, it was molten mantle. It was fluid. And it later on got
solidified as the earth cooled down, right? So these crusts were floating on top of this sea
of asthenosphere. And God says, I, he got these plates together, crushed them in and built gigantic
mountains to stabilize the earth. Right. So my question is in science, do
mountains ensure that the earth stay within gravity, like within its orbits?
I didn't understand your question. Do mountains help earth to stay in orbits?
And it will not, will not sway in the, in the, in the, in the air.
What do you mean? The earth sways along with the earth.
The earth, the earth sways along with the earth. The particles of the atmosphere are,
they co-rotate, they co-rotate with the earth, the particles of the atmosphere.
So there's no question of earth sways into the air.
What do mountains do when, when, when, when the Quranic verse says it stabilizes the earth?
It stabilizes the crust plates. Because the, because the world, are you, you understand Arabic?
Of course. Okay. So the word to means, I'm a native Arabic speaker, right? So the word to means,
which means to, to sway, to be the, to be the, to be the, and it was very, very
akin to a tent and the tent gets anchored and it's all four corners in order not to, to fly away.
And when you use that analogy, it will bring to your mind that without the mountains,
the earth will fly away in space.
No. So look, when people talk in their daily lives, they have a lot of mercy. They,
they understand symbology, they understand the norms, social norms, traditions, culture,
and they are perfectly fine to even say, I saw the sunset of the beach, right? But when they
start looking at the Quran, they go out of their world onto the moon and they start surmising
the Quranic language to be something different. They don't give the Quran, the scripture. I mean,
why do you guys treat Quran to being for non-human? It is for human. It came in human language.
It uses symbology to deliver a point. I mean, it tells you a point when, see, when the Quran talks
about geology and plate tectonics, it says, I stabilized the crust with the fixtures,
mountains as fixtures. And that's what it means. Do you know how mountains occur? Why do mountains
occur? Like, what do you mean to say? How do mountains form? Yeah, mountains form in two
different ways. One is these gigantic plates coming in and crashing onto each other, all right?
And raising these fixtures. And the other one is where the earth is cracking or where the crust
is cracking or brittle, the forces from within the mantle push a lot of magma out, right? So this
is how the crust is getting annealed, if you, if you want to understand this in the scientific terms.
Earth, the crust of the earth was got annealed with these fixtures. Okay, so in what way, again,
so you're saying God's analogy here is supposed to be metaphorical and should not be understood in
the way the Arabic words understood to be, which is not flying in the air. So what are you trying to
say? You have to be generous with the words to understand the concept. You got to be generous.
What do you mean by generous? I don't understand. What do you mean by generous?
You can't superimpose if I remove the nails and the wind blows, the tent blows away.
You can't have this similar analogy to interpret the Quran because where would the, I mean, the
Quran is not talking about the earth blowing away. It talks about the crust plates sliding on the
Sea of Astonosphere. The Quran talks about the stability of these plates. It's not talking about
the whole of the earth blowing away now. So you got to be generous when you understand the scripture
to comprehend the impetus it is trying to deliver. You know what I mean? Yeah, I'm starting to still
understand the word generous. I don't need to be anything. I need to try to understand them
in the most neutral and unbiased way. You've got to be neutral. Generous is a bit biased.
I'm sure the Q and A, I can't wait for the Q and A because the Q and A will throw a lot of
good questions about problems in the science. What about embryology? The bones forming
before the flesh? It's true. That is not true. Okay, pull out, just google, just google how a
baby is formed. So you reckon there is a skeleton and then the skeleton gets covered by flesh?
Look, if you study embryology up until when it is 12 weeks and the embryo, the developing embryo
is so tiny, it's like anywhere close to five mils or under, the embryologists will tell you
the first cells that are bones, the bone cells are the first cells that are forming. Okay, and only
later on, the muscle cells show up. It's very accurate, mate. I mean, the Quran delivers a cold
chill. I mean, that's what it is, exactly. We've been doing science for a long time and the Quran
just comes to give you a cold chill. I'm looking it up. Just google it. I've done this
to four millions of times. The Quran makes a fundamental argument, my friend. It makes fundamental
arguments because God is not sitting up there giving you, you know, lengthy, lengthy narrations.
He's giving you fundamental stuff to understand and to have faith in him, right? So fundamentally,
if you study embryology, the embryologists, they will tell you the bone cells are the first cells
that are forming and only later on, only later on, they see the muscle cells come up or show up.
Okay. How does it, how does it, how does this conform to the Arabic and the Holy Quran text
which says, summa kassawna, Allah az-zama, lahman, and then we covered the bones with flesh. That's
right. There is no reference whatsoever to cells here. We're talking about actual bones. Again,
you've got to be fundamental. You've got to be fundamental. You've got to be generous.
You've got to be generous. No, you've got to be neutral enough and be fundamental in understanding
when the Quran talks about, see when the Quran talks about
summa kassawna, it says we covered the bones with flesh, right? Yes. So it tells you the bones
cells are the first to form in the embryo and then the muscle cells are going to form.
Well, what's the problem? I mean, I don't understand. I don't understand your problem.
Do the bone. If it was the reverse, if it was the reverse, if it was the reverse way,
the order was reversed, then you had a point. Quran would be busted and you would say,
Masir, give up faith and I would give up faith. But there's no reference to cells whatsoever.
How do cells cover each other? Cells don't cover each other. Do cells cover each other?
Oh, it's a figure of speech, isn't it? Figure of flesh. You're not understanding,
mate. You're not understanding. See, when the Quran says,
he gave you hearing first, honey, honey, honey. When Quran says, he gave you hearing first
and then he gave you sight, right? That's what the Quran says, right?
Do you have a problem with that?
I don't know what that means. No, have you got a problem with that?
The Quran says in the embryo, in the embryo, the Quran says hearing comes first
and then the Quran says then comes the vision. How is that? I'm asking,
I'm asking, do you have a problem with that? Not a problem, but it's hardly a miracle. It's
hardly anything miraculous. I'm not saying it's a miracle, honey. Please don't put words in my
mouth. Please don't do that. Don't put words in my mouth and don't put the words in the Quran too,
because the Quran doesn't call these things as miracles. The Quran says very explicitly to Muhammad.
It says no miracle. If somebody tells me the baby inside its mother's womb, where it's dark,
that most probably the baby will get to hear before seeing, how is that needs to come from
a divine source? That is a knowledge. There's something called an epistemology. That is,
it's called knowledge by birth. That's fine. You can find that out as a human. That's fine.
That's what God is wanting you to do. That's what God is wanting. God is wanting you to find these
things out. That's very generic. When God is asking these things, he says, haven't you seen this?
Don't you observe this to be in this way? Well, haven't you seen the camels, how they were created?
I mean, hardly. Okay, I'm looking at the camels. It's all thanks to Charles Darwin. I know that
they were not created and they have evolved. What do you mean not created evolved? We'll come to
evolution later. Do you think camels were created the same way? They looked that way some two billion
years ago? When it comes to evolution, right? My second book talks about it in great detail.
There are beasts that God created out of the wombs and made them into different creatures.
Okay, there's a reference to that in the Quran and probably Ibn Qaldun, the predecessor of
Darwin himself. That's where Ibn Qaldun came up with these ideas of evolution by
subsequent jump off species, right? A descent from species, right? So the Quran does talk about
some beasts being evolved from parental species that are different, all right? But at the same
time, the Quran is emphatic in telling us the creation with God happens through a concept
called rakkabak. Okay, the Quran uses the word rakkabak, which means to put things into assembly,
all right? So when God created, obviously, as we saw in my diagram on date on period three,
when God created life after he separated the earth and its skies,
that life we know was microbial life and subsequently higher forms of life were organized,
even in the Quran, when it says man was the last, the latest among the creations of God.
Man is the latest. The Quran says this,
So the Quran proposes an evolution of life, but not from,
not how evolution biologists come to understand it, having descended from one cell in the beginning
into various forms by natural selection. No, that's not the premise of the Quran. In the Quran,
God creates life by his design through rakkabak. And when God first created life, it was not a
single cell in one corner of the earth, but when water touched the earth globally, life was realized.
It was not just one single cell popping up in the earth and then splitting across globally.
So according to the Quranic narrative, life was realized globally.
That is a problem and that's in contrast with scientific evidence. The theory of evolution
right now is one of the most established scientific theories out there with the abundance of evidence.
Science changes, doesn't it? Science changes, doesn't it?
From since I've written my book, it's been three years now, Ancient Astronomy and Evolution of Life.
Science has changed dramatically. There is incorrect. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to educate on science.
Let me complete. I was the one that had the words. You've had a lot.
Okay, go ahead. I'm letting you really expand, but I need to take my fair share of the conversation here.
There is distorted understanding of science. Science does not change. Science is accumulative.
Einstein did not come and debunked completely the Newtonian gravity,
but it encompassed it and it contained it and it's edited. That's not how science works,
especially in the last couple of hundred years where the scientific theory has been formed.
To say that, for example, you're going to say science is going to come tomorrow and
prove that gravity does not exist. That doesn't happen in science. Science is provisional,
but it doesn't change. What I'm trying to insinuate is our scientific understanding
changes or becomes better by the past of each day. We understood certain things differently back
then. We understand it better today. We may understand even better tomorrow.
Okay, so let me off. People are so eager to know about specifics and science because
general conversation is not going to cut it. One of the evidence of evolution in the way
exactly evolution portrays it is you've got strata, you've got the earth strata,
you've got the layers and each layer in the earth represents a certain epoch, a certain period.
If animals were created and you said they were all appeared at the same time, that's
no, I didn't say that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Don't put my words in my mouth. I didn't say that.
I said it just literally five minutes ago. No, what I said is life was realized globally. That's
what I said. I did not say all of them were created at once. I never said that. In fact,
I said, what does that mean? Life evolved globally, but we know that. What I'm saying is life did
not originate in one corner on earth as a single cell and then split out globally.
What I'm saying is when water touched the earth, God commanded life to be organized
and the earth received the commands of God and created life globally at once.
And that would be the origins of single celled organisms.
He would go globally at once. So there's a certain period of time where life appeared.
That's right. Right? Okay. So that's exactly my point that I'm making. Okay. So if the layers of
the earth represent different times, why do we, and that's the Cambrian pre and after the Cambrian
explosion, why do we then see only animals that existed in a certain time of Ebok, only the fossils
of these animals are within that particular layer. You will not find a mammal in the Brick
Cambrian explosion. Why is that? Because that's because God created different creatures in the
past of time. And among his latest creature is human being. He's the last of all.
So sequentially, life got organized. Humans were not created. We evolved.
Okay. That's, I understand the evolution premise, but what I'm saying, what I'm presenting is the
premise of the Quran. Right? I know, but it's not. So that answers your question. Why in some strata,
why in some strata only certain specific animals are found as fossils and not others?
Of course. It answers that question. It answers that question that God created.
Your God confirms the signs. You got it. And it's for quite easy for you to say,
oh, well, God made it to be that way. But here's a question. Do you think Adam and Eve were the
two first people to start the universe? The humanity? Adam was the first one to be made by God.
And Eve resulted from Adam, right? Okay. Here's the scientific biological rule for you. There is two
scientific rules in biological minimum founding population and minimum viable population.
Each of the species have got a number. And that number is the minimum amount of number to start
species or to be viable for species to continue. So it's either minimum founding population
or minimum viable population. It's impossible for humanity or any species, for that matter,
to start with only with a couple because it's a little funny. I mean, it was possible for all
of these creatures to come up from single cell and it becomes all of a sudden impossible humanity.
What do you think your single cell is? What do you think Luca was? The lost universal common ancestor
also known as Luca. What do you think Luca was? Do you think really it was a single cell?
Look, the Quran does not rule out the possibility of life.
Then I'm not talking about Quran. I'm talking about science here. What's your scientific
understanding of the first cell? Do you think it was actually a single first cell?
No, that's what I told you. You didn't get my point. I told you.
But it's wrong. It's scientific. I know that's your point. It is incorrect. Luca wasn't a single cell.
No, look, God has a code, man. For them, he's got a code. And when he sends the code to the earth
and it strikes the earth. Sorry, what has that to do with what I'm saying? What you're saying?
The earth makes copies of it.
Man, my friends, I'm asking you a direct question. Do you think Luca was a single cell,
like a single one cell? Because if you think that, that is incorrect.
No, I told you, man. I don't believe in that. What I told you is...
It's not believing. This is science. I'm not looking for it.
See, I told you, it's contrary to how the science comes to understand life originated on planet earth.
Scientists surmise in some thermal pot on earth, somewhere, somewhere mysterious enough.
I'm asking you. Life originated as a single cell and then it's split. That's the science narrative.
I'm going to have to put a reference here. I'm going to put a citation. Luca,
the singles that it wasn't a single cell. It was a group of cells in different places.
What's your understanding? You're agreeing pretty much with the Quran. I mean, that's the Quran, mate.
Oh, well, the Quran, of course. It gives you a cold chill.
It gives you a cold chill. I mean, if you go back to my presentation, you will see that
few more cold chills down there. So my question again, the minimum
viable population, there is absolutely no way that humanity or any species could have started
with Adam and Eve because of the minimum founding population concept.
Again, that was repeated in North Ark and North Ark cannot reproduce life again just from a pair.
Look, it's not a big deal. I mean, you would say that you would say this claim is scientific today
and tomorrow you would come and say, no, it is probably true. It is possible.
Okay. You got no foundational basis to make this argument. That's what I'm saying.
I'll tell you what. In Australia, when the immigrants came, the white people came from
different countries. They got some animals that were endemic to their places and
they were not native animals here in Australia, right? They got a bunch of those.
And today they are a menace in Australia. They are giving them disease literally to
clean up their populations. I mean, what are you talking about, man? I mean,
you've got empirical evidence of such experiments being repeated,
wherever populations have migrated, right? I mean, what are you talking about?
You've got to be more scientific than presently you sound.
Okay. Because you've now sort of accused me of not understanding, I'll put here.
No, no, no. I'm going to put here for the audience and for Derek, please to share in this chat.
No, what I have to say is that I can use that.
Hold on. Please do not interrupt me. Don't interrupt you in the middle of your speech.
Please do not interrupt me. I'll put a nature's cited and peer reviewed article
on the minimum founding population in the private chat. Derek, if you could please share it.
Now, I would like you in return to cite your evidence for your claim, scientific evidence
for your claim. I'll provide a mine. Look, that may be a research which holds
some validity among some members of science today, but there's evidence. You can just google
like what happened in Australia, how the bunnies were got from outside and they became
so numerous that they're eating away through the crops and Australian government had to interfere
and they got a disease out of China's lab or a Russian lab and they injected it into this
Sorry, but what is that to do with what I'm saying?
What I'm saying is they got these small numbers when they immigrated and they just exploded.
What I'm saying is it is possible for human beings, humankind to be realized from Adam and Eve.
It's impossible. Do you know why it's impossible? Do you know why is it impossible? Because there's
a reason why. There is something called the genetic pool and after the evolution of sexual
reproduction from asexual reproduction, the whole idea was the variation of genetic pool.
When you do sexual reproduction and your genetic pool is poor, the likelihood of
species to survive and to have a variation in their genetic pool. A bacteria or a virus won't
kill them. A one go kill the population will increase. Therefore, there is a number per species
for minimum founding and minimum viable. If you go below, that species cannot be given rice or
it cannot survive. If you go to biology, horses, I have reared pigeons myself
for a long time. I was a pigeon rearer. I love pigeons. I've seen pigeons lay a pair of eggs
and that pair grow up to become a pair again and they lay a pair of eggs and that pair grows up to
become a pair again and the cycle repeats. I've seen it. I've experienced it.
I'm going to have to stop there because this is not scientific conversation right now.
I mean, what is more scientific than I'm giving you this thing that Australians,
when they came to Aboriginal Australia, they got this bunch of animals from outside of the world,
from a different part of the world. What was the number of the animals? If you want this
conversation to be scientific, I'd like to know the number because the number isn't in the millions.
For example, the minimum founding population for humans is about 2000.
The minimum founding population for horse could be about 1200. There is a number. It's not like
up in the air. It's not something that we guess. Do you insinuate when man descended from orangutans
or from a common ancestor? Man descended from orangutan? That's the talk of the town
in the scientific community, isn't it? Okay, maybe from a common ancestor. Maybe from a common
ancestor. A common ancestor from where orangutans and human beings diverged. I mean, this is a
scientific claim. This is a scientific claim of evolution biologist. Yes, also orangutans share
a common ancestor. What I'm asking you is, when the first human being got realized
from an ancestor, did that happen to one pair of these ancestral parents who sired us
or it happened to multiple of those? Very good question and that requires understanding of
evolution. Not a single species have given birth to another species and that's where evolution
is always misunderstood. I'm trying to give an answer and I get this interrupted. You've
asked the question, right? Go ahead. Okay, so not a single species have given rise or
give birth to a new species. The evolution doesn't work that way. That's what the likes of Stephen
Jay Gould, you know, I can give you multiple names in the scientific community would say,
the experts on the field. If you disagree with them, just having read the Holy Bible, Holy Quran,
and you think, all right, well, I've got the knowledge I need, these are people who are not even
motivated by religion. That's evolution of play. That's how evolution works. There isn't a certain
point where there's humanity suddenly. These are spectrums, spectrum of species. As a matter of
fact, the word species are not black and white. I've had just had a recent conversation with
Erica and I invite you to have a conversation with her. She's brilliant in all matters of evolution.
God's a gibbon and she agrees with me and she completely confirms that the animal kingdom
is a spectrum. There isn't really a defining moment where Homo habilis became Homo erectus,
became Homo sapien, became Homo sapien sapien. There isn't a defining moment, but there are small
incremental change, tilting of the eyes, erect posture, the opposable thumbs, the smaller canine,
the bigger skull that it contains, a bigger brain. Little increments eventually become,
comes to a critical point where a certain species will end up diverting.
Okay, there's a point when Dorsophila, melanogaster and simulans, these are two cosmopolitan
species of the fruit flies. There is a point where they're different. There's a point they're
different. And if evolution biologists are these experts who catch hold of accurate information
with their meticulous observation of the universe around us, they got to tell us
what is the point of separation? And what caused the point of separation? And how many of those
points of separations really occurred for the substantial pool to propagate a new species?
Gentlemen, that is time. We have gone 60 minutes. In 10 seconds, I'm going to say
speciation is not best explained by natural selection. I'd refer to
something called genetic drift and geographical drift. It's within evolution, but it's a concept that
explains speciation a lot better. All right, all right, guys, we're going to go on and on.
Derek, I want a minute. I want a minute. I want a minute. Yeah, this is the thing. It's going to
keep going, guys. This is why I'm just asking permission. I'm just asking permission because
I've not finished my presentation. Just because I've not finished my presentation,
I would love the opportunity to just finish it off quickly. I mean, I'll just go through it.
Look, let's get through Q&A, and then let's decide on that's something we want to do because if we
were going to do this, we should have had the timing right because calculating it, you only made it
to the seventh, eighth slide, and you had 16. You weren't even halfway. It should have been a
lot longer intro, or we should have rushed it quicker. I want to get to these Q&A. People
have been waiting, and I just want to thank Josephine Martinez for being a member joining
MythVision. I really appreciate that. Chat GPT in the house. Please discuss LGBT civil rights and the
Koran. What I'll do is I'll try to keep the conversation to a certain limit of time. I guess
in this Q&A, let's ask it like this. Do you see LGBT in the Koran? Is there anything in the
Koran in your interpretation, Masoud, that actually is okay with people in the LGBTQ community?
It's not scientific.
Regina is that channel that's scientifically geared and designed to take in the penis.
It lubricates it during the event, so that's more scientific way of doing things.
All other things are nonsense. They're not scientific.
You have any comment?
I'm just astonished by their responses. It's very strange. I would love responses to really
tackle the issue.
Yeah, it's not scientific. What I'm saying is it's not scientific. It's not scientific.
Regina, the event of sex, the event of sex, the vagina lubricates it. It is designed.
It is, even if you want to go through natural selection, natural selection has taken,
it's done a big deal of work in designing this mechanism of vagina being prepped
to be ready for intercourse. I mean, and then you want to talk about people having sex
through other channels where lubrication doesn't really occur. It's not scientific.
It's not according to, it's not even in the spirits of natural selection and evolution biology.
I'm lost here. Here's my comment. Homosexuality and different sexual spectrums have been
been displayed in different species, not just humans. There's about,
it's always presented in a ratio of about five to 10% in all the population. It's as old as
sexual selection started.
They are inherited. There are five gene expressions and five locations in genes that are responsible
along with hormones during the pregnancy of a woman, the amount of testosterone,
as well as epigenetics where all these two needs to end up with a person with a sexual
orientation. Therefore, it's a phenomenon that has been observed and it's been in nature for
quite some time. Therefore, what I call scientific means we observe a phenomena and we try to explain
it. Is it explained in evolution? You bet. Please search for the benevolent uncle theory where it
says that in a population where males were dominant and there are abundance of them,
actually is also confirmed by science, the amount of testosterone after the fifth or the sixth or
the seventh boy male will actually lead the seventh or the eighth male to have more likelihood to be
homosexual. Please research the benevolent uncle theory where this has actually been an aid to
evolution where a male member of the family will stay home with the children to take care of the
children talking about antiquity. Obviously, not stereotyping. This is a modern world. This
is different, but I'm talking about in the olden days. That has proved to be an aid to evolution
and not an obstacle because people would wonder why would evolution and natural selection choose
people who are not reproducing? That's your answer. All right. Let's move on. My friend Massoud,
if you rebut that, then he gets to rebut and it never ends. We have plenty of other questions.
Constellation Pegasus, what's going on with a law throwing stars at missiles at eavesdropping
gin? Do you want to allow handy to go first and then you rebut him or do you want to go first?
I'll take this opportunity just to show a slide in my presentation.
If you go back to my presentation, I'll just show a slide. I'll take this opportunity to
show a slide. Go to the next. Next. Next. Next. Next. Next. Next. Next. Next. Next.
Yeah, right here. Okay. The Quran talks about this gravity sky being imposed with balance.
It goes on to say, endeavor or assembly of the gin and men, launch expeditions into the regions of
the skies and the earth as you could. You cannot launch explorations except with a lot of permission.
So which of the favors of your Lord will you deny? All right. Upon you be directed space
objects of a firebrand and smoke, which you will not stand defended. Right? Okay. So this is where
the Quran comes to tell information that gins were already exploring space back in 14th century.
They were making space explorations and to listen and eavesdrop into God's communication
made to the angels. And that's when the angels would chase them off with meteors and other burning
objects in space. Henny? Well, that is completely unscientific. We have not with no evidence that
angels or gin exists in the first place, let alone the old understanding of what a shooting star is,
because a shooting star isn't what we really see. It's not a forming star as people used to think,
but it's it's it's a meteorites, it's pieces of burning comets. And they once they meet the earth
atmosphere they ignite. And that gives you the impression of a shooting star. Or what we call
a shooting star. They are very, very close. They only burn once they reach the earth atmosphere.
So that means they're very close to us, not in the seventh heaven. And we have not observed any of
these alleged creatures that supposed to be in existence, but we've never with science was never
able to verify their existence. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you for the super chat. Scriptural
language is ambiguous. How can anyone demonstrate claims of scientific revelation in scripture
aren't just post hoc rationalization? How do we know you get the question?
Whoever wants to start? Yeah, I'll start and take the opportunity to even dispel some of the things
that Henny just said. I mean, Hurran does not say that Hurran, the stars are being thrown at them.
The Hurran clearly talks about space objects that burn up the meteors or asteroids. The
scripture is very accurate. You just need to look into it. For example, this creation story that
was just trying to explain the creation of earth and origins of its skies. The Hurran comes up
with this number, which is very objective to say. It tells it's seven. It doesn't tell it's six or
eight. You have something here, right, when it makes an objective claim to go and refute it.
Obviously, the claim was made 14 centuries ago. Today, we know all of these sort of
skyscrapers or layers, if you call it exist. It's pretty easy to find wrong. If it was
six, the Hurran would be busted. That's how, I mean, that's the impetus of Hurran when it gives
you information. I mean, it is a pretty objective claim and you can see that it is fulfilled.
What about you, Henny?
No further comments. Okay. Greg Easy joined as a member. Greg, you have true salvation,
my friend. Thank you for becoming a member. Constellation Pegasus. How old does the Hurran
say the universe and earth is? Never thought about this until now. Different ages, ages for both?
Do you have any answer to that? Sure. You can just, my suit can always go first and I'll go
second. So that way it's easier. Okay. So the Hurran does not tell about a specific age of
the universe. It does not. All right. It only tells us the story of earth and its sky's creation.
All right. That's why it tells us. It does not tell us even how old is the earth. Forget about,
let go, let go the age of the universe. It doesn't even tell us how old is the earth. All right.
So the Hurran specifically told us one information, one piece of information, and that is the
mechanism of the creation of earth and its skies. That's what Hurran comes to give information.
All right. And Hurran thinks this information is sufficient evidence if people are finding
evidence to believe and have faith in God. Thank you. Thank you. Hanny, did you want to comment on this?
Oh, there was no mention of age in the universe as such. There are mention of
days. There can be a thousand days in God's counting or 50,000 days. It depends on really
which verse in the Qur'an you're reading. Time, line seems to be completely distorted
in any holy scriptures that have read. It doesn't really reflect anything we know about
scientific evidence of how time elapses. You can get evidence from the gospel that the earth is
6,000 years old. And the Qur'an doesn't really touch on times like that, but they do have very
strange time measurements of a day in God's counting could be a thousand of hours or 50,000
of hours. So I'm not sure which context would apply here, but it seems to be that God has a
different time, a different watch. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the super sticker. Really
appreciate the support. Scrolling down to the next one here. Get your questions in before we run out.
There was a while where nobody did any. So just trying to find. Okay. Why so religious?
Thank you for the super chat. 67.4 of the Qur'an claims site returns back to the eye.
Kathir says this is the eye meaning your site will return to you. Also 1443 makes the same
claim about the site in the afterlife. This is not how site works. Oh, what it what it means is
you get tired by looking but gazing at the cosmos because the artistry of God is so much out there
you would be mesmerized and you would just gaze on and on and you would you would be tired.
That's what it means. Ibn Kathir is an exegete of the Qur'an a long time ago in the Middle Ages.
And some of the things he's written really tells you the knowledge of that day and age, right?
So it obviously doesn't really confirm to the advancement of knowledge because he was a man
back then in the Middle Ages trying to figure out what the Qur'an is saying. So there's no point
coding such script such commentaries by people of the Middle Ages. Henny? These types of verses
I'm not quite interested in because they're quite like sort of within poetic literature.
They can be distorted and they can be understood in so many different ways. They have actually as
a matter of fact been understood differently by, as Masoud just said, well it was understood
differently by somebody who existed some 200 years after the age of prophet and rightly so.
And this will continue to mean different things to different people.
Therefore, also in science, also in science, the same thing, science does not work the same way.
I'm sorry. Your understanding of science is correct. That's how human beings learn.
That's how human beings learn. Human beings learn in the past of time. Previously we hold
good some ideas today. Do I get crashed in the way? I think you add your goal Masoud.
And I do. I never try to interrupt you my friend. I will hold my breath. Thank you.
This is subjective. This is literature and it's allowed within the human endeavour. We
understand poetry and movies and theatre plays are understood and conceived differently
by different people. Science, on the other hand, is different. It's trying to be neutral and objective.
If you measure certain phenomena in Lithuania, it should be the same as in Asia. It should
be the same as in India. It should be the same everywhere. It should be observed the same and
it should have the same results and it should yield the same technology used by the same people.
That is what the tool of epistemology called science is trying to reach a consensus on objective
knowledge. By definition, literature and poetry and words are subjective. You will conceive them
differently. Thank you. I think this is a good question. Fawad asked, did the Quran ever make
a scientific discovery? Well, if you go back to my presentation, Derek, I'll just show a quick
slide there. It might help what the questioner gets. Go forward. Go forward. Here. Right here.
Okay. When I wrote my book and released it, exactly one year afterwards, I released my book
in 2018, January, exactly one year afterwards, NASA had this story running on their website.
Earth's atmosphere is bigger than we thought. It actually goes past the moon. Okay. And there we
have the worst reference three. It says in reference one as well, it says seven at least
skies are in compartments over one another. Okay. And then in the next reference two,
it says, and we got built above you seven strong skies and made a graduating lamp. And then you see
in reference three, it says, do not they reflect how God had created seven skies in an
overlapped design and has made the moon amidst as lightsome. I mean, one year after, NASA only
confirmed it. So, I mean, if this is what you think by Quran's making scientific discovery,
then there's a lot of it. And yeah, I mean, if you read my books, Ancient Astronomy,
Allah's Narrative and Creation of Earth and Origins of Life, Allah's Narrative, these two
are science-based books. You will find a lot of those and a lot of dismantling of
incoherent thoughts in the scientific community. So, Henny. That's a bit claim,
incoherent thoughts in the midst of scientific community. I would love to see that scientific
paper written and a Nobel Prize won as soon as possible, please. I'm waiting for that, Henny.
I've just googled, I've just actually checked GBT, whether the moon is in the
Earth atmosphere and it says here, I'm going to read it. No, the moon is not within the Earth's
atmosphere. The Earth's atmosphere extends about 6,200 miles, 10,000 kilometers above the planet's
surface, while the moon orbit is at average distance of about 238,000 miles, 384,000 kilometers
from Earth. Therefore, the moon is well outside Earth's atmosphere. I have to read, but I have
one case. I'll give you 20 seconds, Massoud. I'll give you 20 seconds. I showed the proof,
NASA article, what were they saying? And let me tell you, magnetosphere, one of the Earth's
skies extends all the way to 1,000 Earth radii and the moon sits at 60 Earth radii. That tells you
magnetosphere stretches far beyond the moon and magnetosphere, it encompasses heterosphere
and heterosphere, magnetosphere and gravity are the three sky layers which shroud the Earth,
sorry, the moon. Thank you, thank you. Virillian. The initial claim was the Earth's atmosphere.
And we go to the other layers, yes, but you said first, the Earth's atmosphere. Yeah, no. Gentlemen,
gentlemen, preserve it for your closing, because you've got five minutes to do whatever you want
at your closing. Virillian, in the third day, thank you for the super chat, in the third day,
was it one rotation of the Earth or was it 3.5 billion years? Did God create humans separate
from the ape's common ancestor? Look, you know, the biblical reading, it says God created the
Earth on the first day and there was morning and there was evening and it goes and goes and goes.
And on seventh day, God rested. So this is the premise which a lot of people in the world learn
about the creation story, okay? But for Muhammad, he could have easily copied this, right? When he
copied six days, he could have also copied the seventh day rest of God and also the morning
and the evening, but he never does that, right? Smart, smart, smart man, he never does that, right?
So the Quran does not tell it was rotation of the Earth as in morning and evening. He doesn't
tell that. The Quran tells the creation of the Earth's story and its skies were in six different
periods. The third period, a lot of dynamics happened. The magnetosphere came out, shrouded the
homosphere, the homosphere settled into the atmosphere causing rain and forming clouds
and then the heterosphere formed, the ionosphere formed and the life started, the life started
as the rains fell on Earth, the life started and the life slowly God brought about emergent life
and on the sixth period when the ozone layer stood formed, that's when God brought about higher
forms of life. So it's, I mean, you will get a cold chill when you read the books.
Hany? I just got a cold chill up my ass just now because I'm reading the Quran and I'm reading
seven, five, four surat al-Araf. Can you please recite it for us?
Sorry, what is it? What is that? Seven, 54. Seven, 54. Yeah, just wait a minute.
Okay, because within that, it's gonna have my answer. Okay, okay.
No, okay, everybody knows. Okay, okay, all right. Indeed, your Lord created the skies in the
Earth in six periods of creation time, then he squared upon his throne and gulfing the day into
night in rapid successions, the sun and the moon and the stars measure into respective orbits by
six periods. What's the Arabic word? No, look, a Yemen. Look, wait a minute. What is a Yemen Arabic?
Look, Yom in Arabic is a day, right? Yom is a day. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I mean,
there's no need to panic. You just mentioned the Quran talks about relative periods. God says,
in the Yoman, one day with God, is like a thousand years in your God's reckoning, right, of your
account. And in another place, it says 50,000 years in God's reckoning, right? Look, what I'm
insisting is the Quran never claims a morning and an evening when it talks about the creation.
What does a day mean? Because the first day, you see, the Quran talks about two days
to assemble the proto-Earth, right? In the first day, it's not even assembled, right? For example,
in the first period, it's not even assembled, right? So there's no day, right? I mean, I don't care
about that. I'm caring about the words, the words used by God. He said period. You've gone out of your
way to say the word period. Why do you reckon that is the case? Because the Quran talks about
different times. Okay, let's do the math. Let's do the math. So if a Yom, which means the day
in God's reckoning, is a thousand, two days will be two thousand. If it's the 50,000 one,
two days means 100,000 days, okay? None of these are still accurate. Okay, that's fine. I got your
point. You're coming back to the radiometric dating, right? And how do we know Earth is 4.5
billion years old? Because we found samples that go through radiometric dating procedure,
and that's how we know it's so many billions years of old, right? Look, carbon dating, carbon
dating, run. Carbon dating equation has been refined a lot many times to become accurate.
With the help of dendrochronology, by dating the trunks, let me finish. So with the help of
dendrochronology, like measuring the age of the trees by cutting the trunks and counting the
rings, they helped fine tune the equation of carbon dating. Still, despite all these measures,
they dated Mongol men, an aboriginal sample in Australia, but different agencies globally,
but different agencies, labs, and the differences are staggering, 15,000 years, 25,000 years,
35,000 years, 60,000 years, 68,000 years. And this is what you're getting out of an equation,
which has been fine-tuned by strong evidence that's coming from dendrochronology, right? Now,
if you go to uranium dating, all right, there has not been any such fine-tuning happening with
this equation, because the years, the spaces are so wide. Are you saying the age of the universe?
What is the accuracy? What I'm saying is, what is the accuracy? I'm going to have to move on,
gentlemen. We're going to have to get moving on to the next one.
How do you rely on that equation?
I just want to make one last comment here. I've asked a direct question. It says literally in
the Quran, six days. So look, the days can't be interpreted to mean morning and evening as it
comes in the Bible. It cannot be. I'm saying, I can use it as a day. I mean, you can use it as
a thousand days, as per the Quran, or 50,000 years per Quran, or a thousand years per Quran,
and still none of these three answers are because we don't know the right answer because we don't
know the right. We don't have the right answer. All right, gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen, enough
on this one. Let's keep going. You'll get five minutes at the end. Can USA pack? Did Muslim
scholars discover that 72 translucent grapes are actually 72 translucent virgins?
Well, to be honest, the Quran, to be, I've got to be fair, the Quran does not give this number.
72? It does not. All right. And you see an antelope. I mean, if you watch National Geography or
Animal Planet, you will see an antelope mate with a herd of females ranging 50 to 100 females.
I mean, have some courtesy, guys, of your humans. So there's so many gifts out there in paradise,
including virgins. I don't know the number. Maybe, maybe more, maybe less. I don't know.
Hany? The obsession of virgins is just incredible. And just imagine a woman coming at you.
I was like, oh, hey, honey, I can clearly see your liver. I mean, for goodness sake, translucent,
I mean, imagine being a martyr and going into pieces just to be presented in heaven
with a plate of 72 raisins instead of what you're expecting. It would be quite a thing.
But to me, they're just the obsession of sex and virginity, the dispowering of virginity.
I don't want to go back and forth on this one, Masoud. Yeah. Can USA Packs back again,
1140 Noah to load two of every kind on the Ark?
Look, again, Bible, the Christian believers have done great damage to the cause of God
with all humility. I'm being really humble. I'm not really being,
you know, being disrespectful of Christian believers, but they've done a great damage
to the cause of God. And one of that is making these gross assumptions of a global flood with
Noah, right? I mean, if you see in God's narration, be it narrative, be it Old Testament or all the
Quran, God talks about punishments given to people in a specified geographic location.
God has punished several nations and those punishments, even the punishment of Lot,
for example, for Sodomy, that was in a specific region. Okay. At the time of Noah,
God need not flood the entire earth to punish Noah's people who were disbelievers.
It was a geographic specific event. All right. And, but somehow, even today, I mean,
just last week I went to a church and asked him the same question. Do you believe God created
earth in six days, literal six days? Do you know what a week looks like? And he said to me, mate,
this is the end of the debate. And he just walked away out of my face. He just took off from my
face, left me alone at the table, right? There is people who literally believe in certain things
that obviously, which have obviously happened because of scribal annotations into the scripture.
That's when Jeremiah said, your scribes have written lies into the scripture and you attribute
that to God. So because of some things that have gone wrong, that's where the Quran comes.
The Quran says the Quran is a scripture that covers
the back of the Old Testament and the New Testament. It's a guardian scripture. It guards
the previous scriptures and its authenticity. So you go to the Quran to see the information and
Noah's flood was very localized. He never got kangaroos hop on his, hop on his ark.
Henny? Well, I'm not sure if the answer really hit the nail on the head here because I'm
waiting. Is Massoud saying this is a figure of speech? So that actually didn't happen that way
because if it happened that way, then we have a lot of issues. The only way you can get away with
this is by saying this is supposed to be a figure of speech. It's supposed to be a figure of speech.
No, it's supposed to happen as a localized event. So it was a local event? Yes. Right. So it was a
local event and only the local animals, right? Yes, local ecosystem. So we're having another
problem again with the biological minimum founding population one more time. And in this case, it
will be minimum viable population because these are actually living creatures and there will be
a number which you reach right now. We are like the white rhino situation. Once you reach a certain
number, that animal is as good as extinct. When you reach just a pair of animals, you will not
be able to kickstart that population again. We'll talk about it in detail next time, I suppose.
Virillion, does the Quran include equations like F equals MA or Kepler's law? Wouldn't that be better
than vague descriptions? Well, you should understand the Quran was communicating to people who
did not read or write. I mean, there were people who had an oral tradition and nothing, you will
not find any Arabic literature dating back to that time other than the Quran. It became the first
written Arabic literature, literally. So they were not a people keen on experimenting science or
anything like that. They were shepherds, peasants. They had a small world where they lived and these
mighty empires overshadowing them and they did not want to go there. These empires, nobody wanted
to control the space because it's so dry, desert. There's no benefit in controlling that space,
you know what I mean? So people like that, God is trying to reach out and they are stuck in
politicians. God wants to liberate them and God has a way of doing things and the way he's done
is marvelous. The things that I'm explaining in my books, you will have your jaw drop
when you read that. Henny? I'm not sure about jaw dropping here because,
you know, never mind. I gotta be fair. If there was a God, I wouldn't expect God to put equations.
This is classical physics, you know, that explains all motions really by Isaac Newton, force equals
mass and acceleration and he would still use it for escape velocity for rockets and stuff like that.
I would not expect God to, you know, if I was a God, I would want to leave something for humanity
to discover. But I could have at least asked them to wash their hands, you know, tell them
about the germ disease, tell them about things that will harvest them in hundreds of millions.
That is told and very popular in Islamic tradition to wash hands before meals.
Yeah, and you know, there are a lot of issues. I think there will be a few things that I would
have expected God to put, but at least when he mentioned some evidence of what, the way he was,
he created the universe, the way he created things, to be in a consistent with science.
But the fact that they are not, what is so funny?
Hey, so last question, and this is to you, Masud, and then one five minutes each.
I'm just calling a Dunning Kruger effect here, to be honest.
Why so religious is Ahmed a Quran only Muslim?
Look, as I told, if Jesus, if Christians believed in the Gospels, they would be better off.
And they would be, they would be better off in their faith terms and in so many other terms.
The reason for the Islamic decline is essentially because Muslims have increasingly relied on
people as mediaries to explain the book of God. While the book of God itself says emphatically,
I have made the Quran easy to understand. Is there anyone to reflect?
God says again and again in one of the surahs. All right.
So Quran comes out with this elucidation, which says it's easy. I've made it easy for a common man.
He need not even attend school. So he will still understand my word.
That's the premise that God comes from an approach of humankind, right?
So there's no point that Muslims should rely on people like myself or others.
So everyone in the chat is saying yes or no. Like, yes, God will never ask on Judgment Day
from Muslims, whether you believed in Bukhari, Tirmidhi, Abu Dawood, Muslim, he will not ask that.
He will ask, did you believe in the Quran and did you do what the Quran wanted you to do?
That's all. Are you Quran only or not? I mean, am I not being explicit enough in telling you don't
need it? You could say yes. I'm Quran only or no. Yes. I mean, there's a Muslim as a person who
believes and confirms to the Quran 100%. I mean, what else do you want me to say? Nothing else.
Nothing else. You don't want more. Technically, you could say yes. You're Quran only.
Yeah. I mean, I'm making it quite infantic. I mean, people, you see these believers, they go on
and start calling names and stuff like that. A lot of that happens in the community.
The crowd is forcing me to have to have you clarify. So just so you know.
Hany, did you want to just make a response to that? And then let's do a follow-up.
This is going to be a general one, which is, I mean, I've been calling by Christopher Hitchens,
the cafeteria religion, where you go and pick and choose to fill your tray with what you really
like. And I stop with that. It's not. The relation ceased with Muhammad. And it's finished. So
who wants the start in their five minute closing?
Hany can have it. I opened it. So Hany can have it. All right. Let's mute our mics and we'll allow
Hany to do his five minutes. And then I'll let Masoud and then we are wrapping up the debate.
Hany, let me know when you're starting. Well, thank you very much for Derek for allowing us to
have a platform. And in today's conversation, thank you, Masoud, for being a worthy opponent.
I disagree with a lot of the stuff you've said, mainly on back of one thing and one thing only.
It seems to be that you are not well versed in science. That is my issue here. My issue is
like the understanding of evolution, cosmology distorted. Even when pressed, you've questioned
the scientific method altogether. Like, for example, when we start talking about Earth,
you said, how do we know for sure the Earth is 4.5 billion years old? And only you've yielded
information. Once you were pressed on the use of day, because you first claimed that God never
uses the word day, but I'm a native Arabic speaker and I can spot the day and the creation and I've
showed you the verse. And then we said, oh, well, the day is different. Might be different gods
counting. And we mentioned the two verses were a day is a thousand years or a day that's 50,000
years and still not consistent with science. Then we went to the, do we really know for sure the
Earth is 4.5 billion years old? So it seems to me that this is our priority. And that is the
distinct difference between a posteriori knowledge and a priori knowledge or presupposition. Faith
will dictate that you've got to believe first. And every other observation have to fit that
particular belief. While science stripped from all sort of biases as much as we can,
there are still issues, but the scientific method ensures that the self-cleansing mechanism and
self-correcting mechanism of the scientific method is still applied. And science will follow the
steps to the point where the evidence lead to the new persuasion or the new conviction.
And these are a non-overlapping magisteria. I'm going to be borrowing from Steven J.
Gould here. These two parallel lines that never meet according to Euclidean geometry,
because they do meet in curvature or curved space. Unlike, you know, people believe that
parallel lines never meet. They do meet in curved space. So there are two different methods.
One is predicated on a priori understanding, presuppositions, and you try to fit everything
you see, everything you observe within that particular belief. So it's a reverse, it's
a continuous reverse engineering of information. While science do it the other way around,
they don't have any particular preference of what the outcome is going to look like.
At some point, the eternal city-state theory of the universe, that the universe is eternal,
is unchanging, was very much been propagated by Albert Einstein, the most famous of celebrity
scientists at that time. And the Belgian monk comes up with the Big Bang model that tells us
that the universe had a beginning. And although that this might give, because a lot of people were
panicking, you know, even some religious people think it's actually a horrible thing, actually
gives rise, it gives a way back into a creator, because the universe has begun. It's not eternal,
as we once thought. And if science was really motivated by non-theism, or the denial of God,
some theists think that that's the agenda, then this sort of thing would have been blocked.
But no, science go with the evidence, and the CMB model and so other models confirmed
that the Big Bang model is currently the most accurate, and therefore the scientific
world has changed its consensus based on evidence and not based on any prior belief.
And that is a departure. So my problem today with Massoud's presentation is the lack of
understanding of the scientific method, and what actually science says about the different areas,
evolution, cosmology, geology, and that being distorted to suit the religious narrative. Thank you.
Thank you, Hanny. Appreciate that. I'm going to start my clock back to five, and go ahead and mute.
And Massoud, you have five minutes starting now.
Well, thank you, Dorek. As I said, I'm really impressed with your work, and I was always trying
to find possibilities of doing that in Adelaide, but everywhere I went, the doors were shut.
I'm very happy for you. You're able to do it. It's great. So I want to go back to the slide,
and just close all these comments with one slide. If you go back to the presentation, go further.
Further down. Yeah, here, right here, okay. So this is pretty much going to nail everything down.
So if you look at this, what the Quran says and how the science has come to understand
the creation of Earth and its skies, here are some ratios to grapple with, right?
If suppose the Earth existed with its fully formed continents, like how it appears in the
modern world, for three hours, okay, it took, according to the Quran, in the first one hour
for the proto-Earth to form, as opposed to how science understands this at the moment,
it has taken 890 hours to form the Earth, the way it is with the modern continents,
what I mean by that is Mount Everest forming, and the Earth, the proto-Earth,
the proto-Earth was formed in the first hour, and it has taken the significant time since the Earth
already stood formed for modern continents to realize. It's taken that significant amount of
time, all right? Now point B, point B, according to the Quran, that modern continents galvanized
if the Earth existed for three hours, the modern continents got galvanized in two hours, all right?
As opposed to how science says that, it took eight hours for the modern continents to galvanize
out of the 227 hours if you want to map Panjia breaking at 200 million years ago, right?
And according to the Quran, the core operations, the Earth's dynamo started immediately when the
proton Earth was ready, but in science, there was a big delay of 700 hours for the core to kick in
its operations, okay? And what that tells is there was 100 hours of further delay in propagating
the sheer forces from within to move the plates because of the concept that scientists today
talk about the supercontinent Earth breaking out three billion years ago, right? Okay, now what
this means is like the engineering forces assembled a car and with fuel in it, it never started,
it never started for 700 hours until finally it starts, but guess what? The transmission doesn't
work for another 100 hours and then guess what? The pizzas get delivered just in time. How is that
possible? This tells you the abrupt estimations of radiometric dating and once again, once again,
we have the point number D. The water cooled on Earth in its third hour of after its birth,
according to the Quran, okay? But in science, it cooled 150 hours afterwards since the Earth
was in its proto Earth and what this says is the Earth's atmosphere formed, what it actually entails
in forces, the Earth's atmosphere formed nearly 50 times as slow to mature its pressure
because once Earth's atmosphere is formed with its pressure, it condenses liquid water, right?
So if you take the case of Mars, the water on Mars dried out in the initial years,
all right? A lot of its water got dried out in the initial years. Imagine Earth, planet Earth,
not to have the atmosphere or magnetosphere for a billion years. Imagine what would happen to the
water on Earth. So these ratios should give you further chills to investigate the information
that I'm bringing about with some seriousness. So I conclude here and thank you very much,
Hani, again. I mean, it was really a good, it's really a pleasure to talk to you and
ex-Muslim and ex-Christian and I'm a good guy. I myself was at the verge of rattled. I was rattled
by my friend Peter Maurice in Adelaide. He said a man like you should not believe,
seeing that the God doesn't exist. If you want to believe, where is the evidence? If you are
convinced, convince me. So that's when I wrote the books. So my brain is loaded with knowledge
and I would like to continue talking to you guys. It's wonderful. I mean, not just on this subject
of science, but on various other stuff. So I'm looking forward to a fruitful relationship.
Thank you. Thank you guys. Thank you.
Hani, I appreciate you and Masoud tonight and joining me here on MythVision. I hope everybody
enjoyed whether you agree or disagree. Maybe you walked away with something new to think about
or at least, you know, to be prepared on what people might say out there and pertaining to
their arguments. So I'm going to get off, go eat dinner and I seriously appreciate you gentlemen.
Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you Masoud and thank you to your viewers. Thank you
very much. Thank you to all the viewers. Have a good one. Son, do you want to know what the truth
is? After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to. You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes. Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
