music
Welcome to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I have two guests.
One has visited us before
and the other one hasn't joined us
that are gonna be debating the topic of,
does preterism fell?
Now, I wanna give opening a definition
so everybody kinda knows what is this thing
you're calling preterism.
And I'm going off of the preterism definition
that you gave me, Don.
Don K. Preston here.
Full preterism is the view that all Bible prophecies
of the end of the age, coming of Christ,
the judgment, the resurrection, the new creation
were fulfilled by the time of and in the events of
the end of the age, fall of Jerusalem
and the temple in AD 70.
I wanna introduce our guest.
I'm gonna start with Don and Don K. Preston
married for 53 years, probably to his better half,
Janice Preston, two children, four grandchildren.
He's the founder of president or founder and president
of Preterist Research Institute of Ardmore, Oklahoma.
He has three websites.
I'm gonna be adding those in the descriptions
as we go with this stream.
www.eschatology.org, www.bibleprophecy.com
and www.donkpreston.com.
He's the author of 34 books on Preterist,
fulfilled eschatology, which is the subject
we're talking tonight.
All you need to do is go to Amazon, type in Don,
D-O-N, space K, Preston, and you will find all of his books
on Amazon and you can get in there
or probably go to his websites as well.
You can find them.
Preston received the Doctor of Divinity degree
from Vision International University of Romana,
California in June of 2010,
and he will be defending the notion
that Preterism has not fell tonight.
With our other guest, we have Mark S. Smith,
started his Christian walk in the Nazarene church.
Is it Mark S. Smith?
Sorry, I'm probably-
Mark A.
Sorry, I'm conflating you with the academic
that I interviewed the other day.
Mark Smith started his Christian walk
in the Nazarene church, then in his early teens,
migrated to the true church,
the Church of Christ, non-instrumental.
Two decades later, he left Christianity
after an intense six-month study on the second coming
led him to conclude that even if Jesus walked on water
and rose from the dead,
Mark couldn't worship a false prophet.
Since then, Mark has written two books yet to be published,
numerous articles and essays,
and his own website, jcnotforme.com,
where he practices his evangelical atheism
to pay the rent he works as a mechanical engineer,
a profession, unlike the ministry,
that does not tolerate fantasy, wishful thinking,
or figurative language.
I appreciate both you gentlemen joining me today.
The way we're gonna have this structured
is we're gonna do a 30-minute opening,
having Mark go first, then a 30-minute negative
of that opening with Don,
then a 10-minute rebuttal, allowing Mark 10 minutes,
then Don 10 minutes, then we'll be going
to cross-examination, we'll start with Don,
he'll be cross-examining Mark for 10,
then we'll allow Mark to cross-examine back for 10,
five-minute closing, starting with Mark,
and then the final word will come from Don K. Preston
with five minutes, then we go to your Q&A.
So if you have any questions, any critiques,
anything at all, help us keep the lights on here
at MythVision, we do appreciate all of the support
we can get, whether it's negative, positive.
The point is, as long as I ask that you be respectful
at the end of the day, try to be respectful,
ask honest questions, and that's all I'm asking for.
Gentlemen, are you prepared to begin?
Let's go.
Let's do it, awesome.
Well, Mark, I'm gonna start my timer,
I'm gonna mute my mic, I ask that your opposition mute
during the presentation of whoever's giving
their presentation, so we don't hear any grunts or moans
in case, you know,
that happens, trust me, I've seen it,
and I'm gonna start my timer,
we're gonna go with 30 minutes,
and then when we get close to the end of the 30,
I'm not being rude, I'll put my finger up
with one minute left, if you're in the middle of a sentence,
I might go time, finish the sentence,
that's the end of your session,
and we'll move on to the next one.
All right.
All right.
Are you ready for me to share your screen?
Let's do it.
Time starting now.
Does credorism fail?
Yes, it does.
It fails to save the savior from his own false prophecies
about returning within the first century.
With convoluted, contorted, distorted,
Gordian knots of theological goo,
they claim all the second coming stuff happened in 70 AD,
but nobody saw it, or did they?
According to Don Preston,
in 70 AD, they saw the second coming of Jesus,
the resurrection of the dead,
the passing of heaven and earth,
and the arrival of the new Jerusalem.
But did they really see it?
Predorist John Bray claims they saw it.
The second coming, yes, they did,
not with a naked human eye,
but with the eyes of understanding and perception.
This was proof they saw it.
Wow, invisible evidence.
But how exactly did they see all this evidence?
According to Predorist Don Preston,
they saw it with the eyes of faith.
Blessed are those who have not seen, but have believed.
And that's the best they got, eyes of faith.
But try showing a judge your invisible evidence,
and next time you're in court, it ain't gonna fly.
It really would be better to have photos to go with it.
Here's a photo from 70 AD,
showing millions of dead people being resurrected worldwide.
And here's the arrival of the new Jerusalem.
Aren't those streets of gold just wonderful?
And here, clearly visible to the eyes of faith,
is the invisible Jesus,
with 10,000 trumpet-blowing angels that no one heard.
Now, if your eyes of faith maybe need a little help,
try these on for size.
Sad, Predorist glasses.
Anyway, the evidence for Predorism
is nothing more than make-believe, wishful thinking.
Nobody sees it, which is why I hope you can see
that Predorism fails.
It fails for many reasons,
such as convoluted, contorted, distorted, word definitions.
Predorists have no problem calling out others
for doing what they themselves are masters of,
putting words through a meat grinder.
Here is Predorist J. Stuart Russell condemning futurists.
Torture has been applied to these words
to extort from them some other meaning
than their obvious and natural one.
And here's another example of the kettle
calling the pot black.
Non-Predorist theologians won't accept the words of Jesus
in their plain and obvious sense.
Remember that, plain and obvious sense.
The fact is, however, Predorist themselves
are allergic to doing this.
And this self-blindness certainly earns them
a certificate of hypocrisy.
Why?
Because Predorist are the biggest offenders
when it comes to hypocrisy about words.
Words such as,
excuse me, words that support their theory,
those words are literal.
Words such as generation, aka guinea, eminent, soon,
quickly, at hand.
These are taken at face value as being literal.
However, words that do not support their theory,
those words are figurative.
And there's a whole bunch of words and phrases
that presto chango become figurative in Predorist lala land.
Take a few seconds to look these over.
Predorist transform these from literal to figurative
because it saves their savior from being a false prophet.
But how do they do that?
It's easy.
They just click their heels together and say,
whatever it takes, whatever saves the savior,
truth be damned.
And as long as you're making stuff up, how about this?
King Kong.
In 2005, because of too many gays in New Orleans,
Bible God sent King Kong on a cloud
to come in judgment against the city.
And with his mighty breath named Katrina,
King Kong blew it down.
If you weren't special enough to see this,
you need the eyes of faith.
Another reason Predorism fails is intellectual dishonesty.
One example of this is how they handle
a certain verse in 2 Peter.
This is what it says.
It will come the day of the Lord
as a thief in the night in which the heavens
with the rushing noise will pass away
and the elements with burning heat be dissolved
and the earth and the works in it shall be burnt up.
Per Predorism, all of this happened in 70 AD,
but obviously it did not,
which leads to cognitive dissonance.
To maintain their faith, this verse needed some tweaking.
Tweaking by misquoting the dictionary.
Predorus Max King, in his book, The Spirit of Prophecy,
claims to be quoting Vine's dictionary definition
of elements as used in 2 Peter.
This is what he wrote.
A thought for the literalists
on the fiery destruction passage is the word elements.
And the elements shall melt with fervent heat.
According to Vine, the word element in the scriptures
means the rudimentary principles of religion.
So, per Max, it's not the universe that gets destroyed,
it's some invisible principles, so problem solved.
Or is it?
Well, I happened to own a copy of this dictionary
and decided to fact check Mr. King.
That didn't turn out too good for him.
As it turns out, the actual definition for element
as used in 2 Peter is definition A.
A, the substance of the material world, 2 Peter 3.
In other words, according to Vines,
the entire universe is due to be destroyed
at the second coming.
The elements themselves will dissolve and melt away,
which did not happen in 70 A.D.
Now, here's the deception.
Here's what Max quoted, claiming it was for 2 Peter.
Definition C.
Definition C, the rudimentary principles of religion,
Colossians 2, et cetera, et cetera.
So, Mr. King pulled a fast one
and deliberately swapped the definitions.
But my question is this, if preterism is so true,
why does it need lies to support it?
Maybe this is why.
It requires lying because there's really nothing there.
They have to generate lies to save their savior
from his own false prophecies, but that's not all.
There's also con games and the gish gallop.
These tricks are used to support preterism,
the goal being to confuse you and tie you up in knots.
In fact, here's one of their favorite games, twister.
Twister, the preterist word game that ties you up in knots.
They deliberately set out to confuse and impress people,
jumping all over the place in rapid fire,
like someone ODing on too much Red Bull,
spitting out claims, the later pass off as facts.
As one ex-preterist wrote,
Preston is a master of minutia.
This method of debating allows the debater to win
simply by stringing together the most verses
and overwhelming their opponent.
This happens to be an old and dishonorable debate tactic
known as the gish gallop.
The gish gallop, aka dumping, or as Trump might put it,
I can lie faster than you can fact check.
Our attempts to make preterism look more solid
than it actually is.
In fact, it's nothing more than a rickety staircase.
A rickety staircase leading nowhere,
held in place with thoughts and prayers.
From a distance, it looks impressive,
but up close, falls apart.
And all those sticks, they want to bury you
in an avalanche of verbiage.
Fire hosing you in a rapid bing-bang boom.
It's very similar to the three-shell game,
one of the oldest cons ever played.
Their goal is confusion and deception, not truth.
How do you beat the three-shell game?
You slow it down and look under the shells.
That's what we're doing here.
For example, Jesus claimed this gospel
will be preached throughout the whole world,
then the end will come.
Well, this obviously had not happened by 70 AD.
So, Preterists call in the big guns, the apostle Paul,
who claimed of Christian missionaries back then
that their voice has gone out into all the earth
and their words to the ends of the world.
But there's still a problem.
The fact that this fact is not a fact.
No one in Japan or Australia heard the gospel back then.
Paul lied.
So, how does a Preterist get around this?
The old bait and switch.
And who better to do that than Gary Damar
and his book on Preterism, Last Day's Madness?
This is a book that overflows with gish gallops,
assumptions, masquerading as facts,
the three-shell games.
For example, let's see what he did to fix Paul's lie.
From his book, we read.
The word translated world and many translations
is the Greek word, okamini, the inhabited earth.
The prophecy clearly shows that the gospel
would be preached throughout the Roman Empire
before Jesus would return.
Did you catch the switcheroo here?
The inhabited earth magically shrunk down
to just the Roman Empire with no explanation.
He changed the impossible, preaching to the entire world,
into the possible bait and switch, the three-shell game.
But these kind of word games lead to a legitimate question.
If Preterism is so true and correct,
why are lies and tricks needed to support it?
In Damar's book, I counted over 34 places
where he pulled similar con games.
Preterism fails because it requires dishonesty.
It also fails because of jigsaw puzzle pieces
that just won't fit.
Preterists try to assemble the various pieces
of the predicted second coming
into a coherent jigsaw puzzle, but they fail.
The problem with the Preterist jigsaw puzzle is
there are some pieces of information that just won't fit,
no matter how hard they try to jam them in.
Of course, they could always claim
they've already fit the stubborn pieces in,
but they're invisible, which reminds me.
Never invite a Preterist to a church picnic.
You'll be disappointed, trust me.
But back to our jigsaw puzzle.
Here's one of the pieces that just won't fit.
Take a few seconds to look this over.
As you can see, half of the New Testament
was for non-Jews, ex-Pagans,
folks completely ignorant of the Old Testament.
So I don't care what even a billion Old Testament verses
might say.
It's irrelevant to the second coming argument.
Fact is, you shouldn't need a doctorate of divinity
to figure this all out.
Even if it is from the prestigious vision
International University of Ramona, California,
shown here in all its glory.
Maybe Don could use his doctorate of divinity powers
to explain things like Paul's advice against getting married.
Advice such as, it is good in view of the present distress
for a man to remain as he is,
i.e. single if already single.
Do not seek a wife.
The form of this world is passing away.
And concerning this, Don Preston writes,
Paul was assuredly counseling celibacy
as a direct result of the present distress.
Here's the problem.
Putting off weddings in the Greek city of Corinth
because of the present distress makes no sense
if the present distress is 100% limited to Jerusalem
as the Preterists teach.
And remember, Jerusalem is 836 miles away from Corinth,
further than Chicago is from New York.
Nothing that impacted only Jerusalem
would have affected Corinth.
This piece of their second coming puzzle does not fit.
For if Preterism were true,
there is no logical reason to forbid
Greek marriages in Corinth.
Another piece that doesn't fit their puzzle is Thessalonica,
another Greek city where the Greek Christians
were originally persecuted by Jews,
but later on by their pagan neighbors, as Paul says.
You also endured sufferings at the hands
of your own countrymen.
Their fellow Greek Gentile neighbors, not Jews,
had been persecuting them at that time.
So Paul promised revenge on these pagan Greek neighbors
when Preterist Jesus returned in 70 AD.
It is only just for God to repay with affliction.
Those who afflict you, i.e. their pagan neighbors,
when Jesus shall be revealed from heaven
dealing out retribution.
The problem is nothing happened in Thessalonica in 70 AD
that made the history books.
No fire from heaven, no retribution, nothing.
Fact is, Bible God could have nuked
a million Jews in Jerusalem.
It would have had zero impact on pagan Greeks
916 miles away.
Here's some more things that don't fit their puzzle.
Things promised but never delivered.
Some things were promised for 70 AD,
according to Preterism, but were never delivered.
Things like new bodies.
We shall be given new bodies when the last trumpet is blown.
We who are still alive shall suddenly have new bodies,
heavenly bodies that cannot perish, but will live forever.
New bodies he has promised us.
Bodies that will never be sick again and will never die.
If Preterism was true and all this happened in 70 AD,
some body would have noticed these bodies,
but they didn't because it never happened.
And here's more malarkey.
In 70 AD, per Preterism, we who are alive
and remain until the coming of the Lord shall be caught up
in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air.
If Preterism was true, the entire Roman Empire in 70 AD
would have eyewitnessed all Christians being vacuumed
up, up and away to never, never land, but they didn't
because it never happened.
And here's another problem for Preterists.
If this had happened and all Christians were removed
from the earth, then so too Christianity,
but it did not disappear.
And it continued, and its continued existence
disproves Preterism.
Here's something else that never happened in 70 AD.
A time of tribulation such has not occurred
since the beginning of the creation until now
and never shall.
This also never happened.
No one in the entire world, Romans or Greeks or Chinese,
noticed it.
This malarkey of Preterism fails to match with reality.
And here's another example of malarkey.
Paul, speaking of the second coming, predicted
there is about to be a rising again of the dead,
both of righteous and the unrighteous.
This massive worldwide resurrection of all dead people
happened in 70 AD, according to Preterists,
but it didn't happen.
Even China has no written records of this zombie invasion.
And for Preterism to claim it did happen,
but was invisible, undetectable, unnoticeable is a joke.
And for those who claim these things were limited
to the Jews and then only spiritually perceived
with the eyes of faith,
Paul wouldn't have wasted his time warning pagans
such as Felix or idol worshiping Greek philosophers
in Athens about a any day now zombie invasion
and judgment day.
If these were just for the Jews,
it'd be like Darth Vader threatening the Greeks
to change or he'd blow up the planet El Deiron.
Now, what about history?
It doesn't help Preterism either.
No ancient historians of that era took note of any
of the specific worldwide things we just covered.
No mention of judgment day, millions of zombies,
nor flying Christians.
The only one to come close is Josephus,
who claimed a cow gave birth to a lamb
and that some reported seeing soldiers running
among the clouds.
Of course, this doesn't help the Preterists at all
because their cloud riders are all invisible.
Preterism also fails to account for the existence
of the early church fathers.
If Jesus kidnapped all Christians off the planet
in 70 AD, thereby gutting and destroying Christianity,
and here's more puzzle pieces that don't fit.
False prophecies, even if Preterism is true.
Preterism, even if it was true,
still does not save the Savior from his own false prophecies.
For example, and while some were talking
about the temple, he said,
as for these things which you are observing,
the days will come when there will not be left
one stone upon another, which will not be torn down.
Per Jesus, these things, plural,
which would include the temple mount,
which you are observing,
which also would include the temple mount,
not one stone will be left upon another.
But as you can see from all the stones,
this prophecy remains unfulfilled,
which means if the Jesus of Preterism
actually returned in 70 AD,
these stones prove him a false prophet.
As this prophecy of his remains unfulfilled,
and there's even more problem for the Preterists.
33 AD, Jesus to Caiaphas,
you shall see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven.
46 AD, Caiaphas dies.
70 AD, Preterist Jesus returns.
Caiaphas doesn't see it.
Preterist Jesus equals a false prophet.
Both Orthodox and Preterist Jesus screwed this one up.
By either perspective,
Jesus proved himself a false prophet.
Caiaphas seeing Jesus' return never happened.
Other things also didn't happen in 70 AD,
such as the kings of the earth,
and every slave and free person hid themselves in cave.
Every single free person in the entire world
was hiding in a cave.
This did not happen.
Fail.
A third of the earth was burnt up.
A third of the ships were destroyed.
This also did not happen.
Fail.
A third of mankind was killed.
This as well never happened.
Fail.
Every living thing in the sea died.
Never happened.
Fail.
Fail.
None of these happened in 70 AD.
Preterism fails and fails and fails.
And it also fails to acknowledge that the Bible
clearly promises a visible second coming.
In fact, per the Bible,
it will be the most visible event
in the history of mankind.
As Don Preston writes,
Jehovah had ridden on the clouds many times
in the Old Testament and was perceived, but not visible.
Jehovah came on the clouds many times,
but was never visibly seen.
Of course, the real reason Jehovah is never seen
can be answered by any 10-year-old atheist.
He doesn't exist.
None of them do.
But back to Preterism.
They claim that in 70 AD,
Jesus returned invisibly
as Christ was not supposed to come bodily and visibly.
Many believers think that his return must be visible.
But where, where does the scripture say
that Jesus' return must be visible?
Where?
Where does it say he'll be visible?
I don't know.
Maybe here.
As lightning that comes from the east is visible
even in the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Everyone will see him clearly,
seen by everyone, seen everywhere.
He will be seen by everyone,
seen by everyone except Preterist.
But there's more.
Watch, for you know not what hour your Lord doth come.
Watch, watch, watch, watch.
By his appearing, the appearing of Jesus Christ,
the reappearing of Jesus Christ.
People are told to watch for things they can see
and reappear means he'll be as visible the second time
as he was the first, but there's still more.
Every eye will see him.
Preterist, what part of every eye do you not understand?
Instead of trying to explain this way,
why not follow your own damn advice
and accept the words of Jesus
in their plain and obvious sense
as one Preterist author advised.
Stop trying to explain this away.
This isn't rocket science.
The second coming is predicted to be visible
and the ascension story in Acts chapter one locks it in.
Where Luke writes to the non-Jewish expagent theopolis
that when he, Jesus had beheld these things,
while they beheld with their eyeballs,
he was taken up and a cloud, a visible cloud,
received them out of their sight,
their visible eyeball sight.
And while they looked, looked with their fleshly eyeballs,
steadfastly toward heaven as he went up,
with their eyes they saw the direction he was going.
Behold, two men stood by them in white apparel,
visible angels and visible robes of a visible color,
which also said ye men of Galilee,
why stand ye gazing up into heaven,
gazing with what eyeballs at what something visible.
This same Jesus, which has taken up from you into heaven,
shall come in like manner as ye have seen him go.
The like manner is the visibility of it.
Without doubt or quibble, however he returns,
it is promised to be as visible and seen as the going was.
And this did not happen in 70 AD, Predera's second coming.
So having weighed all the evidence,
we can answer the following question.
Does Prederaism fail?
Yes, and big time.
Their arguments melt away like snowflakes in a warm hand,
turning out to be nothing but convoluted explanation.
Time, sexual, cotton, candy.
They failed to reach their goal,
which is to save the saver from his own false prophecy.
Does it fail?
Yes, it does.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Mark.
I appreciate the presentation.
And now we're turning to Don K. Preston for 30 minutes, Don.
I'm gonna start my timer when you say go, I'm hitting it.
And do you...
Oh, you're muted, you're muted, sir.
Hold on, let me make sure you're unmuted.
There you are, there you are, you're unmuted.
Okay.
I couldn't get my stopwatch to work at all,
so and I just dropped my mouse.
Well, I have your, just so you know,
I'll keep track of time and make sure that 30 minutes
and then I'll give you the finger, not the middle one.
Yeah.
And then I'll let you know after the 60 seconds
and just butt in and say time
and then let you finish your sentence.
But let me know when you're ready and I'll hit the timer.
All right, let me go.
And I'll leave you, Mark,
that way there's no accidental communication.
Oh, he is muted, okay.
Can you see my...
Can you see my PowerPoint?
No, sir, can you share it at the bottom?
Do you see the present button?
Where do I find that?
On the StreamYard, at the bottom,
there's a little plus symbol in a screen
and it says present.
Present.
Hit that and then hit share.
Share the screen.
Yep, hit share screen, then click window.
Screen sharing is easiest with two monitors.
Screen sharing works best on a good computer.
Share the screen.
We'll do it like that.
Select the window or screen.
Huh, where did it go?
Select the window or screen.
It's not...
That's not the one I want at all.
Huh, well, I apologize for this.
Did you want to send it to me?
Because if you email it to me, I can open it for you.
I tell you what I will do.
I'm not going to use the entire presentation
of this particular one.
Okay.
I will use the charts that I want to use
and then I will return to the page where I will show up.
So you're not wanting it to be on the screen?
It says my browser has blocked my screen.
It may be you're not in Google Chrome.
I am not.
I am in Fox.
Okay, that's why.
That's why.
Okay, well, I apologize for that.
I should have gotten together with you on this.
Yeah.
But anyway.
Did you want to send me it?
Yeah, I did.
Did you want to send me it and I can open it for you?
That way you hit next and I can just press next for you.
But no, that's all right because like I said,
I'm not even sure exactly how many of the charts
I'm going to use from this particular PowerPoint.
Okay.
I've got several headings.
And so I'll just use the ones that I want
and then I'll come back to the screen with me on it.
So, and this will take the 30 minutes
by any stretch of the imagination.
Okay.
Sure.
I'll start your timer when you say go.
Go.
All right.
I'm going to mute.
Go ahead, sir.
All right.
To engage in this discussion,
I've been looking forward to it very, very much.
One of the main points,
one of the key points that Mark made repeatedly
during the, at least the second half
of his entire presentation,
that the idea of an invisible para-sea
and visible coming of the Lord is just ridiculous
because after all, the Bible uses the term
you will see like manner going and coming
of gotta be the same nature acts chapter one.
The Bible talks about every eye seeing him,
Revelation chapter one of verse seven.
And so over and over, Mark assures us that the concept
of Christ coming invisibly,
not being seen with the visible eye is absolutely ludicrous.
It's really unfortunate that Mark has such a lack
of understanding of Hebraic thought
and apocalyptic language
and the very nature of apocalyptic language.
Let me give just a few examples from history
and then I'll move into scripture.
Josephus tells us that at Mount Sinai,
lightnings and thunder, quote,
declared God to be their present, his para-sea.
The miraculous manifestation in the tabernacle
showed the presence, para-sea of God.
And by showing Elisha's servant,
the encircling chariots that nobody could see
except Elisha, God made manifest his servant
or to his servant, his power and presence
of para-sea, second Kings chapter six, verse 15 through 17.
So the idea is known in Josephus
about God not being visible to every single eye on earth.
And let me just make this very, very quick statement.
It is really lamentable that Mark imposes
a modern cosmology onto the ancient text.
He scoffs at the idea that the gospel
was preached into all of the world
because after all, nobody in China, nobody in Japan,
nobody in Australia, heard that gospel.
Well, guess what?
As Gary Demore pointed out,
and as most Bible scholars understand,
the Greek word, eukomini,
does refer to the known Roman world at the time.
It wasn't referring to the globe.
And so that's a completely inappropriate application
of a modern cosmology to the ancient text.
But let me continue.
When the Roman official Petronius tried to appease the Jews,
Josephus claimed that God did show his presence.
Now, this is an extremely, extremely stressful time
in Israel's history.
And so Petronius was trying to appease them
and Josephus claimed that, quote,
God did show his presence, his para-sea, to Petronius.
Well, how did he do that?
Did he come out of heaven as Mark would demand
that he would by the use of the word para-sea?
No, Josephus says God made known his para-sea
by sending rain.
And we have all sorts of references of the word para-sea
by Josephus, who was a first century contemporary of Paul
and thus using the Greek word para-sea
in similar ways as Paul would.
And para-sea meant an ongoing, even invisible presence.
We have many examples of this throughout the scriptures
and history, such as Josephus.
Then we have 2nd Maccabees, chapter 8, 21 to 24.
And this is fascinating.
This is the story of Judas beating Nicaenor,
the general of Antiochspiphanes
and the army of the Ptolemy and Antiochspiphanes.
Nicaenor had 20,000 troops.
Judas had 6,000.
Judas had Eleazar, the priest,
read from the scripture before the battle
and he urged the soldiers with these words.
Quote, Judas's words encouraged his men
and made them willing to die for their religion
and their country.
He then divided his army into four divisions,
22 of about 1,500 men each with himself
as brother Simon Joseph and Jonathan each
in charge of the division.
And after ordering Eleazar to read aloud
from the holy book, he gave his men the battle cry.
Now listen very carefully, God will help us
and personally lead the attack against Nicaenor.
Now, do you suppose that Judas really honestly thought
that God was gonna visibly come out of heaven
and go in front of the army?
No, he was using well-known Jewish apocalyptic
metaphoric language that was never intended to be taken
as Mark does in some rudently literalistic way.
And then notice what Paul says about God
in 1 Timothy chapter one.
Now to the King eternal immortal, invisible to God
who alone is wise be honoring glory forever and ever
for Timothy one or 17.
And watch this, before his incarnation,
Jesus was in the form of God.
He was invisible just like the father.
Then Jesus prayed that upon his ascension,
he would be restored to that former glory, John chapter 17.
And now father glorify me together with yourself
with the glory which I had with you before the world was.
So upon returning to the father, Jesus would come
as the father had come to be revealed
as king of kings and Lord of lords,
not as a five foot five Jewish man like Mark Smith demands.
Well, let's go on just a little bit.
Mark called attention to my book like father like son.
Jesus said, the son of man will come
in the glory of his father with his angels
and he will reward each man according to his works.
Assuredly I said to you, there's some standing here
which shall not taste to death
until they see the son of man coming in his kingdom.
Now one of the very few things that Mark and I would agree
on is that Jesus was predicting his coming
in that generation.
Well, Jesus said his coming was to be
in the glory of the father.
There is a broad consensus of scholarship
and that Jesus was saying he was going to come
in the same manner as the father had come.
Now, all Mark could do really is to scoff
at the idea that God had ever come.
But the fact is scripture affirms
that God had come many times, many, many times.
He had as a matter of fact come on the clouds.
With a shout, he had come in flaming fire.
Let's look at Samuel chapter 22.
David spoke the words to the Lord, the words of this song
on the day when the Lord had delivered him
from the hand of all of his enemies, from the hand of Saul.
So Saul is chasing David all around the countryside
to kill him.
David prayed to the Lord for deliverance.
And he said, in my distress I called upon the Lord
and I cried out to my God.
He heard my voice from his temple.
Here we go.
Then the earth shook and trembled.
No record of that literally happening.
The foundations of heaven quake and were shaken.
No record of that literally happening.
Smoke went up from his nostrils.
Wait a minute, he's the invisible God.
You don't see smoke coming out of the nostrils
of an invisible God and devouring fire from his mouth.
You don't see fire coming out of the mouth
of an invisible God.
Cows were kindled by it.
He bowed the heavens also.
Now watch this.
Nobody saw the literal physical heavens bowed down,
but David said it had happened in the past.
This is Jewish, Hebraic, apocalyptic language
that Mark seems to be ignorant of
either willingly or unwillingly.
He bowed the heavens also.
Now watch this.
He came down.
With darkness under his feet.
He rode upon a chair.
That's an angel.
He came with the angel.
Nobody saw angels and he flew.
Now Mark says God was never, ever, ever seen coming.
Well, David said he was seen up on the wings of the wind.
He made darkness, canopies around him,
dark waters and thick clouds.
So every single thing that Mark denied had ever happened,
the Bible affirms it had happened.
Now very quickly, let me jump forward to Isaiah chapter 64.
Isaiah is giving a prophecy the last days,
the time of Jesus.
And he says, oh, that you would rend the heavens.
Isaiah is wanting God to tear the heavens up,
destroy the earth.
Literally, physically, no.
Oh, that you would rend the heavens.
This is Isaiah 64, one to three.
Oh, that you would come down.
That the mountains might shake at your presence
as fire burns the brushwood,
as fire causes water to boil,
to make your name known to your adversaries.
That the nations may tremble at your presence.
That's from the, in the Septuagint,
that's from the Greek word prosopon,
which is directly related to Parosia.
It means presence.
It literally means face or nose.
Now watch Isaiah as he continues.
When you did past tense,
now remember he's asking God to come and do awesome things.
Now he's saying he wants him to come
as he had come in the past,
because when you did awesome things,
for which we did not look,
you came down.
The mountains shook at your presence.
So here is Isaiah and Israel wanting your way to come
as he had come in the past.
This is a prayer for the second coming.
But wait a minute.
Isaiah and Israel is wanting the Messiah to come
as the father had come.
And yet the father, although he had come many times
in the past, he had never come visibly or bodily.
He used one nation to judge another nation.
And this is the very truth that is taught
by covenant eschatology.
Now, look at very quickly,
look at Matthew 24 and verse 30.
Jesus said, then the son of the Son of Man
will appear in heaven.
And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn
and they will see the Son of Man coming
on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
Mark says, you had to see literally, visibly
with the eyes.
Mark says, you cannot see what is not visible.
Well, wait a minute.
The invisible God had come many times
in the Old Testament and had been seen.
Is that a contradiction?
No, it's metaphoric language.
Now, Jesus said they will see the sign
of the Son of Man in heaven.
That doesn't mean that there would be a literal visible sign.
You know, Jesus on writing on a cumulus cloud
as Mark tries to interpret Acts chapter one.
The meaning of the Greek there is that what they would see
in the events of the fall of Jerusalem,
the visible events of the fall of Jerusalem
was to be the sign that Jesus was enthroned
in the heavens as king of kings and Lord of lords
acting in the very same manner
as his father had acted many times before.
How had his father acted many times before?
Oh, he came out of heaven with fire, with a shout.
He destroyed heaven and earth.
He was seen, but none of it ever literally,
visibly happened.
So to reiterate, the fall of Jerusalem
was the visible sign of the invisible reality
that Christ was enthroned and was happening.
He was coming.
Finally, hold up, or I could give on this,
but nonetheless, when Jesus was asked by the Pharisees,
when the kingdom of God would come,
well, the kingdom of God would come with the Parasea,
the coming of the Lord.
Second Timothy chapter four, verse one,
I charge you therefore before God, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who is about to judge the living and the dead
at his kingdom and coming.
Mark alluded to that passage a while ago.
Okay, thank you very much.
Kingdom and Parasea goes hand in hand.
The Jews, the Pharisees asked Jesus
when the kingdom of God was going to come.
He said, the kingdom of God does not come with observation.
Nor will they say, see here, see there,
for indeed the kingdom of God is in your midst.
Now folks, look, the Jews, just like Mark,
have the same literalistic, woodenly literalistic concept
of the coming of the kingdom.
And Jesus categorically rejected that expectation.
So here's a syllogism.
The kingdom comes into Parasea.
The kingdom does not come with observation.
Therefore, the Parasea was not to come with observation.
Now, let me go back and hit some of the specific arguments
that Mark made.
And I specifically want to touch very, very quickly here
on Matthew 26.64.
He said, boy, this is a massive failure of preterism.
Jesus is in front of the Sanhedrin.
Jesus says to the Sanhedrin and Mark focuses on Caiaphas.
And he had a really nice chart there.
I love a lot of your charts, by the way, Mark.
Good stuff.
I don't agree with it, but they're pretty.
So anyway, Jesus said, you will see the Son of Man coming
on the clouds of heaven on the power of great glory.
That's a direct allusion back to Daniel chapter seven.
And Mark says, ah, preterism failed.
And Jesus lied because Caiaphas died.
And yeah, in 1990, they found his auxiliary.
We know when he died.
Yeah.
So Mark says, see, Jesus lied because Caiaphas died.
Caiaphas died way before 8070.
Well, here's the problem.
This is not very careful research on Mark's part.
The Greek of the text of Matthew 26.64
is in the second person plural.
Jesus was not addressing Caiaphas specifically
an individual.
He was addressing the entire Sanhedrin,
saying some of them, he didn't single out which ones.
He said, you as a body will see me coming
on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
What kind of language is he using?
Oh, that's the old testament language
that we've already established as metaphoric.
Then Mark says, oh, look, Jesus said,
do you not see all these things?
There's not one stone should be left standing on top of another.
Well, once again, this betrays a lack of research.
Jesus was talking about the temple proper.
The West wall was the retaining wall
of the temple, of the temple mount.
It was not the temple itself.
And so Mark is trying to be overly literalistic
in his application of the prophecy of Jesus,
where Jesus wasn't pointing to the outer wall
he was speaking of the temple.
Now watch, Mark then says, well, you know,
first, that's the only in chapter four,
we show on medium in the air.
Therefore, pardon me,
there should not have been any Christians left.
Well, if Mark would have read my book,
we shall meet him in the air,
the wedding of the king of kings.
Mark would have seen that the Greek word apontesis
that is used in first, that's only in chapter four.
Doesn't mean to come and get and take away.
It carried with it, and by the way,
this I document this extremely heavily.
I have probably what is one of the most in depth
linguistic studies of apontesis to be found anywhere
in this book, we shall meet him in the air.
This is a technical term that was used in the first century.
It's used by Josephus, pardon me,
it's used by a host of Roman historians, et cetera, et cetera.
The meaning of apontesis was a dignitary
was coming to visit a city.
Here's the city, dignitary was coming like this.
The leaders of the city would go out to meet him
and escort him back to the city.
There, he would dwell with them.
And guess what?
The whole idea is based upon the restoration
of the fellowship that was lost in Adam.
Heaven and earth were alienated through the sin of Adam.
What Jesus was going to come to do,
as Ephesians chapter one, 10 and following,
teaches us very clearly, was to restore the fellowship
between heaven and earth.
It wasn't to remove, pardon me,
the purpose of Christ's campaign was simply not,
as apontesis proves beyond a shadow of a doubt,
thus completely falsifying Mark's entire argument
about the removal of the church from the earth.
And therefore, how do we even have any early church writers?
How do we have Barnabas or Clement
or any of the other church writers?
Why weren't they raptured?
Because that's not the promise.
That is a total misunderstanding
of what Paul was teaching.
Paul was teaching that Christ was going to restore
fellowship between heaven and earth.
And as a result of that, he now dwells in us
and we in him.
Now, Mark says we have absolutely no record
of the gospel being preached in China
or being seen, Jesus being seen in China.
Well, once again, that's an abuse of Oikuminei.
That's an abuse of how it was used in the first century.
The New Testament writers, Romans included,
did not use Oikuminei to speak of China.
They didn't know about China probably.
There may be some question about that,
but the point of fact is that was not in the Roman Empire.
That was not considered as the world.
And so that's a misuse of the language.
And then he says, Mark says,
the great tribulation simply did not happen.
Well, once again, that is a failure to understand
the metaphoric and the hyperbolic nature of the language.
Jesus said then should be great tribulation,
such as it's not this, it's the beginning of the world
or ever shall be.
Well, you see, in the Old Testament,
that kind of language was used of the plagues of Egypt
in Exodus chapter eight.
That kind of language is used to speak
in a positive way of kings.
Oh, he was the best king there ever was.
There was never another king like him before or after.
And then later they talk of another king and say,
oh, see, there's never been a,
there'll never be another one,
never has been one like him,
never will be another one like him.
My precious wife just brought me some water.
Okay, to go on.
And then he makes a massive mistake by claiming
that in 2nd Thessalonians chapter one,
that it was pagan persecutors.
That it wasn't the Jews.
And I don't know where he got that to be honest.
I mean, I know what the argument is,
but it's not based on the text.
Paul established the church in the synagogue.
What's the synagogue?
It's where the Jews met.
When some of the unbelieving Jews
did not accept what Paul said, what did they do?
They went into the marketplace
and stirred up some of the unsavory fellows
and they persecuted the church.
Now, at the most that that could mean,
at the absolute most that could mean
is that you had both Jews and Gentiles.
But here's the question.
Who was instigating it?
It wasn't the pagans.
They were probably being paid money
by the Jews to persecute.
And Mark tries to make it a deal of the fact.
He says, well, they were their countrymen.
Well, let's see.
Did the Jews who lived in Thessalonica,
who attended the synagogue,
were they not the fellow countrymen
of the Thessalonian Christians,
who were converted out of the synagogue
along with many of the leading women and Greeks as well?
I'm not denying that there was a pagan element
of the church.
I'm simply pointing out it's totally inappropriate.
It's totally unjustified to say,
oh, there were no Jewish persecutors involved here.
Evidence simply does not support it.
And then he goes first Corinthians chapter seven
as well as second Thessalonians chapter one.
And he says, well, Paul forbade marriage.
Well, in the first place, he didn't forbid it.
He just simply said, it is good.
That's not a prohibition,
but he said it is good for the present distress,
not to be married.
And he scoffs and he says,
what in the world would the destruction of Jerusalem
800 miles away have to do with
the present distress in Corinth?
Same thing at Thessalonica 900 miles away.
Well, here's what Mark is clearly overlooking,
again willfully or otherwise.
In Alexandria, Egypt,
hundreds and hundreds of miles away from Jerusalem
in 66 AD, time in the beginning of the Jewish war,
and by the way, Mark mischaracterized Preterist
in saying, Preterist say that the war,
the Jewish war was strictly in Jerusalem and Judea.
I don't teach that.
So I don't know where Mark got that,
but that's a misrepresentation.
Anyway, in AD 66, in Alexandria, Egypt,
hundreds upon hundreds of miles away
from Jerusalem and Judea, guess what happened?
50,000 Jews were killed in one day by the Greeks.
You're trying to tell me that the Jewish war
didn't have any impact outside of Judea?
And by the way, there are many other cities
that Josephus names in which pagans rose up
because they knew the troubles in Jerusalem.
They used it as an excuse for insurrection
and they killed thousands upon thousands
upon thousands of Jews in these pagan cities.
It is therefore entirely inappropriate.
It is historically inaccurate to say,
well, you know, the Jewish war was strictly localized
in Jerusalem and people outside of Judea
would never have cared anything about it.
Well, what about the Jews who were dying by the thousands?
And by the way, in Luke chapter 21, 25 to 26,
Jesus said, during that time of the Jewish war,
distress would be coming on all the nations,
not just one, all the nations.
And anyone who has read Tacitus, Suetonius,
Deocasius and Josephus knows that even that first century
period of time was a period of one constant insurrection,
one constant civil war.
In my own research, I've documented at least 45
different warfares, insurrections and civil wars
that took place in the first century.
Now, let's talk about 2 Peter chapter three
and the Greek word stoikia.
He says Max King lied.
No, he didn't.
Max King gave one of the legitimate definitions
of the Greek word stoikia that are given
by Vines Theological Dictionary.
I've got a copy of it setting right over there.
So I know exactly what it says.
stoikia is first elements.
It can be a reference to earth, wind, fire and water,
physical elements.
It can also mean to an order of soldiers in progression
or as Vines Theological Dictionary says,
item number C, it can refer to the elementary
or rudimentary doctrines of anyone.
Now, here's what's fascinating.
2 Peter chapter three, Paul said, excuse me,
Peter and described in the coming, quote,
destruction of the earth and the elements therein
said he was teaching the same identical thing
that Paul did in all of his epistles
concerning the day of the Lord
and the destruction of the elements.
Well, here's something fascinating.
And I point this out.
In my book, I have an in-depth linguistic study
of stoikia, the element show melt with fervent heat.
So here's Peter.
Peter says, I'm teaching the same thing
about the destruction of the elements
that Paul did in his epistles.
Paul used the Greek word stoikia
some seven or eight times in all of his letters.
He used it in Colossians, particularly.
And he said that the Colossians had died
to the element stoikia of the world.
Now, was Paul saying that the Colossians
had died to physical creation?
Had they died to earth, wind, fire, and water?
Paul was no Gnostic.
Paul knew exactly what he was talking about.
What kind of elements was he talking about?
He was, the elements that he was talking about
is letting them judge you
in respect of new moon, feast days, and sabbaths.
Don't be subject to touch, not taste, not handle not.
Those are basic doctrines of the old covenant law.
Those are the elements of the law.
And thus, for Mark to say, oh, stoikia
can only mean physical elements.
I'm sorry, that is simply linguistically false.
It is doctrinally false.
And then, let me see here.
He says that Preterism fails to save Jesus
from his failed prophecies.
Preston says they saw it, but not with the eye.
Well, that's exactly what I've proven
in my PowerPoint presentation that I read from.
Jesus said he was going to come as the father had come.
He said he was going to come in the kingdom.
The kingdom does not come with observation.
He said, Paul said, second Corinthians,
chapter four, we don't look at the things that are seen
but on the things that are unseen.
What's he talking about in that text?
Resurrection.
So here's Paul saying, we're not looking for the things
that are seen but the things that are unseen.
Yet Mark says, no, no, no, they had to see it.
Well, how could they see it if they didn't see it?
Well, Isaiah 26 tells us, Lord, when your judgments
are in the earth, the righteous will learn wisdom.
But the wicked will see but they will not see.
And the resurrection is the subject of the text.
And here's Isaiah saying, when the Lord was acting
in resurrection, the righteous would understand
what was going on.
The wicked would see the same identical events
and go, I don't get it, I don't get it.
What's going on?
Until finally they would see because it would be too late
and they would perish in judgment.
That's Isaiah chapter 26, eight and following.
And so when Mark emphasizes absolute literal physical,
woodenly, literalistic seeing, he is not acknowledging
Hebraic apocalyptic language that is invariably
metaphoric, hyperbolic, non-literal.
And I could give passage after passage
that describes the past destruction of, quote,
heaven and earth.
Isaiah 13, Isaiah 24, Isaiah 34.
We could look at them in depth.
If we had the time, but we don't.
So when Jesus said he was going to come
as the father had come, and we see in the Old Testament
repeatedly, the father had come, the invisible God
had come many times with fire, the flames, the shout.
The earth shook, but none of it literally happened.
The father had come out of heaven, walked on the mountains.
He was seen, yet not visibly seen.
And Jesus said that was going to be the nature
of his parosia.
And thus, Mark's entire first affirmative
falls in light of what the Bible precisely says.
Thank you.
Thank you, Don.
Appreciate it.
Thank you both gentlemen for sticking rigorously
to your 30 minutes.
No, it was hard.
Yeah.
I can see you guys are definitely digging in here.
Mark's going to be doing a 10 minute rebuttal.
And then we're going to have Don do 10 minutes.
And then after that, we're going to be getting
to a 10 minute cross examination.
We'll let Don attack you first.
I'm going to use the word attack here.
We're in a battle.
So you're going to forget all that.
So we'll just play it one step at a time.
Mark, you have 10 minutes.
Let me know.
Are you, you don't need slides, do you?
I'll let you know if I do.
Okay.
Okay.
So you want me to hit start?
No.
Let me just go through with the verbal stuff first.
No, I mean, do you want me to go ahead and start the time?
Oh yeah.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Nope, you're fine.
Ready, set, go.
Yeah.
Let me start my time too.
Hold on.
Okay.
First of all, the reason I pointed out that half,
over half of the New Testament was written to non-Jews.
Is because I know from reading several of Don's books
that he is completely immersed
in the Old Testament Jewish theology.
Totally irrelevant to the topic of the second coming.
I'm not even going to bother responding
to his constant Old Testament,
Isaiah, Jewish, Hebraic, apocalyptic language,
blah, blah, blah.
Isaiah saw chasing David, Jewish, apocalyptic language,
second Maccabees, army divided, Elijah could see the chariots,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
It doesn't matter.
Most of the people that the New Testament was written to
were pagans.
They weren't Jews, they were raised as pagans
and probably a lot of them couldn't even read.
They would have taken the words of Jesus and Paul
at face value in their plain and obvious sense
as your own Preterus author,
J. Stuart Russell pleaded for.
Instead, we got Don meandering about metaphoric language,
apocalyptic language, what else we got here.
Hebraic, apocalyptic language, hyperbolic.
All this, what happened to the advice
that your own Preterus author gave the rest of us?
Take Jesus in the plain and obvious sense
that he spoke these words.
You don't need to get all technical
and Old Testament with this stuff.
Except, of course, when figurative language
suits your arguments, that's when you bring this stuff in.
When literal language suits your argument,
such as the word Milo in the Greek,
you definitely bash people over the head with that,
the futurists.
Why aren't you people taking this word seriously?
Yeah, you guys are hypocrites, I'm sorry.
Okay, on to specific points.
The ascension of Jesus, I noticed
basically he skipped over that.
If, I would like to ask Don a question,
but it's just a hypothetical question,
I don't want him to answer it.
How could the author of Acts, Dr. Luke,
had made it any more clear
that the return of Jesus was gonna be visible?
I don't know how he possibly could have specified it
to make it even more obvious
that the expected anticipated second coming of Jesus
was to be as visible as his ascension.
You skipped over that, you really did.
And in your books, I kept waiting for you
to deal with Acts chapter one, you skip over it.
And for good reason, you have no answer for it.
You keep in your books talking about,
well, the bodily, Jesus lost his body when he went to heaven,
therefore he'd be invisible, nobody could see him.
Excuse me, your guide is unable to make spirits visible.
Your guide has to have things in a body
for them to be visible.
There are plenty of things that don't have bodies
that are visible, tornadoes, trees, water,
for you to cop out and say,
well, because Jesus lost his earthly body,
he would come back invisibly.
That's a bunch of malarkey, I'm sorry.
And Acts chapter one is the death knell
of the invisible Jesus that you guys claim
returned in 70 AD.
As for, let's see what else here.
As for Caiaphas, yes, I know the word you is plural,
but Caiaphas is the one who had just talked to Jesus.
So when Jesus said, you will see,
obviously that included Caiaphas
and it included other people in the room, you, et cetera.
For Caiaphas to have died before that happened
is a clear false prophecy.
Caiaphas would have been 99% of that you.
The other people in the room would be peripheral.
Learn your Greek, sir, thank you very much.
As far as Jesus and the temple,
Jesus said very clearly the things you have been looking at,
you cannot look at the temple back then
without seeing the temple mount.
Try building a temple without a foundation.
It's impossible.
The foundation is part and parcel
of every building on the face of this earth.
For you guys to claim that,
well, the temple doesn't include the foundation,
that's ridiculous.
I'm an engineer, I know that much.
Without a foundation, you have no building.
The stones that the apostles were looking at,
a lot of them are still there
and that proves Jesus a false prophet.
You can't just willy-nilly say,
well, it's only the temple, but no,
the foundation is part of the building.
As far as the rapture that no Christians
will be left behind, what I said, et cetera, et cetera,
you said it wasn't the removal of the Christians.
Sorry, but taking the words of Paul
in the plain and obvious sense,
as you progress demand we do,
yeah, these people would have been caught up in the air
and taken off the earth.
That's the plain and obvious sense of the language.
You don't have to get into a bunch of old testament nooks
and crannies and try to obfuscate and confuse the issue,
which is exactly what you were doing in the Old Testament.
You're like an octopus that squirts ink out,
hoping to obscure and make confusing.
What is very plain and simple to see?
The ex pagan Christians who were reading this
would have taken it at face value,
that okay, we're gonna be caught up in the air
and we're gonna get new bodies
and there's gonna be a worldwide massive tribulation,
a resurrection, et cetera, et cetera.
They would have taken all of these things at face value,
just like Jay Stewart Russell demanded.
The only reason the Preterists try to spiritualize all this
is because they're trying to fit that piece of the puzzle
in, which obviously doesn't fit.
As far as the word,
the word world doesn't mean China,
the inhabited earth, et cetera, et cetera.
There was trade with India going on at that time.
There was trade with the Middle East.
There was trade with the Gallic countries.
There was trade with England.
There was trade with North Africa, Libya, all those countries.
None of those people saw any of these things.
Even if you limited it to the Roman Empire,
they did not see the promised resurrection of dead bodies.
They did not see zombies wandering around their streets.
They didn't see any of this,
especially the book of Revelation, those quotations.
And you believe the book of Revelation
was completely fulfilled before the end of AD 70.
None of those things happened.
Every living thing in the ocean did not die.
One third of mankind did not die.
All of mankind, free and slave, was not hiding in caves.
That is BS.
It did not happen in 70 AD.
And that's the reason you retreat to figurative language.
You see it with the eye of faith.
You sound like a Mormon.
For Thessalonians, it wasn't the pagans
persecuting the Jews.
Excuse me, it says countrymen.
Yes, Book of Acts says that the Jews originally
were persecuting the Thessalonians.
But when Paul wrote first Thessalonians,
he says, you're fellow countrymen.
That means Greek pagans, not a bunch of Jews.
And nothing happened to those Greek pagans
that were persecuting the Jews in Thessalonica.
Nothing.
As far as marriage, you still didn't explain
why Greek Christians in Corinth can't get married
because of what was happening to Jews in Jerusalem.
You completely avoided that topic.
Thank you very much.
And as far as Max King didn't lie in quoting vines,
I showed photos of the actual page out of vines.
Yes, Max King lied, as most Preterists do.
You can't maintain your position without lying
and a whole bunch of hoopla.
To be honest, I'm disgusted with Preterism.
I thought it was gonna be a way to save the Savior
and it's just a bunch of malarkey, it's hot air.
Time.
And I'm done.
All right, thank you, Mark, for that.
10 minutes to you, Don, and unmuting you, muting Mark.
Let me know when to hit the go.
Oh.
Can you hear me?
Yes, sir.
Oh, very good.
All right, outstanding.
Let me do one more thing back here.
Just let me know.
Yeah, you just let me know and I'll hit it.
Okay.
Let's do this.
All right, ready?
Go ahead.
All right.
Mark goes back to the issue of over half
of Paul's epistles were pagans.
And he said,
Preston's reference to the Old Testament
is totally irrelevant.
Preston's emphasis on God coming in the Old Testament
and it being metaphoric language, apocalyptic language,
all totally relevant.
And he said, I'm not even going to address it.
Well, no wonder.
No wonder he doesn't want to address that.
Here's the fact, folks.
Paul said his gospel,
the gospel that he preached in Corinth in Ephesus,
in Colossae, in Thessalonica.
Guess where Paul got it from the Old Testament?
Guess where he preached it first in the synagogues.
And in Acts chapter 13, for instance,
he preached in the synagogue of Pasidia first
and then Antioch or in Antioch of Pasidia.
And the Jews at first would not accept it.
Then the pagans did.
Well, what were the pagans doing there?
Because it's just simply a historical fact
that many, many, many pagans attended the Jewish synagogues.
There were several different layers of pagans.
You have what I call, for lack of better terminology,
straight pagans.
Those are the people who went to the pagan temples
of Aphrodite, Dionysius, et cetera, et cetera.
There were also a massive number.
Josephus records it, Tacitus records it,
of Gentiles who attended the Jewish synagogues.
Now there were two different classes of them.
There were what they called the Siebelmine, the God-fearers.
They were pagans, they were uncircumcised,
but they attended the Jewish synagogue.
They were Gentiles.
And then there were the circumcised, in other words,
pardon me, the proselytes.
So guess what they learned when they attended the synagogue?
They learned that Old Testament
that Mark so bitterly resents Paul appealing to.
Well, I'm sorry, it's Paul who is at stake here.
And it's Paul who said Acts chapter 26, 21.
And now having obtained help from God,
I stand before small and great.
He stood before Gentiles.
He stood before Greeks.
He stood before Roman governors.
And he says, I stand before small and great,
preaching no other thing
than what Moses and the prophets said should come.
And that is that Christ will be the first to be raised
from the dead and preach life and life to the Gentiles.
So according to Mark,
these pagan Gentiles had no interest in,
no association with anything from the Old Testament.
They would have thought any tries to appeal
to taking language literal at face value.
Well, yeah, you take language at face value
within its zets in Lebanon,
what the German scholars called those zets in Lebanon.
You take the language at face value
within the cultural, social, religious milieu
in which it was used.
Mark wants to take Paul's use of Old Testament,
prophetic language, which he quotes time and time again
when he's speaking to Gentile audiences, by the way.
And Mark would go, Paul, Paul, you gotta cut this out, dude.
What do you preach into these pagans
for out of the Old Testament?
They don't know that.
They don't care anything about that.
Paul said, because they're supposed to know it,
because they're salvation.
The salvation of Gentiles is dependent
upon the fulfillment of God's Old Covenant promises
made to Old Covenant Israel.
Gentiles had no hope of salvation apart from,
divorced from the fulfillment of God's Old Covenant promises
made to Old Covenant Israel.
Luke, who was a Gentile, wrote the gospel
and the book of Acts.
What are they about?
The restoration of Israel in Jesus Christ.
Now, what is a Gentile doing writing about the fulfillment
of all these Old Testament prophecies?
Over and over and over in the book of Luke,
over and over, even in the book of Acts,
and especially even in the book of Acts,
we have Luke appealing to these stories
from the Old Testament and showing them to be fulfilled
in Jesus Christ and the establishment of the church.
Why is he doing this?
According to Mark, it's totally irrelevant.
He should have been doing it.
He's out of line.
Well, Luke didn't think he was out of line.
Paul didn't think he was out of line.
Paul was doing what he was doing
because he knew no pagan had any hope of salvation
unless and until God fulfilled his Old Covenant promises
made to Old Covenant Israel.
That's found all throughout the book of Isaiah.
It is absolutely undeniable.
And therefore, when Mark says,
well, all that Preston does is appeal
to this apocalyptic Old Testament language,
I'm not even going to address it.
Well, Paul did and Paul used it in writing to
and debating with Gentiles.
Where do you think he's got it?
He got his doctrine of the judgment of the world
standing on the Areopagus Athens Acts chapter 17.
God's going to judge the world.
He got that from Psalms 98.
He got that from Isaiah 45.
He got that from a host of Old Testament prophecies
that were made to and about Old Covenant Israel.
So it's totally, totally inappropriate.
Mark's entire premise here of the division and dichotomy
between pagans and Paul's use of the Old Testament
and therefore Preston's totally out of line
in appealing to those Old Testament apocalyptic passages
is totally false, has no merit whatsoever.
Okay.
And then he says, well, I ignored the ascension.
No, I made a couple of different references to it, Mark.
I guess you just simply missed that.
I pointed out that all of these other passages
that you apply to the same passage of Acts chapter one,
I told you they did not mean anything closely resembling
what you claim they did.
Now, let's take real quick note of what the angel said.
This same Jesus whom you have seen taken up from you.
Now notice there's two things at stake here.
He shall come in like manner.
Well, that term translated in like manner
is from the Greek term home tropon.
You told me I would have learned the Greek.
Well, I did. Thank you very much.
Home tropon doesn't mean
in an exact precise physical likeness.
Matthew chapter 23, verse 37, or Jerusalem, Jerusalem.
How often I would have gathered you together
as from the Greek term home tropon,
on the other hand, gathers her chicks.
Now, was Jesus saying, you know,
I would just literally like to spread my arms
and just gather Jerusalem right under my arms.
How silly.
Second Timothy chapter three, verse eight, six to eight.
Paul said, as home tropon,
James and James, James Breeze,
withstood Moses.
So these evil men will do likewise.
Well, was Paul saying that the evil men
that he was talking about
gonna turn their staffs into snakes?
Was he saying that they were gonna turn water into blood?
No.
It's a general likeness.
It's not precise likeness.
Therefore, Mark's emphasis
on a five foot five Jewish man ascending into heaven.
And he said, I ignored that.
Well, let's see.
He completely ignored the fact that Jesus said,
the kingdom does not come with observation,
but the kingdom comes at the time of the Pharisee.
Therefore, the Pharisee would be unseen.
Not a word about it.
He completely ignored the fact that Paul said,
we're not looking at the things that are seen,
but at the things that are unseen.
And he's talking about the resurrection.
He completely ignored passage after passage
in which I adduced the invisible coming of the Lord.
Well, let's look at Revelation chapter one verse seven
because he said, every eye has got to mean every eye.
Well, let's see.
Because he comes with the clouds
and every eye shall see him.
Now watch this.
This is what's known in the Greek
as an epixegetical usage
when he says, even those who pierced him.
You want the explanation and the definition of every eye?
It is even those who pierced him.
It's taken directly out of Zechariah chapter 12.
Another one of those Old Testament prophecies
that Mark says, we ought to just totally ignore.
But the New Testament writers didn't ignore them.
They used them because they were anticipating
the fulfillment of those Old Testament prophecies.
Okay.
And then he says, well, my argument on Caiaphas is wrong
because Caiaphas is the one that had been talking.
That's not the point.
He says he knows it's in the plural.
Well, why not honor the fact that it's in the plural
and say, no, it had to be Caiaphas personally.
No, it didn't.
He is speaking to the Sanhedrin as a corporate body.
And then he completely turns my words around
in regard to the temple.
I took note of the fact that it was the Western wall.
I never said it was the temple
that was still standing today.
I said, it's the Western wall.
And Jesus was speaking of the temple itself
when he said not one stone should be left standing.
So Mark takes my words and twists them around
and this represents what I had to say.
Now I want you to notice, folks,
he completely and totally ignored the Greek word
opontesis and what it means.
He said the first Thessalonians chapter four.
Okay. Thank you.
Either way, we're moving into the next session here,
which is gonna be cross examination, gentlemen.
So Don's gonna be the first one,
kind of like the lawyer who's gonna be asking questions
to Mark and Mark will be answering those,
not with a question, but with answers as much as he can.
And then after the 10 minutes of that,
we'll allow Mark to ask Don questions.
And then we're gonna be getting
to five minute closings each.
Get your questions in via super chat.
I appreciate all the support so far.
Hit the like button.
I don't care what side you're on.
Even if you disagree,
if you want this information to make it out there,
the algorithm notices this stuff.
So if you want this to go far and wide,
like the video, comment, share, et cetera.
Okay. I'm gonna get my timer here for 10 minutes.
Don, let me know when you're ready
and Mark, give me a thumbs up or just let me know.
So I'm asking questions here.
Yes, sir. You're asking Mark.
You ready?
Derek, one question.
I thought the 10 minutes was gonna be broken up between us.
For 10 minutes, him and I would have an open discussion.
Not that he gets 10 minutes and I get 10 minutes.
Don, how do you wanna do it?
It's irrelevant to me.
I don't care, Mark.
What's your preference?
I would prefer a 10 minute total,
just back and forth question.
Just back and forth? Okay.
Okay, so 10 minutes total instead of 10 and 10.
So just 10 total cross-exam.
Yeah, discussion across examination.
For 10 minutes, yeah, just 10 minutes.
Now, with the caveat that one man
not dominate the entire discussion.
I agree.
Sounds good to me.
Okay. I'll just butt in if I feel like that's happening.
There you go.
Cool. All right.
Starting the timer now.
Okay, Mark, I called attention to the fact
that upon thesis, the Greek word and this is well-attested.
I don't know if you've ever studied it.
So I'm not gonna take the time to document this
from Josephus.
It's documented in a host of both Roman, Greek,
it's in the lexicans, et cetera, et cetera.
Upon thesis does not mean to come and take away.
That's simply not its mean.
It means a dignitary was going to come to visit, to stay
and the citizens of that city came out to meet them
and escorted them back to the city
and they dwelt there together.
What is your justification for denying that application
and saying that the text does in fact talk about a rapture
and a removal of the church from the earth?
Well, taking the advice of the Preterus J. Stuart Russell,
I am merely letting the Bible speak for itself,
taking Bible things and Bible words.
The plain and obvious sense of that language,
if you were to ask a hundred people on the street
after telling them that, what does it mean?
They would say, Jesus was coming back to rapture people
to get people and bring them up into the sky.
That's the plain and obvious language.
You don't have to retreat to the intricacies of Greek
to try to wiggle your way out of that.
That's how most Christianity interprets that.
So that's my answer to that.
It's taking the words at their face value, you're not.
Well, point of fact is I am taking the text
on face value based upon the Greek
and the New Testament is simply the translation
of the Greek that has been misunderstood.
That's simply undeniable.
I don't care if you'd accept it or not,
but the fact is from the Greek language,
it is an absolute undeniable reality.
Apontesis meant to come to be met and to be escorted back.
It doesn't mean to remove.
That's simply not the plain meaning
and you keep referring to, you know, J. Stuart Russell.
That's all fine and good.
I respect a lot that he did.
J. Stuart Russell, by the way,
acknowledged the highly metaphoric,
apocalyptic nature of the language that you deny.
Well, I've already dealt with this.
My turn?
I suppose so, yeah.
Okay.
To me, Acts chapter one and the ascension story,
it cannot get any clearer
that as Jesus was visibly seen leaving,
he would be visibly seen arriving back
for a second coming.
Whether he's got a body or not, I don't care.
You're stuck on the body thing, it doesn't matter.
However he was coming back,
he was gonna be visibly seen.
Don, I want you to tell me if the writer of Acts
really, really meant that Jesus was gonna be visibly seen
at a second coming, how might he have phrased it?
Cause I can't see how he could have gotten
any more specific.
Go ahead, you got a minute.
Okay, well, I think that's actually
quite a legitimate question
if that is what he was trying to convey.
However, I've already pointed out
that the Greek term home tropone
does not indicate what you are claiming that it indicates.
And when you look at that term, home tropone,
and it does, it never, hardly ever,
hardly ever means specifically and explicitly the same,
but rather in some vague generality.
Now, you just said you don't care
if he had a body or not.
Well, that must mean you don't care if he's invisible or not,
which means he could come back invisibly.
Well, as a point of fact out,
I have already demonstrated.
Now, let's look at it like this.
The coming of Acts chapter one
is the coming of Matthew chapter 24, 29 through 34.
But the coming of Matthew chapter 24, 29 to 34
would be the coming of Christ
in the glory of the Father of Matthew 16.
Don, I love your answering,
but you're not answering my question.
I want you to pretend to be the author of Acts.
And I want you to tell me how,
if Jesus really was gonna come back visibly,
how would he have worded it?
Now, answer that question, please.
Don't change the subject.
Well, I didn't change the subject.
I addressed the subject.
You're not answering my question.
Answer my question.
No, I did answer it very quickly.
By showing that in like manner,
does it mean what you are imposing on it?
Then what would mean that?
That's what I want you to answer.
Pretend that you knew Jesus was coming back visibly.
How would you have put it in writing
to make that obvious?
I don't know.
I might choose any number of the words
that were available even in the Greek at that time,
none of which are used in that text.
And as I said, I think it is a legitimate question.
I've said that for years and years and years.
My point of it is that when you compare Acts chapter one
with all of these other passages,
none of which can be taken literally.
It was kind of like one author,
very, very noted Christian apologetics
and Christian hermeneutic, Milton Terry, 19th century.
He said this, no matter what we may think of Acts chapter one,
since it is the same as 1 Corinthians 15,
1 Thessalonians 4, and all of these other passages,
all of which are placed in the first century unequivocally,
then we cannot negate or take Acts chapter one
and impose on it some literalistic application
that these other passages do not bear.
You're not answering my question.
I just did answer it.
No, no.
I'm expecting an answer like,
you will see Jesus with your own eyes,
visibly he will be absolutely seen physically by eyeballs.
That's the kind of answer you would use
if he absolutely positively wanted to make it visible.
The fact is Acts chapter one
doesn't just say they'll see Jesus.
It talks about gazing.
It talks about visually seeing.
It goes into a dozen different ways
to emphasize this will be visible.
You can't, you cannot make it any more visible
than what Luke made it in the first chapter of Acts.
And you are deliberately avoiding answering that
because Acts chapter one pulls a rug out from under preterism.
I don't know how many more,
I don't know how many more ways
I can answer it than what I have.
You didn't answer it, but go on with your,
ask me a question.
Ask me a question.
If Luke wanted to convey the idea
that the coming of Acts chapter one
was of the same identical nature
of the unseen coming of Christ of Matthew 24
and the clouds of heaven, clouds, Matthew 24,
clouds, Acts chapter one.
Power and great glory.
They will see him on the clouds,
but it's an invisible coming
because it's a coming in the glory of the father,
like the father had come.
It's as if it was all his life.
No, no, no, no, no, don't interrupt me now.
I didn't interrupt you, so don't interrupt me.
Where's the question?
I'm getting to the question, okay?
Acts chapter one, how do you divorce Acts chapter one
from the entire database of the nature
of the coming of the Lord that is found
in reference solidly from the Old Testament,
applied in the New Testament as a optically invisible event.
That's a contradiction in terms, optically invisible.
That's Balderdash.
Now you've gotten into the rickety part of Preterism.
Okay, let me ask you a question to follow up on that.
When David said that God was seen writing on the clouds,
coming out of heaven to deliver him from soul,
how could he have said words any different?
Again, I don't care about the Old Testament.
You come up with the Old Testament all day long.
I'm not gonna waste my time.
Well, was Paul wasting his time when he used nothing
but the Old Testament to prove the coming of the Lord,
the judgment, the resurrection?
Was Paul out of line?
Paul, when speaking to the Greeks on Mars Hill,
was not using the Old Testament when he said,
when he was talking about his God, the unknown God.
There's no unknown God in the Old Testament.
Paul was dealing with them on their level.
When you say that Paul wasn't using the Old Testament,
that's simply not true because he was drawing from Psalms 98,
the Lord would judge the world.
He was drawing on Isaiah 44, he was in 45.
He was drawing on a host of Old Testament prophecies.
That specifically said, the Lord will come and judge the world.
And for you to say, by the way, by the way,
when you say that there was no unknown God,
there was the Asherah, there was the partner of Astero,
there was a variety and a host of gods
that were not true gods.
That's why he calls them unknown, they were unknown.
Though there may be many that are called gods,
yet there is but one God.
That's the sense in which Paul was using that.
So for you to ignore the Old Testament,
it says irrelevant, you're completely discounting
the entire database of Paul's eschatology and theology
because remember, as I've already proven.
Paul said, and Luke taught the same thing.
Their doctrine, their entire eschatology,
their entire gospel was nothing but the expectation
of the fulfillment of God's Old Covenant promises
may double Covenant Israel.
And you can scoff at it, all you want, it doesn't matter.
Time.
So that was the end of the 10.
So are we only doing 10 for cross-examined
and then doing, we're doing our five-minute.
Five-minute summation.
Okay, all right, so Mark, you're first on that, five minutes.
Okay, and if you'll put my PowerPoint back up.
Okay, and then I'm gonna have Don do five
and then we're getting a Q and A.
So if you have any questions, critiques, comments, whatever,
feel free to super chat those
and we will get to them shortly.
All right, pulling up your, you said you wanted it up?
Yeah.
Okay, so let me know when and I'll hit start.
I'm gonna mute you, Don.
I'll just remember to unmute you when time starts.
On your mark, get set, go.
Gotcha.
As predatorism fail.
Predatorism fails without contortions
and distortions of words.
Predatorism fails without lies and intellectual dishonesty.
Predatorism fails as the universe didn't dissolve
in their second coming.
Predatorism fails without con games and the gish gallops.
Predatorism fails as the gospel was not preached
worldwide back then.
Predatorism fails as you don't need a PhD
in the Old Testament theology
to understand New Testament eschatology.
Predatorism fails to explain the halting of Greek weddings.
Predatorism fails to explain the lack of revenge
on the pagans in Thessalonica.
Predatorism fails to explain the lack of new bodies
on old Christians.
Predatorism fails to explain the lack of flying Christians.
Predatorism fails to explain how if Christianity
was removed from the earth in 70 AD,
how was it still around a year later?
Predatorism fails as there was not a worldwide massacre
back then.
Predatorism fails as Christian zombies never showed up.
Predatorism fails as ancient historians
saw nothing of it in 70 AD.
Predatorism fails as all church fathers
failed to notice anything.
Predatorism fails as temple stones
are still one atop the other.
Predatorism fails as Caiaphas never saw
the second coming promised him.
So in answer to the where question of Predatoris,
where does the scripture say that Jesus' return
must be visible?
Here, Jesus shall come in like manner
as you have seen with your eyeballs him go.
You can't get more specific than that.
Anybody reading this verse with an open heart knows
for a fact that Jesus was to come in the same manner
they saw him go.
How did they see him go?
Visibly.
So without a doubt, it's obvious.
Predatorism fails.
Predatorism fails to explain away
the false prophecies of Jesus and company.
For more information on this and the second coming,
I have a book available,
Broken Promises, Jesus and the Second Coming.
Just search Amazon for Broken Promises, Jesus,
and it will pop right up.
Thank you very much, I yield my time.
Thank you very much, Mark, I appreciate that.
Two minutes you had left, cool.
Don, oh, you're muted, Don, sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, put those charts back up there,
here's the initial charts.
Here's a what?
Those charts that you just put up.
You talking about this?
No, the previous ones, you don't go back.
What were the 19 reasons or something?
Yeah, yeah, I'll never go back, yeah, there you go.
You want to respond to all of those?
I do.
Okay, so let me know before we hit start.
Let's go.
Ready, set, go.
Predatorism does not fail
because it does not distort the meaning of words,
for instance, opontesis.
It is Mark Smith that is contorted
and distorted the meaning of opontesis.
He makes it coming and removing,
but it doesn't mean that.
Predatorism works and does not fail
because it doesn't lie,
because it uses the word stoikia
in precisely one of the ways
that Vines Dictionary says
that it was supposed to be used.
Max King didn't lie.
Predatorism does not fail
because Peter did not predict the dissolution
of the universe because he used the word stoikia,
which Paul, and he said he was using it,
just like Paul was using it,
but Paul used it to talk about the basic elements
of the Jewish doctrine, not the material universe.
Predatorism works.
Predatorism is successful
because the gospel was preached to the known world.
In the first century,
Mark talked about these far-fung places.
Those were not in the Roman Empire.
The Roman Empire was the known civilized world
under the rubric of Oikumine.
Predatorism, no, you don't need a PhD
to understand Predatorism, to accept it, and to love it,
and you don't need a PhD in the Old Testament.
However, you do have to honor what Paul, Peter, James,
every one of the New Testament writers said,
that is their doctrine.
Folks, if you don't get anything else out of this,
just remember, Mark Smith said,
the Old Testament is totally irrelevant
to the meaning of the New Testament eschatology,
to the doctrine of the coming of the Lord.
Paul didn't believe that.
Paul said his doctrine of the resurrection
was from Moses, the law and the prophets,
and nowhere else.
Thus, when Mark Smith on this debate said,
I'm not gonna deal with the Old Testament,
well, number one, I don't blame him
because it totally destroys his skepticism.
But secondly, he's simply denying the emphatic,
specific, explicit words of the New Testament writers
that their eschatology was nothing.
But the expectation of the imminent fulfillment
of the Old Testament promises
made the Old Covenant Israel.
Number seven,
Preterism fails, he said,
because you have to explain the halting of Greek weddings.
Well, number one, Paul did not forbid weddings.
He just simply said it's best
for the because of the present distress,
and I demonstrated there was distress
throughout the Roman Empire.
At the time this was going on,
thousands upon thousands of Jews,
turmoil in city after city after city.
By the way, there was a massive, massive famine
taking place in the Corinthian area at the time Paul wrote.
There's part of your present distress.
Number eight, he says,
Preterism fails so the lack of revenge on pagans.
Well, he actually admitted, yeah, Jews did participate.
Well, the Jews were the movers and the shakers,
the instigators of the persecution.
That's who Paul is talking about.
When he said it is a righteous thing
with God to repay with tribulation,
those who are troubling you.
And I asked the question,
I don't think Mark ever answered it,
were the Jews who lived in Thessalonica,
who attended the synagogue,
were they the fellow citizens,
fellow countrymen of the church members?
Never answered that.
Well, Preterism works
because the Bible never promised new physical bodies
for old Christian bodies.
Next chart, next page.
Number 10, he says,
Preterism fails to explain the lack of flying Christians.
That's because we don't have to explain that
because the Bible never predicted
the flying of Christians off of earth.
That is a completely false claim.
Number 11, Preterism fails to explain
how Christianity was removed from the earth,
had to still around a year later.
Well, again, false premise.
God didn't remove Christianity from the earth.
Preterism works
because the Great Tribulation did take place
in the first century.
Let me just go on.
Preterism fails
because all church fathers failed to notice anything.
Well, Athanasius said Christ had conquered death.
Chrysostom talked about this coming of Christ.
These men knew.
Now, were they still futures?
Yes.
Did they know that Christ had come?
Eusebius said Christ came in flaming fire in AD 70.
And I'll just go down.
Number 16, he misrepresented me again.
Jesus was not talking about the temple stones,
or he was talking about the temple stones
when he said not one stone.
The only thing standing today is the West Wall,
the retaining wall.
It's not one talk about the temple walls itself at all.
Preterism works on every single level.
There is nothing about Preterism that fails.
And as a result of it, we can have faith in Jesus Christ.
There's a son of God.
We can have faith that God exists in the Bible is his word.
And thank you very much.
Thank you gentlemen.
I appreciate your closing statements.
We'll go to Q and A now.
I'll try and make it quick
because I know Don's an early bird.
He goes to sleep.
The time is, oh my goodness.
I'm seven minutes from bedtime here.
Ha ha ha ha.
Steven Beaney, thank you for becoming a member
of MythVisions YouTube channel.
Lazarus Conley said,
Hope Resurrected Podcast says for both,
under the agreed upon pre-sub with time text,
there's no Jewish Christian pagan secular source
that says Christ returned in the first century.
Why?
Who's he asking that of?
I'm assuming that's asked of me.
Well, it says for both of you to answer why.
Okay.
Well, first of all, our records of the early church.
And this has been a question of perplexity.
I mean, anybody familiar with the early church writings
has to admit that the question of why didn't they mention it
is in fact perplexing.
I'd make a couple of really, really quick points.
Point number one, the shepherd of Hermes
and other apostolic and immediate patristics
were perplexed because number one,
they expected a literal physical coming
at the fall of Jerusalem.
It did not happen.
Therefore, something was wrong.
Richard Balkum says, when the Lord did not come in 80, 70,
as promised, there was quote a crisis of faith
in the first century church.
Secondly, they did recognize that something massive
had happened.
As I mentioned just in my clothes,
Eusebius said, the Lord came in flaming fire
by means of the Romans in the destruction of Jerusalem.
Final point, and I'll hush here.
We are told many different scholars take note of this.
I believe John Winom, John Winom is one of them
and in his book, Rethinking Matthew, Mark and Luke,
he points out that in the persecution of the church
by Desius, the Roman Emperor Desius,
there was a systematic destruction of Christian records,
particularly Bible documents as well as many other documents
and that had actually taken place before.
We do not have all of the early church records
and to think that we do is rather naive.
Thank you.
Mark, did you wanna make a quick comment on your answer
on that?
You're muted.
Hold on, let me unmute you.
Okay, oops.
You're muted.
Hello, hello.
Yep, okay.
The reason nobody noticed any of this stuff
is because it never happened, as I pointed out.
Not a single historian from back then
mentioned anything about zombie invasions or judgment day
or all the fish dying in the sea
or people hiding in caves, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Everything in the Bible that was supposed to happen,
Don has basically turned into figurative goo
and wishful thinking made it go away.
The fact is nothing happened, nothing.
Go on.
Thank you.
All right, Walker, thank you for the super sticker.
I didn't see a comment or question scrolling down.
Here we go, here we go.
Humanist Reformation, thank you for that super chat.
Every man was never repaid according to their deeds,
Matthew 16, 27, and the trumpet never sounded.
All the tribes of the earth never mourned
the coming of the Son of Man, Matthew 24, 30 through 31.
Full partial preterism fails.
Would you like to respond to that, Don,
since that's obviously...
Yeah, pretty obvious, pretty obvious.
Well, first of all, this individual
is acknowledging the time statement, so that's good.
Secondly, you have to understand
what Jesus is saying in Matthew 16.
Was he talking about a literal globe?
That's imposing a modern cosmology on the situation.
Number three, he is taking the trumpet literally.
Well, I've already shown from the Old Testament
that God came with the sound of the trumpet,
with the shout, with the angels in flaming fire
many, many times in the Old Testament.
And the language for instance of Matthew chapter 24, 29 to 31,
where it talks about Christ coming with the angels
on the clouds, with a shout and with the trumpet
is taken directly out of that Old Testament matrix
of apocalyptic language.
And when it says all the tribes of the earth,
well, that's from the Greek word gi,
which is better translated as land.
In fact, many scholars believe it should be translated
as land in the great majority of places.
That likewise is that statement,
all the tribes of the earth shall mourn,
taken directly from Zachariah chapter 12 verse 10,
which is a specific prophecy of the destruction
of Jerusalem in AD 70.
Thank you so much.
It was still filled.
Humanist reformations, again, thank you for that wonderful,
generous super chat.
Keep up the good work, myth vision.
People are actually picking up the Bibles
and seeing the failed prophecies.
Jesus gave just like one can verify
in other failed cults and religions.
Special pleading is not working for Christianity
as well as other failed religions.
I think, I want to allow Don to be able to respond
if he wants to.
Maybe Mark wants to comment on this one.
Don't know, just trying to flip flop it here.
I would like to respond to that.
Go ahead.
Okay.
The person asking the question is absolutely correct.
Religion makes a whole bunch of promises.
And when they don't turn out,
they allegorize and figure a ties and contort and distort
and put the words through a meat grinder
to try to wiggle out of these things.
When Jesus makes specific promises
and then they don't turn out,
that's the time to walk.
You don't have to learn Hebrew and Greek
and spend 10 years wasting your time.
Take the words at face value.
Take them as his hearers would have taken them.
They weren't scholars.
They were shepherds and people like that, fishermen.
Jesus made a bunch of promises.
They turned out false.
I mean, draw your own conclusions.
Okay, Don?
Yes.
I would agree with one thing Mark said.
How about that?
He said, understand these words
in the way Jesus's listeners would have heard them.
Well, amen in hallelujah.
His listeners by and large when Jesus was on earth
were Jews who went to the synagogue every single Sabbath.
They were at the temple every feast day.
What were they hearing at the synagogues and in the temple?
They were hearing the Tanakh, the Old Testament taught.
They were hearing this language of God coming on the clouds,
coming with a shout, never, ever, ever taken literally.
They did not believe in that physical kind of coming.
Mark says, oh, we got to take it literally today,
which means, according to Mark,
we have to ignore the original Hebrew context,
the original Hebraic political, social, religious milieu
and context, that's in Levin.
And we have to ignore that same thing
when the New Testament writers are quoting
from that Old Testament apocalyptic language.
So when humanist reformation says,
oh, this is all great, people picking up their Bibles.
Well, Mark says, we shouldn't even bother
picking up our Bibles.
I mean, after all, it's nothing but a bunch of lies,
but I've already demonstrated number one,
his hermeneutic is completely totally false.
When you divorce yourself in reading the New Testament,
when you divorce yourself from the Old,
your eschatology, your ideology, your theology,
your skepticism completely fails.
Thank you, Don.
Lazarus Conley, Hope Resurrected Podcast.
Thank you for the super chat for both.
Preston says, Jesus saved elected all Israel
plus Gentiles in 70.
So how's first Peter of the elect today,
if everyone was elected in 70?
Romans 11, 25 through 27.
I'm not clear on so how's what,
is that supposed to be first Peter?
I figured Peter, but it could be something else.
That doesn't make sense.
How's first?
No.
What would you think it would be?
What do you think, Mark?
What do you think that means?
I use PT for point.
First point of the elect today.
Well, I think knowing Lazarus Conley like I do,
I know what he's trying to get at.
He's trying to say, if Preston is right,
and if all Israel was saved in 80, 70,
and if the Gentiles, fullness of the Gentiles came in,
and by the way, he takes that numerically,
which is an error, but nonetheless,
he's saying, well, if that was finished in 80, 70,
then there's no salvation for anyone today.
Well, that's absolutely false.
Isaiah 66 says that after the day of the Lord,
now, he takes that, just like Mark takes that,
an earth-burning, time-ending event,
which is never predicted in the Bible.
But Isaiah 66 talks about after the day of the Lord,
the survivors would go to the nations of the world
who had never heard the word of the Lord ever,
and would call them to serve the God of Israel.
Likewise, Revelation 21 and 22,
after the end of the millennium,
after the coming of the Lord,
the judgment, the resurrection, what are we fine?
Well, you have a new Jerusalem coming down from God.
It's not the removal of the church from the earth,
as Mark has been insisting.
This is God coming down to dwell with man,
and for conformity with apontesis.
What do we find?
New Jerusalem, and the gates of that city
are always open for what?
For the nations to come in and find healing.
Folks, that's evangelism.
That's evangelism after the so-called end,
and thus the entire premise of the question
by Mr. Connolly is completely misguided.
Thank you.
Did you wanna comment on that, or wanna move on?
I wanna comment on one thing that Don mentioned.
Okay.
The book of Revelation mentioning
that New Jerusalem coming down,
and Paul mentioned the Christians are going up.
That is a contradiction.
One advantage of being an atheist and an ex-Christian
is I don't have to worry about contradictions.
But go on.
Thank you, thank you.
Paul never said they were going up.
You're misusing apontesis.
You need to look at the Greek about apontesis.
Thank you, gentlemen, humanist reformation.
It's never to be taken literally when prophecy fails,
unless it's in a religion that you don't follow,
then that religion is just wrong.
Ever hear of special pleading?
I think that was literally what you guys
were just having happen just now.
Thank you.
I don't think that's even worth commenting,
to be honest about it.
I will comment on it because I have already demonstrated.
When people will not accept the evidence
that is laying there on page after page after page
after page of the Old Testament,
that defines the nature of the language
of the day of the Lord.
And they ignore it and say it's irrelevant.
When it's not irrelevant,
when as I have proven repeatedly,
the New Testament writers use that very language,
it is the foundation of their ideology,
their theology and their eschatology.
And so when Mark and Mr. Humanist Reformation,
when these individuals say,
I'm not gonna pay attention to the Old Testament,
I'm just gonna read it just like I pick up a newspaper.
He never said that, but that's really what he means.
That's the wrong hermeneutic.
If you pick up Shakespeare today,
you don't read him in the context of 21st century America.
You read him in the context of what century was he?
He was 17th or 18th century written.
I'm not good on Shakespeare at all, but you get the point.
You don't read him in the context
of a totally different cosmology,
a totally different social structure and setting,
a totally different religious context.
You read it in the context in which it was given.
Thank you, thank you.
Humanist reformations is don't fear those
that can't get their words right,
whether it's David Koresh, Joseph Smith, Mohamed,
Jesus or anyone else, Deuteronomy 1820 through 22
or just use common sense.
Amen and hallelujah.
And I have shown the proper use of that language.
Okay, and my comment is the reason I put several slides
about how Prederus put words through the meat grinder
is because everybody's seen that going on tonight.
You cannot take the Bible at face value
in its plain and obvious sense
as the Prederus writer pleaded for and be a Prederus.
You have to put these things through a meat grinder,
but go on.
Thank you, thank you.
Dustin LRB says, thank you Derek for hosting
and thanks to the guest as well.
Thank you very much.
I'm scrolling down here, let's see what we have.
We've got 21st century mind in the house.
Thank you so much.
Did not see a question from you.
Oh, here you are.
21st century mind, Dr. Preston,
can you please share how full Prederism relates
to Israel only doctrine
and will you ever debate Israel only?
The full Preder's view utterly destroys the Israel only doctrine.
I have several, several articles on my website
that completely and totally refuted.
I have refused to debate an Israel only advocate
because I'll be very blunt here.
I don't mean to be too harsh,
but it's just simply the fact
I have never met an honest Israel only advocate.
I do not like to deal with dishonest people.
And when I catch them in blatant outright lies,
I'm not going to debate them.
I won't give them the time of day.
Thank you, Don.
Can I make a comment?
Sure.
I've gone through probably
more than a dozen Prederist books
by various Prederist authors.
And I want to compliment Don.
Don is the only Prederist author I have gone through
that didn't lie, distort,
play the three shell game, et cetera, et cetera.
So, Don, thank you for your honesty and keep it up.
Well, thank you, Mark.
I appreciate that very much.
And by the way, I've enjoyed this tremendously.
There's been a very lively exchange.
Nobody got angry, nobody got mad, nobody got out of line.
That's the kind of discussions that are very, very profitable.
We obviously on different ends of the spectrum,
but that's okay.
We can discuss these things as gentlemen.
And my Christian wife, my fundamentalist Christian wife
doesn't know who to support between the two of them.
Oh, no, no, Mrs. Smith.
Why is this Conley?
Thank you for the super chat again.
And no source says the dead raised in first century.
Why?
Oh, good question.
Because Mr. Conley, once again,
is basing his entire question
upon the same kind of premise that Mark Smith does,
that the Bible is talking about the raising
of literal physical bodies out of the dirt.
That is not the point.
The resurrection that was promised
was the resurrection from the Adamic death.
What is the Adamic death?
The Adamic death was Adam and Eve in a garden.
God said, do not eat of the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, because in the day,
in the day you eat, you will surely die.
He didn't say you'll become mortal.
He didn't say you'll begin to die.
And by the way, I have a friend in Israel
who is a world-class Hebrew scholar.
I can't tell Hebrew scratching from him scratching.
But he says the point and the power of the Hebrew
in that text is the day you eat, you're gonna die.
Not later, the day you eat.
Now, I think all three of us would agree,
Adam and Eve didn't die physically that day.
So my argument is very, very simple.
The resurrection of 1 Corinthians 15
would be it will overcome the Adamic death
as an Adam or man die,
even so in Christ shall all men be made alive.
So the resurrection of 1 Corinthians 15
would be the deliverance from the death of Adam.
But the death of Adam was fellowship, death,
spiritual death, alienation from God.
It was not physical death.
Therefore, the resurrection of 1 Corinthians 15
would not be resurrection of biological physical bodies
out of the dirt.
Okay, can you put my slides back up for a second?
Okay, I just want to remind everybody
of what this one Preterus wrote.
Torture has been applied to these words
to extort from them some other meaning
than their obvious and natural one.
Non-Predrist theologians won't accept the words of Jesus
in their plain and obvious sense.
Okay, put me back up.
I think we keep seeing this over and over and over.
You can't just take the New Testament at face value,
the words in their plain and obvious sense.
Preterism literally has to put these words
through a meat grinder.
Thank you.
Okay, point number one, point number one,
that doesn't touch anything that I just pointed out
from the text of the Bible itself.
Number two, it is imposing.
You say putting words to the meat grinder.
No, it's taking the words in their original context,
in their original definition.
It's not imposing 20th and 21st century definitions on them.
It is absolutely a false hermeneutic pick up the Bible
and say, I'm going to read this in the same way
I'm going to read the local newspaper.
That's the wrong hermeneutic.
Thank you, Don.
Crazy, even, Ivan.
Mark, how might a reader determine a passage of scripture
is not to be understood concretely, materially,
or spatially, but metaphorically?
That would depend on the context.
Obviously, words are used sometimes metaphorically.
But like I said earlier,
if you were to take a lot of these passages
and just do the old Jay Leno thing,
where he walks up the people on the street
and tells them something, it gets a reaction.
The average person would interpret
most of these second coming passages
in the plain and obvious sense,
which Jay Stewart Russell pleaded for.
They, I mean, forget the book revelation.
John was high on drugs when he wrote it, whatever.
But the rest of the stuff in the New Testament
is fairly obvious.
Paul wasn't being metaphorical or allegorical
when he talks about going up in the air to meet Jesus.
There's nothing figurative in a lot of those passages.
And the only reason the Preduress
forced them to be figurative
is because it goes against their doctrine.
So to respond to that, Mark keeps saying,
well, if you walked up to any man on the street
and asked him what this language might mean,
we got a pretty good idea of what they might mean.
They'd take it literally.
Well, the problem with that is,
the average man on the street was not raised
in that Hebraic culture in that sets in Lebanon
and the religious context of understanding
the metaphoric nature of the language.
Now, let me give you a really, really prime example
that I didn't have time to develop.
In Isaiah 34, Isaiah said,
the constellations of the sky are going to melt.
The mountains shall be melted.
The earth shall be utterly destroyed.
It shall be folded up like a garment
and it shall be destroyed.
The dust of the earth shall be turned into pitch.
The streams shall be turned into pitch
and it shall burn day and night forever and forever.
Wow, that's not like the end of the world.
Well, the trouble of it is in Isaiah chapter 34, 8
and following it's a prediction of the destruction of Edom.
And they're a capital city of Basra.
Now, Malachi chapter one, written over 230 years later,
probably a little bit more than that,
Malachi looks back on the destruction of Edom
as an accomplished fact.
Did Malachi even have a clue in the world
that the earth had been completely burned up,
that there were fires in the streams and the dust
of that area of Petra and Basra
that were burning day and night
and forever and ever and ever and ever?
Did he believe that the constellations of the sky
had completely dissolved the sun, the moon, the stars?
I think we're on safe ground by saying no.
He didn't believe any of that.
That's the religious, cultural and literary milieu
in which the first century Jews were raised.
For Mark to say, well, let's just walk out on the street
and let's ask any reader of the New Testament
what they think this means.
The average person on the street today
probably couldn't name the books of the Old Testament
much less tell you about the destruction of Edom
at the hands of the Babylonians in 583 BC.
Thank you, Don, appreciate that.
21st Mind, Don, will you ever debate Israel only doctrine?
I don't like to say never
because I don't know what might come in the future
if I were to encounter an actual honest eye over.
I'm not gonna say I will,
but I'm not gonna say definitively no.
It's an absolutely abhorrent doctrine, I will say that,
has no merit whatsoever.
And like I said, on my website,
donkepreston.com, BibleProphecy.com,
I have numerous articles on there,
just go to the search bar, type in Israel only,
you'll get a whole page of listings
of the articles that I have written on the subject.
Thank you, Don.
Deep drinks, thank you for the super chat.
Regarding Jesus' return,
it's wild to me that someone can translate the Bible
to say the exact opposite of what it says in simple reading.
Could we do the same for the resurrection, Exodus, miracles?
I'd like to say something on that.
If the plain reading of the text
can be completely turned topsy-turvy on its head,
put through the meat grinder,
I'm talking to the Christians now.
What makes you think when you get to heaven
that Bible God's not gonna do the same thing?
Oh, heaven?
Well, that was metaphorical.
You're actually gonna end up living on a moon on Jupiter.
Oh, you thought you would have eternal life?
No, no, no, that was just figurative language.
I mean, you can go on and on.
How do you trust a person
that promises to pay you back your $5?
And then a week later, when it's time to get paid back,
he's like, oh, that was figurative.
I wasn't literally gonna pay you back.
You can't trust anything in the Bible
if you're allowed to interpret it willy-nilly
however you want.
I agree with that last statement, 100%.
That's why the issue of hermeneutic
is so critically important.
And the issue of hermeneutic
is what Mark Smith is ignoring.
Mark Smith says, I'm not gonna talk about the Old Testament.
It's totally irrelevant to my position.
I've already demonstrated over and over
whether or not he wants to accept it is up to him.
But I've already demonstrated Paul's eschatology
from the Old Testament, Peter's eschatology
as he looked for the new heaven and new earth,
the new creation, the restoration of all things.
Peter said that he was anticipating those things
in fulfillment of Moses, Samuel,
yea, all of the prophets who have ever written.
Where did Peter get his doctrine of the regeneration
of the new creation, et cetera?
Got it from the Old Testament.
He didn't pick up a newspaper one day
and find this new concept, this new idea,
this new eschatology.
That is completely false.
There is no merit whatsoever to Mark Smith
with all due respect, Mark.
There is absolutely no justification for Mark saying,
I'm not gonna pay a bit of attention
to that Old Testament language.
The entire New Testament eschatology
is based on that Old Testament eschatology.
So therefore, when we go to that Old Testament
and we see one example after another,
this gets to the deep drinks question.
When we see example after example after example
of quote, God coming on the clouds with the angels,
in flaming fire, with a shout, with the trumpet,
destroying heaven and earth.
And we can see that that language was used
in conjunction with the destruction of, for instance,
Babylon, Isaiah 13, of Egypt, Isaiah 19,
of Israel, Isaiah chapter 24, of Edom in Isaiah 34.
On and on and on it goes.
When we can see all of those things
and realize they were all past,
just like Isaiah 64 said, verse one, I quoted it,
Mark ignored it.
All that you would come down and rend the heavens,
that you would come and shake the earth
that the nations might tremble as your presence.
Lord, when you came down,
the nations trembled at your presence,
the mountains shook at your presence.
None of that was literal.
Mark never touched it.
He just said it was irrelevant.
No, it's not irrelevant,
because Isaiah 64 is a prayer
for the second coming of Christ.
Now, if Isaiah was praying for the second coming of Christ,
which is Acts chapter one,
and he was praying for that coming
to be let God had come in the Old Testament,
which is never literal, never physical, never bodily,
then guess what?
We are on horribly bad ground.
We are abusing hermeneutics
to change the definition of that coming language
to make it apply to something literal and visible.
Okay, Dirk, can I have a screen share again?
Yeah, make it brief.
We do have to try and get through,
and the wife texts me,
letting me know lasagna's ready, so.
Okay, back to the ascension.
The held, that's what the eyeballs.
A cloud, that's something you see.
Receive him out of their sight.
You see, you do sighting with your eyeballs.
Looked, that's what the eyeballs,
the direction they were looking, it was up.
Behold, you behold with your eyeballs.
They beheld and saw they were wearing a white apparel.
Gazing, again, that's what the eyeballs.
This same Jesus, which is taken up from heaven,
from you into heaven,
shall come in like manner as ye have seen him go.
Okay, you can disconnect there.
If predators are allowed to totally botch and mutilate
and tear up plain language, there's no limits to it.
Seriously, if their God gets them up in the heaven
and they say, oh, sorry, everything was figurative,
you're actually gonna end up in hell,
they got no reason to complain, I'm done.
Thank you, thank you.
Imnag, thank you for the super sticker.
Appreciate that, my friend, scrolling down here.
Sorry, there's so much commenting here.
Everybody's just, okay, here we go.
Imnag says my biggest question is,
why is it so hard to pin actual history to Jesus?
If there was absolute evidence other than the Bible,
we wouldn't be having these debates.
Amen.
Is that your comment then?
That's my comment.
Okay, well, the point of fact is,
there's a whole lot of bias behind that statement
that is essentially arguing.
Well, we can't take the Bible as valid
because after all, it was written by friends,
it was written by disciples.
Well, that's one of the most illogical kind of arguments
that could possibly be made.
I could turn that around and say,
you know what, I don't have to accept,
I shouldn't accept, as a matter of fact,
anything that Mark Smith says,
because after all, he's an enemy of the Bible.
Since he's an enemy of the Bible, he's biased,
he's prejudiced, he's not trustworthy.
So to say, oh, well, we don't have any evidence
other than the Bible.
Well, guess what?
The Bible is amazing.
First, John chapter one, that which was from the beginning,
which we have seen, which we have touched,
which we have handled with our own hands,
the Word of God.
Luke chapter one, Acts chapter one,
you know, especially Acts chapter one,
the former treatise have made Otheophilus
of all of the things that Jesus began to do and to teach
from the time in which he was taken up.
Okay, here is Luke.
Well, who is Luke?
He is a physician, he is a trained scholar.
What did he say in Luke chapter one?
Whereas many have taken in hand to record the things
that are most assuredly believed in us,
men who are eyewitnesses of his glory
and having myself have knowledge of these things
from the very beginning, I decided to investigate.
Luke says, so that I might present an orderly presentation
of the things that are most assuredly believed by us.
So here is a trained scholar
who says that he interviewed eyewitnesses,
even though he knew of these things himself
from the very beginning of their happening.
The idea and the claim, by the way,
that the New Testament books were written
in at the end of the first century or end of the second,
I'm sorry, that's totally untenable, absolutely false.
That won't stand up to critical examination
whatsoever, I know what the critical scholars say on it,
won't stand up in any way, shape, form, or fashion.
Well, here is Luke.
Peter said, Acts chapter two is speaking of the resurrection.
He had 11 apostles, other apostles gather around him.
And he says, God has raised him up,
where are we our witnesses?
You know, it's kind of funny about that.
The very people that put Jesus to death were there that day.
They had hated Jesus.
And oh, by the way, Peter three times had rejected Jesus,
turned his back on him, forsaken him.
I do not know the man.
Yet now he's standing in front of that audience
saying, you have taken, and by wicked hands,
have crucified and slain, but God has raised him up
and we're witnesses of that.
What transformed Peter?
By the way, what transformed James?
Jesus is half brother, and the rest of his brothers
and the rest of his family, who Mark three, verse seven,
John chapter seven, verses one and following says,
they all thought Jesus was crazy.
They didn't believe on him until he was raised from the dead.
This is the kind of testimony that we've got.
We have James, oh, we've got John the baptizer,
behold the Lamb of God, we've got,
so we've got James, we've got Peter.
We've got Paul, who persecuted the name of Christ said,
I thought I ought to do many things
contrary to the name of Jesus in Nazareth.
Guess what?
He met Jesus, and he became the most famous apostle
in all the world, proclaiming the name of Jesus.
And he said, have not I seen the Lord?
Don, we've got to wrap this one up.
No, no, I know.
You're on a roll, man.
Oh, man, I'm sorry.
You're good, you're good, I just.
I feel a collection plate's gonna come pretty soon.
Go ahead and send some of this money
and it's coming in for Derek, you know.
This is the collection plate right now.
All right, humanist reformation,
thank you so much for the super chat.
I read the Old Testament and see Jesus fell
to fulfill the Old Testament
and what the Messiah was to fulfill.
It fulfilled every word of it.
You guys are in staunch disagreement on that.
Yep.
Steve, Magoi, forgive me if I butchered Magua.
Ask the pastor, thank you for the super chat.
I really appreciate it.
I didn't see if you had a comment or something there, Steve.
But I really do appreciate the support
and we have one right here, 21st Century Minds.
It says, Don, what is your opinion on Eastern Orthodoxy?
Then after that, we got one more
and then we'll wrap things up, gentlemen.
Well, I think Eastern Orthodoxy
is an absolutely fascinating religion.
I do not agree with its ceremonial sacramentalism.
I will tell you this.
I have personally been in contact with several priests
from the Eastern Orthodox Church who are full Preterist
and who tell me there is a long history
of Preterism in the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Don, for answering.
David Hepworth, thank you for the super chat.
Before de-converting, Preterism was the only idea
that made sense to me because
of the New Testament's failed prophecies,
but it also failed to address my doubts.
I'd like to handle that one.
Sure.
And can you put my slides back up?
Sure.
Many years ago, while I was happily sailing along
as a Christian, on my unsinkable ship of faith,
I started an in-depth study of the Second Coming,
something I'd always wanted to do.
I wasn't planning on leaving Christianity,
but after extensive study,
the evidence became overwhelming
that Jesus had been a false prophet,
and my unsinkable ship of faith was now sinking.
But often the distance was hope.
I spotted the lifeboat of Preterism.
It promised a way to save the Savior
by explaining away all those nasty false prophecies
of Jesus, which had sunk my faith.
I happily climbed in, feeling safe and secure,
but then I made the mistake of asking questions,
thinking and examining this lifeboat.
And what I found was this lifeboat was no more watertight
than the Titanic I had just left.
The lies and deceptions it took to keep it afloat
just weren't worth it.
And I had to finally admit to myself that,
yes, Jesus had been a false prophet,
and there was just no getting around it.
I wasn't about to lie to myself
and pretend everything was all right.
Okay, done.
Thank you, thank you.
It's like you had that one in the bag
waiting to pull it out this whole time.
I did.
Preterism to me, I was a Christian
when I ran into Preterism, and it to me offered hope.
But the more I looked into it,
the more I experienced personally,
the lying, the cheating, the dishonesty of the Preterists
and the stupidity of the doctrines.
That lifeboat sank.
It really, it's a false hope.
It really is.
Well, just keep in mind-
I wanna give you, Don, the final word.
This is the last words coming from you, Don,
and then we're gonna wrap things up.
Okay.
Keep in mind what we've seen tonight, folks.
We have seen Mark Smith unequivocally
and emphatically say he divorces the Old Testament
from the New Testament, eschatologically.
I just heard him say and talk about,
he did an in-depth examination of Preterism,
or I should say the second coming.
Unfortunately, he approached that study
from that very perspective of the churches of Christ.
I was raised in the Church of Christ,
fifth generation member.
I ran into the same issue of the time statements
of the second coming of Christ,
coming in the first century.
But you know what?
I did my homework.
I went to the Old Testament
that the New Testament writers were quoting
and their predictions of the second coming.
And I realized this was metaphoric language.
And so, where I found myself running into the problems.
And look, I and some of my professors in seminary going,
folks, we got a problem here.
Paul said the door was coming back in the first century.
He didn't do it.
I don't know how to explain that.
So yeah, I'm well aware of the problems,
of the doubts that studying and asking questions can rise.
I also understand the fallacy of Mark Smith's hermeneutic
of divorcing the New Testament from the Old.
No matter what else he says,
every single argument that he's made, ladies and gentlemen,
ought to be reexamined,
ought to be put under the prism and the microscope
of that singular fact
of him divorcing the New Testament eschatology from the Old.
When he does that, he is in denial of Paul's eschatology.
He is in denial of James's eschatology.
He is denying Peter's eschatology.
He is denying the eschatology of revelation.
He is denying the entire source of New Testament eschatology
because he has this mistaken concept
that the coming of the Lord was to be Jesus Christ
as a five foot five Jewish man,
riding on a literal visible physical cumulus cloud
out of heaven to destroy heaven and earth,
none of which was ever predicted.
Full preterism is the only answer
to what I call the challenge of Christ.
Jesus said, if I do not do the works
which my father has given me, do not believe me.
Do not believe me for my word's sake,
believe me for my works.
I take that very seriously.
I accepted the challenge.
Unlike Mark, my faith is stronger
than it has ever been in my life
because I know without a shout of it out, Christ came.
He gave us eternal life
and the Bible is truly his word.
I'll close it that.
I don't have Razania waiting for me.
Not only that, she's writing me all sorts of promises here.
Listen, I got two promises.
Well, maybe we better not ask what kind of promises.
Listen, we better not have any broken promises.
That's right.
Eric Romeo did have one super chat
that he snuck in at the last second, Eric,
I'm getting on to you later.
Revelation seven, three, three, four says the only,
only the 144,000 were sealed with the Holy Spirit.
Does Don believe he was sealed with the Holy Spirit?
That is not an exclusive selling
because the Holy Spirit was given to Gentiles
as well as to Jews.
And the 144,000 are simply the specific focus
of Revelation seven and Revelation chapter 14.
And that ceiling was a miraculous ceiling.
And no, I do not have the miraculous ceiling
of the Holy Spirit today.
Thank you so much for answering that, gentlemen.
Your websites, I got to add them to the description
of this video so people watching it later.
Feel free to drop a comment in the comment section.
If you want, people can find your YouTube channel.
I know that you have one, Don.
Mark, I don't know if you do, but thank you so much.
Yeah, any final words from you gentlemen?
I just simply say again, Mark, thank you so much.
I've been thoroughly, thoroughly enjoyed this.
I have enjoyed this also and thank you both.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, Derek.
Yeah, thank you for making it happen.
Never forget everybody.
Amen.
We are myth vision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
You
