are live at MythVision Podcast today,
the special guest.
We're gonna dive into philosophy.
It's not an area that I specialize in,
but it's an area our guest specializes in.
And we're gonna ask the question, does God exist?
And should we be questioning these things?
How should we approach this?
And how can we get to the answers we want,
really diving into philosophy in a deep sense today?
So I hope you stay tuned.
But before we end up starting our intro,
I ask everybody tuning in to go to our guest's YouTube channel.
I pinned it in the comment section.
It is in the description in case you're watching this later.
Subscribe, because his channel right now
has 14.2K subscribers.
I wanna see those numbers up.
Those are rookie numbers,
and I wanna see that change.
So subscribe now, stay tuned.
We'll be right back.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh.
Oh.
Woo, oh, uh,
Oh, oh, uh,
Oh, oh, uh,
Woo, oh, oh,
Oh, oh, uh,
Woo, oh, uh,
Oh, oh, oh,
Oh, oh, oh,
Oh, oh, oh,
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh,
Ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh, ooh ooh ooh ooh
welcome to myth vision and our guest is joe smid how are you my friend i am really
really well that was the best intro that i have ever seen going on another
person's youtube channel so yeah thank you it has a lot of the fills and there's a
a story behind why I had that intro.
We can thank my good friend Jonathan Sheffield,
actually a Christian friend of mine
who actually made that intro and he's so artistic.
And he, man, I recommend anybody who wants an intro.
Like he puts his essence into it.
So I really, really appreciate the compliment
and I started your book.
So I have to give people somewhere to begin.
Let's start somewhere.
First of all, Joe, you're a philosophy guru.
I like to call a young philosophy guru.
Like you love philosophy.
In fact, I would say you probably nerd out on philosophy
like I do on like biblical studies and criticism
and like historical methodology
and like trying to figure this stuff out.
So I know I'm gonna learn a lot from you today
and I ask our audience to be a student,
to be a student and to learn.
This is what we're all here for, I hope.
Some of us are here to troll, but you know,
let's hope that people are here to learn a little bit.
Joe, we see 14.2 on the screen
and those numbers have to change.
By the end of this live,
I hope we can hit that refresh button
and we're at least at 14.4.
I'm hoping.
Look, fingers crossed.
Let's hope that something bigger happens.
We might actually start believing there is a God for sure.
Your book, The Latest, Greatest,
Existential Inertia and Classical Theistic Proofs.
I just started it, so please forgive me.
I hope we'll plan to do a deeper episode
where we actually get into it
and we'll be able to talk about the contents of this book.
But if you don't mind, plug this book a little.
Tell us why people should check out this work.
Yeah, so this is a scholarly monograph.
Well, not a monograph.
It's a duograph, as it were.
It's co-authored with my friend and colleague,
Dr. Daniel Linford.
And the basic idea behind the book is, as the title says,
we're exploring two main things,
existential inertia and classical theistic proofs.
So existential inertia is roughly the idea
that temporal things, things in time,
at least some of them,
continue to exist through time
without being sustained in existence continuously
by some outside cause like God, something like that.
So that's the basic idea behind existential inertia.
And what's significant about this thesis
is that it relates to a lot of traditional arguments
for God's existence.
A lot of traditional arguments for God's existence
say, hey, things in time, things that are composite,
things that are contingent,
in order to exist at any given moment,
they have to be sustained in existence by an outside cause.
And since, so the reasoning goes,
you can't have an infinite descending regress
of sustaining causes, you know,
one thing being sustained by another thing,
in turn being sustained by another thing,
and so on ad nauseam, ad infinitum,
it follows that there must be a first unsustained thing,
and they're going to try to identify that with God.
And so what we do is we develop existential inertia,
we defend it against objections,
we connect it to relativity theory
and various debates in philosophy of time
and philosophy of science and physics,
and we also apply it to these traditional arguments
for God's existence.
And we say, hey, these arguments don't succeed
because of existential inertia.
So that's the basic thrust of the book.
It's a, unfortunately, so just to note,
it's gonna be kind of technical for the audience,
because it's a philosophical scholarly monograph,
duograph, and also the reason it's expensive
is because Springer and lots of academic presses,
they serve libraries, right?
So the main thing is that they're serving libraries.
So what you can do is you can either go to your local library,
go to a university library, see if they have it,
you can ask the librarian to get an interlibrary loan.
If none of that works, and you also still don't have the money
to spend on the Kindle version or the hardcover,
I might be able to help you, so just send me an email.
Definitely worth checking out.
There's some stuff in the beginning
that's already caught my attention.
In fact, Joe, can I do people an honor and read
in just a minute, just to tease people?
Yeah.
Your stuff excites me, so I do hope people will check it out.
Subscribe to his YouTube channel and get his book.
He has two books, actually,
the existential inertia and classical proofs,
and the other one is The Majesty of Reason,
a short guide to critical thinking and philosophy.
I'm gonna have to check this one out as well,
because philosophy's not been my go-to,
and the reason I think the philosophy hasn't been my go-to, Joe,
is there's a lot of times I hear word salad to me,
and so I think if I immerse myself into the material,
I won't feel like people are just making stuff up
to make it work so that their positions are true,
and I say that because I engage,
I have a quite a controversial YouTube channel
that is constantly going at the Abrahamics,
but I'm really critical of any and all, you know,
religious kind of propositions that are out there,
but at the end of the day, like,
I feel like most of my theistic friends,
especially the ones that are Christian,
apologists and stuff, they can go to philosophy
and kind of find a way to hide within it,
whereas I'm going to your text,
I'm going to Ancient Ereaster in comparisons,
whether it's if it's Hebrew Bible,
I'm looking at, you know,
the surrounding Greco-Roman situation
and how this might compare to the Jesus movement,
being it's highly Hellenistic,
like I'm more into the history nitty gritty testable,
not just brain floating out there, abstract concepts
to try and make sense of the world around us,
and I guess what I'm trying to do is start with what I can know
and then work my way out,
and they're kind of sometimes going like,
let's start with there has to be something,
and remember I told you on the phone,
I was like, some nights I stay up,
and I go like, why is there anything?
And I can't go to sleep for hours,
thinking about a restaurant,
and I stopped one night and I thought about you
when I was going to interview and I said, Joe,
what if this question is a false question?
What if there is no, I mean, we can play in our brains,
like what if there was nothing,
but what if that can't be,
what if that's not even a thing?
What if existence had to be,
because that's all there really is?
And so like, I don't know,
I get into these weird brain farts
where I try to figure things out.
I'd love to have you comment
before I read anything on the book,
anything I said that you would love to respond to.
Yeah, no, I mean, that's great.
I think the best way to do philosophy
is to start with the clear.
As you were just pointing out,
you want to start in your kind of methodology
in the way that you navigate the world,
you navigate the space of intellectual reasons
and reasons for and against these Abrahamic traditions
and belief systems, you start with the clear,
you start with what you can know,
and then you build from there.
And I think good philosophy also starts with the clear.
You start from things that we are clearly true,
like it cannot be the case that P and not P,
it cannot be the case that something's both true and false,
and we build from there.
So I hope you'll see that in the book,
we're oftentimes appealing to things
that I think are pretty clear.
And so yeah, start with the clear,
that's always a good methodological principle in philosophy,
as well as in what you're looking at
in your YouTube channel as well as in your studies
with respect to like Abrahamic traditions and whatnot.
So yeah.
Awesome, okay, here we go.
Love the opening preface, as you call it, aims.
And I almost want you to read it because it's you,
but it might be good.
It's me rolling out the red carpet for you.
When I, Joseph, learned about evolutionary theory
in seventh grade, I fell in love.
I marveled at how the beauty grander
the diversity of life arose from such simple, humble origins.
There was something elegant, something beautiful,
magnificent, even mysterious,
about simplicity and unity,
giving rise to complexity and diversity.
As I reflected, however,
my optimism and all toward evolution diminished.
The horror and brutality of the evolutionary process
pierced my mind and heart.
For hundreds of millions of years,
untold numbers of animals experienced profound,
languishing, suffering, death, predation, and parasitism.
Evolution is a cruel, grueling process
in which the weak, sick, and dying
are unforgivingly discarded.
To make matters worse,
this was the means of, or mechanisms, mechanism, sorry,
by which biology, biological diversity in general,
and humans in particular were created.
The very engine of creation was suffering and death.
How could such a process be the providential working
I wondered of a perfectly good God?
And such a good question.
Confronting these facts and others
led me to greater depths of inquiry,
answering my questions,
required investigating the nature
of evil, suffering, and consciousness.
And answering these questions required
investigating metaphysics,
the nature and existence of God,
and the foundations of reality beginning with evolution.
I ended with philosophy.
And once I encountered philosophy,
there was no going back from there.
So you go on and you pretty much bump into classical theism
and its various forms.
And you're gonna take seven Aquinas,
Aristotelian, Neoplatonic,
Augustinian, Thomistic, Rationalist, and Aquan.
Is this Aquinas again?
Yeah, again, you've got two in there.
Yeah, so you're going to tackle some of the big ones.
And in this book, you have things that aren't really
dealt with in exhaustively in the way
that you're gonna deal with them in this book.
So I hope people will check those out.
Yeah, so I guess my problem is just,
a lot of times in philosophy,
I feel like anything goes or there's a sense
in which I find that Christians oftentimes,
and I wanna equate it to the Bible.
And the reason why I don't feel guilty about doing that,
I almost didn't wanna do that.
I just wanted to just talk about any God.
And we will, I hope, but it's because in your book,
there are times where you're gonna go after the idea
of the Trinity, like you do this in your structure section,
where you talk about arguments of the, yeah,
finally we uncover tensions between
Trinitarianism and Neoplatonic proof.
I find the same problem with Christians today
that talk about the Holy Spirit
being this like immaterial thing.
And anyone who knows about first century Jewish,
Hellenistic thought and Paul and Philo,
they were using middle Platonism and Stoicism,
combining those, where their Numa that they talk about
is actually a physical substance like the Stoics thought.
So when you see the tree bending over from the wind,
that's physical, it's not immaterial.
And they equated the spirit with wind, breath and such.
So Christians today that talk about the Holy Spirit,
like usually aren't even thinking of it
in physical materialistic terms like Stoics.
This is something that is impressive to me,
because it's like we've changed the meaning
of things over time, even with God.
God, if you look at him in his ancient Near Eastern context,
and then you see what happens after Plato
gets his hands on the world,
then you see God become this Platonic Aristotelian,
like you're trying to make the unmoved mover,
the first cause, all of this stuff,
but it wasn't that way before.
And so I would love to have you springboard off
into whatever area of this discussion you wanna go.
Yeah, no, that's interesting.
There is a lot of work in philosophy written about
like the God of the philosophers
versus the God of the Bible
or the God of the Abrahamic traditions.
Very often the God of the Abrahamic traditions
is depicted as mutable, is depicted as changing his mind,
is depicted as in time,
is depicted as having certain emotional outbursts
and just being outraged at things, regretting things,
is almost depicted in very, very anthropomorphic terms.
Whereas you look at the kind of God of the philosophers
and it's this like almost impersonal.
I mean, it's like almost borderline impersonal reality,
this transcendent, timeless, immutable,
immaterial, spaceless, like impassable,
so it doesn't have any,
it can't be affected by things outside of itself.
It doesn't have fits of rage or things like that.
That is in stark contrast
with how the Bible and the Abrahamic traditions depict God.
So there's this question of,
how are you supposed to reconcile these things?
Are these two different beings?
Are they two different deities?
Are they the same thing?
Are we just using, is God,
is this transcendent being just condescending
to our condition in the biblical texts and things like that?
So God isn't really anthropomorphic in these ways
that he's depicted.
There are all these really interesting questions
that you can explore.
So for me, because I am inclined
to the more philosophical side of things,
what I wanna do is just even setting aside
whether or not the God of the philosophers
is the God of the Bible
or the God of the Abrahamic traditions,
I wanna look at,
is the God of the philosophers even coherent?
Does it exist?
Those sorts of things.
I love it.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
So that's, I mean, it's,
it complements your approach.
Like, just looking at the biblical texts
and pointing out certain tensions within them
and the ancient Near Eastern context and things like that.
That's one way to go about investigating these questions.
And it's a useful way.
It's a beautiful way, in fact.
And then there's another way
where you could just look at the philosophical foundations
of the views that these people are putting forward
and just target those.
So I think these can complement one another pretty nicely
and they can play off on another.
So yeah, in my work,
I've explored the kind of philosophical conceptions of God.
And there are different conceptions.
Some of them you could say
are a little bit more anthropomorphic than others,
but they're still philosophically robust,
philosophically serious.
The one that we take issue with
or the one that we take aim at in the book
is this kind of high octane classical theism,
which springs out of Platonic tradition,
Aristotelian tradition, things like that.
And yeah, you are viewing God as this
unmoved mover, unchangeable, impassable,
so cannot be affected by anything outside of himself.
Doesn't have any passions timeless,
so doesn't undergo any succession,
doesn't do one thing and then another.
There's no succession in its life.
It's also absolutely simple.
So everything inside of this thing,
everything intrinsic to it is identical to it.
So this being, God, is identical to his omniscience.
He's identical to omnipotence.
He's identical to his goodness and things like that.
So God just is his omniscience.
He just is his omnipotence.
These aren't like distinct properties
that are kind of like attached to him.
Instead, he just is these things.
So like, this is where you often hear people say like,
God is being itself or God is goodness itself.
You know, they're getting at this idea
where everything in God is numerically identical to God.
So that's kind of the conception of God
that we're taking aim at in this book.
This kind of what we call classical theism
and what philosophers at large call classical theism.
So yeah, I mean, I think that's sort of
them laying the groundwork for the discussion to come,
I guess.
There's so much you said there
and I have like so many ideas to throw at you.
If God is goodness, is this thing itself,
then what, you mentioned in the opening of your book,
then what about the problem of evil?
Does this not require dualistic understanding
or is this, does this not mean that there is,
then God is, if God is goodness,
then what do we do about evil and its existence?
Because like, how did it come to be from this?
You see what I'm trying to get at.
Like, yeah, yeah, no, that's good.
So, oh, this is great.
So you can distinguish between
what's called the metaphysical problem of evil
and the, oh, I don't know what the other,
I mean, just the problem of evil simplicity.
So let's get a new term for this.
One of them is the metaphysical problem of evil.
Let's call it, no, the problem of metaphysical evil.
Let's call it that.
And then the other one is just the problem of evil.
Okay, so the problem of metaphysical evil is,
yeah, how do you get like evil kind of arising
from something that is perfectly good?
So if God is goodness itself and being itself,
you know, you might wonder like,
surely it would then only produce good things, right?
If it's goodness itself,
and if it produced bad things,
it's like, where did that come from?
That there's some sort of, yeah,
there's something in the effect that like
goes beyond its cause in some way.
So there's a sense in which like,
yeah, it's not contained in it.
It doesn't have the wherewithal to even produce that
because it's goodness itself.
So there is that kind of intuition.
And so, yeah, so if evil really does exist,
we have this problem, this metaphysical problem.
Now, Augustine had a famous solution to this.
What he says, he has this privation theory of evil.
The privation theory of evil says,
okay, strictly speaking, evil does not exist.
Now, be careful, right?
He's not saying that tornadoes don't happen.
He's not saying that people don't suffer.
He's not saying that, you know, cancer doesn't happen.
That's not what he's saying.
Rather, what he's saying is he's focusing
on the ontological status of evil.
Is it some reality?
Is it some thing?
Is it something that we have to say
that there is such a thing as that?
Do we have to commit to the existence of evil?
And what he wants to say is, no,
actually what evil is, it's a lack of something.
It's a lack of a do good.
So you can consider, for instance, blindness.
Blindness isn't some positive reality
that someone gained some reality, as it were,
when they become blind.
No, actually, they're just lacking something.
They're lacking a do good,
namely the good of sight, something like that.
So under this view of evil, evil doesn't really exist.
It doesn't have positive reality.
It doesn't have being, it doesn't have oomph.
It's not there.
But still, we can say that, you know,
there's a sense in which we can still say bad things happen.
It's just when those bad things happen,
we analyze that in terms of the absence of a do good.
So that's how they try to get around
the metaphysical problem of evil.
We can go down to that in a second.
I just wanna briefly talk about the problem of evil,
which is that other horn.
And that's not really asking,
it's not asking about like the metaphysical status
of evil, right?
Because the problem that we just went over
is like the metaphysical status of evil.
Like if evil really is a thing, like it is there,
how could that come from something that is pure goodness,
right?
Pure goodness doesn't have the wherewithal
to produce that as it were.
But this other question is basically,
well, it's the standard problem of evil that you come across.
It's not asking about the metaphysical status
of good and evil.
It's just saying, okay, listen,
who cares if evil is a privation?
There's still privations around us.
There are bad things occurring.
Like that's undeniable.
How do you reconcile that with the fact
that God is perfectly good, knows about this evil,
and has the power to prevent it?
So that's basically the problem of evil.
You're not asking about the metaphysical status of evil.
You're just asking about like,
well, this seems really surprising under the view of God,
on which God is omnipotent, omniscient, and perfectly good.
So there are these two distinct problems.
And I think it's good firstly to have them in mind
that they're distinct,
and then we can kind of go down each horn.
So, I mean, briefly on the privation view,
going down the metaphysical problem of evil,
I find the privation theory of evil very implausible.
If I'm being honest with you, okay, fine.
Maybe it works for cases like blindness,
or like you chop off my arm,
and there's an absence of an arm.
But like the pain that I experience,
that seems to be like intrinsically bad,
just the pain that I experience when you chop off my arm.
And if that's intrinsically bad,
if that's not good, if it's evil, that that's occurring,
then Augustine is going to have,
in proponents of this view of the privation theory of evil,
they're going to have to be committing to the idea
that this pain doesn't really exist.
But that seems really implausible.
Like, I just seem directly aware
of this mental state of mind.
Like, this is there, the pain is there, I can feel it.
This isn't a mere absence of something.
It's not like the mere absence of pleasure
or anything like that.
I'm just directly aware of my pain.
I'm aware of something, it's there.
It's a mental state, it's a conscious property of mine.
And in that case, it seems as though
we have something like a bad, something like an evil,
and it has some kind of positive reality.
So that's a traditional problem
that's been leveraged toward the privation theory of evil.
It's the problem of pain,
and pain seemingly being intrinsically bad
and having a positive ontological status.
So yeah, that's one of the biggest problems.
And there's a huge literature on this,
but I think it's a good objection ultimately.
So that's on that horn.
Let's go down the other horn,
which is just the problem of evil simplicity.
Yeah, on this one, I think we can return
to the preface that you read.
To me, I think the most powerful form
of this problem of evil is the argument
from evolutionary animal suffering.
I mean, listen, sorry creationists,
but evolution occurred, okay?
I minored in biology and we went through so many
like different pieces of evidence,
peer reviewed papers, and oh my goodness,
it's just staggering the evidence
that we have in favor of evolution.
So we know that evolution occurred.
And what that means is that there have been
hundreds of millions of years of vertebrates.
So these are sophisticated sentient organisms.
They have a spinal cord, they have, you know,
the wherewithal that like-
Nervous system.
Yeah, exactly, nervous system.
They have this wherewithal that we see around us
in the mammals and vertebrates that we see.
So vertebrates have been around
for like hundreds of millions of years,
and they've been ripping each other to shreds.
They have been pre-praying upon one another.
There have been parasites that infect them
and that cause them agony.
A lot of them have just starved to death.
Many of them have burned to death.
Many of them have drowned to death.
That's like not cool, right?
That's like not cool that there have been
hundreds of millions of years of this.
And in addition to that, think about if God exists, right?
God is like weaving creation together.
He's bringing about biological diversity.
He's actively involved in this process.
He's bringing about humans eventually
so that he can have a relationship with them,
conscious creatures, right?
Or conscious rational creatures
that he can have a relationship with.
That's kind of the pinnacle of this whole process.
So why would you, this is the very mean mechanism
by which like, just imagine, like it's like a,
it's like a, like a kindergartner,
just like playing with like, like ripping apart like beetles
so that he could just like use them to decorate his like,
his Barbie house or whatever.
That's not the mechanism.
That's not the means by what you do that, dude.
Like that's not cool.
And so like the very means, the very mechanism,
the very engine by which God brought about his creative ends,
his creative ends of bringing about biological diversity
in general and humans in particular
is fraught with suffering, death, predation,
parasitism, languishing, all these horrors.
That is so overwhelmingly surprising to my mind
under theism that there's this perfectly good
providential being that orchestrated this process.
And this is the very means by which God did this.
And of course, keep in mind
that these are non-rational creatures, right?
It's not as though the pig, when the pig is suffering
or the pterodactyl, when the pterodactyl
is being ripped to shreds by something,
it's not as though it's like exercising its free will
or growing in virtue.
It's not like, oh yes, I've suffered
and I can reflect on it and get a grown virtue
and things like that.
It's like, it's definitely not doing that, right?
It's just suffering and then it dies, right?
So like a lot of the responses with respect to human,
human suffering and human evil
is definitely not going to be applying to this case.
And you know, there are no conscious creatures,
like humans aren't bringing this about.
It's the animals themselves that are doing this.
So it's like, free will, no, that's soul building, no.
So this is a problem.
And this is really what kickstarted my, ultimately,
my going away from the faith that I was brought up in.
And yeah, it's just a very serious problem by my lights.
So we've got the metaphysical problem of evil
that we covered earlier.
And I think the more interesting problem of evil is implicit
and I think the most powerful version of that
is the evolutionary animal suffering one.
And I just, I tried getting people's intuitions pumping
on that just now.
So.
Wow, you did really, really good.
You made me think of me 13 years ago in my mind
and the way I was, I guess you could say
I was doing philosophy,
but it was within a theological sense.
So I was a reformed Calvinist at the end of my run
with Christianity.
And I would think, okay, there's arguments
among Calvinists of what's called inferlapsarianism
and superlapsarianism that man first fell
like the one moment he had free will
and he, we're entering suffering
and we got to have a scapegoat to get God off the hook
and boom, inferlapsarianism.
Now we can explain why all suffering, evil, existent stuff.
It's God, you know, didn't do it.
Then from their God predetermined all humans
whether he was going to have them go to heaven or hell,
this kind of idea within Calvinism, by the way.
So you have to swallow this big pill.
You have all sorts of problems, whatever direction you go.
Cause I used to be a free will.
God loves everyone who wants to save everyone,
but he doesn't, which was fricking weird to me
that he had the power, but didn't do it.
But cause he can't coerce you cause that's not love.
And then I found this preaching one time
where the pastor was very powerful
was saying my grandson's running out into the road.
He's a country guy and he has like a country accent,
and he's running out of the road.
And my wife says, now, now, honey,
why don't you go get him?
And I said, I can't do that.
I can't force him against his will.
Like, and the kids running out to the road
and the car's going to hit him and kill this child.
But no, you can't go out there and stop your child
from entering the road because God loves you
so much that you won't coercively make sure
you don't go through that suffering.
I'm getting hype on purpose.
Cause I really want people to feel what I'm saying here.
And that hit me so hard as a Christian that I said, no,
the God that I believe in has the power
and the want to save those he loves.
Because I cannot rationally understand
him loving people, having the power to save them,
but doesn't.
So he either doesn't love everyone.
That's when Calvinism made the most sense in my mind.
I had to try to go somewhere.
And you could say I was doing philosophy in a way
within my theological bubble.
That is philosophy, yeah.
So I ended up becoming a super lapsarian.
And I just tried to swallow a pill
that I thought I swallowed, metaphorically speaking,
that I don't think I ever did fully.
And that was before all creation,
by the way, I was a young earth creationist.
When I found out about evolution,
that just destroyed what I thought.
Like really hurt me bad.
But before he created, he caused everything.
Like he knew what was going to happen.
He literally was active in the creation
of bringing about the things in which he foreknew.
It wasn't just, I know what's gonna happen.
I knew in the future that you were gonna reject my message
and therefore now I'm sending you to hell.
No, no, no, no.
Like you never were going to
because this was part of the plan.
So when we talk about suffering, like you just brought up,
in my mind, it was actually necessary
and not necessarily an evil because it is what it is.
It has to happen.
Kind of almost a fatalistic perspective in my mind.
And I just tried to do that.
But eventually I had some thought over the years
where I saw loved ones of mine
that didn't take Jesus that seriously.
And I thought maybe they don't have God's Numa
and maybe they're not a child of God.
They might be a reprobate.
We love throwing the word reprobate around
in the Calvinist community.
So they might be a reprobate
and I say in my mind,
does that mean that I love them more than my God loves them?
And that really, over time, that hurt me
and it made me realize like,
you mean I love more than God.
I mean, how can I love something
that God doesn't love in my mind?
So there's always some Christian in the audience
that's gonna rationalize their way out of this.
Oh, that's because your Calvinism's wrong.
And then we can run into your dead ends too
because they all have them.
But what do you think of that?
Yeah, yeah, no, I mean, I think you're,
yeah, you were doing philosophy there.
And you're like teasing out the consequences
of certain views, right?
And at some point you tease out
a very implausible consequence.
And as a result of that, you reject the view, right?
So that's just a telltale reasoning process, right?
You tease out the consequences of a view.
You find that the consequences are deeply implausible
and so you reject the view.
Like that's doing philosophy.
So you were doing philosophy.
I think everyone really ultimately does philosophy
a lot of the time.
It's just they don't recognize it.
And that's why philosophy is really important
to I think study because philosophy is kind of inevitable.
So you either do it poorly and unnoticed
or you recognize and you can kind of start
to do it at least better, right?
So that's why I think studying it
is really helpful and useful.
But yeah, as for the content of what you said,
I mean, I find what you said reasonably plausible.
I mean, especially like the fall thing was,
I originally came up,
I had that belief when I was younger as well.
So I was like, the reason why there's so much suffering
and death and pain and so on is because basically
like Adam and Eve screwed us all up,
but also like screwed creation up as well.
So like that's why the poor dogs and the cats
and so on have to suffer as well.
So it's all traceable to humanity, right?
So God isn't the blame.
But then you're just like, bam, evolution.
You're like, oh crap, that happened
way before humans were around.
So like we aren't responsible for that.
And it's also like a necessary condition
for us coming about.
It's because those things happened that we came about.
So can't blame humans now.
So who's to blame?
Well, I wonder who.
No, yeah, so that's the problem.
Like when you get rid of that,
like you get rid of this very powerful tool,
which is, I mean, the fall is a powerful tool.
You can like blame the crappiness of this all
on the free will of humans.
You can try to say something along the lines of,
well, God valued human free will.
So it's kind of satisfying to allow all this crappy stuff
to happen as a result of it.
I mean, but like even then,
there are some difficulties, right?
So like who's the one who set up the conditions
which are such that when the person disobeys God,
there's like disastrous consequences follow.
That was presumably God.
So it's like, I don't think God is totally off the hook
because it's like Adam and Eve weren't the ones who were,
I mean, like God is the one who's responsible
firstly for their nature,
but also for like the consequences,
like what would happen?
The curse, the curses that would come about
as a result of that.
So.
Especially if we bring up omniscience.
I mean, you just. Yeah, exactly.
You just ruin yourself when you start doing that.
That's why I have an open theist friend
who wrote a book called God can't.
Oh, that's Thomas Ortt, isn't it?
Yeah, that guy has a heart of gold.
Yeah. I mean, he's such a good person.
And when we talked, he knows I'm not a believer.
He knows I identify as an atheist.
But he, we found common ground
in such a good, deep conversation.
I had a lot of people write the comment.
That was one of the deepest episodes you've done
on Mithvision, cause we found a common ground
of trying to show love
and wanting to reduce harm, all of this kind of thing.
So sorry, please continue though.
I just brought up the omniscient thing.
That's good. That's good.
And he's the kind of person who is like,
yeah, like that's the God that I also don't believe in.
Like, you know, he's saying that like along with you,
he's like, I have those problems as well.
So yeah, a lot of much respect to him.
I've talked with him before.
So yeah, he's really nice. He's awesome.
So I still have so many problems personally
with his position.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. So there is that problem with the fall with like,
okay, well, like who's the one who set up the consequences
which are such that, you know, it affects all of creation.
So that's one problem with that.
I guess another problem with that is,
I mean, you might think like it is free will of that valuable
so that it costs the whole creation
to basically get screwed over.
Good question.
I mean, like you said, like you said,
if your child is exerting their freedom
and they're doing something that's so clearly destructive
to their wellbeing, like about to run out in front of a car,
you don't respect their freedom.
Yeah, you grab them out.
Yeah, you grab them. Yeah, you grab them
because that is ultimately what's even better for them.
So like free will is not like an all-trumping good.
Maybe it's good at least
that people exercise their freedom
in a certain limited set of conditions and domains,
but like we lock people up for their exertions of freedom.
Like we think that preserving certain other goods,
that's more important and preventing certain greater bads.
That's more important than the people exercising their free will.
That's why we lock people up.
And so like, that's another difficulty.
It's like, was it worth it?
Was it worth this huge, massive amount of destruction?
So I love that we're playing a hypothetical.
Our audience, if they're just now joining,
they may be thinking he really believes this,
but like you're hearing mental, what I call,
this is gonna sound bad.
Philosophy to me is another way
of calling mental masturbation.
I know it sounds horrible, but I call it that
because it's like you're exercising various hypotheticals
and you're just, and at the end, sometimes you're like,
I don't know, or sometimes you're like,
okay, I've worked through a lot of ideas
that just don't work for me.
I call it mental masturbation, but anyway.
Yeah, no, that makes sense.
And oftentimes you're mapping out the conceptual terrain,
the space of possible views,
the space of different consequences that follow from them.
And you're just gonna have to do a complex assessment
and weighing of the various reasons for and against those.
But having that map is empowering.
So that's another thing that's good about philosophy.
It empowers you to have the kind of conceptual maps,
conceptual terrains of certain issues and debates
and things like that and the reasons,
weighing up the reasons for and against.
So yeah, I mean, that's another question
that people need to consider in answering this.
And then the final question is,
God presumably could have given us
a kind of like compatibilist style free will
instead of the libertarian style free will.
Libertarian style free will basically,
as I'm gonna be using it here,
means that we have a kind of leeway.
We have choice among different options.
When we choose something we could have done otherwise.
So when Adam and Eve chose, for instance,
to disobey God, they could have instead chose to obey God.
Now, it's a question like,
is that freedom more valuable
than like a compatibilist style freedom
where you don't need leeway?
Like maybe you're just appropriately responsive
to your reasons and the reasons there are for acting.
And maybe you're like,
there's an appropriate correspondence or a good mesh
between your higher order desires
and your lower order desires.
So like you endorse what you're doing
when you endorse your first order desires for action.
Those are like different compatibilist accounts
of free will.
And like that seems to afford a valuable kind of freedom.
And also, once you have that on the table,
God would then be able to make sure,
because this compatibilist is compatible
with you not having any leeway,
God would have been able to make sure
that we only ever choose the good.
We only ever choose right.
And yet we still have this kind of valuable freedom.
So it's like, what's so valuable
about the leeway kind of freedom?
Especially given that it's accompanied,
and even if it is more valuable, right?
Keep in mind, there's a price to pay,
which is this massive destruction of creation, right?
Among humans, among animals and things like that.
So like, even if it is more valuable
than the compatibilist kind of free will,
which that's not clear,
but even if it is more valuable,
it has so many costs that you wouldn't need under the,
or that you wouldn't, that God could have avoided
if he gave us the kind of compatibilist kind of free will
because God would have been able to ensure
that we only and ever do the right thing.
And we could still be free in that, right?
Because freedom again, under this compatibilist view,
is compatible with you not having leeway.
So that's another, I mean,
that's another batch of problems to consider here.
And I mean, think about God, right?
Christians who want to, who want to resist that.
I mean, presumably that like, you know,
people might say, oh, without leeway, right?
You can't like love people, right?
What happens about, what happens to love?
Well, I mean like, there are relations of love
among the persons of the Trinity,
but they're not free to like not love each other.
It's not like the father could have like hated the son.
Like that's not possible, right?
That is not possible.
So like, they necessarily love one another.
The father necessarily loves the son.
The son necessarily loves the spirit.
There are necessary relations of love among them.
So like, you don't, so there's no leeway for them
to be able to choose not to love one another.
There's no freedom to not love, yeah, yeah.
Exactly, exactly.
But yet they still have the love, right?
So you can have love under this view.
You can have, you can have these kinds of robust values.
Yeah, that whole coercive argument doesn't work with love.
Again, it's one of those, I love my kid enough
that I'm gonna force him out of the street,
even if it hurts him.
Like imagine in the process,
I know potentially I could break a bone in his body
on accident, but save him from being killed, right?
Like to tackle him out of the way from the car,
he gets hurt, but he doesn't die, right?
Like there's different ways in which,
and this is the interesting thing.
Nothing's black or white.
It's so nuanced.
And I think the same can go with morality,
but I don't wanna get into the morality stuff.
I just wanna, because there's so many things
I think you and me over time can do through our,
do like shows, we can cover those discussions.
I had one question that came to mind,
and then I was gonna get a super chat here
by Gnostic Informant in the house.
You were interviewed by Neil over at Gnostic Informant.
I think so.
Yeah, what's my question?
We'll get to that, cause I wanna ask you specifically,
here, actually, let me just ask you this,
and then we'll get to the super chat that he has.
And that is, do you think that,
so the philosophers, they were doing their best
in exercising their mind with the world and knowledge
that they understood at the time.
These philosophers, whether it's Aristotle, Plato,
you keep going on to Aquanish, Augustine,
but science, like actual physical,
I guess you'd say the measurement
and testable observations that we now have made,
like that has to play some role
in how we assess our philosophy.
And now that science has,
as your very opening talks about evolution,
that's such a game changer
on how we have perceived things in the world.
My question to you and predicting,
we don't know where science will go at some point,
but like, do you think that science will eventually,
in some way, more and more eradicate the notion
of theism in your thinking?
I mean, it can't, I don't know.
Maybe we figure out so that we just aren't able
to measure a test beyond the scopes of the universe itself
because we're within it.
But my question is, it's like,
do you think the more we learn about science,
the more it is reducing theism
for being the most plausible explanation?
That's a good question.
We could talk about the past
and we could talk about the future.
So the past, let's think about the past,
we do see repeatedly throughout the past
that supernaturalistic explanations
are systematically replaced
by successful naturalistic explanations.
This is just a pattern in the history of science,
in the history of investigating,
in the history of theorizing.
Way back when we attributed thunder and lightning
and those sorts of things to the action of the gods,
but of course, we know that it's like
electrical discharges and whatnot.
But continually, like you had different theories of disease,
which attributed them to spirits and things like that.
You have different, all through the history of science
is riddled with theories
that were once supernaturalistic in character.
But as we gained greater understanding,
they became more and more naturalistic
until we have a thoroughly satisfying
naturalistic explanation to offer of the things in question.
So that's been a pattern that's noted
or that has been noticed in science.
And so arguably, that lends some sort of credence
to naturalism, right?
That's precisely what we would predict
if naturalism were true.
We would predict that supernaturalistic explanations
weren't gonna be successful
and that they'd be kind of systematically overturned
by better naturalistic explanations.
And just to butt in, that is my observation.
And so people wanna know where do I fall?
I mean, this is my best guess right now
because of my observations and these observations as well.
So I just wanna say that thank you
as someone who's not an atheist, who's not atheist,
who is agnostic and I can't wait to get to that question
with you just to learn from you why.
But you're saying and this is one of the reasons
that I personally go that path
or I'm leaning in that direction.
But anyway, please continue.
I just gotta butt in to make my point.
No, that's good, that's good.
And so like for me, that is like precisely
what you would expect under naturalism
and under like supernaturalistic views.
It's not as expected.
So it's like a chip.
It's a chip that's in favor of the naturalism.
It doesn't prove naturalism, right?
This obviously doesn't prove naturalism,
but it's just like a chip in its favor, right?
And you weigh the evidential chips on both sides
after you go through a bunch of different
purported pieces of evidence
and then you make a complex individual assessment
by your lights, which view is more plausible.
So yeah, I think that's a chip in favor of naturalism.
And at least inductively speaking,
if a pattern has held in the past,
well then presumably it's also gonna hold in the future.
That's just a standard inductive inference.
So presumably this pattern will also hold in the future.
For instance, it might be the case
that we get a satisfying unifying explanation
of the fine tuning of the constants of nature.
We might, for instance, find empirical evidence
or maybe we find a theory which is very predictively successful
and it entails the existence of a multiverse.
Arguably the multiverse together with something
like an anthropic principle gives us
a satisfying account of fine tuning.
Again, that's very arguable.
I'm not here to confidently proclaim that that is true.
But my point is just that we could definitely see ways
in which naturalistic explanations
could continually creep up on places
where theists are inserting God
to explain certain facets of the natural order.
Fine tuning is one of those where we may very well,
it is conceivable and it's entirely,
at least epistemically possible,
it's an open possibility that we find
a kind of satisfying naturalistic explanation of that.
And so on down the list, right?
So I don't generally like to predict about the future,
but like if I had to put my money,
I'd say that that pattern is probably
going to continue on in the future
because I mean, it's been a long established pattern
in the past.
If it does continue to finalize that question,
if it does continue and it only continues further
down this path where naturalism seems
to be the most plausible, wouldn't that in effect make,
it just reduce the plausibility of theism being the case
or at least maybe certain forms of theism I'll put.
Yeah, yeah, well, I'd say it depends on,
it depends on our ever shifting array of evidence, right?
This would be continually placing evidential chips
on the naturalist side,
but like as we go through time,
we might also discover more and more chips
that favor theism, right?
So it depends.
And those could be philosophical arguments,
they could be anthropological arguments,
it could be arguments of various different sorts
or maybe other scientific findings that we don't know of.
So I would say it all depends, right?
This is why I don't like predicting the future.
I say it all depends.
Yeah, and this is just your personal opinion on that,
Yeah, exactly.
And you are correct that if that did continue in the future,
again, we're increasing the evidential chips
on the naturalist side, so.
Awesome.
And look, I hope you have some time today.
I hope, again, I'm gonna constantly annoy our audience
to let them know like, you're gonna go to hell
if you don't buy this book, if you're an atheist.
If you're an atheist and you don't buy this book,
what could we do?
I mean, I can't get them through a metaphysical argument.
We gotta do something here.
What can we say then?
It's gonna happen to them if they don't get your book.
They'll be canceled?
I don't know.
I was actually gonna say like their lineage, right?
Like the next mutation is not gonna be in their favor.
How about that?
Yeah, exactly.
Seriously, get this book right now,
subscribe to his YouTube channel
because we're gonna refresh this Joker at the end
with the 214 people watching.
We're gonna hit refresh.
I hope those numbers are up
because these are rookie numbers right now.
We gotta get them up, man.
This is the Wolf of Wall Street.
All right, all right.
So now we're to Gnostic Informant.
My buddy, Neil.
Neil, thank you for the support.
Keep doing what you're doing over there at Gnostic Informant
and I hope that more people continue to follow
and see what you're doing.
I would love to pick Joe's brain
on what he thinks about deism.
We assume if a God exists that he has to be biblical
and wants people to do things,
but what about the possibility of the universe
being conscious of itself?
No?
Yeah, good question.
There are a bunch of different ways you could go at this.
So one of them is going at it from our evidence base
and what we know about from the world
and trying to argue against deism
or something along those lines from looking at the world.
That's a kind of a posteriori case.
It's posterior to experience.
We're looking at the world around us
and we're arguing against this view.
A different way you could go is just looking
at the view itself and trying
to pinpoint certain tensions within it.
So very often philosophers understand God
to be something that is worthy of worship
or maybe something like a perfect being.
And one might think that a being which is not deistic
but instead theistic, which cares about the creatures
that eventually arise, the conscious creatures,
the rational creatures that eventually arise,
you might think that a being, a divine being
that cares about such creatures
and that gets personally involved in them
would be a better being.
It's more worthy of praise.
It's more valuable.
It's better.
And if that's the case, well, then if God is perfect,
if he's the greatest possible being,
if there can be nothing in principle better than God,
God would have to be that way.
And that's incompatible with deism, right?
Because this entails that God would be personally involved
with his creatures if they come to be.
So that's one way that's a kind
of a priori argument against deism.
It's basically saying, well, like what else would God be
but a perfect being that's worthy of worship?
But that would require something like a non-deistic view.
Now the deist might say, okay, fine.
Well, screw that model of God.
I'm not talking about a God who's perfect
and who's worthy of worship.
Maybe, okay, fine, my God is not worthy of worship
and he's not perfect.
One thing you might wonder about then is like,
okay, is this really God then?
I mean, this kind of sounds just like a super angel
or something like that.
If it's not perfect and it's not worthy of worship,
but you know, okay, fine, that's kind of terminological.
Still, we can ask about the view.
Okay, call it a super angel, call it a God,
call it whatever you want, call it Bill.
It doesn't matter.
What about the view?
What about the view?
Let's call it a super angel.
We have the super angel.
I guess one thing you might think is like,
we can explain the data without postulating
this sort of thing.
So then why should we do that?
It's kind of like an ontological cost.
It's ontological baggage that we don't really need
because we can explain the relevant data,
the existence of creatures like us,
the existence of the universe,
the existence of contingency
without invoking such a being.
So then simplicity considerations,
plus the fact that we can explain things perfectly fine,
perfectly adequately without postulating this thing,
should push us to reject the view.
That's probably my thoughts on the view.
Of course, there are many more things that can be said,
and I can wield various different
complex arguments against this view,
but that would take us too far afield, I think.
I think what I said suffices for present purposes.
So just tackling what he's saying here about deism.
Oh, the universe being,
we could talk about the universe itself
being conscious as well.
Yeah, cause that's a different question,
I think in the typical deist one,
that sounds almost pantheistic.
And I think I interviewed philosopher,
what's his name?
He thinks that kind of the universe is a mind
trying to figure itself out.
What is his name?
Is it Philip Goff?
Nope, nope.
If you know who I'm talking about,
he actually had a discussion with Grandma Oppie
on this topic, but he pretty much said
that it's like an imperfect mind
that's trying to figure itself out,
which is why we have such hiccups and kinks
within the world we live in.
And that's Philip Goff.
It sounds similar to him,
but no, it's actually another guy.
Are you sure?
Okay.
Bro, I wouldn't make this up.
And I never interviewed Philip Goff,
but it's like that.
That's what this gentleman was saying.
My thing is, if we're thinking like that,
so like the universe has a beginning in some way,
deism, I tend to think more of like,
if there was this thing,
it's almost like a natural law in a way.
Rather than it being some personal thing,
it would almost be scientific.
Like we tap back far enough and we finally find out,
dink, oh, we hit like a solid scientific explanation
for what this is.
It's not got the, I mean,
I can't show how this wouldn't be the case,
but I would not imagine it to have emotions like we do,
being we're creatures and we're just trying to survive.
It would be almost like a mode of a machine
or something that is just is.
And it doesn't have like the same fickle changeability
that we do.
Anyway, I don't know if you want to tackle this argument,
what is the most plausible argument for deism
you've ever heard?
The most plausible argument for deism.
Well, have you heard one that was like,
okay, out of all of them,
that one sounded closest to possible?
I mean, let's be honest, okay?
The Kalam is kind of like only gets you to deism
or something like that.
So like the Kalam cosmological argument
whatever begins to exist as a cause,
the universe began to exist,
therefore the universe has a cause.
And they try to go on to say that this cause
must have theistic attributes.
Okay, none of that works,
but like let's set that aside.
Let's set that aside.
This is probably, I mean, it's not a bad argument, right?
I mean, this is taken seriously by philosophers.
Like this is an interesting,
philosophically interesting argument
that has robust defenses on its behalf, right?
So it's not like a bad argument.
I don't think it succeeds ultimately,
but it's not a bad argument, right?
So it's definitely worth taking seriously.
And it's taken seriously
by professional atheist philosophers as well.
So as well as these.
So I'd say that's probably potentially
an argument for deism, right?
Because once you get to this cause
that kickstarted the universe and it's personal,
you don't then need to go on to say like,
oh yeah, but it like cares about what you do
in the bedroom or you know, like those sorts of things.
You don't have to go on and add those additional postulates
because that makes your view less modest, you might think.
You're making much more, you're adding claims
about this thing, about its cares, about its wants,
about its desires, about its involvement with creatures.
And you might think that that's really implausible.
It's just very immodest.
So then we kind of have an argument for deism here.
A cause of the universe that, you know,
they think it's personal.
So kind of personal cause of the universe
that kickstarted things,
but just doesn't really give a damn about it afterwards.
So that's probably the best argument for deism, honestly.
Wow, Neil seriously appreciates you
sending this super chat.
So he just says, we assume if God exists
that he is, he has to be biblical.
And that is a big thing, cause in the West here,
especially in America, like we deal with this a lot.
I just, I find the biblical God
or the portrayal of the biblical God.
And if language has any meaning, then like it is,
it is not that God.
I'll just put it that way.
I just don't see how it can be.
And not even the God that they have now made,
I would say from Plato onward, like that can't be this God.
Even though I see mixtures of some of these philosophical
ideas playing a role into how even in the New Testament
you might find some of the philosophical stuff
try to creep its way in.
But like it's like God gets perfected like an art over time.
And then God becomes something that's unfalsifiable
that is like out there beyond our comprehension.
It's just, it's very difficult, very, very difficult
for me to wrap my head around.
But did you, have you seen the same problem?
Well, I do kind of viewed like, okay, Zillet,
if we take the Bible, what's the right word for this?
Literally something like that.
Is that the word that I'm looking for?
If we read the Old Testament,
like you pick up the book and you like read it.
That's the kind of sense I'm talking about.
You just pick up the book and you read it.
Yeah, it's very hard to see how the Old Testament God
is worthy of the name, worthy of the name God.
Like at least appears to be commanding genocide,
slaughter all the men, women, children.
Like here's an idea, that's not cool.
So that, like drowning, even if it's a local flood,
okay, drowning is one of the worst ways to die.
And drowning babies, like here's the hypothesis,
drowning babies is like not cool.
So like, I think it's very, very plausible
that a perfect being couldn't like drown babies,
innocent children and command slaughtering
of men, women and children.
Like to me, that like borders on
just being conceptually incompetent.
No, conceptually incoherent, excuse me.
Just something being a God firstly and being perfect,
but also like commanding genocide and like slaughtering,
you're commanding the people to slaughter people
and also drowning people.
Like, okay, we've gone wrong somewhere here.
You think, I'm gonna get to the heart of this.
Do you think that that same argument
can be applied to Jesus needing to die
on behalf of everybody the way they argue it?
You see what I'm saying?
It's not as bad as saying innocent babies that are,
but still, here's an innocent according to the narrative
they're spinning and that I once used to say, you know?
I'm gonna be honest.
I didn't have to think about that further
because there's the aspect of, yeah,
like was Jesus a willing sacrifice?
Does the fact that he's willing make a difference?
Does that make a difference?
So you get into complex issues here about,
I mean, about the philosophy of consent
and about when inflicting harms is permissible
and how that interrelates with the consent involved.
So-
It's difficult, Joe, because in Mark-
I'm not gonna take a stand.
If you take his quotations to imply anything
of what Jesus is actually experiencing
when he quotes Psalms 22 and he says,
my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
Or even him crying kind of in the garden of like,
take this cup for me, please.
Like, I don't wanna do this,
but I have to do whatever you give me
and God still gives him the punishment.
In Luke, he's very Socrates-like.
He willingly drinks the cup
and he doesn't show those emotions.
But if he isn't completely on board
and then as some people have said at his last cry,
it's implied he is absolutely forsaken.
So it's like, what?
I don't know.
It depends on how you're interpreting the data.
So-
Yeah, I'd have to think about that further, to be honest.
That's a good question.
Well, thank you, Joe.
I thank you, Neil, for that support.
I really appreciate you, man.
Go subscribe to Neil.
Kevin, non-tradicat?
Oh, yeah, like non-tradicat,
basically non-traditional Catholic.
Oh!
Which is good, because you know, like the traditional,
okay, well, I'm not sure if I should say this.
Traditional Catholics, in my experience,
have not been the nicest people that I've encountered.
I'm just going to say that.
Okay.
Well, they're big into the whole philosophy gambit anyway.
So they're definitely going to probably bump heads with you.
Joe often says the arguments of both ways
are roughly counterbalanced.
But how roughly is it counterbalanced?
Does Joe lean one way or the other?
Yeah, how roughly, it's just like not clear to me.
I mean, I'm just going to be honest.
Like this is, if people haven't noticed,
philosophy is very, very difficult.
And just assessing the evidence is very, very difficult.
You have to take into so many different considerations
from science, from history, from different fields
of philosophy, different arguments within philosophy.
There are dozens upon dozens upon dozens of arguments
for God's existence.
And there are also dozens upon dozens upon dozens
of arguments against God's existence.
And, you know, these aren't just arguments that like,
you know, your six year old brother have come up with.
Like, I mean, like published in peer reviewed scholarly
articles and things like that.
So there's a huge literature surrounding these sorts
of questions.
There are so many different arguments in this area,
so many different considerations
that it's just really difficult for me.
To even assess like where precisely the evidence lands.
Like I assess that it's roughly counterbalanced,
but like, does it even lean one way or another?
Like it's just like not even clear to me if it does,
whether it does, which way it leans.
I honestly don't know.
It's all so, so difficult, so, so murky, so rough.
Just the lay of the land of reasons is vast indeed
and much faster than my mind.
So it's kind of what I can say.
Can I like use an analogy to try and get you to maybe answer
a question relevant to what I think might be useful in this.
I recently read a book.
Richard C. Miller wrote called Resurrection and Reception
in Early Christianity.
I've got some Christian friends on Facebook
who are actually reading it or they're going to be reading it.
I'd love to hear the review.
I'm fairly confident, no matter what,
they're probably going to come down on the side
of trying not to fall in line.
But the gist of it is, and I'm not gonna give you
the whole thing, just saving time.
Justin Martyr in his apology, his writing, his apologetics
says, you know, this is no different than your sons
of Zeus and all the stuff he lists, right?
Of other gods, even how you apotheosize your Caesars,
the whole nine.
There's a common trope in Greco-Roman literature
where the bodies of people who become gods go missing,
hint, hint, missing two for Jesus, okay?
So I'm finding a good scholarship, right?
They're trying to find data that doesn't specially
treat New Testament texts like unique in a bubble
on a vacuum in the Greco-Roman world.
New Testament calls them a son of God.
Well, we have vast amounts of literature
that says the Caesars are sons of God, you know,
Romulus, Alexander the Great, tons of sons of gods
that are running around and they're claiming
to be deities in some way and they become gods
when they have an apotheosis.
You get to the New Testament and this is where
the debate happens with Christians.
This one really happened.
And I'm like, so I'm listening to Richard,
he calls it a translation fable that the body goes missing,
whether it's consumed by the fire and it becomes a deity
or it goes missing in a river or like,
and there's various stories that aren't identical,
but the common theme is that the body is usually gone
and like something magical happens.
Well, when you talk to certain scholarship
that I wanna call apologetics,
they're defending their faith,
usually they're saying ours is true and really happened
and they're going out of their way
to make historical claims to prove it's true.
Whereas I'm reading this all around
from Suetonius's birth narratives of Augustus
to you name it and I'm not buying theirs
and I'm no longer buying the one about the New Testament.
My point is scholarship is pretty shaky
because you got PhDs who are doing
what I call apologetics and then you got PhDs
who I think are being fair and saying,
look at the issues is the same problem
using that big story happening in philosophy
where you are watching people go out of their way
to make these kind of arguments
that you can't maybe falsify,
but they're doing it kind of trying to be batting
for their position and that you find someone
as an agnostic as yourself that maybe there are better
and more fair balanced philosophers out there
that aren't doing that.
Is that a problem in the philosophy field?
Well, I wouldn't say it's like a widespread problem,
but there are certain groups,
there are certain individuals who succumb
to that negative bad tendency more than others
and that it's noticeable, right?
So like you will see people mounting arguments
and defending arguments basically just for the sake
of propping up their tribe and bashing the other tribe.
And they might not even think that the arguments succeed.
Maybe they do think that they succeed,
maybe they're just underplaying objections to them,
things like that.
But yeah, it's unfortunate,
but yeah, I have noticed that in some cases
and it's always frustrating.
But yes, I just wanna say that that is,
that it does sometimes happen in philosophy.
And it's not the kind of cold impassioned,
cold, cold and I was going to say cold and impassioned,
but those are like completely different.
What I mean is like you have a cold unbiased search
for truth, but also a passion in that search for truth,
right?
It's a passion for truth,
not necessarily for defending your tribe,
but it's a passion for truth.
So it's not cold in the sense of unemotional
or just not detached, uncaring, not passionate.
No, you really are passionate for the truth
and it's precisely because you're passionate for the truth
that you go at it in a kind of unbiased, unattached way
and you're not just trying to prop up your tribe
and beat others with your arguments.
You're really just trying to use your arguments
to explore the issues, to explore the questions.
And to serve people rather than to use your arguments
to prove that the other people are irrational
and that they should immediately bow down their knees,
do your position or something like that.
So I have noticed that a lot in philosophy of religion,
especially that there is this tribalism
and people just really using arguments,
weaponizing them against people.
Because to be fair, that same argument that I'm bringing up,
I like what you said there,
cold but actually really wanting to get the truth, right?
No matter what.
I feel like if I were to be fair
to those who are on the thea side,
they feel and think that they really are on the side of truth
and that they think in their mind
that they're really doing what they think is true.
What do you do about that when both sides of honest people
who are really trying to figure this thing out,
really see things totally different?
I can't help it.
I've been accused by some of my Christian buddies
of being a psychoanalyzer
where I tend to sometimes try to analyze the psyche
or even go like, what's going on in your mind?
And I can't help that that happens from time to time
and I must admit, this is one of my sins, okay?
Because as a Christian, I remember how passionate
and honest I was seriously trying to figure out the truth.
I got accused by Christians of being too in froth
with the wind, like the doctrine, right?
I kept changing my doctrine to try and get more accurate
to know what the truth is
because I wasn't just fixated and knew what,
you just know what's right and you already believe it.
No, I kept changing to the point here I am today
still changing.
And you're like Dr. Phil to me right now.
So I'm venting to you, okay?
This is my struggle
because I know the people on the other side
really believe what they're doing is seeking the truth.
I like to give the benefit of the doubt
and say that's for sure.
What do we do?
How do we fix this, Joe?
And you have to answer it directly the first time.
No, I'm just kidding.
Well, let's see.
Well, the first thing to do is recognize
that we all have our unique evidence bases.
The way that I put this
is that we're all situated on different positions
in the grand epistemic landscape.
So episteme means something like knowledge
and epistemic, yeah, exactly, epistemology, yeah.
So the epistemic landscape is just the space
of different reasons
and the space of different beliefs that you can have
and the space of different pieces of knowledge
that you can have.
And it's just this grand terrain,
ups and downs and winding paths and things like that.
And we each occupy a very unique position
on that epistemic landscape.
Some people over here, others over here, others way over here.
Some people are closer to one another.
Some people are way far away from one another.
And basically where you are on that landscape,
the different positions correspond
to just vastly different experiences that you've had,
your life experiences, your personal interactions
with other people, your plausibility structures,
what you find intuitive through no fault of your own,
just what you find plausible.
Things that strike you as plausible or obvious.
It's also affected by things like what books you've read,
what order in which you've read books,
that affects how plausible you find things
and where you end up.
It's influenced by the videos that you've watched,
the classes that you've had.
We all have this hugely interconnected web
of experiences and beliefs.
And I call that basically our evidence base,
the things that we're drawing on
to inform our view of the world
and our view of these issues.
And we're all unique in that way.
Your experiences are not my experiences.
One atheist experiences are not another atheist experiences.
Atheist experiences are not the same as another,
like an atheist's experiences, et cetera.
So that's the first thing to notice is that,
not to call people irrational
and not to say that the other person is being irrational,
because they're very likely possessed
of different evidence than you are.
They have different life experiences than you do.
They've come across perhaps slightly different arguments
than you do.
Maybe they're aware of certain objections
to an argument that you think is plausible
or those sorts of things.
So we all have different evidence bases.
That's the first thing to recognize
and to recognize that not to call one another irrational,
that kind of gets us into this kind of debate mode
and shuts us down to being open to changing our minds.
So first thing to recognize that your opponent is
or at least can very well be irrational.
Secondly, to recognize that you and your opponent
have different evidence bases.
And once that is recognized
and that you have this kind of,
you've cultivated a mutual spirit of collaboration
based inquiry, love based inquiry,
truth oriented inquiry,
rather than a kind of combating inquiry,
trying to score points against one another
and beat each other down.
Once you have that,
then you can kind of open up the floodgates
to pursuing the truth together.
And that's where insights can start to flow.
That's when insights can start to flow.
So you just talk with one another.
You try to work through the issues.
Hey, here's an argument that I find plausible.
Let's talk through this.
Like what do you think about that first premise?
Do you have some objections?
Do you have some questions?
Okay, so then maybe after that
you both eventually agree on the first premise.
Then let's look at the second premise.
Like what do you think about that?
I think there are some intuitions behind it.
You talk about each other's intuitions.
You bring up some certain objections,
bring in things from other areas.
So it's this complex process of weighing reasons
for and against and just really talking with one another
in a kind of collaboration based, love based inquiry.
And I think that's the path forward
whenever you get into these sorts of potential impasses
among disagreeing parties,
that's the best way forward.
And it's really the only way forward.
The only other thing that you could do
is just to ignore them.
I mean, that's like basically the only other thing.
So yeah, it's either just ignoring them.
That's my philosophy in this sense,
we're talking about philosophy, right?
Is to not debate, I don't debate,
but I will have conversations
because I do believe in conversations.
I'm not interested in dick measuring contests
because I call them that
just like I call it mental masturbation with philosophy,
right?
But like it's seriously like a,
I'm approaching when I'm debating, right?
And it's tribalism 101
and it's my team's coming in to beat your team
and we're gonna win.
And I do think that we can reason
as best we can with certain people.
There seems to be at some point
where you have to just stop
if you think that they're unreasonable,
like can't hoven debates, right?
Like honestly, you gotta set boundaries, okay?
And anyway, I don't wanna bring his name up too much
because YouTube doesn't like it.
Anyway, anyway, continuing to the next Super Chat here.
Wayne Rossi says,
what do you think about the argument
from a psychophysical harmony
that's been going around since Cudder
and crumpets, or crumpets paper.
Do you know about this?
Yeah, yeah.
So they published a,
or I think it's forthcoming
in Oxford Studies and Philosophy of Religion.
It's a new argument for theism
from the fact that there are certain
rationally appropriate harmonious connections
between mental states
and certain physical states in our behavior.
So it's gonna be difficult to explain,
but we basically have a very coherent experience
of the world.
There are aspects of incoherence.
Of course, you know,
people have like schizophrenia and whatnot,
but like by and large,
our experience of the world is mostly coherent.
Like we're not just like our visual experience
presents us, roughly speaking,
the way that things are,
rather than just like pure static,
or rather than just like a complete chaos of things
and so on.
So we have a certain mental.
You're seeing an A and I'm seeing a D
and she's seeing an R and they're seeing an orange.
And yeah.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
So these are certain mental experiences
that we're having, right?
These are certain experiences in our mind
that are very coherent,
that latch on appropriately to the physical world.
But like it's at least conceivable.
So Dustin Cromet and Brian Cutter argue,
it's at least conceivable
that you could have had all the physical facts
being exactly the same.
And yet your mental states differ.
And so like your mental states could have been all wild
and complex and things like that.
And it could have been just like,
your phenomenology, what we call it,
like the phenomenological feel,
the mental feel that you're experiencing of the world
could have just been like static or totally chaotic.
And yet all the physical facts are the exact same.
And so you and I would be having this conversation
physically, like the words would be coming out
of my mouth the same way.
I'd be navigating the world perfectly fine
because like my behavior and my brain states
are working exactly the same.
So everything physical would have been exactly the same.
And yet the mental states would have been totally divorced
from like what's going on in the outside world.
So there's a kind of disharmony there.
And what they say is like if you count up
all the conceivable ways that the connection
between the mental states and the physical states,
both our behavior and the external world,
it'd be kind of all the ways
in which those are harmonious with each other
versus the vast diversity of ways
in which they could be disharmonious.
You know, it could have static phenomenology.
It could be like a little slightly different static,
a little slightly different static.
It could be just orange.
It could be like tepid bathwater phenomenology.
That's like all you experience.
It could be just like this huge array
of like disharmonious connections
between mental states and physical states.
And what they say is that under the hypothesis that,
you know, under the hypothesis
that whatever's responsible for us having psychological states
being connected to physical states,
under the hypothesis that that did not happen by design,
this is very, very surprising.
But by contrast, if this happened by design,
it's not nearly as surprising.
So that's the basic-
What if I flipped it and said it's the physical states
that end up inevitably producing the mental state?
Like over time, you know,
hierarchies of the brain and whatnot
as some more materialist naturalists
such like Daniel Dennett and such
are trying to rectify like consciousness and awareness
and things like that.
Like if we flip the argument around,
would it necessitate creation?
Instead of saying from a ground level up, you know,
it has produced kind of the states,
which is why it's consistent in the natural world
rather than trying to go,
well, you got to have creator that ends up making it.
You know what I mean?
I don't know if that makes sense.
If my argument follows-
No, it's a good point.
It's a good point.
And what they're probably going to say
in response to that is
we have to be careful about what the hypothesis is.
If the hypothesis is just that physical states determine
or necessitate whatever mental states that we have, right?
That alone is not going to predict
the kind of harmonious connection
because, you know, the physical states
might have necessitated a completely disharmonious.
You know, conceivably,
it could have been the case that the physical states
like necessitate a totally disharmonious phenomenology.
So like the physical states of my brain right now,
it's at least conceivable that that like necessitated
like static experience just everywhere is just static.
So what they're going to want to say is,
well, the mere hypothesis,
the mere claim that the physical states necessitate
whatever mental states we have
is not going to explain the harmony.
Because I mean, again,
it's just perfectly conceivable that you have it,
the physical states necessitating disharmony.
Instead, you're going to have to modify your hypothesis
and make it say something like,
okay, we're not just saying
that the physical states necessitate the mental states,
but they necessitate like mental states
that make sense in light of the external environment.
They necessitate a kind of harmonious.
To survive.
I mean, you wouldn't want to have pure static
to be your experience.
If in order to survive in the natural world,
you would want it to be, I don't know.
I mean, this is obviously complex
within the evolution of the species,
but the species, but this is the point.
I mean, it's way above my head being able to make the case.
It's just, I can imagine that playing out making sense,
but I also get the position that you need some creator
to keep this unified experience being the case.
But what do you say about the people who don't share that?
Which is not, it is like a rare occurrence,
but did God not keep them in check?
Like, did He not, you know?
Yeah, that is true.
So I think we should come back to that point
because I think it's a good one.
But yeah, with respect to like the evolution,
a lot of people respond initially to the argument
by saying, well, like, hold on a second,
like evolution is going to favor this kind of harmony
because you need to latch onto,
you need to appropriately be experiencing the world.
You know, if, oh man,
I was just going to give a terrible example.
It was going to be very inappropriate
because, you know, survival and reproduction.
Please go ahead.
So we have reproductive organs, right?
You need to know where the other person's reproductive organ
is if you are going to reproduce.
So you have to have a coherent experience
of the other person's reproductive organ.
And so to be able to like appropriately engage with it.
I'll just all say that.
So, you know, you might think that evolution explains that.
But what they're going to say is like, well, hold on a second.
We can imagine that all the physical facts, again,
are exactly the same, right?
So all the physical facts, your brain states,
your behavior would be totally the same.
You really would.
So the beings would be behaving as if
they are appropriately recognizing one another's
reproductive organs, et cetera, right?
So the behavior is going to be exactly unchanged in this.
It's only the experience that we are conceivably changing.
So it ultimately doesn't solve it
because we still could have conceivably had
a disharmony there where all the physical facts are the same.
So evolution is operating on the exact same physical facts.
Evolution doesn't care about what experiences
you're undergoing during this.
Like the phenomenological feel, what matters is that
you get the reproductive business done.
So I mean, I would poke at this and just say for me, right?
Like these are all hypotheticals.
And I know that we can do this.
This is the point about like word salad.
I kind of catch sometimes with like philosophy
that makes it like you could almost make anything possible
with this kind of thinking.
Like you can almost.
I mean, you can run away and try and like make the argument
and make an plausible hypothesis that it requires
a divine active person involved in making sure.
What if you couldn't hypothetically have any experience
apart from the active agency of a divine
making that experience true because, I don't know,
whatever reason, I just throw it out there.
Like you aren't even having perception
or any type of reality or consciousness
without divine making that there are people who think that.
By the way, your consciousness is not there without that spark
or without the divine giving you consciousness.
I just feel like it never ends, right?
And for me, I'm like, well, we do have this
and it's pretty testable that it's there.
I'm going to try and rationalize to make the most sense of why,
I guess, but anyway.
Yeah, no, I mean, so before there are three final things
that I want to cover, like before we move on,
but one of them is just to shout out the paper, right?
So people can search it up on field papers
and you could just search.
I think it's like search up argument
from psychophysical harmony, Brian Cutter, something like that,
or Dustin Krummet, and it should come up on on field papers.
So I recommend people check that out because, I mean,
you know, the informal gloss that I gave was precisely that.
Firstly, it was informal.
And secondly, it was a gloss.
So I don't want anyone saying, oh, well, actually,
you missed this certain step in his argument.
I don't want I don't want I don't want people saying that.
So I don't even know their argument.
I'm just tossing stuff at whatever you say.
I was just giving the rough idea of the argument.
So that's the first thing to say so that I'm not
accused of misrepresentation.
The second thing that I want to say is to go back.
Hmm, that would be a tangent.
I'm not going to talk about that.
The second, the second and final thing I'm going to say.
So I said I was going to cover three.
The second thing is one response that people have had
to this argument is basically a kind of revenge problem.
So like God's mind is very harmonious
in various different ways.
God presumably experiences like creating the world.
God has a mind and there's something it's like
for God to create the world, for him to will something.
And then there's a physical effect that corresponds
to what happened in his mind.
He says, let there be light.
And lo and behold, there is in fact light.
So there's a kind of harmony here
between God's conscious states and physical states
of the world as well as other states of God's mind.
And it's at least conceivable that there were lots
of different other gods or at least divine like beings,
God like beings, which had radically different
like very, very disharmony psychological states.
And so if they're trying to solve the problem
of psychophysical harmony with respect to humans
by appealing to God, you might ask whether or not
that problem just afflicts God himself.
And the way that I think is the best way
to cash out this argument is to say that this is a problem
for the prior probability of their hypothesis.
They're basically, they're purchasing predictive power.
They're predicting psychophysical harmony by positing a God.
But like the prior probability of their hypothesis,
you might argue, you might argue is correspondingly diminished
because they have to build in a lot of psychological,
psychophysical, they have to build in a lot
of harmony into their hypothesis.
And it's easily conceivable that there are tons
of different ways in which a God
like being could be disharmonious.
And so their hypothesis is only one,
one God like hypothesis among this huge array
of disharmonious God like hypotheses.
And so it's like, you've just relocated the improbability
to the prior probability of the hypothesis rather than,
okay, fine, it predicts the data well,
it predicts the psychophysical harmony well,
but it's very improbable a priori that this God
like being would obtain with the psychophysical harmony
that it has as opposed to any
of the vastly outnumbering disharmonious Gods.
So that's one response that people have given.
I'm still trying to think about, like listen,
I'm testing these sorts of things, you know?
I don't have a subtle view on this argument.
My view is actually shifting on this argument,
like I'm actively investigating it.
It's a new argument, right?
So I've only recently in the past few months
have been thinking about it deeply.
So I don't know what to think about the argument yet.
I mean, so I just wanted to-
I mean, you leave the mind with what you said
because I know you didn't exhaust it
and maybe you accidentally didn't quite represent it.
Who knows, I put the paper down there for people.
When you mentioned that maybe the Gods are also,
who knows, right?
What if they have all of these various experiences
we don't know, we have no way of measuring that.
The philosopher was Bernardo Castro
that I was trying to get on.
Oh, okay, I see.
And he was trying to say something almost like,
this isn't equivalent to what you're saying,
but in a way it's similar,
that because we see so much chaos and disorder
among order in the universe,
technically the mind, which is behind it
in his perception, which is God,
because he had some, I'm no idealist at all,
but reality are, we're not seeing things
for what they really are
and is the tree making noise in the woods over there?
If you're not there, did it even fall?
These are questions, if you're not perceiving it
and it actually happens, then did it happen?
These wild things that I have a hard time
wrapping my head around is reality.
But he makes the point that the mind, it's not sure.
It's trying to figure things out.
So technically in his point, God isn't sure
and God doesn't really know what it's doing.
It's a mind, which is like,
I mean, at least he's trying to match reality
from our experience of reality and chaos
while it's still got order and chaos at the same time,
that that's also reflection of the mind
of the thing that made the world,
which is more plausible to me
than trying to come up with some hiccup saying,
this immovable perfect being
and then like all this bad comes from it
and it's like, maybe this God's got some problems.
What if God's got a tobacco problem or something
and next thing you know, humans have it.
I'm just kidding.
Yeah, exactly.
So just for the audience,
again, I was giving an informal gloss of that
and again, I don't quite know what to think
about the argument.
So the objection that I was just raising,
again, if you listened back to it as I was articulating,
I was saying like, well, you might think this.
You know, you might object this way.
One might think this.
So I don't wanna take a stand here, a firm stand
whether or not that objection succeeds.
I just wanna give people tools
to think critically about these questions.
That's my goal here to give you guys tools
to think about these things.
So thank you.
And thank you for letting me even butt in and say things.
I'm interested in your thoughts.
Converse contender is in the house.
Thank you for that support.
Joe, do you sympathize with the point non-believers say
non-coercive consent is most important in interactions,
but with God that freedom shouldn't be preferred.
You might wanna reread that.
Yeah, so do you sympathize with the point
non-believers say non-coercive consent
is most important in interactions,
but with God that freedom shouldn't be preferred.
Yeah, so I guess the idea is that,
so I wonder what he means by preferred
or I wonder what they mean, sorry,
I wonder what they mean by a preferred.
Shouldn't be attributed to God maybe?
So like,
sorry, I'm trying to work with that.
A lot of times I think, if I'm gonna wrap my head around,
I think what Converse is saying,
and if you're still here at Converse,
maybe you can add something to this,
is non-believers are saying like you shouldn't coerce.
Like, you know, there should be like the participant
or the person should be consensual in whatever they act is.
We shouldn't coerce it, but with God,
that freedom shouldn't be preferred.
I'm trying to contrast here, but I'm a little confused.
Oh, okay, so like when God interacts with us,
maybe the idea is that when God interacts with us,
the kind of non-coercive consent doesn't matter
as much as when we would interact with each other.
Like it's pretty important that I don't coercer
to doing things against your will.
In general, that's important, and that's valuable.
But maybe the idea is that,
with God like he can violate that,
I don't know, sorry, I'm just,
I'm trying to understand this.
I am too, and Converse, look, we'll come back to it.
Please, everyone remind me, Converse,
you've got to be in the chat,
because I really want to answer this.
Please type out, give us a little more context
so I actually can fairly have this answered idea.
Yeah, and listen, like it's difficult
because you know, we only have,
like I've been in this place before
where you only have so long,
you only have such a short message to type your thing,
so it's really hard to convey ideas.
So I just want to sympathize with Converse
that I can understand that it's actually difficult
to convey these things on through YouTube.
It's difficult, so.
Well, I'll try and look out for Converse here
after the Bradford Baldwin Super Chat.
So I'm scrolling back up, we'll hit the next one.
We'll start, we'll try and blast through these Super Chats here
because we've got quite a few actually,
if that's okay with you, Joe.
Yeah, that's fine, yeah.
We're gonna, I swear to everything,
everybody better subscribe to YouTube channel.
Remember, you don't want your mutation, you know,
to like fail, okay?
And for those who are theist,
do you really think Hot Lava's fun?
And then of course get the book, please get the book.
So there's something for each person in the chat.
If you don't subscribe to Joe's channel,
I'm coming for you.
All right, here we go.
I'm still scrolling up,
holy smokes, the chat is on fire tonight.
Like am I, hold on, did I go all the way up?
Okay, hold on, I did, I'm sorry.
Okay, scrolling back down, I passed it.
That's why I was like, my gosh,
there's so many people in the chat.
Sorry, Joe.
It's all good.
Almost there.
Hit the like button while you're here
so that the YouTube gods will check us out.
Matthew Pop, is Abrahamic God supposed to have
a greater consciousness than us?
Wouldn't our mind seem like a rock or a clam
compared to his omniconsciousness?
Yeah, I mean, we really would kind of seem like that.
I mean, God is often said to be like infinite, right?
Like God's mind is so cognitively superior to ours
and so much more valuable, so much faster,
so much more knowledgeable.
I kind of, I wanna like know how God views our minds.
Like, is it how we view like answer something?
You're starting to sound like Neil deGrasse Tyson.
You know what I mean?
It's insane.
Well, I mean, like the gap between infinitude
and infinitude is literally like infinitely large.
So like God's mind is like infinitely larger, like larger.
I mean, like more encompassing, more knowledgeable,
more valuable, more powerful than ours.
So it's like, it's so hard to imagine
what it would be like to be God.
And also it's so hard to imagine how God views us
just because we're so puny in comparison to him.
So I think it's interesting to ask about,
and you know, there might be some potentially interesting
like philosophical or theological implications for this,
like if God is that like so different from us,
like do you, like how,
you might wonder about like,
how does a relationship with such a vastly different being go?
Like it's really hard to see what it would be like
to be such a being.
And you might think that, you know,
to have a relationship with someone,
it seems plausible that you need to know like something
that would like be like to be them and somehow,
like you have to interact with them in some way.
You have to, so it's like, it's interesting.
So it's interesting just to think about how this interacts
with people and their relationship with God.
Like, is it like the relationship between an aunt
and like a human or, I don't know.
It's an interesting question.
Good super chat.
It is.
Con versus back says, Joe said earlier
that libertarian free will shouldn't be that important
to God because of evil.
Yeah. Okay. So maybe the thought is that
maybe God really does value it a lot.
You know, like maybe it really is that valuable.
And what I want to say is like, okay, you know,
maybe it is, I'd have to see the argument for that.
Or I'd have to, you know,
because right now at least speaking for myself,
I don't find it plausible that the kind of libertarian
free will is so overwhelmingly more valuable
than the kind of compatibilist style free wills
that I articulated.
And again, even if it were more valuable,
which again, like I don't see that intuition
that they would be more valuable.
Even if it were, again, you have to balance that
with all the costs that are accompanying libertarian free
will, especially the costs that resulted
from the alleged to fall, not only like having the result
that all of humanity is in this broken creation,
but also that like tsunamis and tornadoes happen
and that like animals rub each other to shreds,
at least for like the traditional story, right?
The fall brought suffering and death into the world.
So that there's also that consideration.
So firstly, I don't share the intuition.
So I'd have to see like an argument for that.
But secondly, even if I did have the intuition,
it distilled like does that outweigh all the good,
all the bads that accompany it.
And it's definitely not clear.
Thank you, Joe, appreciate that.
Converse, thank you so much.
Beer Experience 360 says,
there's no amount of scholarship that can make a case for
or against God's existence.
That would go against everything I think you do, right?
Yeah, I would say there is an amount of scholarship
right there that would, no.
Yeah, so I would say, I mean,
it's a fair enough sentiment that sometimes you hear,
you know, like God is so, like if God were to exist,
he'd be so transcendent so beyond us that basically
we wouldn't be able to investigate whether or not he exists.
So we're basically just in the kind of cognitive dark.
But I mean, for me, I mean, let's just see the arguments.
Let's look at the arguments there.
Let's see if they're plausible.
I mean, some of them you can draw out consequences.
I mean, we are capable as rational beings
drawing out consequences from views right?
And if we're capable of drawing out consequences from views
then we can assess whether or not those consequences
are plausible.
And if we can assess whether or not those consequences
are plausible,
then we can assess the plausibility of those views
from which we drew out those consequences, right.
So we can draw out consequences from views
like naturalism, from views like theism.
We can assess whether or not those views are plausible.
We've been doing that this whole time
and philosophers, you know, philosophers do this at large.
And so then we can assess the views
in light of these assessments of plausibility.
So I would say that there actually is an amount
of scholarship that can at least bring considerations
to bear for and against God's existence.
One of them we talked about earlier
was the one of naturalism, right?
Like naturalism leads us to expect
that naturalistic explanations are gonna be better
than the super naturalistic explanations.
Whereas if naturalism were false,
that's at least not as expected.
So like that's a case of reasoning that we just made up,
we just found an evidential chip for naturalism, right?
So that's, I mean-
You could still have a deistic,
I guess it'd be hard unless you think your God's like
into the fact that death is the way naturally
everything needs to go and all of that.
But I guess you could have a deistic-
It depends on how you characterize God.
Exactly, cause you could go anywhere.
That's the thing about it.
The trouble is you can almost make, well, to God,
what we suffer is nothing to it.
So, you know, you could have a God
who's totally okay with death and suffering and illness.
And yet you still enjoy certain things.
You liked that cup of coffee, didn't you?
I know you didn't like getting punched in the face,
but like that cup of coffee though, right?
So, you know, you can almost do anything.
And that's why my head, when I start philosophizing
as I called it, I was like,
this is like almost mental masturbation.
You can do so many different things in your head.
Yeah.
I think it depends upon the characterization of the view.
Like depending on how we characterize the view,
we can draw out different consequences.
And also depending on how you characterize the view,
it could be more or less intrinsically probable.
You know, like if your characterizing this being
is having like this super duper powerful desire
just to produce Gouda cheese or whatever, and that's all.
Like that's a very immodest hypothesis.
You're ascribing a very particular kind of desire
to this being and like why that desire
is opposed to any other.
Like this is just a monumentally improbable hypothesis
just because of how immodest it is.
So like we can tease out consequences of views.
We can assess them for their intrinsic plausibility
by looking at their modesty,
by looking at how coherent they are internally, et cetera.
So I really do think scholarship can be brought to bear
on these sorts of questions.
I agree, I agree.
I just think if we try hard enough,
we can almost make things.
That is true.
If we don't have anything to ground it though,
like you said, I mean, you're kind of just making stuff up.
So.
Yeah, if you push hard enough,
the square peg will go into the round hole.
I mean, even if you break the toy, it's going to happen.
I see a lot of broken toys.
Scott Milligan, thank you for the super chat.
Do you think classical theism
or theistic personalism is a better theory?
I'm Christian undergoing deconstruction.
Thanks to both of you guys, awesome work.
Thank you.
I really appreciate the support.
It's a good question.
So classical theism is the model of God.
So a model of God, that's just like a way of viewing God,
his nature and his relation to the world.
So it's just like a way of viewing God.
It's like a theory about God.
So classical theism is a model of God.
And yeah, it's the one that I calculated earlier.
It's like saying, yeah, hey, God's perfect.
Omniscient omnipotence, et cetera.
He's the creator of everything ex nihilo.
Okay, yeah, that's true.
But also God's like radically transcended.
He's simple in that sense.
He's identical to everything that's intrinsic to him.
He is immutable.
He's impassable.
He can't be affected by anything and he's timeless.
By contrast, this moniker theistic personalism
is usually used to refer to views
that affirm a lot of classical theism.
So they say, yes, God is omniscient.
Yes, God is omnipotent.
Yes, God is the creator and sustainer
of everything outside of himself.
Yes, God's perfect, et cetera.
But he's not like timeless.
He undergoes succession.
He exists in time.
He might be passable.
So he might be able to be affected by our prayers.
For instance, he is not immutable.
So he can change in certain ways.
He can't change in his essential nature, of course.
But he might gain new knowledge or things like that.
Yeah, so that's the kind of
what people often call theistic personalism.
The reason I'm putting this in air quotes
because I actually think this is a really unhelpful
characterization of non-classical theistic views
because it sets out classical theism
as opposed to theistic personalism.
And, but the problem though
is that classical theism still views God as a person.
And so in some sense, it's a personalism.
Of course, God's not a person
in exactly the same sense that you and I are.
He's identical to his personhood
and he's also identical to his omniscience and omnipotence.
So he's a very different person from how we are
but he's still a person under classical theism, right?
He still has an intellect.
He still has a will.
He makes choices, albeit timelessly, but, you know.
Do you think that that misunderstanding happens
because when you look at more of the platonic,
you know, highest form God, it almost doesn't sound personal?
It looks impersonal, let's be honest.
It kind of looks impersonal.
But like at least, so let's set aside the appearances
and let's look at what the classical theists themselves
want to hold.
They want to say, okay, God really is personal.
And so that's why I think that just the term is misleading
because their God really is personal.
He has like a mind, he's identical to his mind.
He's identical to his intellect.
He's identical to his will.
Something which has an intellect, will, knowledge,
makes choices, loves things, that's obviously personal.
So that's why I think it's misleading
if you characterize classical theism
as opposed to theistic personalism.
So that's why I don't usually like the terminology.
I just call the other models of God
like non-classical theistic.
And then you can get into very specific models.
Like open theism is a certain non-classical
theistic model of God, right?
It's God, it doesn't have comprehensive
for knowledge of the future.
You're basically adding in that claim.
So you can get to very specific,
like panentheism is another non-classical model.
Pantheism is another non-classical model.
You can get into these very various,
more specific non-classical models.
But the way that I carve up the terrain
is classical and non-classical.
I think it's much better.
It's not misleading.
So anyway, now onto their question.
Which one do I think is a better theory?
Broadly speaking,
I think non-classical theistic models of God are better
just because I think that there are certain
independent problems afflicting classical theism.
It's really hard to see that if God is like absolutely simple
if he's identical to everything inside of him.
Well, I mean, firstly,
you just might find that implausible.
I mean, I mean, I'm just gonna be honest with you.
I think it's very plausible that omniscience
is not like numerically identical to like love
or like God's omniscience is not like God's knowledge
that one plus one equals two just seems to me
to be obviously distinct from like God's power
to bring about my existence.
Like those just seem obviously different.
Like I just have these seemings, these intuitions there.
It just seems really implausible to me to identify them.
So you might just find it implausible on its face.
But also, I mean, there are a bunch of different arguments
that you could level against it.
So you might think that the facts themselves change,
like dinosaurs used to exist, but they no longer exist.
So dinosaurs went out of existence,
but if God's omniscient,
then he's gonna have to change in his knowledge,
he's gonna have to go from not knowing,
excuse me, he's going to have to go from knowing
that dinosaurs exist, because they do exist,
to not knowing that they exist because they don't,
in fact exists, right?
So he's gonna have to change in his knowledge.
He's gonna have to go from knowing that they exist
to knowing that they don't exist.
And so, if God changes in his knowledge,
you might think that there has to be
some sort of succession in his life, right?
He has to change in some ways
to go from knowing one thing to knowing another,
and then, so we can't be timeless.
He has to undergo some kind of succession.
So you might think that there are a bunch of different arguments here and these are some reasons why I would adopt a non classical theistic model of God if I were a theist.
Thank you so much for that. Appreciate that. SP says what are your thoughts on Neoplatonist conception of God cosmology as outlined by Plotinus or Porphyry?
Yeah, so as I understand it, Plotinus at least has the Neoplatonic. Well, he doesn't call it a Neoplatonic, obviously. Well, he might. Let me take that back. He calls it the one. Let me just sit back and just say that.
That is that is a dope name. The one like and it's a capital O like that's cool. The one that is this like absolutely simple transcendent unity.
It's it's absolutely simple. It's non composite and it like in some manner explains the diverse array of things and keeps them together in being because everything else is composite and it's this absolutely simple being a reality.
So that that you could call that God. I tend to think that it's impersonal but set that aside. You could call it God. And then and then there's the so that's the first hypothesis or whatever and then there's the second hypothesis which I think is noose or mind.
And this is the first like emanation from the one right so the one is this absolutely simple reality it emanates it burps out of itself. It necessitates the existence of this transcendent mind or noose and in this transcendent mind or noose reside the platonic forms right the the like the abstract
And so then you have that's the second hypothesis or whatever. And then the third hypothesis or whatever the third thing that in the order of being that that exists is what is it the world soul or something I think that's what they call it.
And yeah and I don't know what the world soul is but I know that it's there. So like they have this like three hypotheses in kind of a this is at least platonicist view I'm pretty sure.
Sorry I'm really having to go back to my knowledge of the like ancient and medieval philosophy that I studied in Purdue so so I'm going off of memory here. But but yeah he had this weird view where there are these three hypotheses.
It's the one noose or the mind and then the world soul I think and OK cool interesting. I don't see any reason to believe that that's true. That that's my thought.
Those are my thoughts. I'm going to be honest with you. Yeah I don't think that it's very motivated and actually for those interested. There's a neoplatonic argument in this book and it's a neoplatonic argument inspired from the writings of Plotinus.
And I think it's chapter.
Crap.
Chapter nine I guess I'm guessing if you can click on that I think it's chapter nine neoplatonic proof number nine. Yeah neoplatonic proof so they're
Yeah the idea in that is basically to argue that hey things that are composite they require some kind of sustaining cause and ultimately you have to get to some first non composite cause of everything else.
And so that's kind of the one right that's this absolutely simple being and then you know defenders of the argument try to say that that's godlike. And I criticize the argument in there and I have some you know citations of Plotinus is in the ads in there.
So if people are interested in Plotinus and the neoplatonic proof that can check that out. Yeah.
Awesome. I just posted that again in the chat. We're going to try and blast through these so that we can get to seeing the update of your subscriber count here chat GPT discuss Marx opium of the masses please.
Oh man you guys are asking things that are so far outside of my like normal is area of operation.
So I think a Marx's idea there was something like religion is a tool that the capitalists use to basically keep people from rising up against their atrocious conditions you know they're basically being oppressed by the bourgeois.
I'm talking about the proletariat the proletariat of being oppressed by the bourgeois and basically the bourgeois the capitalists are wielding religion to keep the people pacified in some sense to keep to keep to keep them focused on other
supposedly goods and benefits rather than focused on the here and now and their terrible conditions here now like you're suffering here and now but going to be rewarded in the afterlife so basically makes them it makes them more resistant resistant to at least you know it
pacifies them it appeases them it makes them more less likely to rise up and engage in revolution. Okay that's about the extent of my knowledge on Marx and the opium of the masses. What do I think about that.
Is there empirical evidence for that I don't know that's an listen that's an empirical claim. It's an empirical claim about like the role of religion in society and about how it's employed by a certain class in society the bourgeois the capitalists.
It's an empirical claim and that would need empirical evidence. As far as I'm aware, Marx didn't present empirical evidence for that.
I think what who was it Carl Popper that criticized a lot of aspects of Marxism for being totally unfalsifiable and just you know these kind of armchair theorizing about political matters without empirical evidence.
So I mean that that's my thought this this is an empirical claim and I doubt is there empirical evidence for I don't know I am kind of you can color me skeptical.
Thank you so much Joe. My personal musings I came late on the stream has Joe discussed my monities.
That's the only reason that's all that I was doing I just got out my guy to the perplex so yeah pretty I took lots of different history philosophy classes, and you read these historical philosophers so we read my monities.
What's very interesting is that a lot of my monities as arguments well a lot of them derive from Aristotle of course but like he's refining them. A lot of them are just like basically almost copied in Aquinas.
So like you know my monities before Aquinas so it's just interesting that that these thinkers are borrowing from one another and using each other's arguments.
Okay, thoughts. Have I talked about him know I haven't thoughts on him. I mean he has this really radical apophatic view of God so apophaticism basically.
This is this is a simplification, but you know you're basically resisting making like positive claims about God like instead of saying that God is like loving or God is all good or things like that you're you instead make negative claims you talk about what God is not something called the via negative.
You're just basically saying no God is not this way he's not that way, but it's really difficult to give a kind of content to what God really is because he's so transcendent.
Yeah, what do I think about that? What do I think about my monities work well I'm not convinced by his arguments for God's existence in fact what I argue in my book right here and the chapter in the argument from change is going to be targeting some of the
Aristotelian arguments that my monities gives.
And what I think about the via negative I mean if you have a kind of very radical apophaticism it's really hard to make sense of like presumably to say that God exists but like I don't think there's any way to cash that out as a negative claim.
I'm saying like, Oh, well he doesn't not exist.
You just said that he existed like that double negation cancels each other out so it's like you at minimally we have to predicate some sorts of positive things of God like that he exists.
Yeah, minimally.
So like, and once you open the door to one of them it's hard to see like the principled reason for debarring other sorts of positive predications. What's so bad about it.
Anyway, I know there's there's a lot that my monities says about these sorts of things but
Thank you Joe, appreciate that my personal musings Brad for Baldwin thank you for the super chat naturalism and a cosmos that's always existed is the best choice when theism runs into special pleading, trying to halt infinite
Regress, God's the step not needed when hypothesizing with Occam's razor.
What are your thoughts.
Interesting.
I think it's just going to depend on whether or not like the philosophical argument while the philosophical and the scientific arguments for the fin or to the past succeed.
It's just going to depend.
It'll depend on whether those succeed. If they really do succeed.
Then it's not really special pleading to halt the regress. I mean the regress is going to have to succeed because we have these arguments that tell us that you know you can't have an infinite past or at least you don't in fact have an infinite past.
So the regress is going to have to stop somewhere.
And if these arguments succeed, I'm saying if because I'm not convinced of these arguments.
But yeah, so if it does, then you just ask about well what would that first cause be like and the theist I mean usually they're going to be giving some kind of argument for thinking that it's going to be God so it's not really special pleading great okay some some theists will
let me say that I mean I you know of course some theists will some atheists will but like the philosophically sophisticated ones that are defending their theism usually they're going to be offering arguments for thinking that the first cause would have certain divine properties.
So, but you know, again, these are the arguments are contestable, and the arguments even for the fin or to the past are very contestable.
So, I think it's, it's, it's at least a respectable view to think that naturalism plus a cosmos that's always existed is, you know, the way to go I think that's at least a respectable view to hold.
Yeah, and this is why I was saying earlier just in passing in our discussion about as science progressively increases we come to better conclusions through observation testing, we learn more.
Our philosophy should continue to obviously shift and you know there's no way to predict exactly but I do think that there's a gist of in which it's not Zeus that the lightning is striking, you know, Thor's hammer isn't clapping, you know, like there's
something actual natural phenomenon going on. And so that tends to be my angle but my best guess is naturalism. Bradford Baldwin, again, Joe as an agnostic which way do you lean in your belief non belief big fan.
I love how you slammed the door on answering prayer necessitating God having to change with rationally rationality rules. Keep it up.
Steven's channel. Yeah, oh my goodness dude so that video that we made so he basically.
Okay so Ben Shapiro made this video which is like the atheist illusion you know, and it's very very cringe and you know one of his central arguments for God's existence was the Aristotelian proof.
And guess who has like four chapters on the Aristotelian proof in here, criticizing it from every single angle, me. So, so I was, you know, so I've criticized the imprint a lot, and I've even interacted with the the progenitor of the argument Edward Phaser.
So, both in print and on blogs and things like that.
So, you know, I was like, well, this video kind of kind of triggered me and so I was like, you know, Steven knows he knows about my scholarly work, you know, because we've been working on this column series so he knows that I published this book.
And he was like, Well, hey Joe, I'm making a video on this atheist illusion thing and I'm going to cover the argument from change. What do you think if I like interview you ask you about some of your criticisms of it and I was like, Okay, yeah, let's do it.
You know, I'm going to interview you for about an hour then you made the video and included clips in me in it so and it got like 100 it's at like 120k it's or something like that at this point I know.
So I'm very, I'm very happy about that.
Did it get any booksells did it help.
Oh, I don't know.
I don't know. Yeah, that's springer's information I can ask my editor about that but like, you know, I don't really care.
Yeah.
So yeah,
where do you lean as an agnostic.
Yes, someone asked earlier sort of a similar question like where I say that the evidence is roughly counterbalance but like is there a way that I lean.
Not really I mean it's all just very unclear to me where the evidence goes and because of that it's unclear to me where I mean I should lean I mean, listen like I, I, if we could talk about desires right I mean I don't base my beliefs off the desires just merely wanting something to be true but
someone's asking me about that I mean like, I wish that there would be a God who could redeem this broken creation, like this perfect, this truly perfect being not a being that commands genocide or that drowns babies, but a truly perfect
being that can redeem creation that can restore even people like, you know, like, like Stalin right.
The person can be punished Stalin can be punished Hitler can be punished these people can be punished, but a God that's able to redeem them, and to restore them to union with the people that they harmed to bring ultimate
forgiveness to bring about character change in in in Stalin and Hitler and these terrible people.
Like, that's just such a beautiful view of reality that these the horrendous people getting what they deserve being punished and then being restored to the rest people to God and being unified in God and in perfect bliss.
I just think that's a really desirable view of reality. And so, where do my desires lean I mean they obviously lean towards theism I wish that sort of view could be true where there's ultimate restoration for everything.
Everything is ultimately redeemed.
Is it true I don't know.
Yeah, this is this is a good question. And if I might jump in just to give my thoughts, I identify as an atheist because I think that that why I think obviously I don't believe that there are any gods.
I would even go further into like, why gods like I'm looking at it naturally, we now know evolution is true right we've you and me have already agreed on this and discussing this.
We also see natural phenomena and natural explanations for why humans would cognitively come to assuming other minds or agency where there isn't any things like this that come up with why we posit certain things, whether it be animism to polytheism and the development of human
history to where we are with monotheism and philosophizing God with all this time on our hands to try and like, figure things out and so for me, while I think a certain way.
And like you in the sense as an atheist you don't probably hear many people who have that title, because I think we get pigeonholed a lot and then nobody wants to hear what you have to say.
I wish the world wasn't the way that it was. I wish there wasn't suffering and in fact I wished that there was this afterlife of being able to live in a utopia state or something like I would love for all of that to be true.
I also don't live wishful thinking. I try to live my reality I've suffered quite a bit in my past with addiction. I know what it's like. And so I think, while it's cool to like hypothetically wish these things I play video games sometimes.
The ones I love the most are the RPGs that I get lost in a world. And in that world there's magic, there's elves, there's you know, whatever the game might be, it's not real.
I enjoy playing in it. I like thinking haha, but like in reality in the world that I live in, I know not to think those are true, especially because it might harm my perception of the world that I'm actually living in and how can I best adjust to reality here.
So for me it's like, I'm with you man, like I really do wish that that was the case. We could probably come up if we sat down and made up a fiction in our mind about what we wished were true.
We could probably come up with something better than just saying Stalin and Hitler and like we could come up with something that's unbelievable. It's just amazing.
But I don't see the evidence pointing in that direction. And if there is, I just, you know, I guess we'll find out when we're when this over as people like to say and I just, I don't know, I don't know.
For me, I meant to ask you this too, because there's, I'm not deep into the definitions within philosophy, but like, am I right in saying I am an atheist because there's this debate amongst like atheists and agnostics.
I don't walk around thinking well, maybe there's a God like I don't even think that way, even though there could be. Does that make sense.
Yeah, I think that.
So here's how philosophers use the terms. Okay, there are different there are different communities right so like philosophers can use terms differently than how like an internet community uses terms and like that's okay this is language, it's very complex, and I've grown to not really care about that anymore.
So, but like as as philosophers, as philosophers use the terms here's how they, here's how they do it. Whenever you have a proposition, whenever you have a claim a statement like dogs exist or God exists, you could take, you could either believe it, you could either
disbelieve it that is you believe that it's false, or you could suspend judgment on it you neither believe that it's true nor you believe that it's false.
And that last one is agnosticism with respect to God's existence, believing that there is a God would be theism, and then believing that there is no God would be atheism.
So an atheist is someone who believes that there is no God, a theist is someone who believes that there is a God, and then agnostic is someone who neither believes nor disbelieves but rather suspends judgment on the matter.
That's how that's someone who believes there isn't a God, and yet still with the caveat humbly speaking saying maybe there could be something but that was that that was good so you were here anticipating what I was about to say which is
Which is the distinction between belief and credence. So belief, belief is like binary it's on or off you either believe something or you don't. It's basically, you know, you have, you have like three different attitudes you either believe something, you either
disbelieve it you believe it's falsity, or you neither believe nor disbelieve it those are like basically the three things this is pretty binary. But credence is that's basically just your level of confidence in something and your openness to revision
So that's kind of graded right you can be 0% confident in something so that means you're absolutely confident that it's false you're absolutely certain that it's false so like very few things are like that like that one plus one equals 10.
I'm absolutely sure that that's not true.
And then there's like 50%, which is like you're totally one way or the other.
So like, will my coin that I'm about to flip will it land heads off you presumably your confidence in that it's going to be 50, 50, 50, basically that it'll land heads or that it'll land tails.
You can be like 80%. So you know you look at the weather it says there's an 8% chance of rain, you might believe it's going to rain yeah it'll rain you believe it you represent the world that way but you know you're not absolutely confident in it you're like yeah there's a chance it won't rain I'm only 80% confident.
You still but you still believe it. So, I think you'd fall in. I mean, I don't know, you know, we don't have to assign precise numerical values, but like you're somewhere around, not being 100% confident in your view not being absolutely certain in your view so you're open to revision you, you know you say hey, it might be wrong but this is where I've landed.
So you're taking a stand on the matter. That's the belief thing that it allows you to take a stand, but the creeds is allow you to shift around your your confidence level so you don't have to be absolutely 100% confident.
You can still be less than that. So it's a really helpful distinction to keep in mind the distinction between belief and credence.
That's what I when I interviewed Graham oppie actually and asked him and he's like well yeah I don't I don't believe there are any gods like I actively don't believe God's exist or a God exists.
But then he was like if I was like well hold on if I pin you down like he had a nuance there but he was like and that's where I fall.
Like I don't I think that we're it's we're still using this word God we have this baggage of this idea that I think is still carried over and it's being philosophized and then of course being something to try and explain existence or why there's anything and all that stuff so
Thank you for answering that so would you as someone who's in philosophy.
Like this is your study would you say that it's fair to say I'm an atheist not just a colloquial like definitional term that people want to say.
Well I lack belief in God or something like that because that might fit within the gradients there but like what do you think is it fair to say hey I'm an atheist.
Yeah, under the philosophical account that I gave earlier I think given what you said yeah you'd qualify as that.
Could be wrong.
Could be wrong.
I mean I am kind of omniscient though so I'm just kidding.
Sentinel apologetics in the house.
Joe in regards to converse his question and the fall introducing what is this cause comp chaos comp into the world scholars like LeBens Leveness Leveness.
Argued that the fall didn't introduce it but that God created already created it in Genesis one.
Yeah, so there are different views on offer here which is good to keep in mind.
There are theists who for instance reject young earth creationism.
They don't believe in a literal right there.
There are people who don't believe in a literal fall event they think that like yeah God in some manner produced an imperfect creation a broken creation from the get go.
And his his ultimate plan is basically to kind of bring about create bring about perfection from the imperfection.
It's a kind of grand upwards arc.
It's a kind of narrative arc that you know, it turns upwards near the end it's going from imperfection to perfection.
Right.
So yes, I just want to recognize and agree with Sentinel apologetics is point here that lots of theists and even lots of Christians do not accept.
Like a very strict kind of literal fall event that brought about chaos and suffering into the world.
And you know, even if they accept a fall event they might conceive it as just bringing about like a kind of human tendency to sin even though there was already chaos in the world and evil in the world and suffering in the world.
So like there are a bunch of different views here.
So I just want to recognize that and just to agree with Sentinel.
Thank you for that super chat.
I really appreciate that Rob.
Let me see what we got scrolling down.
We're almost done here Joe.
And we're going to be checking this and we're we're Santa Claus.
Let's do one or two more questions.
I'm getting tired.
Okay.
Dr. Gabriel Espinoza.
Thank you for the super chat.
Gabriel just trying to get through these here.
My mononies talks about interaction with God based on human language and categories.
There is more anthropology than theology and his words agree.
You don't have to give a long answer so we can get through this.
I'm going to say I don't know because we I haven't read a lot of like I haven't read a lot of my mononies I've read several portions of this book here the guide of the perplexed but in terms of his work overall.
I don't know whether or not there's more anthropology than theology but it's an interesting question.
By the way, I really like the aleph symbol in that person's in that person's what is whatever it's called prophotic emoji or whatever it is.
Yeah, it's the aleph.
It's it's a Hebrew letter but you know it's like the it's what not flossers mathematicians use for the like the cardinal and infinities.
So awesome.
My personal musings.
Thank you for that super chat.
Jay Schroeders is Derek Neal and Joe keep the bromance alive.
Rob is back again and thank you for the super chat.
Rob, your perfect world is ironically biblical.
He'll wipe away tears.
There won't be death anymore.
There won't be any grief or pain.
The first things have disappeared.
I am making all things new Rob says.
Well, let's hope that it really is all things including all creatures and renewing them and redeeming all creatures.
Let's hope that.
Yeah, I'd love that to be the case.
I just that we're getting into the book of Revelation and that's a whole nother historical thing where we could get into the expectation timing in which these things were supposed to take place when this literature was written to whom it was written who what when where why anyway.
That's not for the show but Rob maybe we could talk about Revelation sometime because that I'm big on the whole eschatology and apocalyptic stuff so Max Hendrick became a member.
I Joe I think he wants real salvation here.
I'm fairly confident.
Wow.
Nice.
Welcome to true salvation Max now in order for you to you know really be part of us you have to purchase Joe's book.
And that'll just put the icing on the cake Max seriously appreciate you.
Rob again.
Last one.
And then we're checking numbers baby we're checking numbers.
Does that gradual perfection not have its ultimate function in Jesus's incarnation with respect to hypostasis for glorification that it brings.
Well if you're a Christian you think so.
I mean yes I mean I'd say yeah if you're a Christian then then presumably yes.
I mean of course Jesus's incarnation doesn't like settle at all I mean there's still suffering and death and so on after it so I mean there's still a sense in which ultimate restoration still needs to be brought about.
But you know that might have been a very integral event in it and it might be the means by which eventually that ultimate restoration would be brought will be brought about.
Yeah I'd say again assuming Christianity so so yeah.
Thank you Joe appreciate that Rob thank you for showering us with love here that I said the last one was the last one man.
I believe Jesus body is stardust and he redeems the whole cosmos through that hypothetical act.
Nice.
Very interesting sounds like a like a movie but actually it's it's quite interesting the way that the apotheosis was situated in fact Julius Caesar actually became.
Apotheosized and that they saw the comment.
That was passing over it was Octavian Caesar Augustus who saw it and said oh that's Caesar actually Julius who's who's going into heaven and becoming a God of course and so but of course this the theology in the New Testament kind of has.
Hold on were there were there 500 witnesses to that.
No I actually they're probably way more than 500 who saw that comment so they probably would have far more on there but then again the witness thing that's a whole nother Joe.
I'd love to talk with you more about all of this my friend because that book Richard C. Miller goes into witness accounts in the Hellenistic Greco-Roman traditions of apotheosis so it's not just the New Testament that claims witnesses.
That's part of the topos part of the trope if you're going to make a claim like this you need to have witnesses a part of the count.
So it would have it like what I mean is is even though it's not something that happened let's say with Caesar Augustus.
People came forward with as witnesses because that was part of the tradition to say I saw him become a God I saw you know the such as so even with Romulus which isn't a real historical account.
Julius Proculus actually claims to have seen him become Corineas to become deified and become God and promises that Rome would rule the world and guess what happened.
Rome actually ruled the world so we might have the real God on our hands over here or one of the many gods that might be there.
I'm being silly.
There's a lot there.
No more.
No more.
Can you give your comprehensive thoughts on the book of Revelation real quick.
Oh God.
Praise you're killing me.
Yeah I think it's a Jewish guy who's desperate after a post for 70 AD destruction and simply put the guy is eager to see God change the world.
However he opens and closes the book with these things must soon take place not 2023 soon in the first century and it doesn't happen.
So while it's very hopeful I'm being realistic and that he was wrong and I'm along with the critical scholars on that.
So now we're going to refresh from things here on camera and we have 200 not quite 200 witnesses so it may not work as good as the New Testament here.
But let's see what happens here Joe and maybe you can see on your side.
Have you subscribed you have 10 seconds and I'm counting with Mississippi in it to give you the opportunity to subscribe right now to Joe.
What happens 10 Mississippi 9 Mississippi 8 Mississippi 7 Mississippi 6 Mississippi.
Notice I'm from Mississippi now I'm not really from Mississippi 5 Mississippi 4 Mississippi 3 Mississippi 2 Mississippi.
Oh no Mississippi.
Here we go.
I had to do it man.
We had to see.
Oh I was hoping for.
It went up but that's still really good.
Well thank you guys all for doing that.
I do appreciate it.
I really do.
Thank you man.
Really appreciate you.
I hope everybody enjoyed.
Please sub to his YouTube channel get his books and that way he goes.
All right when Derek hits me up because he's so long winded and we have such a long streamed.
I won't hate the guy.
You know what I mean.
Any final words from you.
No I mean I just want to thank you for having me on and you know shouting my stuff out.
I really do appreciate it and I enjoyed the conversation and yeah keep keep doing what you're doing.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Everybody I really appreciate you.
Check out our Patreon help support us.
I do a lot of content there and there's so many projects we have coming up.
Become part of the team and never forget we are myth vision.
Son do you want to know what the truth is.
After this there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh
Oh
