Ladies and gentlemen, rest your eyes upon legends. Okay. I have a Dr. Matthew Hartke,
just kidding. He's gonna one day probably do something with the knowledge he's learned. He's
not a doctor, but he's a friend of mine who studies and he's huge into this whole subject
of apocalypticism, prophecy, what's going on in New Testament criticism and redactional criticism,
and you name it, Old New Testament, myths, cognitive dissonance, you name it. This is the
first video we've recorded here in the studio and we're going to talk about conditional,
prophecy, conditional eschatology and what is conditional? Was that even a category to begin
with? What in the world? Matt, take us into it and then we'll just freestyle back and forth.
It's probably good to set the stage a little bit first. There has been in the apologetic space,
in online apologetics recently, a big kind of upsurge, I think, in the popularity of a particular
argument, a way of dealing with the problem of non-fulfillment, the problem of Jesus' eschatology,
whether or not Jesus was a failed apocalyptic prophet. This argument being that all prophecy is,
or at least a large portion of prophecy, including Jesus' prophecy, was conditional,
and that means that he did maybe like prophesy as if the end was coming in that generation,
but it was more of a pastoral invitation for the end and it was conditional upon
certain human responses and if those responses didn't take place, then the end wouldn't happen.
So there has been several videos recently, I think, inspiring philosophy. Michael Jones
recently made a video and a large portion of that video was dedicated to this response,
the conditionality of prophecy, and then another channel, the analytic Christian,
recently had an interview with the authors of a book called When the Son of Man Didn't Come,
and this book, I think it came out like a decade ago, but the main author and editor of this book,
Christopher Hayes, it's a really good book, and I'd highly recommend it,
but it's dealing with the problem of non-fulfillment, dealing with Jesus' eschatology,
and it goes through the first couple chapters and looks at all of the most popular ways of
dealing with the problem of Jesus' eschatology, and it basically says none of these work,
none of like whether you're looking at the partial preterist kind of vein of scholars like
NT Wright, says that really doesn't work, it doesn't really account for apocalyptic literature very
well, and then it looks at like the Jesus seminar and their way of trying to get around it by saying
like Jesus didn't actually say any of the things, any of the apocalyptic stuff that the New Testament
writers attribute to him, says that doesn't really work, looks at more of the traditional
kind of dispensationalist ways of getting around it, those don't work, so by the end of the first
couple chapters you're like, wow, I mean this is pretty negative, it seems like Jesus really was
wrong, and then for the rest of the book they then argue for this conditional view that prophecy was
conditional. The classic text that they build on for this argument is Jeremiah 18. Jeremiah 18
presents in a very kind of sweeping way, says like this is how all prophecy functions basically,
says Jeremiah speaking with the voice of God, says whenever I speak concerning a nation to build up
or to tear down, if I speak blessings towards a nation, if they don't follow my words,
then I won't bring the blessings that I promise them, I'll bring curses, and if I speak curses,
if I speak judgment towards a nation, but then they repent, then I won't bring any of the judgment
that I prophesied against them, instead I'll bring blessing, and it's really an application
to prophecy of the Deuteronomistic theology that we see like in Deuteronomy 28 where God says,
you know, if you follow me, I'll bless you, if you don't follow me, then you'll receive curses,
and it applies that to prophecy and says therefore, you know, all prophecy is functioning within this
scheme of Deuteronomist theology. In the New Testament, we do see places where this comes
out very strong. The biggest example is 2 Peter 3. In 2 Peter 3, Peter is grappling with the delay
of the Perusia, the delay of Jesus' second coming, and he's noticing that there are scoffers in the
community, people who are saying, hey, where is the promise of the Lord's coming? And Peter says,
well, he takes two different strategies. The one is to kind of allegorize, spiritualize some of the
predictions about the soon coming of the Lord and says, well, hey, what you don't understand is that
a day with the Lord is like a thousand years. And so God's time is not like our time. That's the
one direction he goes kind of in a futurist way of projecting it all into the future saying,
soon doesn't really mean soon. This generation might not mean this generation. A day with the
Lord is as a thousand years. So God's time is in our time. The other direction he goes, he says,
but God is patient with you. He doesn't want anyone to perish. And so he is waiting for
repentance. And this patience is meant to stir you on, to evangelize, to pray, to fast,
to seek the Lord, to live righteous, godly lives because that will actually hasten the coming
of the Lord. So we definitely see this contingent eschatology in both the Old Testament and the
New Testament. But the question is, is what's the relevance of that to Jesus? Did Jesus carry
that contingent eschatology? And then a further question would be,
whether or not Jesus did carry that contingent eschatology, is that a good explanation?
If he did carry that eschatology, or if any of the New Testament writers
carry that particular response, is that a valid theological response? Or is it a rationalization?
And so for me, there are two big problems that I have with the conditional argument. The first
one is historical, and it's just looking at the texts and seeing that some of the arguments
don't really work historically. They don't actually describe the way that these texts function,
just objectively. But the second point is that for me personally, practically, theologically,
it seems more like a rationalization than a good response. And so, yeah, I'd love to talk about
both of those things. To put it another way, say Jesus made a prediction, he says, some of you
standing here will not taste death. For you see the kingdom come, or the son coming with his father
with the angels to repay each man according to his deeds, yada, yada, yada. And it doesn't happen,
then it would make a ton of sense to say, okay, what we have here, we have people going, well,
look, Jesus said it, he's not wrong. But the reason it hasn't happened is Bobby wasn't keeping Sabbath,
or Billy circumcised when Paul said don't circumcise, or whatever it might be.
There's always some, like you said, rationalization to explain why it didn't happen. And we see that
happening today. Like in so many circles that are predicting, okay, they set the time off,
there's some condition they didn't meet. There's never a moment where they just go, I mean, I'm
not going to say it hasn't happened. It's just the most, the least likely is that they go, you know
what, they were wrong. Scripture is wrong. The prophets were wrong. Jesus was wrong. Paul was
wrong. Whoever the authors are are wrong. And I guess unless you want to say Jesus is coming back
in four or five years, or four or five, sorry, days, which would be thousands of years, like,
come on, after a while, you kind of wonder, but this is a clever, this whole conditional thing is
a clever way of trying to get out of this problem. I think it's clever number one, and then I'd love
to get deeper into this with you, is they're actually finding Scripture. And it's the places
where we would go to to say, haha, cognitive dissonance rationalization taking place because
it didn't come. And I would look to John again in the Gospel of John, like to see what is happening
in John 21. That's a weird, no, Jesus didn't say that he wouldn't die. He said, what if it be my will,
you can't get any more clear that he's rationalizing a problem that this guy wasn't supposed to die.
But and everyone thought he wasn't going to die in the community. But those everybody were wrong
is what this author is trying to do. And this is tacked on. I don't think this was originally part
of John's Gospel. And if they're going to add anything, it's at the beginning of the end of
a book in the in these times. So it looks like another ending anyway, like the 20 ends. And then
it's like, oh, we have more. And I'm thinking, that's rationalization. So they are latching
on to what looks like rationalization text, almost like a Calvinist will will get to the
limited stuff. And they highlight or predestinarian stuff. And then they make everything their
interpretive model through that theological lens. Or a universalist will find, and when Christ comes,
he'll be all in all, you better understand that all in all, baby. And if you have the all in all,
I don't give a crap what text you bring, you better interpret it through that all in all.
And it's the same thing. In this case, they're going, we have found conditional.
Now, you need to interpret everything else through conditional. That's what I think is
going on. Tell me, what do you think, Matt? Yeah, I mean, that's definitely so the first point about
being a dissonance reduction strategy that is a classic example of the way that when prophecy
fails, communities that believe in the truth of those prophecies don't just, you know, throw in
the towel and say, Well, I guess we were wrong. They find ways of reducing dissonance. They find
ways to hold on to the core of their faith, while reinterpreting it in such a way that they can
carry it on in an adaptive form. And I mean, one of the most common ways that they do that is,
and this is just, you know, put the Bible to the side, put Christianity to the side in,
in, you know, all of the like normal forms that we see it looking at just apocalyptic movements
more generally. I mean, the classic text on cognitive dissonance is Leon Festinger's 1956
book, When Prophecy Fails. And in this book, he follows a doomsday cult that is really,
they believe that there are UFOs that are coming and there's going to be this kind of
great cataclysm. The world is going to be destroyed and these UFOs, these spacemen are
going to come and take the redeemed with them to escape the destruction of the earth. And
they're all prepared for this to happen. And so Leon Festinger and his team of researchers,
they actually infiltrated this community and studied them and acted like they were a part
of the community. And they got to see in real time how this community dealt with their
failed expectation when they, when, what they expected to happen didn't happen. How did they
deal with it? And they responded in a number of different ways. But the primary way that they
responded that this community responded is they said, you know what? The reason it didn't happen
is because we were so full of light and love that we actually turned back the destruction.
The great cataclysm didn't happen because they saw our righteousness. They saw how good we were.
And this, we turned the judgment into a redemption. And so, you know, let's spread the good news.
And whereas before, they didn't really talk to outsiders that much. They didn't really talk to
the press. After the date came and went, they expected the great cataclysm to occur. They
started going, calling the press saying, hey, let's talk about this. Like, let's get interviews.
Like, we say, like the world has been saved. It's been redeemed. But they turned what was
prior to the date before their expectation didn't happen, before the non-fulfillment of that event,
what they didn't offer any kind of conditional, contingent, you know, escape clauses to. They
said, this is happening. This is going to happen. After the event, they said, oh, well, it was
conditional. And we were so swell that it didn't happen. Isn't this great news? Let's spread the
good news. And so, I mean, and that's, you know, one example, but this happens again and again
and again. And so that begs the question, you know, is when we see, which we do see in Jeremiah 18
and 2 Peter 3 and several different places throughout the prophetic traditions of Judaism
and Christianity, we see that response taking place. I think the burden of proof is on those who would
say that that isn't like every other example of failed prophecy, where they are making that
dissonance reduction strategy, that rationalization in order to save face.
But looking just historically at these texts, I think that there is a tendency in those who want
to make this response to Jesus's prophetic expectation, to Jesus's eschatology. There's a
harmonistic tendency that goes on where it's because we see this in Jeremiah 18. And Jeremiah 18
presents it in a very sweeping, all-encompassing way of, you know, this is the way that prophecy
works. Whenever I speak concerning a nation, if they, if they change, then I will change.
Because Jeremiah 18 presents that in a very sweeping way, for those who have a high view of
Scripture, there is a tendency to take that, to turn it into the hermeneutical, you know,
the glasses that you put on, and you read everything else through this lens. And that's
not a historical way of reading texts. That is a canonical way of reading these texts.
And if you want to do that as a believer, that's fine. But you are already putting your faith in
the thing and saying it must be true. Therefore, let's figure out how to justify its truthfulness,
how to explain its truthfulness and defend its truthfulness instead of, instead of being open
minded about, you know, what is the text actually saying? And while that may be true of Jeremiah,
or Jeremiah's editors, just because Jeremiah presents a conditional eschatology, that doesn't
say anything about the rest of the prophets, that doesn't say anything about Jesus. And probably the
biggest problem historically that I have with that argument is that it seems to kind of make this
kind of lily pad leap from Jeremiah to all the other prophets. And especially this jump over
everything between Jeremiah and Jesus, which the major development there is apocalypticism.
And Jesus is not just a prophet in the tradition of Jeremiah, although he is,
but he is an apocalyptic prophet. And the question is, you know, what does that,
what influence does that have on Jesus's eschatology? And, you know, you can say like,
which those who make this argument often look at the ways that Jesus stands in the tradition of
Jeremiah. And that's true, he does stand in the tradition of Jeremiah, he's prophesying,
he's prophesying judgment on the temple. But he also is quoting Daniel, and Daniel engages
with Jeremiah. I mean, Daniel's a really good example of the way that apocalyptic literature
is much more deterministic. And Jeremiah, Daniel takes the prophecy of Jeremiah,
Jeremiah 25, Jeremiah 29. And he turns it into a highly deterministic
view of history, where it is set in stone, he says, you know, 70 weeks are determined for your
people. And he counts down to the day he says there's going to be three and a half years,
there's going to be 1260 days. And over and over again, Daniel is is very,
very intent on saying that this is the plan. God sees it all, we can rest assured that this is
how it's going to play out. And Jesus is also standing in that tradition. So the question is,
to what extent was Jesus just influenced by the prophets? And to what extent was he influenced
by later apocalyptic developments? And I think, yeah, that they those who make the conditional
argument don't pay enough attention to apocalyptic. Yeah, you're good. Yeah, so there's a lot there
to unravel. And you said some really powerful things that I kind of want to emphasize.
I like that you brought up other, you brought up other apocalyptic cults, because in my research
that I've been trying to explain in conversation with apologists is that I want to look at other
examples apart from the New Testament. And it's literature to see, do we see stuff like this
happening? Is there kind of a heuristic approach we can take? Or some other way of comparative,
you know, looking at other apocalyptic groups like you described this alien cult?
And what do they do when things don't happen? And it's not even just like alien cults. There's
so many ways that cognitiveness and this can be explained and how we rationalize it. This is just,
it's so obvious to see how it works in everyone else in every other place. And why we would say
this conditional expectation that we're finding in the New Testament, where we're finding it,
isn't where we would think. Like if we found it in Paul, right out the gate, okay, like what are
we talking about? Okay, everybody's still waiting on Jesus. Nobody's really, but it'd be kind of
funny. There'd be mockers and scoffers going, yep, those are those guys waiting on Jesus,
hoping we all get and repent and forgive. But we don't find it in Paul. Okay, let's find it in
the Gospels. Now maybe you know some conditional places we can discuss that are in the Gospels,
but as far as I'm aware, Mark's very apocalyptic. Matthew is, it's still, to me, it's kind of heavily
apocalyptic too. When I read Matthew 24, 23, 24, see these buildings, like not one stone will be left
upon another. And it is the season, but the Son of Man doesn't know the day or hour. That just means
the day or hour, by the way, everybody. Don't get too carried away. But I don't see that what I see
in 2 Peter 3. 2 Peter 3 is so obviously conditional. I mean, it's so obviously cut it out, you know,
chill. Book of Revelation, you can screw your conditionality. The only condition is get your
ass off of Rome's side. Because if you don't, you're going to get caught up in 144,000 or come
whoop your ass. Like, let's keep it real. It's warrior, straight up hardcore. He is trying to
warn and rebuke the church to let them know. But there is no, like, okay, well, Jesus is going
to not come back with his flaming sword and white hair and eyes flame a fire and feet like burn
brass and all that. He's not coming to kick your ass. Don't worry. Once you guys get right with the
Lord, then no, it is these things must soon take place. And at the end, just like Daniel,
where he says to the angel, seal up the words for the prophecy is far off. And from the time he's
claiming this is being written right when Persia conquers Babylon. So he's like, Hey, it's far off
with 400 years or so till the second century BC with Maccabee around that period. In this, he says,
do not do not seal up the words for the time is at hand. Dude, there is no other way to explain
this than this author's wrong. I mean, of course, there's ways anyone can do anything if they try
hard enough. But this is obvious. So I'm, let's take a look at conditionality. Let's let's properly
assess this and say what we think is going on. I think it's cognitive dissonance. I think it's a
movement that is trying to spiritualize. It is trying to extend the time. It is trying to make
it conditional, whatever works other than it failed. But I don't find this in earlier literature. And
one more comment before I hand you the mic, because I think this is also an important point
that you just pointed out. They see Jeremiah 18. They see what's going on in the second Peter three.
They interpret that's their lens. Now it's how they look at everything, ignoring that deterministic
apocalypticism that happens between Jeremiah and what we find in New Testament literature,
because scripture is alive and it interprets itself. This is the model, like you said, canonization.
But it really does make me think like, how do you get someone to see that? So let's just go,
let's just go through some examples or whatever you want to talk about next.
Yeah, I mean, there's a lot there. And I want to try to slow down a little bit and try to take this
as step by step as we can, because I don't want to, in responding to an apologetic argument,
I don't want to become counter apologetic and just say the opposite. No, none of this is conditional.
There's no conditionality anywhere. Or there's no conditionality in Jesus. There's no conditionality
in Paul. There's no conditionality in Revelation, because I actually think that it's a lot more
complicated and a lot more nuanced than that. But so let's first of all, looking just at the
Old Testament at the prophets, looking at Jeremiah, I think it's really important to see
the way that Jeremiah is doing something new in the theology of Jeremiah in the way that
Jeremiah is arguing. And I think it's important to maybe just register some of the scholarly
debates about Jeremiah and the composition of the text of Jeremiah in talking about Jeremiah.
Maybe when I'm talking about Jeremiah, maybe we're talking about Jeremiah's editors,
Jeremiah's compilers. A lot of scholars like Robert Carroll argue that Jeremiah,
as we know it, is a text comprised of both prophecies of the original Jeremiah and then
the editors were in the Deuteronomist tradition. And a lot of that contingent prophecy stuff comes
in Carroll's view from those editors. So I'm just going to talk about Jeremiah, just the text as we
have it. But the text as we have it does have this strong Deuteronomist emphasis on conditionality.
And it's doing something new in that respect, because earlier prophets don't have that conditional
emphasis. And I think that's a really important point to make is that Jeremiah is offering a
hermeneutical principle for dealing with prophecy that in the view of Jeremiah applies to all
prophecy applies to all the earlier prophets. So Jeremiah is, you know, in the sixth century
earlier prophets before Jeremiah, prophets like Isaiah, prophets like Hosea, Micah, Amos,
all the prophets during the Assyrian crisis had a heavy emphasis on destruction, had a heavy
emphasis on doom and gloom with very little hope, very little emphasis on redemption. More
conservative readers will say, well, hey, what about like, you know, Isaiah is full of hope.
But a lot of that is later Isaiah, it's Isaiah 40 to 66, where that's, you know, what scholars
would call Deutero Isaiah and Trito Isaiah, but the original Isaiah is pretty doom and gloom. I mean,
Isaiah, you know, has this, I think it's what Isaiah nine, not Isaiah nine, but where Isaiah says,
you know, talks about his own role as a prophet as not turning the people to repentance, but
actually hardening their hearts. And this is an interesting place in Isaiah, because Jesus quotes
this, and applies it to himself, where he's actually not trying to provoke people to repentance,
to avert disaster. He's actually doing the opposite. And that's an interesting place where Robert
Carroll argues that that is late career Isaiah, who is speaking after a long history of trying to
get the people to change their ways and avert the disaster that he's prophesied,
and they're not turning. And so in order to justify the course of events, he says, actually,
this is what I intended. Actually, my whole goal this whole time, God's goal was to harden their
hearts so that they wouldn't be able to turn. And that's interesting. But just a comment on that,
that alone, though it sounds kind of deterministic, it is from the, from the, from Jeremiah's
perception of God, he is saying it's deterministic, but it almost sounds like a rationalization even
there. It's a different kind of rationalization than the conditional of God will save you,
don't worry kind of thing. But it's like another way of saying, they didn't frickin listen to me.
God must have had a plan all along. This was his purpose.
Yeah. But Isaiah has a number of places where he talks very unconditionally about the plans of God.
And he has a phrase that is very characteristic of Isaiah that that comes in Isaiah. And then in
later Isaiah traditions where he talks about the zeal of God accomplishing something like Isaiah
nine, where he's talking about the Messiah. And he says, you know, his authority will grow
continually, there will be endless peace for the throne of David and his kingdom, he will establish
and uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time onward and forevermore, the zeal
of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. The whole point of that emphasis on the zeal of the
Lord, it's on the unstoppable power of God to do things in spite of human frailty, in spite of
human engagement, human involvement, whether or not man participates in this, it's saying
it's going to happen. God is going to accomplish this thing. That's, you know, very deterministic.
But different scholars argue for different levels of determinism in the earlier prophets. But
the large consensus is that they were fairly unconditional. They may have offered little
glimmers of opportunities for repentance. But by and large, they were prophesying
a judgment that's coming. They didn't really suggest that there was a way to avert this.
They maybe held out hope for a remnant, saying, you know, maybe there will be a small group that
if they turn, they will be saved from this. But they said the thing is coming. A really good
example of this kind of unconditional emphasis is Micah. Micah, pretty doom and gloom, but he talks
in several places. I think Micah 2, verse 3, and in Micah 3, verse 4. Actually, let me just look
at it because this will be important for talking about Jeremiah, because Jeremiah
really interestingly engages with Micah in one of the rare instances of a prophet engaging
hermeneutically, exegetically with an earlier prophet. Okay, so Micah, Micah 2, verse 4,
Micah's prophesying judgment and he says, now I'm devising against this family and evil from
which you cannot remove your necks. Then Micah 3, verse 4, they will cry to the Lord, but he will
not answer them. He will hide his face from them at that time because they have acted wickedly.
Seems pretty unconditional, pretty deterministic. Like this thing is coming. And even if you
want to cry out to me, even if you want to repent, like this crisis, it's a train that you can't
stop. You might want to remove your necks from it, but you won't be able to remove your necks from
it. It's coming. The ax is coming down. Then Micah 3, verse 12, and this is a really crucial text
because Jeremiah actually quotes this text. Micah 3, verse 12, it says, therefore because of you,
because of the leadership of Jerusalem, Zion will be plowed as a field. Jerusalem shall become a
heap of ruins and the mountain of the house a wooded height. A German scholar, Klaus Koch,
commenting on Micah, he says, in none of his prophecies does Micah suggest that the disaster
forecast and brought about by Yahweh is meant in any conditional sense. There is no talk of
possible repentance. For Micah, the disaster he prophesied was unconditional. But Jeremiah,
it's really important to just set that stage with Micah because Jeremiah, in Jeremiah 26,
Jeremiah 26, verse 12, Jeremiah 26 is this kind of courtroom scene where the leadership of Jerusalem
have Jeremiah kind of on trial because he's been prophesying against the temple. He's been
prophesying the destruction of the temple and they're saying, this is blasphemy. You've been
prophesying against the temple. This is the Lord's house. What do you think you're doing?
And the different advocates and adversaries put forth different arguments for and against
Jeremiah. And Jeremiah's advocates argue, they say, well, no, he has been prophesying on God's
behalf and he's been calling us to repentance. And if we repent, this disaster won't come.
He hasn't been saying that this is going to happen no matter what. It was conditional.
And in order to make that argument, they appeal to Micah. They say, Micah of Morosheth, who prophesied
during the days of King Hezekiah of Judah, said to all the people of Judah, thus says the Lord of
hosts, Zion will be plowed as a field. Jerusalem will become a heap of ruins and the mountains
of the house a wooded height. So that's just the passage that we just read in Micah, Micah 312.
They quote it and they add the phrase, thus says the Lord showing that they're like, they're holding
this text in really high regard. They believe that this is the inspired word of the Lord,
that it must be true, that Micah was a prophet of God. But Micah prophesied this prophecy of
doom against Jerusalem. They say, they go on, they say, did Hezekiah of Judah and all Judah
actually put Micah to death? And because Micah was saying this prophecy of doom very similarly to
what Jeremiah is saying, did they put him to death? No. Did he not fear the Lord and entreat the
favor of God? And did not the Lord change his mind about the disaster that he had pronounced
against them? We are about to bring great disaster on ourselves. This is a really fascinating text
for a lot of reasons. But one of them is that this is actually the only instance in the prophets
where you have a direct quotation of an earlier prophet in support of an argument. It's making an
exegetical point, a theological point, and appealing to an earlier prophetic text in support of that
larger hermeneutical principle, that argument that it's making. Only time in the prophets
that this happens. But the argument that it's making is for conditionality. But as we just read
in Micah, Micah doesn't give any hint of conditionality. And quite the contrary, Micah is really
insistent on this being unconditional. What does that mean for Jeremiah? I mean, they are
arguing on this text, and it seems like the author, Jeremiah or Jeremiah's deuteronomist editors,
are holding this earlier prophecy in high regard. And it's something that didn't happen. Micah
prophesied the complete destruction of Jerusalem, that this mountain of the Lord, Zion, would become
a wooded height. It would be completely desolate. That didn't happen. Assyria turned back. They
didn't destroy Jerusalem. They destroyed a lot of the surrounding countryside. They destroyed the
northern kingdom. But they didn't destroy all of Judah. They didn't destroy Jerusalem. And so Micah's
text is just standing there, seemingly unconditional, pretty holistic prophecy of
complete destruction, where this place would become a wilderness. And they're grappling with that.
And they have this argument, this principle, from their deuteronomistic theology, where God said,
I will bless you if you follow me. If you don't follow me, I will curse you. They apply that
across the board to all history. In the histories of First and Second Kings, you see these stories of
this king. This king followed God and it went well for him. This king did evil on the side of the Lord,
and it went badly for him. And they apply it to prophecy as well. And it enables them to get Micah
off the hook for a prophecy that didn't happen. They say, well, what must have happened
is that King Hezekiah repented and turned back. The Lord changed his mind for the disaster that
he prophesied. But in even making this argument about King Hezekiah's repentance, there's no
historical record of this engagement between Micah and King Hezekiah. And if you read Micah,
there's no hint of Micah prophesying and the people of Judah repenting and there being that
point about God changing his mind. You don't get that from the text of Micah. It seems like
the author of Jeremiah is at this point conflating Micah with Isaiah and the passage Isaiah 36.
And then I think it's I think it's 2 Kings, maybe 24 through 26, where you have this story about
Isaiah prophesying. And it's a very Deuteronomistic story. But it's Hezekiah then goes and repents and
then King Sennacherib, the Assyrian army, is wiped out and then Sennacherib turns back and goes back
to Assyria. And that's that's how they explain why the judgment didn't come. But that's all
involving Isaiah and not Micah. And so it seems like the author is conflating Isaiah with Micah
in order to make this hermeneutical argument. But so here's an instance where you have
a emphasis on conditionality. It's engaging with prophetic history, earlier prophetic history.
And it seems pretty clearly to be constructing this argument for conditionality specifically
in order to reduce dissonance over earlier failed prophecies. And those earlier prophecies
were not conditional in their original context. And so here even, you know, in the place where we
have this emphasis on conditionality in the prophets, it seems constructed in order to reduce
dissonance in the same way that the group that Leon Festinger studied argued for conditionality
in order to reduce dissonance over their own failed prophecy. So many things that you brought up there.
And it makes me think of Daniel and the Habakkuk Peshir in a way where they're putting a time on
that they really expect it's deterministic, it fails, movement stays alive. No matter what,
there's some cognitive dissonance that seems to set in. So we get into the New Testament. Well,
I guess before we get into the New Testament, it's worth noting, here they are rationalizing
earlier texts. I think Daniel's rationalizing an issue with Isaiah, too. There's like a 70 years,
you know, and then oh, it's actually 70 times seven. So now they're Jeremiah. Okay. So there's
already conditionality in Jeremiah, but they're still kind of like, we were thinking something
was going to come. And I think Robert Carroll talks about how there are situations where they're
describing it like this might be the end, this might be it. A judgment happens, a war happens,
but it isn't the end. So it keeps getting built on over time and apocalypticism really
capitalizes on this and really makes it the end of history concept. So Daniel comes in,
this fails, but the New Testament, Jesus in the mouth of Jesus is using Daniel.
Dude, you're 200 years late, man. Like 150 to 200 years late to the party of the failure of this
book. And it's still scripture ish. It's still sacred. It's still important. It gives hope to
those who think any day now, any day now, any day now, we just had the timing wrong way to the 1280.
Oh, I'm sorry, the 1295. Oh, I'm sorry, the 1335 days, the time keeps changing. And so you get to
Jesus and seems very apocalyptic. Mark 13, Matthew 16, where he talks with somebody who's standing
here is Mark nine, sorry. And then Matthew 16, 27 and 28, some of you standing here will not
taste death or you will not have gone through the houses of Israel, Matthew 10. And then Luke 21
kind of still has something, but it like starts to extend, things start to kind of extend. And
you were saying there's a little bit of nuance and you brought us to the nuance in Jeremiah using
Micah and conflating other texts, it seems. So getting in the New Testament, a lot of scholars
think something similar is happening here, where we're seeing an evolution happen right in front
of our eyes. Some academics think Paul started off full guns and glory deterministic and later
was still waiting, but wasn't as he never changed his deterministic. But he changed like, okay,
I thought it was going to be happening yesterday. Like, maybe it's in a decade, maybe it's any day
now. I think even Dale Allison said he's writing in his new book, a kind of conditional thing,
but it's not anything like what we're hearing the apologists do. I've already talked to him,
I've interviewed him. He is not even coming close. He's saying, okay, Jesus thought maybe like six
months, maybe a year after he dies, that everything's going to be wrapped up. Like, he's not even thinking
like, you know, decades or anything. That's why Paul of Fredrickson said Paul is late.
And I'm like, but that's our earliest. It sucks. Because it's like, that's our earliest guy. And
she's like, yeah, I know, and he's late. He's late. So what do you do in the New Testament,
based on your research about this conditionality? This I call it, was it a post hoc rationalization
of what's happening? And I don't see that in our earliest clearly spelled out. I see deterministic.
I see expectations any moment now. Like, I do see the only conditionality I do see in Paul
that I will admit is he does think for the end to happen, he has to get the nations.
But he even says so. But he even says in one of them, he says like, the gospel has gone out.
So like, he thinks, hey, I've already got it out there, all these these Gentiles, these nations.
Yeah, I think that the reason it gets more complicated when you get into the New Testament is
because in the same way that you have, you know, apologists today or more conservative Christians,
Christians, you know, people with a higher view of scripture today who have this long tradition
that includes both prophetic literature and apocalyptic literature includes both Micah
and Jeremiah includes Isaiah and Jesus and Daniel. You have to figure out how to make all of those
texts work together. And in a way, the New Testament is already coming in at a place,
the New Testament writers are coming in at a place where there is there is
the conditionality emphasis of a prophet like Jeremiah. And then there is the deterministic
emphasis of prophets of people like Daniel. And so both of those influences are going into
Jesus, both of those influences are going into Paul. And so the question does become more
complicated when you are looking at them, because I mean, just looking at Paul, there are places in
Paul, like in Romans two, he says, you know, is not the patience of the Lord meant to drive you
to repentance speaks of the patience of the Lord and how his his wrath is waiting. But he is being
patient, hoping that people will come to repentance. That sounds a little bit like Second Peter three.
Or later in Romans, Paul Paul talks about, you know, the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction
in Romans nine. And he says, you know, but what if God wanting to, you know, making his power known,
what if he has waited with much long suffering, the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction
in order to make his glory known, his blessings known on the vessels vessels of mercy, it seems
that seems kind of similar also to Second Peter three, where it's, he's being patient, he's waiting
to judge wickedness in order to bring in people who he has prepared beforehand for glory as many
as possible, like there is a set number that he's waiting to bring in. But if you read Romans nine,
I mean, that's a passage where you mean, that's, that's, you know, for more Calvinistic or deterministic
leaning theologians throughout history, that has been their, their playground. That is the place
where they will go. And I mean, the whole point of that is vessels of wrath prepared for destruction,
vessels of mercy, vessels of glory prepared. There is this, this idea of a set number of,
of people who God has in mind in his perfect wisdom, that this is what he is waiting for. And
it's like God is like this master chess player who's moving the pieces. And
if there is a place for human response, which I think there is, but that, that exists within
God's perfect plan. And for Paul, the perfect plan takes precedence over man's choice. And
he does clearly have an idea of the gospel going out to all the nations, Israel being provoked to
jealousy, Israel will be saved. And then God's plan will all come together in the end. And in his
mind, that's all happening in this generation. So, so I don't want to take the mic. I want to hand
it back to you. But I want to make one comment that I think is important about what you just said.
First thing I want to say is it's clear in the context. God hardened Pharaoh's heart in Romans 9
and then a hypothetical person. It's like Paul already expects to know what the questioner is
going to ask. But hold on, if he does all of this before they were even born so that God's purpose
of election might stand, the older shall serve the younger, Jacob I loved, Esau I hated, right?
Then he goes on and he goes, but, but someone asks supposedly, you know, well, if he does all of this,
then how can he, how can he blame us? Like, how can he find fault if he's the one doing it all?
And he's like, the answer is that, well, here's the real reason. Let me give you a philosophical
explanation. No, not what we see apologetics do today. It's really one of these things like,
who do you think you are? Do you not realize that he's the potter and he does what the hell he wants?
And that's really one of the places that went to as a Calvinist. But in Romans, I think it's like
14 or something, there is this like really imminent, like Paul is thinking. So while he is given this,
what sounds conditional in the way that exactly. So like, I want to emphasize something conditional.
Yeah. At this very moment, maybe you have a chance, maybe, but it's, it's within the bubble of the
deterministic of him saying, God is, if you come, it's because God is honestly drawing you,
and you're coming to believe this. I do think he has what Calvinists call a deterministic thing.
And Augustine saw, but I know that people might try to blame it on his philosophical
Manichaeism and all that. I really see this. And now that I know about apocalypticism and
determinism, it makes sense what he was doing as a Jew within apocalypticism. The one more thing I
want to say, and I do want to give this to you is simply this. This guy thinks it's going to happen
in his life. So the problem isn't, could it be conditional or not? Let's grant a little for the
sake of fun here, Matt. He is still thinking, I'm going to be here to see this. He is like the
prophet who's going to witness the destruction of the temple. He is the prophet who's going to
witness the Lord's coming. He thinks it's going to happen in his life. So it's like within the bubble
of what's planned already. Maybe you have an opportunity to repent and come in. Apart from
that, dude, that's it. And that's the thing I'm seeing with these scholars. Delcy Allison Jr.,
Paula Fredericksson, you name it, the list goes on. Like you can play in that sandbox with those
who want to play the conditionality game. And I'm going to call it a game because it is this
hermeneutical harmonization of scripture to try and find Jeremiah. I got Jeremiah. Well,
what about Micah? Look at how Jeremiah interprets Micah. So see, it solves the problem. And it's
like, oh, okay. Paul thinks this will happen to him. So I just wanted to emphasize that.
Yeah. Yeah, no. And that's, I think, exactly right. And but what that shows with Paul is that he is
the inheritor of both of these traditions. He is the inheritor of the prophetic tradition. Paul
used himself as a prophet, but he is also the inheritor of the apocalyptic tradition. And he is
harmonizing those two traditions and dealing with the possibility of repentance that the prophets
extend again and again. And he's dealing with the determinism of the apocalypses. And he has worked
out a very sophisticated theology that incorporates both what depends on man and what depends on God.
And he has, he has harmonized the two. I mean, just read Romans 9 to 11 and you can see
it's very complicated. It's very sophisticated, but the emphasis is clearly on God's sovereignty.
God's perfect wisdom. He is a master chess player who's bringing it all about about according to his
perfect plan. And but I think the more important thing is to bring it all back to Jesus, because
it's, you know, the question, the big question is whether or not Jesus was a failed apocalyptic prophet.
And so ultimately, the question is, is Jesus being an inheritor of all of these traditions,
what did he do with them? And was he exclusively or primarily driven by this emphasis from Jeremiah
on conditionality? Or was he more deterministic? And did he harmonize like Paul or, you know,
what's going on there? And I think, you know, as with Paul, there are places in the gospel traditions
where we do see a conditional emphasis of sorts where I mean, Matthew 23 is a really good example,
where Jesus says, you know, he has just, you know, gone on this long diatribe against the leadership
of Israel. And he says, you know, you won't see me again until you say, blessed is he who comes in
the name of the Lord, he seems to put the ball in their court and say, I'm not going to come and
establish my kingdom. I'm not going to return to you until you say until you welcome me in. But
just like a verse or two before that, he says, you know, on this generation is going to descend
the judgment for the blood of all the prophets. And it really seems like, and then I mean, in the
chapter after that, he's prophesying the signs of the times, the destruction of the temple,
everything leading up to the coming of the Son of Man. And he says, all these things will take
place in this generation. And then he says, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never
pass away. In other words, like take this to the bank, this is guaranteed. There's a really strong
emphasis that this is happening in this generation. And in the same way, it seems that Paul has that
emphasis on the response of Israel and how God is working all these things out to provoke them to
jealousy. And it's that but the idea is that it's guaranteed that this is going to happen.
Seems like Jesus has this apocalyptic trust in the sovereignty of God in the determined course
of history and how it's all going to come out. And God's going to win. And he's going to bring
in those whom he has chosen to bring in. And he's going to harden those who he has chosen to harden.
But it's going to come in this generation. There doesn't seem to be any wiggle room for Jesus that
this is coming in this generation. So that's all the historical stuff, the reason why I don't think
the conditionality argument works purely when reading these texts, when trying to describe
accurately the tradition that Jesus was inheriting, how he dealt with that tradition, and to what
extent he was deterministic or had more of that conditional emphasis. Put that to one side. And
then the other question for me is just practically, if we just think about these texts as existing,
2 Peter 3 does make this point. Jeremiah 18 does make this point. There is this emphasis
throughout the biblical prophetic traditions on God being patient. I mean, for 2 Peter 3,
the emphasis is on the patience of God waiting. The way that Peter says it is that he is patient
with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but for all to come to repentance. But if you hold to
a particularist theology of you where there are those who will ultimately be saved and those who
will ultimately not be saved, which it seems like the author of 2 Peter is a particularist
in that way, he's not a universalist. He doesn't think that all will be saved. If you hold to that
particularist theology, that point about God being patient and waiting for more people to come in
doesn't actually make any sense as an explanation. Practically, when you think about it, because
the longer God waits, the more time goes by where people are born, they live out their lives,
they die, and by far, exponentially, more people. I mean, Christianity is the largest
religion in the world at this point, but it's still just 2 billion out of 7 billion people in
the world today are Christian. The visible church and the invisible church, how you can
really judge those things, but people who are explicitly following Jesus are much, much fewer
than those who are not following Jesus. The vast majority of the world, if we're looking at Jesus'
theology, he has these images of a broad road leading to destruction, a very narrow road leading
to life. So the longer he waits, the more people are going down this broad road leading to destruction
than those who are being born within the kingdom and going down the narrow road that leads to life,
and it just doesn't seem to work as an explanation for why God would wait.
If the door is closing at people's death, which it seems like the author of Peter thinks,
the author of Second Peter thinks that after you die, the invitation is over,
and for God to be waiting for people to come in, I mean, it just doesn't make any sense.
I don't know if you have any, do you have any thoughts on that?
I'll add one comment, and that is, at one point I asked John J. Collins, I said,
John, look what God said in one of these prophet writings, right? And he's like,
let me correct you there, God did not say that man said that. And I went, yeah, but it says,
no, no, no, you don't get it. Like that man wrote that and said that God said,
what God said or didn't say, we don't know. Okay, all we know is what this man wrote.
And so it was a perspective thing, even as a skeptic who no longer believed anymore,
that he said, stop saying God said what that author may have wrote that they say God said.
So I say that to say, when I'm reading Second Peter, to me, here's a person who does not know
that the world is going to expand to that level, isn't aware that we're going to have seven, eight
billion humans on planet Earth, the majority of them will not be Christian, which means that his
God in his theology and what you're describing right now, that is outside of his purview,
he cannot see that. So like, obviously, we're, we're babying kind of the people who are in that
bubble, who are thinking this way. And I'm simply saying, and I get it, I was there. So, you know,
like, I wouldn't have listened to me probably at that time, it took life and things to get me to
come to where I am. But I must admit, like, it's, it's that perspective thing that makes me go,
I mean, obvious, it's obvious to me, and it's obvious to you, like, what's going on here.
This is very human. This is, this is totally normal, but very human and not divine in our eyes.
That doesn't mean it doesn't have magic to some, but it's, it's like,
at the end of the day, I feel like where there's a will, there's a way, and no matter what,
people will find that way, if they want to keep it going. Instead, for me, I also very,
I appreciate the Christian scholars who come on and go, yep, they were wrong. And I'm, even if I
don't know how they can still be Christian, I don't understand it, right? Like, there's my limits,
because I'm just some dude, right, on the internet. I don't understand it. But I look at them and go,
you have got to praise people who are willing to say what is obvious to me.
And that, that's why I love Delcey Allison, Jr. I don't care. The guy is amazing to me. So.
No, it's good. And I think that that's a really important point, too, to just, I mean, that you
made about Second Peter is not envisioning, you know, all the generations that have come after
him, all the people that have been born outside the faith, he's not thinking that. I think he's
probably thinking pretty closely to Paul that, like, the gospel is going out, you know, with force
to the whole world. And there has been this delay, but still Jesus is coming pretty soon,
relatively speaking. He's not thinking with the hindsight that we read him with of 2000 years
later, he's thinking, no, Jesus is coming soon. And so he's not for him, there isn't even this
theological problem of people being born generations and generations and generations of
people being born and living out their lives outside the faith. For him, it's no, the gospel's
going out, God is waiting right now for the gospel to go out all these people that are alive to save
them. And that's it. And so that dissonance reduction strategy, theologically, works better for
him than it does for us 2000 years later, reading him and trying to apply that to
the 2000 year delay that we have now had. It just doesn't, doesn't make any sense from that point of
view. Last comment I have, and then if you want to follow up and put the icing on the cake,
add the cherry, whatever, I'm cool with it. Here's another thing, and this is a can of worms,
I didn't necessarily want to get into, but it might be worth mentioning because you brought
off some technical critical stuff about redactors and stuff. Second Peter's probably obviously
not Peter. Even Eusebius thought this was not Peter who wrote this. I want to use a Christian's voice
because God forbid I use it. And then they're like, oh, we're not listening to that guy,
he's a skeptic. But Second Peter is probably written by a person who's presenting himself as
Peter, again, like Daniel, presenting himself in the 6th century BC, when really, it's the
2nd century author, 2nd century BC, Antiochus Epiphanes, period, writing a deterministic
apocalyptic story, but also a narrative that kind of leads up to where they're at in the 2nd century.
Or at least, sorry, in that time, predicting things 490 years later, which is in the 2nd
century. So, 2nd Peter III, or 2nd Peter, period, is probably some 2nd century church,
who knows? I've heard some people think Irenaeus, some people think this and that.
Who knows who it is? It's a forger saying they're Peter. And what I think, what I get out of it is
they're getting this failure off the hook by saying, hey, Peter said, number one, again,
Micah said, but you know, here we go. And I'd love for you to, that's why I knew you'd have
the cherry on this. But just to add that point, Peter said, and still maybe thinks, look, it's
going to happen probably in our life. We're waiting, we're watching, because there's constant
watch and wait at any time. I will not delay. I will not tarry, even though at times he is
tearing, but it's not going to be this on ending in 40, 23, year 40, 23, we're still waiting. No.
No, that is a phenomenal point. And in the same way that Jeremiah is reinterpreting
Micah and turning Micah's more unconditional emphasis into a conditional emphasis,
the author of Second Peter writing in the second century is right after he makes that point about
the patience of God, God waiting until, you know, people come to repentance. He then says, and Paul,
our brother Paul also wrote about this very thing. And people twist Paul, they don't understand Paul,
just, you know, as they misunderstand all scripture. And that's, that's a clue that this is writing,
you know, a good deal later, because it's considering Paul already as among the scriptures.
But in the same way that Jeremiah is dealing with the text of Micah and saying, thus says
the Lord, it's this is this is a revered holy text that we hold in high esteem and it must be true.
And therefore we have to deal with it in the ways that it seems like it didn't happen the way that
Micah thought it would happen. The author of Second Peter makes his point about God being
patient and waiting. And then he says, and Paul also wrote to you about the same thing. And it
may be that he is thinking of Romans two, where Paul says the patience of the Lord is meant to
lead you to repentance or, you know, Romans nine, where he says the vessels of wrath prepare for
destruction and he waits with patience because he has this plan for the vessels of mercy. And
he is perhaps reading conditionality out of Paul in order to make this point and make it this
overarching dissonance reduction strategy. But he goes with it in a direction that is much stronger
than Paul's conditionality. And it seems like he's doing it in order to rationalize
what for Paul was a very soon coming in his lifetime. And the author of Second Peter writing
a generation two generations later is recognizing this didn't happen. It's a problem. There's a
delay. Paul thought it would happen. It didn't. But how do we get around this? The patience of the Lord.
I have to add this. This is so important that you just reminded me of that. And like,
I love you got to have a final say here because it's not going to end without you. This you see
what's going on here. Everybody you're watching. I'm loving this. But what the emphasis on like
this author saying, you know, in many twist Paul, I'm wondering. I mean, this is a bit
speculative, but it's not out of the question. Those scoffers, okay, that are up here that are
saying, Well, what's up, man? What's up? I thought you guys come on. What's up with the time, you know?
And the maybe that connects with the people who twist Paul, because I don't think he's arguing
with just Jews. I don't think he's arguing with pagans. This the biggest conflict in Christianity
is other Christians. So that is the war, man. You are Satan. If you're you can be Chinese,
Buddhist, whatever, you're cool, whatever. No, no, no, no, you say you believe in Jesus,
but you baptized by dunking. Oh, hell no. Like that is a big thing Christians among themselves.
And Elaine Piggles writes out on the origins of Satan. She goes the goes into that. Here you
have these mockers and scoffers. And then you have these people who twist Paul. Like I'm
wondering if they're the same group, whoever this author is, that they're expecting this thing to
happen soon. But they didn't understand Paul. Paul's hard to understand, though, you know,
he gives them a break. He gives them a bone and he's like, dude's tough to get. Don't worry,
I'm going to fix that for you. See what we're saying? This is what we're in line. We agree with Paul.
And I've had people who've argued with me online, trying to use Second Peter to say,
see Peter agrees with Paul. Stop with the whole division between the two. They get on the same
boat. Look, Peter himself says in Second Peter that, you know, people didn't understand Paul,
but listen, Peter will tell you what Paul meant. And it's almost like an apologetic to fix
more than just the apocalypticism. You could almost use this and more than that and saying,
look, even Peter acknowledges that Paul was hard to get and understand,
but they agree more than you realize. I mean, I think it's a really hard question about because
we're dealing with this kind of negative space where it's these unknown people that are the other
side of the camera, the other, you know, wrote a letter and we only get this, you know, response.
And so we don't know exactly what they believed, but we do have several places throughout the
New Testament where we get this sense of people who had a very different understanding of Paul.
I mean, Second Thessalonians is a very similar example to Second Peter where, I mean, you know,
many critical scholars would argue that Second Thessalonians, it's one of those ones where
there's more debate about it than, you know, some of the past orals where a lot of critical
scholars still think that Paul wrote Second Thessalonians, but there's a really good case
that Paul didn't write Second Thessalonians, but there in Second Thessalonians 2,
the author says, you know, don't be alarmed at a letter that you've received, you know, supposedly
coming from me saying that the day of the Lord has already come. And then he says, because,
you know, the day of the Lord won't come until, you know, we know all these things are going to
take place. There's going to be this man of lawlessness. There's going to be, you know, the
restrainer is going to be removed and all these things are going to take place. And then the end
will come. But this connects with, you know, full preterism. But there are several places in the
New Testament where it seems like there is this group who was maybe reading Paul, who went in a
more extreme realized eschatology direction. And the Corinthians may be an example of this, too.
Paul is engaging with Corinthians and they have an overly realized eschatology. And that's why Paul
has to argue for the future resurrection. I mean, you know, apologists love to talk about First
Corinthians 15 and the resurrection of Jesus from First Corinthians 15. But the main point Paul is
making in First Corinthians 15 is about the future resurrection. It's about Jesus's resurrection
is saying, how can you say that no resurrection will take place? Because if no resurrection will
take place, that means Jesus wasn't resurrected, but Jesus was resurrected. And that's how we know
that the resurrection is going to happen. And some scholars argue that because of that, that the
Corinthians were arguing that they believed that they had kind of an overly realized charismatic
eschatology, where it's just, we have the gift of the spirit, we are living in the fruits of the
kingdom. This is it. We're in the age to come. It's already happened. And so Paul is kind of
combating that a little bit. And it seems like maybe the author of Second Thessalonians was
combating that a little bit. But it seems like some people were taking Paul's words and taking
them in a more extreme realized eschatology direction. And that's an interesting thing to
think about with Second Peter, too, because there's these people who are there, they're
experienced, they're Christians who are dealing with the problem of delay saying, where is the
problem of his coming? And they're engaging with Paul and reading him in some way that
the author of Second Peter 3 is arguing against. But we don't know exactly what that was. But
all very interesting stuff. Maybe we'll have to have another video talking more specifically
about full preterism and getting into that. But it seems like full preterism was one of those
things. I mean, it's not full preterism as we know it today, like the group that you were a part of.
But it was an overly realized eschatology that was present in the early church, that it seems like
some authors of the New Testament were engaging with and combating. But that overly realized
eschatology was one way of dealing with dissonance over the problem of delay. That was the point
of it in the same way that full preterism today is a dissonance reduction strategy that is the
whole point of it is to get Jesus off the hook for what didn't happen. In the same way, the overly
realized eschatology in the first century was ultimately aimed at the same thing. It was aimed
at the fact that we expected we had this apocalyptic expectation for the kingdom to come.
Instead, Jesus died and we developed this theology to explain why that was actually
God's plan all along and why that was actually the beginning of the kingdom while he rose and
he's seated at the right hand of God. He is reigning until all the enemies are put under his feet.
And this is actually the kingdom. But then some went in a more extreme direction with that. And
instead of saying that it's just the first fruits, they said that, no, it's the whole thing. It's
all come. The words are fulfilled. We're in the kingdom. And in the same way that for you, that
was a way of dealing with dissonance. It was a way for them to deal with dissonance. Of course,
problem with that way of dealing with dissonance is that it becomes completely untethered from
reality and it becomes completely untethered from the point of eschatology in the first place.
Because the point of eschatology is to answer the problem of evil. And if there's still evil
in the world, the kingdom hasn't come. The original point of eschatology is to say,
God will be victorious. He will win over all of the evil that we see in the world today
because we believe that God is good. And yet, the world is full of really messed up stuff.
And we are continually met by the righteous or suffering. And clearly, this isn't it. But if God
is good, that doesn't square. So eschatology is a way of maintaining the goodness of God,
the God that you believe is the one God, the God who is all powerful over the whole world.
And you deal with it by saying, no, no, he will have this solution in the future. Full
Preterism just gives that up. It just says that doesn't matter anymore. Because we are so invested
in getting Jesus off the hook in making sure that he's not wrong, that we don't care anymore about
this actually answering the problem of evil. But we'll have to talk about that more.
