How convincing is Greek mimesis, the New Testament imitating Greek literature, Euripides
Bakai, Homer's Odyssey, the Iliad, or even Roman stuff like Virgil's Aeneid? How common was it?
Were there Jews that were doing this? Today, academic scholar Michael Koshinosh, who was also
a student of Dennis MacDonald, tackles this question, and I probe him a little more on
why are several scholars reluctant on accepting or seeing this stuff?
You get to hear his answer. I hope you enjoy this conversation because Michael Koshinosh has done
several amazing episodes. I'll link them in the description with MythVision on the name Aeneas,
why this signals Rome, and it's more of a literary product rather than literal historical.
Several other things he shows of imitation to Jewish literature and Greek. You won't want to miss it.
Dr. Michael Koshinosh, welcome back to MythVision Podcast, my friend.
Thank you very much.
I want to talk to you about mimesis criticism. I want to edge our way into it, but before we do,
can you tell our audience about your background? What is your expertise? What did you go to school for?
Yeah, so I was trained in biblical studies. I did my master's at Yale and then a PhD at
Claremont School of Theology. My doctoral advisor was Dennis McDonald, and I'm on my second postdoc
after that. So I went to Hunan University in China and did a two-year postdoc, and I'm
now about a year or so into a postdoc at Radbaad University in Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
I'm focusing my research right now mostly on the way that early Jewish and Christian narratives
use literary models both from the Jewish scriptures and from classical Greek literature
as resources for developing and emphasizing certain themes.
What made you take that path and go to Claremont and dive into the Greek antecedents?
Well, you know, part of it was just what programs I got into. Obviously, that was one that I targeted
mostly on the reputation of Dennis McDonald, and then I was accepted and he was going to be my advisor.
So prior to going to Claremont, I didn't have much of an expertise in classical literature.
I think that's an understatement. And so before going to Claremont, I, like the summer between
getting accepted and going to Claremont, I dedicated myself to reading Home Resilient,
Homer's Odyssey, and then I think I got through a few books of Virgil's Aeneid before classes
started in the fall. So that was partly a strategy to make sure I understood what Dennis was talking
about when I started taking classes with him. And so from there, it's just been
learning more and more about the classical world and the way other writings written at the same
time of the New Testament seem to have been written and what they're doing and how they do it.
Were you highly skeptical of his position when you first approached it? Did you
see the criticisms against McDonald's work? This isn't the answer you're looking for,
but no, I wasn't and I hadn't. My main exposure to Dennis prior to that was at Yale. I took a class
on New Testament Apocrypha with Harold Attridge. And one of the assignments everybody had to do
in that class was to present a book, like a scholarly book on something from the New
Testament Apocrypha. And as it happened, I was assigned or I picked, I don't remember how it
went down, Dennis's book on the Acts of Andrew, a Christianizing Homer. And so I read it and
understood it as best I could at that point in my development. And I remember Harry asked
after I presented, he's like, so what do you think of Dennis McDonald's argument? And I remember,
I said something to the effect of, you know, I'm not very familiar with Homer and the Homeric stories,
but it seemed like it made sense. And he said, yeah, that's how a lot of us feel,
which maybe is an insight to New Testament studies generally, where people are not very
familiar with the Homeric stories. So yeah, I've become more familiar with the criticisms
since being Dennis's student and pursuing a research career of my own.
And have any of those criticisms made you realize that you're just dead wrong about the
Greek antecedents? Not yet. No, it's, it's to be fair to everybody. A lot of this can feel very
subjective. And reading is itself a very subjective process. There's no like one audience for any
particular work. And so for some readers, allusions to Homer or imitation of Homer might be very clear.
And the purpose of it might also be clear. And other readers may not see it at all. And
there's a perspective from which, you know, that that's fine. And that's the way it is.
You would want maybe both sides of the conversation to have that kind of attitude, I think,
because sometimes it does get a little bit belligerent toward Dennis, at least. I haven't
myself felt as much aggression as he seems to have faced.
Well, you said it yourself. I've interviewed Harold Attridge on his commentary of Hebrews,
Hermione, and then of course, we talked about the Gospel of John, who was the beloved disciple.
Brilliant, brilliant mind. But as he echoed and several other scholars I've interviewed have echoed,
there seems to be a lack of understanding or knowledge of Homer. They don't know this literature.
They're not really aware of the Aeneid. They don't really care to dive into this,
because it's not part of their requirement. It's not really necessary for what they do
in their mind, which I think is a blind spot. So let me ask you this. Diving into this,
you started to read that material. Did you become fonder of Dennis's mimesis as you really started
to learn something that seems to be New Testament scholars are ignoring or aren't really studied up
on? Oh, for sure, for sure. And I would say, actually, maybe what told me most on it was,
and I don't remember if I shared the story on MythVision before, but so for repeat listeners,
sorry. One of the first assignments I had with Dennis, it was on like an exegesis
graduate seminar. And the book for the class was the Book of Acts. And one of the first assignments
was to read through the Book of Acts from start to finish. And I did it, a good student that I was.
And when I got to Acts 9, which is where Peter heals a man named Aeneas, I was shocked,
because I'd never read, I'd read Acts, maybe cover to cover, I don't remember, but I'd never,
I'd never read the Book of Acts having read the Aeneid or the Iliad for that matter.
And of course, Aeneas is the protagonist of the Aeneid and is a very well known figure in antiquity.
And so I was shocked to see that name in the Book of Acts. That experience led to the article I wrote
about Aeneas and the connection to Rome that I presented on MythVision last year. Viewers can go
back and find that. So yeah, the more, the more I've learned about Homer, the more I've learned
about Euripides, the more I've learned about the way they can be read, that is the early
Jewish Christian writings can be read in relation to those foundational stories that played such a
pivotal role in literary education and antiquity, the foundation blocks of the encyclical education.
And so everybody who learned how to read and write in Greek in the ancient world
had at least some exposure to Homer, but there's no evidence for people not having exposure to
Homer. So we can say that. Yeah, to me, it makes sense. It's not that everybody's going to agree
every time. Like I've read arguments in favor of, say, the imitation of the Bacchae in Book of Acts
by people other than Dennis to be clear. And I'm not always convinced, but it's not
because I don't think it's a fair strategy for reading the Book of Acts. It's just that the
details are not convincing in this or that case. So diving a little further, I love this. You
mentioned you were reading and finding out it wasn't just New Testament texts that seemed to imitate.
There's text contemporaneous, maybe a little earlier, maybe a little later, that are around
the New Testament. If we imagine kind of an analogy of a bubble, there's several bubbles
surrounding the New Testament of literature. And Jewish, like Stotz, we know we're Jewish authors,
we're imitating Greek antecedents in their, in their writings. Yeah, yeah. And it wasn't
just, were there other scholars who recognize this or? Oh, yeah. I mean, you see it every now
and then in scholarship, say on Judith or on Joseph and Asinith. So you get a French scholar here
or an American scholar there pointing to an echo of the story of Helen, for instance,
in Joseph and Asinith, or even echoes of Homer in Judith. So I just recently published an article
on Judith and the use of Homer, Homer's Odyssey, but it helps that not only Dennis, but at least
one other commentator that I'm blanking on her name, argued for the use of Homer in a different
part of Judith. So yeah, you see it every now and then, but there's not a, there hasn't been
like a programmatic emphasis on finding these echoes of Homer. But you see it in works on scholars
working on Josephus, scholars, Dennis and others working on Tobit and other, the Maccabees.
Yeah, it's there to be seen, but if you're not looking for it, it would be easy to miss it.
Why do you think it is not so popular? It is not well understood, would you say, and I don't want
to feed you the answer, but I imagine what we talked about earlier, they haven't read Homer,
they haven't read the Iliad, they haven't read the Aeneid. They're not sure, you know,
Virgil's works or whatever it might be. I'm sure that plays a role, but like,
why do you think this Greek antecedent Mimesis is not taking off like wildfire,
similar to what we see as Jewish antecedents? I think first and foremost, the issue is lack
of familiarity with those earlier writings, but that's only the first thing. I think beyond that,
there is, so I'll say it this way. So I published an article a year ago on Acts 12,
on Rhoda in Acts 12 as a Cassandra figure, which is something that McDonald has published on in
the past, so I conceived of it as building on that. But the way I approached the article,
which is a little bit different from Dennis, was to focus on the way that it contributes to
the themes of the book of Acts, or at least the greater passage. And I think that's where some
people get stuck, is they can see the Dennis laying out the side-by-side parallels and the verbal
agreements here and there. But it's not always clear to some readers at least, why the book of
Acts would be imitating Homer, or whatever, what have you. And so that's been something that I've
tried to really emphasize, is not only to establish that imitation is happening, but also helping
readers see why it might be happening, how imitating a story about Homer contributes to
the purpose of the book of Acts, or the book of Judith, or Joseph and Asinip, for example.
So is it fair to say also that maybe the direction of New Testament studies
just hasn't taken the Greek world and their writings as serious as they should? For example,
in David Litwan, his beautiful book, Yesus Deus, I loved that book, where he kind of shows that our
dichotomy of Jews and Gentiles and Hellenism is that's old news, that's hundreds of years old,
outdated, get rid of that notion, the way that we've had it. I mean, Jews were literally sweating
Hellenism. You might even have a hard time in the ancient world to know, is this a Jew with a Gentile
name? Is this a Gentile now named with a Jewish name? Is this, who's the author? Can we identify
them? It's hard to know. They were calling Yahweh and Zeus the same interchangeably in some context.
So I wonder if there's still this kind of post-World War II, what happened in Nazi Germany,
and the way that we are trying to, I guess you'd enter faith dialogue taking place within the
New Testament community of scholars to try and make up for what has happened to the Jews,
not only then, but also in church history with anti-Semitism. I mean, that's a huge question
to ask, and you may not know the answer to, but it's kind of like, I see how they want to really
make it so Jewish, and don't get me wrong, it is. What does that even mean? So what are your
thoughts about what I'm saying so far? Is this an issue? Is this a stumbling block for New Testament
scholarships on seeing the Greek imitations? I don't know. I'm of two minds. On the one hand,
I don't think, at least in my perception of my colleagues across the guild, I don't think there
is a perception that the Greco-Roman background, if we can call it that, is irrelevant or somehow
lesser. I think there's a lot of emphasis on the Greco-Roman background, but it's just conceived
of differently than a conception of it that includes Homer and Euripides, for example. So that's
on the one hand. On the other hand, it may be for some. I wouldn't say that it's sort of widespread
that people think of the New Testament as Jewish literature, which is a good thing for people
to think of it, because it, best we can say, is Jewish literature. There are people who go from
that to the conclusion that, oh, well, Homer is irrelevant. Actually, just a few weeks ago,
a colleague of mine posted about a talk he was giving in Paris about Luke and X as Jewish writings,
and then somebody commented, and I'm going to paraphrase, because I don't have it memorized,
but the comment was something like, oh, so these are not indebted to Homer, like Dennis R. McDonald
would have us believe. And then I, of course, took that as catnip to reply, like, well, in fact,
the status of these writings as Jewish has no bearing whatsoever on whether or not they
imitate Homer, because Jewish writings imitate Homer. That, I think, reflects the sort of false
dichotomy between the Jewish world and the larger Mediterranean world, which I think there's no
evidence for a lived experience that is so bifurcated, so isolated as of the Jews against the rest of
the Mediterranean world. I hope that scholarship continues to progress down the path of actually
investigating both worlds. It's almost having one eye closed and only looking at one antecedent,
not seeing a bigger context. But I want to take us back to when you said you didn't really know
Homer, you didn't really know the Aeneid, you got prepared, you read it, you were looking at Dennis's
stuff, it made sense to you, but you really didn't know much. Harold, Harry said, Dr. Attridge,
then you actually get to know this material. And I would say at this point, you know it pretty
well, I would say. I'm sure there are classes that says to know it far greater than you.
Right, that's their specialty specifically, right? But the question I have now that you
know that material, what are some of the arguments or the kind of imitations that you've seen that
really early on, kind of like give me your born again experience of becoming a Greek antecedent
believer, okay? What sold you and you went, this is just to me undeniable. For my own eyes, I can't
unsee this. Not to disappoint you. I don't think I had like a road to Damascus experience,
if I may. One of the early assignments that I worked on with Dennis was,
so sort of taking your question anyway, was the question of the demoniac in Mark 7,
the garrison demoniac, and reading that as imitating the polyphemus story in Homer's Odyssey,
which I found very interesting. And as I was looking at it and looking at the reception of
the Odyssey in the Aeneid, maybe this is sort of an answer to your question. I saw that the
the demoniac didn't sort of, at the end, didn't line up with
the Homeric story, but made more sense with, or at least the demoniac's reaction where he begs to
go with Jesus. It sounds a lot more like, and I'm forgetting the guy's name in the Aeneid,
where he asks to go with Aeneas. But then again, you have a contrast where he does go with Aeneas,
Odysseus' former comrade. And then in Mark, Jesus instead sends him to tell the people nearby
what had happened to him. But that was my first experience, sort of in what you might call the
sandbox of mimesis, of playing around with, here's a proposal for one text imitating another.
What are the ways we can think of how this is a strong argument and how can it be improved upon,
or how can we make sense of it in this ancient context? And so putting it into discourse with
other imitations of Homer, closer to the composition of Mark, was one way for me that
I think reinforced that this does make sense. So when we're looking at these imitations, for me,
I'm just throwing mine back to get your kind of thoughts you feel free to comment on.
I noticed that Jesus looks like this Elijah figure. He looks like Elijah and Mark.
He looks like Moses and Mark. He has a mountain of transfiguration scene. Several things kind of
highlighted to me that they're rewriting narratives from the Hebrew Bible. And that was obvious,
and I was cool with that because that was a sacred hill that I could tread upon as a believer even.
And even when I kind of started to open my mind from fundamentalism and seeing the bigger world,
I felt comfortable and safe like, hey, it even signals, you know, it is written or things like
this that are clear illusions. Or when he says, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We know
this is Psalm 22, this cry that we're seeing lifted out of this text to put into the mouth of Jesus.
And I stopped thinking, well, that meant that's what Jesus literally actually said necessarily
and started saying, this is a well-crafted story about Jesus by Mark, especially when the secret
Messiah motif played a part. I mean, that really started to make me go, you mean to tell me the
historical real guy was walking around, nobody really know, but the reader, you know, you see,
you have an omniscient eye, you get to hear what was said to Jesus alone when he was baptized.
Matthew makes it plural where everybody can hear it, but Mark, it's just God, the Father,
speaks to him and says, you are my son. Now, this is my son. And so I started going, this
sounds more like a literary narrative constructed. That was clear. Then when I ran across Dennis,
and I wasn't his student, but you could say in a way I kind of am, because I've been listening
to him for a while reading his books and studying online, I started to get like really impressed
with some of these connections because I wasn't really aware of what Hellenism even was.
Imitating the Greeks. This was just the way it was. And once I started realizing Hellenism entered
the door, not really noticing, not even really thinking of it like this literature, these authors
are impacted by what we call Hellenism or imitating the Greek world, the Greek and Roman world.
That's when I started to have a real open mind to this stuff, even though I got a lot of pushback.
So let's discuss a little bit of criticisms, if you can. Did you want to comment on that before
we get into any? I kind of did. It reminded me that one thing that Dennis proposed that I feel
like hasn't gotten the attention that it deserves, the scrutiny you could say is treatment of the
Messianic secret in Mark. And it feels like a very nice solution, right? So this going back to
Wilhelm Vrede, that Jesus keeps his identity as the Messiah secret in Mark's Gospel until
the end, I suppose. And why does this make sense? And Dennis has said in response to Vrede, well,
this is an imitation of the Odyssey, then it makes sense because Odysseus did conceal his identity
from the suitors and his own family members. So I find it very interesting and compelling,
and I just haven't seen anybody engage it, not substantially anyway, or maybe somebody did early
on, so it was about 20 years ago that he wrote about that, I think. Maybe people have not picked
it up again, but that's something I would like to see. If I were to start thinking about Mark,
I might pursue that further myself. But yeah, speaking of arguments that he's made that just
sort of made sense to me, that was an early one. Same here. I mean, I couldn't deny what Vrede
was saying about the secret motif. It just, I didn't know how Odysseus' identity was hidden
by a God, of course, not letting people see who he really was. And then there was little
clues along the path, little cookie crumbles that kind of let you know this is the guy,
and then some people would get it. And even when he showed them who he was, he's, you know,
don't say anything, just like Jesus. So that really made me go, this seems so perfect,
hand and glove. How come somebody hasn't already made this and shouted this from the rooftops?
It made me think we've been again stuck trapped in this, what we keep coining is Jewish world,
as if that means there's also this Greek one that, you know, is like so separate, because I feel like
church history and the polemics, so you pagan, oh, you, you, you're not a Christian, you're
an other, and if you're not a Christian, Christians who come out of Judaism would have
nothing to do with that pagan world. That just is false. There's so many reasons to say that's
false. We almost imagine the New Testament authors in Paul to be Maccabees. I mean, like we imagine
them to be these like total rebellious group, but even then, when you go to rebel and oppose these,
these ideas, you also engage them. Right. Yeah, they're written, the Maccabees are written in
Greek and imitate classical Greek literature at times. So that's, yeah, it's an interesting
example to point to. Yeah, even if you were completely opposed, you're still going to see a
reflection of having to oppose by opposition. And that is what's interesting about this. So no matter
what, I feel like the escape, you're trapped with probably having to deal with it. I've heard of
there's several critics and Dennis has engaged trying to point out their kind of issues.
Margaret Mitchell, I know there's Carl Olaf Sanez. Have you read some of their critiques and
do you have off the top of your mind like any memory of like some of the flaws you might have seen
in what they were saying about Dennis's work? I have read them, but not recently.
But to be honest, I have the memory of reading them and then reading, Dennis wrote like a short
little piece called My Turn in response to the critics of memesis criticism and found his response
pretty satisfying. But I'm sorry, I don't remember the specific points they make.
But in general, I can think of even more recent people writing about Dennis.
I mean, there was one in a book that just came out a year ago, maybe.
And the author at least was arguing for the use of Homer in the book of Acts,
but in a very minimalist sense. But went through, expended a lot of energy
to dismiss Dennis's work and to make it clear to readers that he doesn't view Dennis as somebody
he wants to be associated with, which I didn't enjoy reading. And I think he made the point,
like explicitly said, I'd have to look it up. He said something to the effect of like if
what Dennis says is true, then like, we know nothing about early church history,
which feels like, and maybe I'm getting that quote wrong. So sorry, person I won't name
for if I misremembered what you said. But it was very clear that he had a motive for opposing
Dennis. This is only one case, but he had a motive for opposing Dennis and made it explicit
within the writing itself. I'm not sure how that got through peer review, but it did.
And I'm sure there are others for whom they don't say it explicitly.
And I do want to say, I think there are plenty of people who take it seriously and just don't
find it convincing. I think that's fine. They don't have hidden agendas, I'm sure, just to be clear.
Yeah, I have a hard time knowing why some of this isn't convincing. I mean,
I just personally can't see how some of it's not. I mean, it makes very little sense.
It's kind of weird that kind of opposition. I don't want to be associated with him.
And why this mentality, Dennis is a standup guy, really, really nice person. I don't understand
what the problem is. And then they kind of poo poo his work. And that's why I actually wanted to
bring you on here today to get your thoughts. But someone might be watching this saying,
yeah, you brought on a student of his, he's just biased. What would you say to someone like that?
Well, that's not a fair reason to dismiss me. But I mean, people are going to
make their decisions about who to listen to. And we all have limited resources and energy and time.
And so I mean, I would, I would say first off, repeat what I've said already today. If somebody
in the ancient world is writing in Greek, they have exposure to Homer. And so the claim that
that an ancient text written in Greek imitates Homer or alludes to Homer or refers to Homer
is inherently plausible. That doesn't mean it's, it's should be accepted in every case, but it's,
it's plausible. But I think that is not something that most people accept. So I think that is
demanding something of people that they're not giving already. From there, I mean, there are,
there are a lot of cases that show a pretty clear relation of early Jewish and Christian narratives
to the Homeric writings and tragedians. And so you can start probably accepting some of those,
like you can look in conservative commentators like FF Bruce, writing on acts and saying this
word in acts 27 is, is Homeric. Now he doesn't say that, that the shipwreck of Homer is, is an
imitate, excuse me, the shipwreck of Paul is an imitation of Odysseus shipwreck. But it opens
the door to ask the question. So just because he doesn't, doesn't mean you shouldn't. And so you can,
you can look at those little connections, you can see the use of the word fail makas in Gamaliel
speech in acts five. And if you're familiar with, with the classical world, you know, that's
distinctively Euripidean and distinctively from the Bacchai. And I think that again opens the door
to look at the question of, is there more to this connection, or is this just
an artifact of language that, that maybe had its origin in Homer or, or Euripides and is,
is, has made its way into the New Testament indirectly. So not a direct connection to Homer.
But I don't think people do that. Not that they would have to reach the conclusions I reach.
But I, I would be interested to see somebody who, who does that, who, who, who recognizes that and
then doesn't necessarily think there's any connection. Right, right. So this is, this is an
interesting one, indirect or cultural, not literary. You have in David Litwa, who thinks
that there may be cultural impact, and it's far messier than we may imagine. It's not this genetic
literary thing that Dennis is trying to do. But I want to give credit and say, okay,
he's not denying Minesis. He's saying it's operating in a totally different way in his view,
just based through culture. And I'm sure he has this particular reasons why he takes his position.
But I personally would imagine we're dealing with texts that are also literally borrowing
and imitating others, meaning Luke and Matthew are copying Mark. They are working in textual
tradition. They are purposefully crafting narratives, writing, looking at other texts.
He just doesn't think Greek antecedents or Greek impact necessarily is coming from Greek literature.
What are your, what are your thoughts on that assessment? I'm sure you've probably read more
about it in the past, but you're more on the direct side rather than the indirect.
Oh, yeah, I wouldn't, I wouldn't set them in opposition. But to the extent that it's not a
focus of my research, yes. My research focuses more on what I think are direct impacts of classical
literature as opposed to the indirect. And Litwa focuses on indirect as opposed to direct.
But honestly, so he was not the person I was talking about earlier. But he does in his book on
what was it? Great title, How the Gospels Became History. I think that's what it is.
He does go off on a few pages to very explicitly separate himself, disassociate himself from
the work of Dennis almost, I suspect it's more of a signal to to who he thinks are his colleagues,
his network of colleagues, like, this sounds like Dennis, but trust me, it's not like Dennis.
Maybe that's a charitable reading on my part. But, but I found it, I found it befuddling,
because it's completely unnecessary. You can you can talk about the indirect impact of of Greek
stories. At the same time as you talk about the direct, so you don't have to argue against one
to argue for the other. And in that book, he does talk about, for instance, the direct use of
the Jewish scriptures in I think Luke, which is, again, like you can have imitation happening
alongside recycling cultural motifs that have their origin and ancient literature.
So, so I found it mostly confusing when when I read that book, you'd have to ask him why he
wanted to dissociate himself from Dennis's work. Yeah, maybe I can sometime.
Now I'm going to ask you something now. I hope this is not too sore of a topic to discuss, but
I think it's worth noting there have been several wonderful scholars, including yourself, that have
come out of Claremont under the work of Dennis learning under him as a students who haven't
been able to get jobs. You've worked your butt off. I love learning from you. You've done an
excellent show with us. If anyone hasn't seen it yet, better call Saul Paul showing the imitation
of what's going on with King Saul and King David, or what was David at the time, who was prophesied
to become King, but he pretty much imitates that and how this also imitates your Rapides Bacchae.
We talked about the name Aeneas and diving in how Purvo kind of glanced over. It didn't really
dive deep into this and how it would have registered like we say Michael Jordan, we think
basketball or Arnold Schwarzenegger, you think of you think of bodybuilding, you're going to
automatically think Aeneas Rome. And that was a wonderful episode. We've done some great stuff.
So I hope they can check that out. But you've been trying to get employment, at least from what I
understand. The same happened to Richard C. Miller, where he wasn't picked up, like jobs are not easy
to get for you. And you hear over and over, I've heard several times in this episode where scholars
are kind of like distancing themselves from Dennis. Why are they distancing themselves from Dennis in
your opinion based on what you might know? And then also, what's the struggle with finding work?
Is this because of this whole blackballing Dennis, do you think?
So I want to just to say clearly that I don't think it's completely widespread that people don't
like or respect Dennis. I've met so many people who have only the highest respect for Dennis. I
studied with Dennis and they're impressed by that, even within the guilt. He is a very,
very well known, widely known, widely respected. It may be that there are some people who dislike
him personally. I can't speak to that. But I don't think that is particularly widespread.
But you know, I've been I've been looking for permanent employment for a few years now.
I've been fortunate enough to be on my second postdoc and this one in a good location that
pays pretty well. And I'm well liked by my colleagues and they appreciate my research.
You know, for Richard and for me looking for tenure, tenure-track jobs,
I don't know what can be said. There are so many different factors involved with every search.
And to be honest, the jobs for people with New Testament PhDs, if you're not,
so there may be sometimes a lot of jobs, but each one, how can I say this?
There aren't a lot of jobs most years. So I've been on the market for about six or seven years.
Oh, maybe half or a third to a half of the jobs are confessionally specific.
Like you have to be a practicing or a regular tenure of this specific kind of church,
or you have to be able to sign this specific statement of faith. And so, or you know,
Catholics are preferred or what have you. And so that really cuts down on the number of jobs
that are left for everybody else. I don't really, I don't have the access to the information about
placement rates at, you know, peer schools to Claremont or even
higher up schools. My sense is that everybody is struggling. And a lot of people are dropping out
of academia because they can't even get postdocs that keep them in the application pool for several
years. So I'm reluctant to assign the blame to my association with Dennis.
To get that answer, you'd have to ask the members of the search committees. And there have been a
lot. There was there was maybe one, I remember there was one job interview I had where I got
the impression that someone on the search committee had something against Dennis.
But that was only one, that was the only time that's happened for me. I think it's mostly
attributable to the poor job market and the state of higher education, especially in the United States,
where funding is being chipped away, especially for the humanities and programs are closing and
their people retire and then they don't replace that faculty line. They just hire adjuncts or
nobody. So it's just a sad state of affairs in academia. And no, I wouldn't assign it
the blame to my association with Dennis. I could be wrong, but I would need to hear it from
a lot of the job committees specifically for me to believe that's the case.
Makes sense. Makes sense. And I want the same evidence as well.
Um, why do you think classicist who specialized on Homer or Greek Roman literature
have a distaste for this imitation stuff? I've heard through the grapevine, they're not a big
fan of New Testament scholars or New Testament. Well, obviously they don't seem to have a high
view often of New Testament scholarship, but they're also not seemingly convinced of what
Dennis is doing in many ways. Why do you think that is? You know, without knowing the specifics of
the people you're talking about, I suspect it's just the result of a socialization in academia,
where for a long time there was a distinction between classics and the New Testament.
And the caliber of writing in the New Testament is, I think, by all accounts, inferior to a lot of
writing styles outside of the New Testament. And so there might be a socialized
way of thinking about people who specialize on the sort of more simple Greek writing that it's
not as worthy of their attention as people who focus on higher literature like Plutarch or what
have you. But yeah, I think there's a lot of classical literature that fits in quite nicely
with what Dennis has done, and I haven't looked into how well he's received by people who study
ancient novels, for instance, or other more novelistic writings. But you'd think that they would
find it to be enlightening and edifying for their own work.
But no, I can't speak to whether or not they have had access to it. There's so much being
published, you can't read everything. And so I'm reluctant to blame anybody for not reading
anything in particular. But at the same time, would be convinced that they'd find it helpful
if they did make time for it. Well, I'm really glad to hear that you're still
publishing writing things, you're still active, and you gave us the time. So I want to end on this
one. And that is, what are you working on now? Well, I've got a couple of projects working that
I'm working on right now, a two or three. I'm working on a paper that might be part of a larger
book that will discuss Luke and Axe, along with Josephus and Homer, and sort of that triangulation
of those writers and writings. I'm working on a monograph on the book of Axe and the way that
it uses literary models to advance its themes related to the inclusion of Jews, excuse me,
non-Jews. And I'm also always working on articles related to the use of literary models
in early Jewish and Christian narratives. I'm hoping that will maybe build into sort of a
larger book that might introduce the topic of the use of literary models in early Jewish and
Christian narratives. So all of those are sort of on the stove top on different burners. And
I'm trying to just make sure I am productive on something at any given moment. I love that. I
can't wait to see what you put out there. You've written some really good stuff. You have a wonderful
fascination for Axe. Do you ever see yourself writing a commentary? Or are you planning on making
like a book specifically addressing literary imitations in Axe or anything like that?
Well, one of those is, so you mean like in a systematic way? Nothing is in my immediate plans.
I think I would need to secure longer term employment before I could think so grandly
like a commentary or something that covers the entire book of Axe and its use of literary models.
Maybe someday, but not yet. And I mean, for someone looking for that, Dennis has written
so much and it surely would be the first resource that I turn to as I think about that.
Sure, sure. I mean, Purvo is the best commentary on Axe in my opinion, but it could be updated in
a lot of ways, not least because of his personal failings. But he doesn't seem to think of Axe
as a work of Jewish literature. He doesn't really do much with the use of literary models,
Euripides and Homer. And so I think there's a lot that could be advanced over what he does.
Not that I'm the one to do it. I'd prefer someone else to do it, but maybe I could be
involved as a conversation partner in the footnotes if they wanted to use my works.
Thank you so much for your time, Michael Kochanos. I really appreciate it. Any final words from you?
No, thank you very much. It's been a lot of fun talking.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you for supporting. Hit the like button,
share this content out, and never forget, we are MythVision.
